Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2012 CONT E NT S This is Swedavia The year in brief p. 3 Swedavia in brief p. 4 Statement of the President and CEO p. 6 Strategy, objectives and targets Our strategy p. 8 6 Strategic priorities p. 9 Swedavia has taken a number of steps Objectives and targets p. 12 to develop as a long-term s­ ustainable airport group in a challenging economy. Customer 13 Read more on p. 6-7. Swedavia develops efficient, The market and external driving forces p. 13 attractive airports for everyone. Read more about market trends and our Our offering p. 16 customer offering on p. 13-21. Focus: Göteborg Landvetter Airport p. 21 Economy Our economic responsibility p. 22 Focus: Property development p. 25 Environmental concern Our environmental responsibility p. 26 Focus: Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) p. 31 Social development Our role in society p. 33 Our employees p. 36 22 26 Consolidated net revenue increased Swedavia’s dedicated environmental Safety and security p. 40 by almost six per cent to work creates efficiency and competitive SEK 4,965 M. Read more about our advantages. Read more about our enFocus: Destination development p. 41 economic responsibility on p. 22-25. vironmental responsibility on p. 26-31. Report of the Directors p. 44 Group financial reports p. 51 33 Swedavia creates access to, from Parent Company financial reports p. 57 and in Sweden to bolster growth and competitiveness. Read more about our Notes p. 63 social responsibility on p. 33-41. Signatures to the Annual Report p. 92 Audit Report p. 93 Statement of Compliance p. 94 Corporate Governance Report p. 95 GRI index p. 106 UN Global Compact p. 109 Definitions p. 110 Contact information p. 111 About Swedavia’s reporting This is Swedavia’s Annual Report and Sustainability Report for the financial year 2012. Information about sustainability is integrated in the Annual Report. The report is aimed primarily at Swedavia’s owner, credit analysts and partners but also at other stakeholders, and is focused on our strategy as well as our objectives, targets and results for the past year. It covers the entire Group, unless otherwise indicated. Key financial data and financial reports for comparative periods for the previous year have been restated to comply with IFRS. We also report sustainability results in compliance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards in a separate Statement of Results, which is available on our website. Reported indicators have been chosen based on our stakeholders and reflect our shared view of what is crucial for developing long-term sustainable operations. This is a translation of the Swedish language original. In event of any differences between this translation and the original, the Swedish version shall prevail. » Read more at www.swedavia.com/about-swedavia/this-is-swedavia/ This is swedavia » The year in brief Performance in 2012 Swedavia’s airports had 32.4 million passengers for the full On June 29, Swedavia acquired buildings from SAS for year, which is an increase of 2.7 per cent compared to the SEK 1,775 M same period in 2011 All ten airports in Sweden’s national basic infrastructure are Net revenue increased to SEK 4,965 M (4,693) certified by Airport Carbon Accreditation at the highest level for climate work. Of the total fourteen airports in Europe certified Operating profit was SEK 831 M (781) at the highest level, ten are operated by Swedavia Passenger growth, to and from Swedavia’s airports1 Carbon dioxide emissions from Swedavia’s operations per passenger1 Million Kg 35 0.30 30 0.25 25 0.20 20 0.15 15 10 0.10 5 0.05 0 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 International Domestic Total 1 Comparative figures for the period before April 2010 are pro forma, based on operations previously run under LFV. Consolidated SEK M, unless otherwise indicated 2012 20112 2010 3 Net revenue 4,965 4,693 3,277 Operating profit 831 781 420 Operating margin, % 16.7 16.6 12.8 Profit before tax 554 556 192 Profit for the period 447 438 15 Earnings per share, SEK 0.31 0.30 0.01 Return on equity, % 10.3 11.0 0.4 Return on capital employed, % 6.4 7.4 3.9 Equity/assets ratio, % 29.1 32.7 30.4 Cash flow from operating activities 1,493 1,178 746 Capital spending 3,418 1,057 520 Satisfied passengers (ASQ), % 68 68 68 Satisfied employees (ESI), % 76 64 NA Average number of employees 2,624 2,516 2,496 Carbon dioxide emissions, tonnes 5,400 4,600 8,2004 2 Key financial data for the comparative period last year have been restated to comply with IFRS. 3 The Swedavia Group’s first financial year runs from April 1 to December 31, 2010. The comparative period 2010 has not been restated to comply with IFRS. 4 Refers to full-year 2010; comparative figures for the January-March period are pro forma and based on operations previously run under LFV. Swedavia 2012 | 3 This is Swedavia » swedavia in brief Swedavia in brief Our offering Swedavia owns, operates and develops 11 airports across Sweden. We also Swedavia’s services are aimed at meeting own the property Göteborg City Airport and are a minority shareholder in the needs of our customers and partners for efficient, long-term sustainable travel. the company that runs the airport. Swedavia’s operations consist of Airport Sweden is a country dependent on exports, Operations, which include Aviation Business and Commercial Services, and with more than 50 per cent of GDP coming from the export of goods and services. In an Real Estate. Swedavia AB is wholly owned by the Swedish State. Our role is increasingly globalised society, there is growto create the access Sweden needs to facilitate travel, business and meeting demand for fast, efficient travel in, to and from the country. ings – in Sweden, in Europe and around the world. Customer focus and sus» Read more about Our offering on p. 16 tainable development are the basis of everything Sweden does, both in our own operations and in society in general. Swedavia is a leader in developing airports with the least possible environmental impact. In 2012, Swedavia had Service portfolio, % (net revenue) revenue of about SEK 5.0 billion and some 2,600 employees. In all, 32.4 million passengers flew via our airports in 2012. Strategy, objectives and targets Customer focus and sustainable development are the basis of Swedavia’s strategic development. In 2012 we further developed our strategic priorities in the four perspectives customer, economy, environmental concern and social development. We drive operations in this direction by using a number of concrete targets. The perspectives and related targets are illustrated in our sustainability wheel. Aviation revenue 55% Car parking 13% » Read more about Our strategy on p. 8 Retail, food and beverage 12% Other rental revenue 11% Advertising 1% Other 8% 9% return on 80% satisfied equity passengers, 2014 0 carbon dioxide 80% satisfied emissions, 2020 employees, 2014 4 | Swedavia 2012 This is Swedavia » swedavia in brief Kiruna Airport 2011 2012 Take-offs and landings 2,094 2,478 Passengers 164,103 198,022 Umeå Airport Luleå Airport1 2011 2012 2011 2012 Take-offs and landings 15,010 14,652 Take-offs and landings 13,585 12,848 Passengers 955,132 983,644 Passengers 1,066,839 1,089,538 Sundsvall Härnösand Airport3 Åre Östersund Airport 2011 2012 2011 2012 Take-offs and landings 7,509 7,641 Take-offs and landings 5,590 5,475 Passengers 282,047 281,136 Passengers 377,868 383,086 Stockholm Arlanda Airport 2011 2012 Bromma Stockholm Airport Take-offs and landings 210,788 207,467 2011 2012 Passengers 19,072,719 19,643,256 Take-offs and landings 45,366 47,340 Passengers 2,184,216 2,295,254 Visby Airport 2011 2012 Göteborg City Airport2 Take-offs and landings 11,923 9,545 Passengers 340,393 327,336 Göteborg Landvetter Airport 2011 2012 Ronneby Airport1 Take-offs and landings 68,747 60,250 2011 2012 Passengers 4,906,302 4,853,827 Take-offs and landings 4,015 3,885 Passengers 226,995 218,965 Malmö Airport 1 Luleå Airport and Ronneby Airport are owned by the Swedish 2011 2012 Armed Forces but are operated by Swedavia. 2 Swedavia owns the property Göteborg City Airport and is a minority Take-offs and landings 27,649 27,656 shareholder (40 per cent) in the company that operates the airport. Passengers 1,945,910 2,104,101 3 Sundsvall Härnösand Airport was operated by Swedavia in 2012; the intention is to sell the airport in 2013. Swedavia 2012 | 5 Statement of the President and CEO Successful development with the focus on passengers As we put 2012 behind us, it can be noted that we Sustainability as a basis of operations took a number of steps in a challenging economy We have intensified our sustainability work and taken the next step in our development. Customer focus and sustainability are to develop Swedavia into a long-term sustainable the basis of our operations and strategy, since we are convinced airport group. During the year, focus was placed on that this enhances our long-term competitiveness. During the enhancing our customer offering and our attractiveyear, we also joined the UN Global Compact. ness. This was done through a number of proactive We have set four sustainability objectives related to the moves, including in collaboration with our airlines. Group’s economy, environmental concern, social development We also adapted operations to the challenging global and customers. The customer objective ensures there is a strong customer focus in everything we do. During the year, we achieved economic situation. As a result of measures previously three of the four targets for 2012. We did not meet the desired implemented, we managed to achieve good economlevels for passenger satisfaction. I am convinced that we will ic results for the year. succeed with this in part because our employees are increasingly satisfied and because we now have a clear organisation with clear Swedavia’s revenue increased 10.9 per cent to SEK 1,333 M roles and targets in place. We also set a challenging environmenfor the fourth quarter. Operating profit was SEK 168 M. For the tal target. To achieve our goal of zero carbon dioxide emissions by financial year 2012, revenue increased 5.8 per cent to SEK 4,965 2020, we need above all to continue transforming our vehicle fleet M and operating profit was SEK 831 M. but also keep cutting our energy consumption. Employees are the foundation of success A world leader in operating climate-smart airports Our employees were behind much of our success during the As a result of dedicated, long-term efforts, all ten airports in Sweyear. Employees are the face of our brand that passengers see den’s national basic infrastructure were certified at the highest and are crucial to Swedavia in increasing passenger satisfaction. level of Airport Carbon Accreditation. This certification highlights During the year, we saw good progress in employee satisfaction, Swedavia’s leading role in developing climate-smart airports. We and it is very satisfying to know that we achieved our target for are convinced that the conditions needed for access to Sweden 2012. Our work to be an attractive employer continues so that in the long term are strengthened as a result. we can increase employee satisfaction. Stockholm Arlanda’s environmental permit is critical for growth Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s current environmental permit is based on old laws and conditions, which in a few years could lead to major restrictions on access to, from and within Sweden. » Swedavia is a world leader in operating climatesmart airports « 6 | Swedavia 2012 Statement of the President and CEO Swedavia’s objective is to have Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s environmental permit formulated based entirely on current laws in the Swedish Environmental Code. In May 2011, we submitted a permit application to the Land and Environment Court for Stockholm Arlanda Airport. During the year, other material and opinions from consultative bodies were added to the application. Securing a modern environmental permit for Stockholm Arlanda Airport is our most important strategic issue. All time high despite decelerating passenger growth In 2012 we set a record in passenger numbers for the entire Group. At the same time, five of our airports – Bromma Stockholm Airport, Luleå Airport, Malmö Airport, Stockholm Arlanda Airport and Umeå Airport – could take pride in new passenger records. A total of 32.4 million passengers flew to and from Swedavia’s airports. As a result, we achieved passenger growth of three per cent compared to 2011, despite a turbulent year with a number of airline bankruptcies. However, during the second half of the year, we could see the effect of economic uncertainty in decelerating passenger growth. We are convinced that air travel will grow in the long term. To meet the long-term need for increased capacity, we are in the midst of an intensive investment phase. The aim is to make our airports simpler, more efficient and more attractive for passengers. In conjunction with this work, we are taking the opportunity to enhance our commercial offering with more shops and restaurants. Bromma Stockholm Airport is undergoing a modernisation that will develop it into a highly efficient hub linking air travel with local and regional transport services. Important components of this modernisation are a complete makeover for the terminal and increased public transport service with the expansion of the Tvärbana light rail system. During the year, we established a programme for bonds and a programme for commercial paper, each capped at SEK 5 billion, to ensure a long-term stable financial footing and good ­balance in our financial structure. Real estate operations bolster core business During the year, real estate operations developed further in order to strengthen our core business. A large number of properties were brought together in the company Swedavia Real ­Estate with the purpose of developing the land around the terminals. In June some buildings were acquired from SAS, allowing Swedavia to shape the airport areas to meet our partners’ needs more effectively. The property Clarion Hotel Arlanda was completed in late October and highlights a clear ambition to continue developing the airport area as a central location for ­business and meetings. Good foundation for long-term growth In order to realise Swedavia’s full potential over the long term and generate long-term sustainable growth and good profitability, we worked with an extensive project during the year to improve Swedavia’s organisation and efficiency. The aim of the project is to make operations more efficient, create a single organisation for the Group and a function-based business model. This gives us greater flexibility and leaves us well prepared to handle future economic downturns. Swedavia enters the new year as a strong company with potential. We continue to work proactively and effectively to ensure that high access remains available to our passengers. » Everything Torborg Chetkovich President and CEO we do is for our customers « Swedavia 2012 | 7 Strategy, objectives and targets » our strategy Our strategy Task Swedavia is a State-owned company that owns, operates and develops Sweden’s national basic infrastructure of airports – a system of airports that links Sweden with the rest of the world. Our role is to create Vision the access Sweden needs to facilitate Together we bring the world closer travel, business and meetings. Swedavia’s operations make Sweden accessible and enable people who live in Sweden to experience the world. Together with our partners and employees, we create an experience that Mission makes passengers want to return time We at Swedavia create added value for our and time again. Swedavia’s developcustomers through attractive airports and ment brings the world closer. access. Together with our partners, we continuously develop our business. Swedavia’s sustainability targets 80% satisfied passengers, 2014 Values 80% satisfied employees, 2014 Swedavia’s values are: 9% return on equity Reliability 0 carbon dioxide emissions, 2020 Commitment Innovativeness A warm welcome Strategic focus Customer focus and sustainable development are the basis of Swedavia’s strategic development. Customer Economy Environmental concern Social development Swedavia’s most important cusSwedavia shall develop airports in Swedavia shall work continuously to Swedavia’s work in social development is tomers are passengers, airlines a sustainable way based on sound reduce its own environmental impact, aimed mainly at creating the access Sweden and tenants, with passengers bebusiness principles. with a focus on carbon dioxide, and be a needs. Swedavia gives priority to passenger ing the primary customer group. This means that we shall dedriver in reducing the overall environsafety and security and to developing a With a focus on customers, we velop operations through business mental impact of air travel. To achieve sustainable work environment and satisfied create the right business controls development, investment planning this, we are dependent on significant employees. We work in collaboration with to bring about satisfied customers and operational efficiency that are technological advances which require our stakeholders and, with the help of our as well as profitable business profitable in both the short and long the collaboration of business, research Code of Conduct, can set the same high development in our operations. term while creating value for our and politics at an international level. One requirements for our suppliers and partners customers. of several key issues for the aviation inas we do for ourselves. We comply with the dustry is access to renewable fuels both social responsibility requirements set in the for ground transport and aircraft. Swedish State’s Ownership Policy. 8 | Swedavia 2012 Strategy, objectives and targets » strategic priorities Strategic priorities for 2016 Our vision is to be, together with our stakeholders, an essential requirement for Sweden’s prosperity and growth. As an infrastructure operator, Swedavia has a particular responsibility to develop operations in the long term and also contribute to sustainable development. To achieve this, we have adopted a number of strategic priorities for 2016. They are based on our strategic focus and make our work concrete. Customer Business development tailored to target group work in collaboration with our partners. Together with them, we Satisfied customers are the basis of everything we do and an eswant to increase the offering of non-stop routes and, as a result, sential requirement for developing better business. increase the economic value of Sweden’s access. We continue to Swedavia’s main customer is our passengers. With work fowork with intercontinental airlines for new or expanded traffic to cused on the key products retail, food & beverage, car parking and our biggest airports. At the same time, we are intensifying our work advertising, we ensure continued growth in Commercial Services. with low-fare carriers to set up economically sustainable operaDuring the year, we decided to run advertising operations under tions at a number of our airports. Swedavia’s own management and create a new business model To strengthen our core business, we are developing properties for advertising. We are transforming our commercial space in the mainly in logistics, commerce, office premises and hotels. Through terminals through refurbishment projects that are tailored to pasthe newly formed property company Swedavia Real Estate AB, sengers and reflect their views. To make the travel process more Swedavia shall capitalise on value growth starting in the initial efficient for passengers, we are developing automated services, inphase, that is, from zoning plans to the leasing and construction cluding self-service bag drops and automated check-in machines. of buildings. Swedavia ensures good day-to-day administration in We prioritise high quality in the service we provide our airline order to build long-term value. customers. To ensure continued volume growth at our airports, we Swedavia 2012 | 9 Strategy, objectives and targets » strategic priorities Economy Cost-effective airport group Swedavia shall achieve long-term, stable profitability. Going forward, we will continue to prioritise work to improve efficiency in order to reduce cost levels in the Group. Measures shall be implemented to meet targets for passenger satisfaction, employee satisfaction and environmental performance. With the introduction of clearer Group-wide business control methods and a more flexible cost structure, we are instituting efficient operations throughout the Group. We increase our efficiency on a continuous basis by exploiting economies of scale and identifying opportunities for coordination between the airports and corporate functions. We are also working to reduce our purchasing costs by developing the tender process while standardising and simplifying the work with procurement. To reduce our IT costs and ensure operational benefits, we are implementing a change programme to raise operational efficiency. IT is also a key component in developing modern solutions for new business that generates further commercial revenue. Swedavia’s operations are long-term and capital-intensive. Therefore access to capital is an essential requirement for ensuring the Group’s development. Capital is raised in part through traditional bank borrowing but also through Swedavia issuing its own commercial paper and bonds, providing the Group with competitive interest rates. Environmental concern Reduced environmental impact Swedavia shall reduce the environmental impact of its operations through sustainable resource use, with priority areas being lower carbon dioxide emissions and reduced energy use. Over the long term, we are converting the entire vehicle fleet to fossil-free fuels. We are reducing the use of fuels, electricity and heating in existing facilities and vehicles in a costeffective way. For new builds, we set more stringent requirements than current standards. We also continue to create solutions that meet societal demands to reduce noise and the environmental impact on waterways. Swedavia also gives priority to being a strong driver in the work to develop new methods and control mechanisms that will lead to reduced noise exposure and lower greenhouse gas emissions from aviation. To bring about change, we take part in environmental development projects with a focus on curved approaches and work within the framework for international cooperation. We also continue to support the development of public ground transport and work together with other companies and organisations at the airports to provide a positive passenger experience. 10 | Swedavia 2012 Strategy, objectives and targets » strategic priorities Social development Dedicated employees from the airports. Our social responsibility in collaboration with Satisfied employees are an essential requirement for satisfied selected partners and suppliers is rooted in our values, our brand customers. They are more dedicated and provide good service and our Code of Conduct. They shall provide the basis for our to passengers. To increase employee satisfaction, we create view of sustainable development. By developing relations with participation in the corporate culture that we want Swedavia to priority stakeholders, we create potential for our business. Our reflect. We have focused efforts on communicating Swedavia’s stakeholders consist of those who influence or are influenced by vision and values so that all employees will be able to proactively Swedavia’s operations. take responsibility for moving towards the Group’s overall objectives. We work preventively with the physical and mental health High level of safety and security of employees to ensure their good health. We take responsibility Swedavia’s airports are characterised by a high level of safety and in our workplaces for creating diversity that reflects society in security. With shared methods, similar processes and professional general. Through training and monitoring, we continue to prevent service from our employees and partners, we maintain a high level and deal with sexual harassment and discrimination. of safety and security while at the same time increasing customer value. We shall have a proactive influence at the national and Contributing to social well-being international level in establishing appropriate regulations that can Swedavia takes an active role in society, thereby creating value in be implemented in a cost-effective way in our operations. An imthe short and long term. We help to bolster Sweden’s economic portant part of this work is our participation in relevant forums. We and social development through increased access. Our airports continue to focus our efforts on achieving good balance between are hubs for growth, meetings and cultures. As an infrastructure safety and security, customer satisfaction and costs. operator, we promote the development of mass transport to and Swedavia 2012 | 11 Strategy, objectives and targets » OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS 80% satisfied passengers, 2014 Objectives and targets Swedavia shall be a driver in sustainable social development and run operations towards this goal with the help of a number of concrete targets. Using sustainable development as our starting point, the company is attractive to our owner, customers, employees and other stakeholders. In 2012 three of the four targets were attained. 80% satisfied employees, 2014 Swedavia’s financial targets were adopted at the Annual General Meeting 2011. The overall financial target is a required return on equity of 9 per cent over a business cycle. Furthermore, Swedavia shall have an equity/assets ratio of at least 35 per cent. When the equity/assets ratio target is achieved, an annual dividend of 30-50 per cent of the year’s profit is to be paid, after a reversal of fair value changes not affecting cash flow and their related tax. Passengers’ views of our operations are monitored through regularly scheduled surveys. Our overall target for 2014 is to increase passenger satisfaction, our Airport Service Quality 9% (ASQ) rating, from 68 per cent to 80 per cent. Satisfied employees are an essential requirement for satisfied passengers. Our overall employee target for 2014 is to increase the Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI) from 76 per cent to 80 per cent. return on equity Swedavia shall reduce the environmental impact of operations through sustainable resource use. Our overall environmental objective is to reduce carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere from the Group’s own operations. The increase in 2012 was due mainly to the large amount of snow that fell in December. Nonetheless, we achieved our target for 2012. Our objective is to have zero carbon dioxide emissions by 2020, which requires technological 0 advances in collaboration with our partners. Target 2012 Actual 2012 Actual 2011 Actual 2010 Satisfied passengers (ASQ), % 75 68 68 68 carbon dioxide emissions, 2020 Satisfied employees (ESI), % 70 76 64 NA Return on equity, % 9 10.3 11.0 0.4 Carbon dioxide emissions, tonnes 5,600 5,400 4,600 8,200 12 | Swedavia 2012 Customer » The market and external driving forces The market and external driving forces 2012 was a challenging year for the aviation industry. Nevertheless, Swedavia saw record passenger numbers. In an increasingly globalised society, there is a growing need for fast, efficient travel in, to and from Sweden. The market situation and outlook Uncertainty in the global economy affected the air travel industry to a broad extent in 2012. A number of airlines in Sweden and internationally have financial difficulties, and some filed for bankruptcy during the past year. The airline market is furthermore dominated by consolidation. This had a negative impact on routes in Sweden during the year, but in most cases the lost service to and from Swedavia’s airports was picked up by the expansion of other carriers. Air cargo From a regional perspective, we had increased dependence on a single carrier at several of For countries like Sweden with extensive our airports. international trade, expanded infrastrucThe number of passengers who flew via Swedavia’s airports rose three per cent in 2012. ture for air cargo is an essential requireDuring the final quarter of the year, we saw a deceleration in growth. Growth has been good ment. Air cargo is the only option available for goods that need to be transported in a European comparison, which indicates that Sweden is considered an attractive destinaquickly and reliably over long distances. In tion. The total number of passengers at our airports was 32.4 million, which is the highest 2012 almost 210,000 tonnes of air cargo figure ever. were transported to and from Swedavia’s airports. This corresponds to roughly half The number of international passengers flying to or from Swedavia’s airports in 2012 was the total Swedish market for air cargo. up almost four per cent. The number of domestic passengers was up about one per cent, for a total of just under 13 million, which is the highest level in years. During the first six months of 2012, travel to and from other European countries drove the continued passenger growth increase in international traffic. After that, we saw a shift in international traffic, with more people from Sweden flying out than international visitors flying in. Volume growth is achieved mainly through good traffic growth for established airlines on existing routes but also through new routes being served by both new and existing carriers. Intercontinental traffic fell slightly, mostly to countries like Iraq, Morocco and Syria. Long-haul traffic to and from countries such as China and Thailand also fell last year. Sweden is the largest air cargo market in Scandinavia. During the year, the total air cargo market turned in a relatively stable performance overall. Long-term growth in international trade means good opportunities for Swedavia to develop air cargo at our airports, thus ensuring good infrastructure. A number of factors such as a weak global economy and financial concerns in Europe indicate a still challenging market. There is high underlying demand from Swedish leisure travellers, bolstered by the relatively favourable trend for Swedish household finances and the increased offering of airlines with good access to tickets as a result. One trend going forward is ever larger aircraft with greater seating capacity. That means passenger volume will continue to grow despite fewer take-offs and landings. Swedavia 2012 | 13 Customer » The market and external driving forces Driving forces and trends Travel budget as a share in the aviation market of disposable income Disposable income Household travel consumption Customer behaviour changing SEK billion SEK M Passenger preferences change quickly. It is a matter of understanding our customer groups 2,000 3,500 and meeting their specific needs with services and products tailored to them. In that way, 1,800 1,600 3,000 Swedavia can contribute to the positive feeling that people have about travel and meet pas1,400 senger needs. 2,500 1,200 1,000 2,000 Passenger trends 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 More passengers demand non-stop routes and travel to more distant and exotic destinations. Household travel consumption There is also a clear trend of leisure and weekend travel, with this type of travel increasing Disposable income sharply in recent years. Meanwhile, there is strong demand for low-fare travel from a large Source: Statistics Sweden share of passengers. An important factor for Swedavia’s success in the future continues to be developing non-stop service to the world’s growth regions together with the airlines. Digital development Our customers use digital communication devices to an ever growing extent. This trend entails Use of mobile Internet commercial opportunities for Swedavia before the start of a journey in the form of online bookPercentage of population ing of parking spaces, prebooking tax-free purchases etc. Digital channels also mean oppor60 tunities for better information to customers about their flight, check-in and security screening 50 at the airport. 40 30 Destination and route development 20 Destination and route development is crucial for Swedavia to be an attractive partner for 10 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 airlines. Sweden is what is known as an underserved market, which means there is more Source: Svenskarna och Internet 2012, desire to fly than there are flights on offer. To provide all of Sweden with continued high access, Internetstatistik existing airlines need to be secured while new ones need to set up operations. The growing number of international passengers indicates that Sweden is an attractive destination for tourism and business. Expanding the service offering Nordic travel trend Developing new products and services based on passenger needs throughout the travel SEK billion 180 process – from the moment the idea of a trip is conceived to the time the passenger returns home – is becoming increasingly important for Swedavia. This requires that we quickly react 160 to trends and launch new solutions in the market in order to continuously meet our promise to 140 passengers of modern, attractive travel. 120 100 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 Value of the Nordic air travel market Source: IATA 14 | Swedavia 2012 Customer » The market and external driving forces Competitive situation In Sweden there are some 40 airports with scheduled and/ From this perspective, Swedavia’s airports can serve as or charter operations. A number of these are run by municipal effective hubs, where people can transfer between different authorities. In 2012, Swedavia owned and operated 11 airtransport modes. Meanwhile, air traffic between Stockholm ports. Swedavia also owns the property Göteborg City Airport and cities such as Gothenburg, Luleå, Malmö and Umeå has and is a minority shareholder in the company that operates increased. Stockholm Arlanda Airport is the travel hub for all the airport. Swedavia is entrusted with the task of operating of Sweden, for both domestic and international trips, and is ten airports included in Sweden’s national basic infrastructure. likewise a vital component in connecting the Nordic countries Sundsvall Härnösand Airport was operated by Swedavia in to the rest of the world. 2012, but the aim is to sell that airport. To meet the long-term increased demand for long-haul Since travel habits have changed in recent years, domestic travel and non-stop routes, the offering from international air travel has been concentrated in fewer and fewer airlines. airlines has continued to grow at a number of Swedavia’s For shorter distances, passengers are choosing alternative airports. The majority of European and intercontinental routes modes of travel. Air, rail, bus and other travel modes need available are to and from Göteborg Landvetter Airport and to complement one another in order for the entire country to Stockholm Arlanda Airport. These are the two main airports have good access. competing with other major airports in northern Europe. Digital travel Easy access to information in mobile phones and online is something today’s travellers demand. Swedavia has developed mobile phone applications and airport websites to meet passengers’ digital demands. Göteborg Landvetter Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport offer mobile applications with functions that make travel simpler for passengers, with easy access to information about the airport and their journey. The application shows arrival and departure information for the next 48 hours. Passengers can also create their own travel profile so that it is easy to follow their flight departure and any changes. Every airport has its own website so that passengers can quickly and easily get information about flights, destinations, parking and shopping. Swedavia 2012 | 15 Customer » Our offering Our offering Revenue by source, % Swedavia’s business is based on long-term growing demand for efficient, sustainable travel in Sweden as well as to and from Europe and the rest of the world. We develop efficient, attractive airports for everyone. Our offering includes services related to airport operations at 11 airports across Sweden as well as property development and the exploitation of land at and in the vicinity of the airports. Swedavia’s operations consist of Airport Operations, which include Aviation Business and Commercial Services, and Real Estate. Aviation Business 55% » Read more about Property development on p. 25 Commercial Services 41% In 2012 we took a number of steps to develop our services and thus be better able to Real Estate 2% satisfy our customers’ needs. This involves everything from the refurbishment of our termiOther 2% nals to the launch of services for more efficient travel. We also initiated a digital project that will eventually give passengers the opportunity to follow their entire journey via their mobile phone or tablet – from the time they set off for the airport, through parking, security screening and passport control and shopping all the way to the gate. The intention is to create satisfied, secure passengers by pooling information and providing an overview, for instance, of how much time it takes at different checkpoints and what special offers are available in the shops. Aviation Business In Aviation Business, Swedavia provides take-off, landing and passenger services as well as ground handling and aircraft parking. This also includes airport infrastructure for ground handling services and aviation security for airlines. Examples of services are the onand offloading of goods, security screening of passengers and goods before aircraft are boarded, surveillance of the airport area, baggage sorting facilities and power supply to aircraft. Air cargo is an important business for Swedavia. Air cargo volume is often a critical factor in the profitability of a passenger route and thus key to where our airline customers establish new routes. A number of our airports such as Stockholm Arlanda Airport, Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Malmö Airport and Luleå Airport are important hubs for the air cargo market in Sweden. Some 150 airlines serve Swedavia’s airports. Our four largest airline customers are Braathens Aviation, Lufthansa, Norwegian Air Shuttle (Norwegian) and Scandinavian Airlines System (SAS). In 2012 Aviation Business accounted for about 55 per cent of Swedavia’s total revenue in 2012. Revenue breakdown, SEK M 2012 2011 2010 pro forma Aviation Business 2,749 2,650 2,196 Commercial Services 2,031 1,970 2,064 Real Estate 103 NA NA Other operating income 81 72 52 Total 4,965 4,693 4,312 16 | Swedavia 2012 Customer » Our offering Swedavia’s customer promise for satisfied, safe customers We develop attractive airports and exciting destinations, shops and restaurants in an inspiring setting in the terminals. The aim is to attract our customers and thus help add Our airports offer uniform basic functions to that delightful feeling that travel entails. such as clean, updated airports with smooth, efficient passenger flows and welcoming customer service. Our airports comply with all safety, security and environmental regulations and requirements. Performance in 2012 The regional airports maintain a mutual dialogue with different During the year, the Swedish air travel market changed. Airline airlines in order to develop air traffic together. This mainly per­tain­s bankruptcies and discontinued service to regional and national to the airports that are bona fide tourist destinations such as Kirudestinations reduced access to parts of Sweden. To ensure wellna, Visby and Åre. This dialogue resulted in the launch of a number functioning competition in the traffic between our regional airports of new routes in 2012. Destination development was largely in and Stockholm Arlanda Airport, we maintain a regular dialogue European destinations. Meanwhile the traffic trend for established with the airlines in order to develop an attractive offering. During airlines on existing routes is good. the year, this led to a number of the routes lost being replaced by » Read more about Destination development on p. 41 service from other carriers. KRN ¡¢ NRT GOT ¡¢ DME UME ¡¢ LPA ARN ¡¢ ADD MMX ¡¢ SKP GOT ¡¢ MAN LLA ¡¢ SSH MMX ¡¢ PRN Swedavia 2012 | 17 Customer » Our offering Commercial Services By extending and expanding our collaboration with The Nuance In Commercial Services, we have a broad range of premises for Group, which operates tax-free shops, passengers will have an lease for shops, restaurants, office space, warehousing and logisimproved shopping experience. During 2012 and 2013, ten taxtics. All airports offer car parking facilities. Our range of services free and other shops at Swedavia’s airports will get a make-over also includes fibre optics, telecommunications, computers and and upgraded offering, adapted to the Scandinavian market. This advertising. In order to offer an attractive range of restaurants and involves retail space totalling 3,000 square metres, beginning with shops, it is increasingly important to provide a nice atmosphere a brand-new walk-through tax-free shop in the international termiand services for smooth flows, based on what passengers desire. nal at Göteborg Landvetter Airport. Major improvements are also The conditions for Commercial Services vary among the planned at several of Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s terminals. airports. All airports work to develop this business based on local The development of infrastructure for transport to and from conditions. The greatest development potential is at Stockholm our airports is critical to our continued development. With better Arlanda Airport, but extensive development is also underway at transport, it will be easier and more environmentally friendly to get Göteborg Landvetter Airport. to the airport. That benefits our passengers and is an essential There are some 200 tenants in the terminals and at the airports. requirement for us to reduce our environmental impact. In DecemThe three largest tenants at our airports are Scandinavian Airlines ber 2012, new commuter rail service at Stockholm Arlanda Airport System (SAS), Rezidor Blu, which runs hotel operations, and was launched, which means that all commuter rail stations bethe apron and cargo handling company Menzies. Commercial tween Älvsjö and Uppsala now have direct service to and from the Services are also intended for private individuals, who account for airport. One of the most important changes at Bromma Stockholm about 24 per cent of Swedavia’s revenue. Overall, Commercial Airport is the extension of the Tvärbana light rail system’s Kista line Services accounted for about 41 per cent of Swedavia’s total now underway. In the government infrastructure bill presented in revenue in 2012. the autumn of 2012, a major investment will be made in existing rail service to Göteborg Landvetter Airport. Performance in 2012 Developing car parking facilities and adapting them to local During the year, intensive work was underway to adapt operations conditions at the different airports is essential in providing an atto our target groups. Our passengers and their aspirations and tractive offering During the year, the airports in northern Sweden needs constitute the basis of new shops being set up and other worked to develop parking facilities and further adapt them to the changes. Terminal refurbishments at a number of our airports give cold weather conditions. This includes providing engine heaters us the opportunity to enhance our commercial offering by developand roofs over the parking spaces. Charging points for electric ing new shops and restaurants. cars were also introduced at a number of airports in 2012. Self-service Bag Drop To further meet our passengers’ expectations of smooth travel, we are introducing more efficient ways to drop off baggage at the airport. The new Self Service Bag Drop, a flexible and fully automated system for passengers to check in their own baggage, is being offered as a complement to automated check-in machines. Stockholm Arlanda Airport was the first airport to introduce the baggage solution in the summer of 2012. 18 | Swedavia 2012 Customer » Our offering Passenger satisfaction Satisfied customers are the foundation of our business and thus also meeting passenger demands for basic functions, such as the basis of everything we do. We work diligently to have more cleanliness and smooth flows. We introduced various initiatives satisfied customers. During the year, our passenger satisfaction like new cleaning service contracts and a renewed agreement with rating was 68 (68) per cent. Two important reasons why the figure Securitas at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. We also work continuousdid not improve are the sharp growth in passenger volume and the ly to train our employees so they provide a welcome atmosphere refurbishment projects underway at many of Swedavia’s airports in at our airports. 2012. While the overall level did not improve, a number of airports In 2013, the focus will continue to be on the basic functions at managed to maintain and even improve passenger satisfaction our airports, adapting spaces to passenger needs and providing despite the refurbishment work. welcoming service. To achieve our objective of more satisfied passengers, we have focused on developing the terminals at a number of airports while Swedavia 2012 | 19 Customer » Our offering Investments for attractive terminals There is a great need for capital spending at our airports to meet the long-term need for increased capacity and for terminals that are better adapted to our customers and partners. We initiated investments at a number of our airports starting in 2011 in order to revamp areas that were not previously optimised. This includes creating more welcoming settings, improving passenger flows and increasing efficiency at security checkpoints. Our passengers should look forward to visiting our airports. Refurbishments were underway at Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Kiruna Airport, Luleå Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport during the year. For the development of Luleå Airport, Swedavia succeeded in getting cofinancing from the EU through its successful partnership with municipal authorities and county councils. During the year, we also invested in refurbishment projects to increase efficiency at Umeå Airport. Free WiFi at the airports As these projects reach completion, the airports have the opportunity to enhance their Ensuring safe, easy Internet access at the commercial offering and improve the atmosphere for passengers. Our airports should be airports is something our passengers want. So since August 2012 we offer free WiFi at all of welcoming and inviting and make passengers want to arrive early so they have time to make Swedavia’s airports. purchases in the shops and eat in the restaurants. For instance, the restaurant sections at Luleå Airport and Kiruna Airport are being refurbished. Our partners also have opportunities to improve and develop their operations in different areas. 20 | Swedavia 2012 Customer » FOCUS foCus » Göteborg Landvetter Airport Göteborg Landvetter Airport is undergoing its biggest change since it opened in 1977. This The “all in one” concept investment is needed in order to provide the growing number of passengers in the future The catchphrases in all our refurbishment with a continued high level of service and quality. The airport works following the “all in one” work at Göteborg Landvetter Airport are the sea, the seasons and a good friend. concept, which entails investing in a number of measures that will benefit passengers so This is reflected in the “all in one” concept there is a natural flow in the terminal. The refurbishment work is based on passengers’ views. at the airport. An associative platform has Surveys conducted by Swedavia indicate that what is considered most important at an airport been developed based on these phrases to enhance the passenger experience and is the sense of safety and security. Göteborg Landvetter Airport has kept this in mind. With the positive feelings associated with travel. our all in one concept, we create a more accessible terminal where security screening and The platform is used as a guide and inspiretail space are more open-plan. The security checkpoint for international passengers has ration in the refurbishment work as well as in marketing and other activities taking been refurbished to convey a sense of security, safety and simplicity while at the same time place at Göteborg Landvetter Airport. providing a more welcoming environment. With more space before the security checkpoint and an improved workplace environment, we are creating security screening of the highest international standards. We have also developed modern, well-lit shopping and restaurant areas with an open plan solution. During the year, parts of the new shopping thoroughfare in the international departure hall were inaugurated. With a focus on strong brands, Göteborg Landvetter Airport offers a shopping experience with a touch of innovative technology and over 1,000 square metres of floor space. The refurbishment work has also entailed investing in our employees to ensure that passengers feel welcome. Our focus is on the needs and aspirations of passengers, which means we work continuously to be dedicated and innovative in dealing with passengers and adapt to an ever-changing world. An important next step in providing increased access for passengers is to improve public transport in the region to and from Göteborg Landvetter Airport. In the government infrastructure bill presented in 2012, a major investment will be made in expanding rail service to the airport for the period 2014-2025. Rail service, in the first phase from Gothenburg, will allow increased, faster and more punctual transport of both passengers and goods while providing better conditions for jobs and growth in the region. A railway station is planned under the terminal, with the entrance between the domestic and check-in hall. Our aim is to make the airport a mass transit hub, linking mass transit on the ground with that in the air. Swedavia 2012 | 21 Economy » Our economic responsibility Our economic responsibility 2012 was a successful year for Swedavia. Our business was developed, ­especially through extensive capital spending, and one of our economic targets was achieved. In order to accomplish our task in the long term and achieve our targets, we need to make operations more efficient as well as develop them. It is particularly important to create flexibility so that we can face the increases and decreases in air traffic. With long-term sustainable and profitable operations, we create the conditions needed to meet increasing passenger demand for domestic and international service. We improve our competitiveness through initiatives that reduce our environmental impact and enhance the social values that Swedavia creates. Swedavia shall develop airports with long-term profit10% ability through active business development and operational efficiency. Financial performance In 2012, Swedavia saw decelerating growth in passenger numbers, which is a result of the Return on equity, 2012 general economic trend in Sweden and the rest of the world. In all, 32.4 million passengers flew via Swedavia’s airports, an increase of almost three per cent. Consolidated net revenue increased almost six per cent to SEK 4,965 M (4,693) compared to 2011. The increase in revenue was SEK 272 M, with SEK 98 M of this consisting of rental revenue from the buildings acquired from SAS in June 2012. The remaining increase in revenue was generated from 29% Commercial Services. Operating profit totalled SEK 831 M (781). Cost effectiveness and operational development Swedavia is entrusted with the task of safeguarding and developing Sweden’s access. We Equity/assets ratio, 2012 do this by providing our customers with welcoming, efficient and climate-smart airports. Operations shall be run with both shortand long-term profitability, which requires efficient processes and a well-adapted organisation. During the year, operations were reorganised and a new business control model was introduced. The aim is to create economies of scale and make it easier for Swedavia’s airports to make use of each other’s competencies and benefit from each other’s experiences. Cash flow from operating activities The new model also creates conditions for more effective business development. The SEK M work to implement these changes will continue in 2013, all in order to achieve our long-term 1,500 objective of sustainable operations with a focus on customer satisfaction and business devel1,200 opment; satisfied, dedicated employees with good conditions for contributing to the develop900 ment of operations; and increased environmental concern in the form of reduced emissions. 600 300 Capital spending 0 To meet the long-term need for increased capacity while providing better adapted terminals for 20101 2011 2012 our passengers and partners, there continues to be a great need for capital spending at our 1 The Swedavia Group’s first financial year runs airports. To mitigate risks, create value and achieve our long-term sustainability objective, we from April 1 to December 31, 2010. also make investments in the day-to-day maintenance of buildings and infrastructure. Airport operations require extensive investments in order to ensure compliance with regulations and government requirements for environmental performance and safety. Substantial environmental investments are also needed to meet our environmental targets. To increase capacity and quality at our airports, in 2011 we initiated essential capital 22 | Swedavia 2012 Economy » Our economic responsibility expenditures, which intensified during the year. These extensive investments are the basis for enhancing Swedavia’s competitiveness and growth in the long term as well. Such investCapital spending ments increase the attractiveness of our airports and are a prerequisite in order to continue attracting airlines and tenants and to meet passengers’ needs and aspirations. SEK M In conjunction with this capacity expansion, we are also investing to enhance the com3,500 3,000 mercial offering at our airports. This entails a broader offering of shops and restaurants as well 2,500 as new services that will benefit customers. 2,000 The refurbishment work at Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Kiruna Airport, Luleå Airport 1,500 1,000 and Stockholm Arlanda Airport continues as planned. During the third quarter of 2012, 500 refurbishment work also began at Umeå Airport. The investment programme is expected to 0 be completed in 2014. 20101 2011 2012 The single largest investment during the year, SEK 1,775 M, was the acquisition of build1 The Swedavia Group’s first financial year runs from April 1 to December 31, 2010. ings from SAS. The acquisition, made through the subsidiary Swedavia Real Estate AB, consists of buildings at Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Malmö Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport. This property deal is part of the strategy to develop the airports’ attractiveness for the set-up of commercial operations. In 2012, capital spending totalled SEK 3,418 M. Funding Swedavia’s operations, infrastructure and capital spending are funded by revenue that comes directly or indirectly from air traffic and passengers. That means operations are not funded by taxes. Instead, Swedavia shall pay a dividend to its shareholder, the Swedish State. However, in some cases, there is public sector co-financing of investments through collaborative projects on a regional basis. Swedavia 2012 | 23 Economy » Our economic responsibility Swedavia’s ambition is to meet long-term investment needs with the Group’s own cash flow while meeting the owner’s return targets. In a shorter-term perspective, we need to secure our funding needs through different sources of finance with the best possible terms. During the fourth quarter of 2012, Swedavia set up a commercial paper and bond programme, with each instrument capped at SEK 5 billion. In December, Swedavia issued commercial paper for total borrowings of SEK 750 M. These forms of financing will be used in part to refinance maturing loans. At year-end, Swedavia had SEK 761 M in funding available, divided between liquid assets of SEK 129 M and unused credit facilities of SEK 632 M. Socio-economic contribution Our greatest contribution to sustainable development is mainly in the social and economic spheres, by contributing to access as well as to regional and national growth. Our success in bolstering access to and from Sweden as well as within Sweden is critical to the country’s export and tourism industries. Tourism is sharply on the rise and is considered a new basic industry for the country. In all, 64 per cent of foreign visitors arrive in Sweden by air. More than 100,000 jobs are created in the Swedish tourism industry thanks to the aviation sector, which contributes a total of some SEK 67 billion in benefits through tourism. (Oxford Economics, 2009) Economic value generated and distributed Swedavia has a significant economic impact on society. In 2012 Swedavia AB generated total economic value of SEK 4,935 M (4,729). After dividing this economic value among different stakeholders, total value distributed was SEK 1,206 M (1,297). Of the investments made by Swedavia in 2012, 11 per cent (24) are considered to be for the benefit of the general public. Excluding the acquisition of buildings from SAS, which was the single largest investment in 2012, the share was 23 per cent. These investments can be seen as an increase since they are the result of new laws and regulations for maintaining and increasing our capacity. They extend beyond our own operations and thus generate value for the society we work in. Economic value generated and distributed by Swedavia AB according to the GRI definition SEK M Comment 2012 2011 2010* Direct economic value generated Net sales plus income from financial investments Revenue and asset sales 4,935 4,729 3,333 Economic value distributed Payments to suppliers, non-strategic investments, Operating costs royalties etc. -1,909 -1,857 -1,466 Total payments to employees (current payments, Salaries and remuneration to employees no future commitments) -1,514 -1,277 -938 All financial payments made to those providing capital Payments to capital providers to the organisation -265 -255 -192 Payments to the public sector Taxes – gross -41 -43 0 Economic value distributed Investments, repayment of capital etc. 1,206 1,297 737 * Pertains to the period April 1 to December 31, 2010. 24 | Swedavia 2012 Economy » FoCus foCus » Property development In 2011 Swedavia decided to form a property company, Swedavia Real Estate AB. The Key financial data, Real Estate: ­company’s task is to own, develop and manage properties and exploitable land at or in the 3% vicinity of our airports. Real Estate has been a business segment in the Swedavia Group since July 1, 2012. The formation of the property company is part of Swedavia’s ambition to develop the areas around the airports in order to enhance the competitiveness of the airports and the ­regions. Through the clear ownership of properties at and in the vicinity of the airports, capitalisation rate Swedavia has increased opportunities to improve our property holdings as the demand for air travel rises. As a result, this creates opportunities for Swedavia Real Estate AB to offer 175,500 operational and administrative premises that are better adapted to tenants. The focus during the year was on further developing operations in conjunction with the construction and inauguration of Clarion Hotel Arlanda Airport. The hotel is the first step in continued construction at the airport. A conference centre and three restaurants are located there along with the hotel with roughly 400 rooms. The hotel was built to provide opportunisq m leasable space ties for meetings and experiences. The aim is to create the best airport hotel in Europe as part of our customer offering. 97% During the year, we acquired six separate buildings at Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Malmö Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport from SAS. Swedavia already owns the land on which they were built. The acquisition creates a good opportunity to continue developing our airports for both passengers and tenants. We also enhance our long-term competitiveness, which benefits travel in, to and from Sweden. occupancy rate All our current and future properties share the characteristic of being built with a clear ­environmental focus. New buildings will be environmentally certified, based on their function and purpose. As part of our environmental work in property development, Clarion Hotel Arlanda Airport has applied to be certified as a Green Building. By making energy use more efficient, we thereby comply with the requirement to use 25 per cent less energy compared to the standards for new builds in the Swedish National Board of Housing, Building and Planning’s regulations. » The airport has developed into the new hub of the 21st century in the same way harbours and crossroads historically constituted natural meeting places « Swedavia 2012 | 25 Environmental Concern » Our environmental responsibility Our environmental responsibility Environmental issues are of utmost importance to Swedavia and something we have worked on diligently for many years. Today Swedavia is an international role model for developing climate-smart airports. Reducing the environmental impact of aviation is an essential requirement for ensuring the continued existence and development of the aviation industry and thus of our operations. The focus of our environmental work is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, minimise energy use and reduce emissions into the atmosphere and discharges into water from our own Charging posts at Göteborg operations. We are also working methodically on noise issues. Landvetter Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport In addition to concrete measures to reduce the impact of our operations, we take a broader perspective on environmental issues. We consider the overall environmental impact of air During the year, new charging posts for electric cars were introduced at Göteborg travel and are a driving force in the work focused on aviation emissions and noise exposure. Landvetter Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport. The charging posts at Göteborg Climate work at the highest level Landvetter Airport are part of the Ecoast project, which is aimed at driving the In 2006, Swedavia was one of the first major Swedish companies that chose to become expansion of the charging infrastructure climate-neutral. That means operations today are carried out without having any negative in Västra Götaland County. The charging impact on climate change. posts at both airports are part of the work to limit carbon dioxide emissions. During the year, we took a number of steps to take responsibility for our environmental impact. All ten Swedavia airports included in Sweden’s national basic infrastructure were certified at the highest level of Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA). Swedavia is thus the airport Fast-charging electric buses group that has come the furthest, according to this international standard, in the work to in Umeå develop climate-smart airports. During the year, the charging station for In 2012 Swedavia (excluding Swedavia Real Estate) was ISO 14001 environmentally certifast-charging electric buses at Umeå Airport fied, which is crucial support in our environmental work. A number of airports were already was inaugurated. The station is the result of separately environmentally certified to the same standard. a collaboration between Hybricon, Swedavia and Umeå Airport and allows Umeå’s airport coach service to operate using clean, quiet » Read more about The airports’ climate certification (ACA) on p. 31 buses. Swedavia’s carbon dioxide Carbon dioxide emissions from Swedavia’s operations, emissions by category, % excluding employee business travel Tonnes 14,000 12,000 10,000 8,000 6,000 4,000 2,000 Vehicles and fuels 77% Employee business travel 13% 0 2005 2008 2011 2014 2017 2020 Energy 9% Fire & Rescue Service 1% Carbon dioxide emissions Emission targets 26 | Swedavia 2012 Environmental Concern » Our environmental responsibility Towards zero carbon dioxide emissions by 2020 To offset the carbon dioxide emissions we have been unable to Our Group-wide objective is to have zero carbon dioxide emiseliminate with our own measures, Swedavia buys certificates from sions from our own operations by 2020, which requires technoprojects in developing countries. The certificates guarantee that logical advances in collaboration with our partners. This goal is in similar emissions are offset through projects and within the frameline with the aims of the aviation industry to cut its global carbon work of the UN’s climate work. In that way, we achieve climate dioxide emissions in half by 2050 compared to 2005 and to have neutrality. The projects, which meet the Gold Standard requirecarbon-neutral growth for the industry by 2020. ments of the World Wildlife Fund and Greenpeace, will also result Swedavia has a number of targets linked to our long-term in social and economic development in the developing countries. goal of zero emissions by 2020, for instance regarding the use of renewable energy and fuel. To achieve this long-term objective, Lower energy use substantial conversions and investments in the Group’s vehicle Swedavia works continuously to improve its resource and energy fleet as well as extensive energy conservation measures will be efficiency, while promoting recycling and renewable energy. Our implemented. target is to reduce total energy use at least 30 per cent by 2020, In 2012 carbon dioxide emissions totalled about 5,400 tonnes, compared to 2005. At year-end, energy use had been cut 22 per which is a 17 per cent increase compared to 2011. The increase cent since 2005. In 2012 energy use increased 4 per cent, comis mainly due to the heavy snowfall in December. Nevertheless, we pared to 2011, which is explained by December being colder than achieved our target for 2012. Since 2005, Swedavia has lowered normal. Nevertheless, the target for total energy use was achieved its carbon dioxide emissions 56 per cent. We continue to invest in in 2012. reducing carbon dioxide emissions at our larger airports. We give During the year the focus was on making Göteborg Landvetter this priority since we have the highest carbon dioxide emissions Airport climate-neutral in heating. A district heating system heats there, which means they have the greatest impact on our total buildings with over 100,000 square metres of space at the airport. carbon dioxide emissions. Kiruna Airport has worked extensively with its electricity and Our overall carbon dioxide emission target guided our enviheating consumption, which was reduced almost 10 per cent durronmental work during the year. One important measure was to ing the same period. There are numerous examples of measures, develop a strategy for a carbon-free vehicle fleet. It is critical to such as monitoring and replacing lighting, ventilation, radiators and solve the question of renewable fuel in order to achieve our objeccontrol systems and replacing windows and doors. tive. This strategy will be implemented over the course of the next few years. Tekniska Verken’s Environmental Another key measure is our structured work to ensure we do and Energy Prize not exceed the emissions cap at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. DeKiruna Airport was awarded Tekniska Verken’s spite higher passenger volumes, we still have some margin before Environmental and Energy Prize at Kiruna Day we reach this cap. 2012, in recognition of our focused work on environmental and energy issues. Swedavia’s energy use by Swedavia’s total energy use energy source, % GWh 150 120 90 60 30 Electricity 59% 0 District heating 30% 2005 2010 2011 2012 Biofuel 10% Heating Electricity Oil 1% Swedavia 2012 | 27 Environmental Concern » Our environmental responsibility 1,500 Noise Swedavia has worked for a number of years to limit the impact of aircraft noise, which is always a germane issue for the industry as well as for a number of our stakeholders. Most of this work is carried out at our larger airports, where the issue is most relevant. We carry out residences in the vicinity of Bromma noise assessments on a regular basis to ensure that we are within the limits of the airports’ Stockholm Airport, Göteborg Landenvironmental permits. vetter Airport, Stockholm Arlanda Collaboration with neighbours and municipal authorities for the airports with the highest Airport and Umeå Airport were noise levels is crucial and has resulted in building planning and permits being issued based on soundproofed during the year. forecast noise curves, called noise exposure contours. We maintain a regular dialogue with our neighbours, and surveys show that the environmental issues they give the highest priority to are the climate, followed by noise. Our objective in our collaboration with neighbours is to increase understanding about the airport’s role in creating access in the region and about how approaches must be made in a certain way. To reduce noise for buildings with the greatest exposure, we soundproofed the residences. However, during the year Bromma Stockholm Curved and green approaches Airport applied for an extension for soundproofing homes in the vicinity of the airport. Some Curved approaches entail avoiding densely 15,000 residents are exposed to aircraft noise above the standard level (ANL) of 55 dB(A) from populated areas, thus reducing noise exposure in communities in the vicinity of the Swedavia’s airports. About 90 per cent of those exposed live near Bromma Stockholm Airport airports. Curved approaches may also mean and Stockholm Arlanda Airport. shorter flight paths, which produce lower An important measure to reduce aviation noise and emissions into the atmosphere is the emissions. Green approaches entail aircraft descending continuously from their cruising continued work to develop the potential for curved and green approaches at our airports. As altitude to the landing runway. With continuous part of the work with green approaches, we took part in the project Green Connection. Led by descent, almost no engine thrust is needed, LFV, it was carried out in partnership with GE, Rockwell Collins, SAS and Swedavia and cowhich saves on both fuel and emissions while reducing the amount of noise. financed by an EU programme that develops technical and operational conditions for a single European sky (SESAR). Green Connection was also part of the trans-Atlantic joint initiative Atlantic Interoperability Initiative to Reduce Emissions (AIRE). When the project was completed in May 2012, it was estimated that a total of 100 green approaches had been carried out at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. The flights in the project show a savings of at least 130 kilos of carbon dioxide per flight. Swedavia continues to work to increase the number of curved and green approaches at our airports. Water Swedavia works to achieve and ensure a good ecological and chemical status for the waterways, ground water and lakes affected by our operations. The waste water from our airports contains oil and some heavy metals. Polluted water from our workshops, firefighting exercise sites and vehicle washing facilities and aircraft lavatory water are conveyed through sewage pipes to water treatment facilities. By carrying out checks of chemical management procedures and oil separators at the airport, we also reduce the environmental impact of emissions into the waste water system. Our objective is to have all of Swedavia’s airports comply with the criteria in the EU Water Framework Directive. As a result, during the year a number of our airports updated their control programmes for the airport’s impact on waterways ahead of schedule. At Göteborg Landvetter Airport extensive work is underway to maintain good quality in surface water from the airport and not have a negative impact on the surroundings. According to a 2008 environmental court decision, the airport must have a surface water treatment facility. Another requirement is that at least 70 per cent of the glycol used in de-icing must be collected. Water from the airport is conveyed to three ponds for treatment with the help of sedimentation and decomposition. Once the water is clean, it meets the EU Water Framework Directive. Malmö Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport also focused on developing their surface water treatment facilities during the year. 28 | Swedavia 2012 Environmental concern » Our environmental responsibility Göteborg Landvetter Airport was one of three airports in Europe ity for ­investigating and mapping the presence and spread of the taking part in a pilot project led by European Water Stewardship. compound and the risks to humans and the environment and for They have developed an EU standard that provides guidance and exploring possible measures to treat perfluorated compounds. tools for measuring, certifying and communicating sustainable use The likely source of the chemical, which is present in waterways of water in operations. adjacent to the airports, is the previous use of fire extinguishing foam containing PFOS, so our own operations did not have Historical environmental liability a direct impact. Swedavia has carried out water sampling and A research project on perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) in the chemical analyses at our airports. The results of 2012 samples environment has been under way for several years, launched at show the presence of PFOS in some cases. Swedavia will repeat the initiative of Swedavia and others. We take social responsibilthe testing in 2013. Swedavia’s environmental targets Area Objective Target Actual 2012 Emissions to Swedavia shall reduce its own • By 2012 emissions shall be at most 5,600 tonnes (excluding our employee business travel) the atmosphere carbon dioxide emissions, • Every airport shall reduce carbon dioxide emissions by ten per cent a year –carbon dioxide with the ultimate target being zero by 2020. Energy Swedavia shall improve its re• For 2005-2020 Swedavia’s total energy use including expansion shall be reduced by at least source and energy efficiency, 30 per cent while promoting recycling and • For 2011-2015 Swedavia’s total energy use excluding expansion shall be reduced by two per renewable energy. cent a year • By 2012 at least 20 per cent of Swedavia’s fuel for vehicles shall be renewable fuel Emissions into Swedavia shall contribute to • The oxygen content in the water measured at the airport’s water release point shall be at least waterways achieving and ensuring good 5 mg/l by 2013 ecological and chemical sta• The metal content of the water measured at the airport’s water release point measured as a tus in the recipient waterways five-year rolling average shall be at most within the environmental quality standards set by the affected by the company. Swedish Water Authority by 2013 at the latest Aviation noise Swedavia shall work actively • Every airport that has aviation noise as a significant environmental aspect shall be categorised to achieve acceptable noise as proactive in the noise classification system by 2015 at the latest exposure relative to the social benefits of aviation. Customer Swedavia shall measure how • By 2012 taxis shall be 100 per cent ecotaxis* at Bromma Stockholm Airport and Stockholm experience our customers view the airports Arlanda Airport as taking environmental re• By 2012 taxis shall be 100 per cent ecotaxis* at Göteborg Landvetter Airport and Malmö Airport sponsibility and acting in a way • The share of passengers who use mass transport to get to Stockholm Arlanda Airport shall be that is environmentally aware. at least 50 per cent by 2012 Target achieved Target achieved by some airports Target not achieved in full * The requirement for environmental taxis does not include vehicles that take more than four passengers. Swedavia 2012 | 29 Environmental CONCERN » Our environmental responsibility Environmental permits In order to operate an airport, an environmental permit is needed for basic operations. The oversight authority for most of Swedavia’s airports is the Swedish Environmental Court. Various conditions are also attached to the permit. There is a change in conditions when there is a change in operations, for instance, when approach and take-off routes are to be modified. An application is submitted for minor changes in operations, for example, when an airport places a parking area in service or changes de-icing agents. Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s current environmental permit is based on laws and conditions that are twenty years old, and which could in a few years lead to major restrictions on access in, to and from Sweden. Swedavia’s objective is to have Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s environmental permit drawn up based entirely on the laws in Sweden’s Environmental Code. In May 2011, we submitted an application to the Environmental Court for a new environmental permit for Stockholm Arlanda Airport. During the year, other material and opinions from consultative bodies were added to the application. Negotiations are expected to take place in the autumn of 2013. Swedavia also applied for a new environmental permit for Malmö Airport during the year. » Go to www.swedavia.com for more information about Environmental permits Projected demand for access, 2038, number of aircraft movements per hour – scheduled and charter operations 140 120 100 Estimated capacity for Stockholm Arlanda Airport based on current environmental permit. 80 60 Today Stockholm Arlanda Airport and Bromma Stockholm Airport meet the access needs of 40 Sweden’s capital. Projections through 2038, 20 when the agreement with Bromma Stockholm expires, show that there is insufficient capacity, 0 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 even if both airports are in operation. EstiHours of the day mated capacity of 90 aircraft movements per Bromma Stockholm Airport Stockholm Arlanda Airport hours assumes that Runway 3 can be used for landings from the south. Projected peak traffic, 2038 (straight upscaling of traffic patterns, with no adjustment for peak traffic) Ecotaxis at our airports Beginning in September 2012, only taxis that are ecotaxis may pick up passengers at Bromma Stockholm Airport. This measure is a step in the work to reduce the environmental impact of trips to and from the airport. In July 2011, Swedavia introduced the requirement that taxi traffic from Stockholm must be via “green” vehicles. Swedavia wants to further reduce emissions by supporting the use of environmentally efficient fuel. 30 | Swedavia 2012 Environmental concern » Focus Focus » Airports’ climate certification (ACA) About ACA certification ACI Europe and WSP Environmental Seven years ago, Swedavia (then LFV) was the first major company in Sweden that decided & Energy are the organisations behind to be entirely climate-neutral. This commitment includes mapping and investigating whether it ACA certification. ACI Europe is a is possible to eliminate our remaining carbon dioxide emissions. During this period, Swedavia consortium of 440 airports in Europe that works to disseminate knowledge and reduced the emissions from our airports by almost 60 per cent or about 7,000 tonnes. The methods, among other things, to make Group’s successful environmental efforts and world-leading climate work have been honoured airports more efficient from a climate with Swedish and international awards. change standpoint. Certification was launched in 2009 in conjunction with By sharing our extensive knowledge about environmentally efficient airport operations in a decision by the European airports to the Group over the past few years, all ten of Swedavia’s airports in Sweden’s national basic be climate-neutral regarding their own infrastructure were certified at the highest level of Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) in 2012. operations. During the first two years, the carbon dioxide emissions of affiliated That means ten of the fourteen airports in the world that have attained the highest level are airports were reduced more than 1.1 milSwedish and operated by Swedavia. lion tonnes (ACI Europe). The European Swedavia’s objective is to completely eliminate carbon dioxide emissions from its own certification is the only programme of its kind in the world. operations by 2020. There are still important issues to be resolved. For instance, we need to introduce renewable fuels for our heavy vehicles. In conjunction with the certification, Swedavia brought together decision-makers and experts such as Sweden’s Minister for the Environment, Lena Ek, and representatives from ACA to discuss their views on how to achieve concrete results in the field of climate change. For the third year in a row, Stockholm Arlanda Airport was certified at the highest level. That means certification for the airport is valid for the next three years. Stockholm Arlanda Airport has demonstrated that it carries out proactive environmental work, and ACA feels confident that the work will continue at the same high level going forward. Swedavia given Aviation Award 2013 Swedavia received the Sigma Aviation Award 2013 for our dedicated environmental work to achieve and maintain climate-neutral airports with good profitability. The award was given to the most forward-thinking project/initiative carried out in 2012 in the aviation industry. Minister for the Environment Lena Ek takes part when Swedavia and Airport Carbon International (ACI) celebrate environmental certification at the highest international level of all ten airports in Sweden’s national basic infrastructure – Neutrality. Swedavia 2012 | 31 » Swedavia’s most important contribution is to support Sweden’s economic and social development through increased access – in, to and from Sweden « 32 | Swedavia 2012 Social development » Our role in society Our role in society As an infrastructure operator, Swedavia has a particular responsibility in society. Our most important task is to support Sweden’s economic and social development through increased access – in, to and from Sweden. We also contribute many jobs, directly and indirectly. In dialogue with partners at the local, regional and national level, we develop our operations and collaborate on improved mass transit. Access is an essential requirement for well functioning international trade and for international competitiveness. With Stockholm Arlanda Airport as the hub of Sweden’s domestic traffic, we create a broader base for direct service to destinations outside the country while opening up the international market to regional business operations. The access we provide contributes to the valuable sharing of knowledge and cultures, which enhances international understanding and cooperation. With airport operations in many parts of the country, we play a crucial regional role. We take our responsibility by contributing to the development of the regions in a number of ways, including through measures to maintain and increase the number of national routes. Through close collaboration with organisations in the regions, together we develop tourism and other business operations. We are a key component in infrastructure that makes Sweden and the rest of the world accessible to everyone. A report published by the Stockholm County Council indicates that ten new international non-stop routes to Stockholm Arlanda Airport would generate about SEK 500 M in benefits to the region through increased production. The routes would also provide benefits to passengers of between SEK 420 and 840 M in the form of shorter travel times and more destination options. Collaboration on together creating incentives for new routes is essential for success. (Stockholms Internationala Tillgänglighet, 2012) The role of the aviation industry The aviation industry has a significant responsibility in society in addition to providing the access that society needs. Aviation is often identified as an environmental villain, but this one-sided picture needs to be more balanced. Instead, the social benefits that aviation contributes need to be weighed against the environmental impact of aviation. Society faces major environmental challenges, and the aviation industry has an imUmeå Airport awarded portant role to play in reducing the environmental impact of air travel. The solution is not Lead Partner of the Year Prize to fly less, because that has other negative consequences for society, but rather to fly At last year’s Umeå Gala, Umeå Airport was smarter. In the past few decades, technological development has been vital in reducing awarded the Lead Partner of the Year Prize the environmental impact of aviation. The industry can do a great deal, but a large share for the airport’s importance for continued of the responsibility also falls to others. Cooperation and dialogue are essential requiregrowth in the region and for its environmental work. The prize is awarded to the business ments to ensure this development. A major environmental issue is to increase mass or operation that excels during the year in transit to the airports in order to reduce emissions from car traffic. creating opportunities for growth and develAs part of its social responsibility, the aviation industry also provides many jobs opment in Umeå through its dedication and innovative thinking. This demonstrates that around the country. In all, the industry directly and indirectly employees about 80,000 we contribute to the well-being of the region people in Sweden. and to important issues for the future with innovative ideas and commitment. Swedavia 2012 | 33 Social development » Our role in society Examples of partnerships Increased mass transit With the Green Connection project, All modes of transport have their strengths and weaknesses. When this understanding is which was completed in spring 2012, taken into account in traffic planning, it will bring the greatest benefits and there will be good the aviation industry took a major step coordination between transport modes. Air, rail, bus and other modes of travel complement to make the entire flight from Göteborg Landvetter Airport to Stockholm Arlanda one another, and each is needed to make all of Sweden accessible. Airport more resource-efficient, using a Air travel is part of mass transit, and we work together with bus and rail traffic services. new method and better planning We support the development of mass transit solutions to our airports and strive to increase Swedavia works to increase tourism the number of travellers who take mass transit to and from the airports. For instance, comtogether with local destination and marmuter rail traffic to Stockholm Arlanda Airport was expanded in December. The government keting companies to create the basis for new routes infrastructure bill presented during the autumn includes a major investment in rail service to Göteborg Landvetter Airport. One of the most significant changes taking place at Bromma Swedavia works together with ECPAT, the World Childhood Foundation, DocStockholm Airport will be the extension of the Tvärbana’s new Kista line to the airport. All tors Without Borders, the Red Cross and these efforts enhance the long-term competitiveness of the airports and the region. the Swedish Childhood Cancer FoundaBy expanding transport options for our passengers and employees, we contribute to tion to help promote their operations. We have chosen these five organisations increased customer value and make transport easier. Increased travel by mass transit is an because it seems natural to have a meanenvironmentally friendly alternative, which means that total emissions are reduced. ingful partnership with them and because we have a mutual exchange that enriches the everyday lives of our employees Collaboration Business Region Göteborg collaborates Through select partnerships, we contribute benefits to society and enhance Swedavia’s with Göteborg Landvetter Airport with brand. We set the same requirements for social responsibility for our partners as we do for the aim of strengthening transport, travel ourselves. The objective is to develop trust and as a result be seen as a natural choice for and logistics, thereby developing business in the Gothenburg region our partners. Based on our core business, we develop long-term partnerships with companies and Swedavia sees biogas and the development of new biofuels as crucial in meeting non-profit organisations. We set requirements for ethical guidelines for both suppliers and our overall objective of zero carbon dioxpartners. Under the scope of this work, we are also further developing our Code of Conduct ide emissions from our own operations for suppliers as well as for companies and other organisations at our airports. by 2020. During the year, Volvo received an award for its petrol engines for heavy vehicles, which Swedavia helped to design and test Arlanda Forum brings together local and regional decision-makers, both in the private and public sector, to discuss how access to Stockholm Arlanda Airport can be improved while at the same time reducing the environmental impact, for instance, of traffic to and from the airport. The work in Arlanda Forum is crucial to the development of Stockholm Arlanda Airport Swedavia is a member of the trade association Svenskt Flyg. The objective of the association’s operations is to enhance trust in commercial aviation and the aviation industry so that they have the potential to work and develop in Sweden 34 | Swedavia 2012 Social development » Our role in society Stakeholder dialogue and materiality analysis Our materiality analysis is based on the stakeholder dialogues Each year, Swedavia holds a dialogue with a number of relevant we conducted during the year and includes a number of surveys stakeholder groups that influence or are influenced by our operawe carried out. The issues that are taken up in our Annual Report tions. This dialogue is important for our continued development and Sustainability Report are based on these dialogues. and profitability, since it contributes to increasing our understandOur most important stakeholders are our owner, passengers, ing of how our stakeholders perceive our operations and sustainemployees, society and our partners. In conjunction with this ability work. We analyse our stakeholders’ questions and views year’s dialogue with them, a number of important questions were on a continuous basis. raised, which are presented in the table below. Dialogue with stakeholders in 2012, a selection Stakeholder Dialogue Monitoring activities Important issues Owner During the autumn of 2012, the first survey of Of the members of Parliament asked, 94 per The attitude survey constitutes the basis of attitudes among political decision-makers on cent are familiar with Swedavia and 65 per how we develop the dialogue with our owner Swedavia, aviation and relevant issues was cent associate the company with airports. 61 and political decision-makers. carried out. The survey will be conducted per cent were in contact with Swedavia in the annually. past year. Passengers Passengers are Swedavia’s primary customer Swedavia is part of the Airport Service Quality The survey provides continuous information group. As a result, passenger attitudes to the (ASQ) programme, which measures passenabout customer satisfaction and what areas airport are measured on a regular basis. ger satisfaction and is administered by Airport the airports should give priority to in order to Council International. The rating for 2012 was increase customer satisfaction. 68 (68) per cent. The 2015 ASQ target is 80 per cent. Employees Satisfied employees are an essential requireThe 2012 survey was carried out in March The survey results constitute one of four ment for satisfied customers. Each year an with a response rate of 88 per cent and an overall sustainability targets for Swedavia. employee survey is conducted to identify employee satisfaction index (ESI) of 76 (64) The results are used to assess the impact of strengths and areas for improvement. per cent. The target for 2014 is 80 per cent. measures implemented. Society A sustainability survey of members of the In 2012 88 (89) per cent of respondents The aim of the survey is to obtain knowledge general public in the vicinity of our airports as thought that Swedavia was transparent and about the views of passengers and the general well as passengers is carried out each year. trustworthy; 91 (92) per cent considered that public about the airports Swedavia operates. the airport was important to development in the region. Partners Surveys of airline and tenant satisfaction with In 2012 Swedavia did not conduct any survey The results indicate what priority areas the airports are carried out on a regular basis. of airline attitudes. The next survey will be ­Swedavia should invest in to develop our conducted in 2013. The rating for tenants was customer relations and achieve our long63 (66), with the target for 2015 being 75. term objective of increased customer value experienced. Swedavia 2012 | 35 Social development » Our employees Our employees Dedicated employees with the right competencies and the desire to develop are critical for our future. We work to be an attractive employer that promotes development in order to recruit competent employees. Our work is carried out with a focus on sustainability and based on ambitious objectives in the priority Leadership and employeeship principles areas of employeeship, leadership, health and diversity. Swedavia’s vision of leadership is divided into five leadership principles which spell Communicative leadership out our expectations for leaders. Our five Leaders at Swedavia have a vital role in working to ensure that everyone takes responsibility for employeeship principles are aimed at giving us a common platform to work from in our the company achieving its objectives and targets. Leaders are the key to our vision and values day-to-day operations. The principles are being carried out into operations. Together with employees, our leaders are responsible for conbased on Swedavia’s vision, values and Code necting Group objectives and targets to individual objectives and targets. Leaders are to be role of Conduct and are focused on the following areas: models that create conditions that enable employees to develop. Focus on customers and business During the year, we focused on strengthening our leaders. Among other moves, we develOne Swedavia oped a number of communication goals that will help leaders in the important dialogue with employees. We have two Group-wide Leadership Days a year. Our investment in leaders is A good role model connected to the leadership principles we developed in 2011. Courage to be better We have a leadership programme at Swedavia. To highlight the importance of leadership, Clear communication we handed out the Small and Big Leadership Prize at our Leadership Day last April in order to encourage talented leaders and role models. 36 | Swedavia 2012 Social development » Our employees Target, 2014 80% satisfied employees 2012 76% satisfied employees 2011 64% satisfied employees More satisfied employees Our employees are the key to satisfied customers. Our employees Each year we conduct an employee survey. Results improved also represent our brand. So we work continuously to enhance considerably in 2012, with an employee satisfaction index (ESI) their competencies and customer service. We have launched of 76 per cent compared to 64 per cent for 2011. Basically every an online introductory programme that new employees need to airport saw an improvement. The year’s communicative leadercomplete in order to quickly become part of Swedavia, with the ship index (CLI) was 66 (61). help of their leader. The ESI results are the basis of many of the issues we focus In 2012 all new recruits completed employeeship training. on. To achieve our target for satisfied employees and communiThe aim was to understand employeeship at Swedavia, what we cative leadership, we invest considerable resources in areas that stand for and what values and attitudes we want to develop. had survey low results. We support our leaders with information that they then use in their dialogue with employees. Swedavia 2012 | 37 Social development » Our employees Efficiency improvements As part of our work to improve efficiency, in 2012 Swedavia gave notice affecting 116 positions in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and Norrköping regions. The cuts were made mainly in redundant administration staff, but operational employees were also affected. The measures were taken to increase our preparedness in order to better handle economic fluctuations. Swedavia provides support to those employees affected. Through our collaboration with TRR, we offer various outplacement services such as training in looking for a job and individual action plans. Health Sustainable employees as The workplace environment and employee health are high priorities at Swedavia, because defined by Swedavia sustainable employees mean quality of life for individuals and productivity for operations. Our employees shall have a healthy physical We take responsibility for our employees’ physical and psychosocial development in the and psychosocial workplace environment workplace. that enables them to work and perform at Our efforts include work-related rehabilitation for employees with repeated short-term their best. That requires advanced leadership which takes responsibility for the workabsences due to illness as well as longer such absences. In 2012 the rate of absence due to place and develops working aids and tools. illness was 4.8 (4.1) per cent. Swedavia shall take proactive responsibility We are working to develop measures to prevent injuries. This is important since many by conducting relevant physical tests, developing individual action plans as necessary of our employees have physically demanding duties. We will also test the physical health of and encouraging and supporting preventive employees in selected risk groups on a regular basis. fitness activities. Since 2011 we offer occupational health service for the entire company. All employees have access to crisis management support through this service, day or night. We support and encourage employees to take responsibility for their health by subsidising fitness activities. In January 2012 an employee insurance programme for illness and rehabilitation was introduced. 38 | Swedavia 2012 Social development » Our employees Diversity Total number of Swedavia employees, Diversity is a strategic issue for Swedavia. Having carefully prepared, inclusive diversity work breakdown men/women, % is critical to our business because we operate from the assumption that people’s differences enrich us. In 2012 we continued to work based on the framework established in Swedavia’s diversity and gender equality plan, which was introduced in 2011. Under the scope of this plan, we implemented a zero tolerance policy for bullying and harassment. Swedavia has a number of procedures already in place to deal with discrimination. One example is the employee survey, which includes questions about bullying and sexual harassment. In 2012 we formed a diversity group, which consists of employees at Swedavia. The idea is that it will drive issues, serve as a knowledge bank and represent Swedavia externally. The Men 67% employees in the group were trained in basic discrimination laws and general diversity work. Women 33% We also developed guidelines on diversity in the recruitment process. As part of our diversity work, Swedavia started a pilot project with Samhall, the leading company in Sweden that provides opportunities through employment for people with disabilities. For twelve months, people from Samhall worked in Swedavia’s operations. The idea Managers, is that both companies will gain knowledge about the practical details of how best to expand breakdown men/women, % this collaboration and offer work at Swedavia to more people with disabilities. Code of Conduct Swedavia has a Group-wide Code of Conduct. The Code of Conduct constitutes our ethical guidelines and develops common values and ethical attitudes. This provides a clear foundation of our vision – Together we bring the world closer – and sets out how we should conduct ourselves in fulfilling the requirements placed on our operations with an attitude we are proud of. Our Code of Conduct includes the areas of human rights, Men 57 % methods for corporate responsible behaviour, the workplace environment and our role Women 43 % in society. It states that all of Swedavia’s employees are free to join any association or organisation of their choice. We state in our Code of Conduct that Swedavia supports the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights and related conventions. That means we respect personal dignity, Executive management, integrity and the rights of every human we come in contact with in our work. No one shall breakdown men/women, % take part in violating or circumventing human rights. Men 64 % Women 36 % Swedavia 2012 | 39 Social development » Safety and security High level of safety and security Aviation safety and security, security screening and surveillance at our airports are characterised by the highest quality conceivable so that passengers always feel safe and secure. Our passengers demand smooth, efficient flows without compromising safety or security. This is something Swedavia always has in mind when we develop our airports. Aviation safety and security are a foundation of all our operations, and security work is an important factor in creating trust. Our airports shall guarantee a high level of safety and security which helps passengers feel secure and enjoy a positive experience. How our employees and partners treat passengers in this work also plays a critical role. Methodical security work When we develop our Group-wide security, consideration is also given to cost-effective solutions. One essential component is the use of effective IT support. We are working to develop Group-wide methods with similar processes so that long-term, systematic thinking is integral to all our security work. Our structured work shall result in our fulfilling the requirements set by authorities on every occasion. One of our partners is responsible for security screening at Bromma Stockholm Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport. We therefore maintain an ongoing dialogue to ensure there is a shared approach to security work. We have also developed a Group-wide assessment system to continuously monitor and further develop this work. During the year development work that began in 2006 on technology and staffing at Bromma Stockholm Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport was completed. Technology and staffing have been combined in a way that creates the best possible solutions for measuring and monitoring this work. Security work has become more proactive and passenger-focused. Our aviation safety work is on par with that of leading airports in Europe. During the year we developed a Group-wide management system for aviation safety at the airports that was completed by year-end. The system has an effective monitoring system to ensure continuous development and improvement work. In 2013 the work will continue to implement this and connect all the airports together. We have a zero target for the number of accidents and serious incidents. In 2012 there were no accidents but one serious incident at Swedavia’s airports. » Aviation safety Regulated safety work Swedavia’s safety work is largely regulated by EU laws interpreted by the Swedish and security are Transport Agency in the form of regulations (TSFS). The Swedish Transport Agency also carries out oversight of the airports’ safety work. In addition, Swedavia carries out always the highregular self-inspections and quality controls at the airports. est priority at Our aim is to influence national and international laws to establish appropriate safety regulations. In 2014 the European Air Safety Administration (EASA) will introduce new Swedavia « regulations that Sweden is already well prepared to implement as a result of our proactive work. 40 | Swedavia 2012 Social development » Focus foCus » Destination development Since Swedavia’s role is to help make Sweden more accessible, we give destination developSwedish exports to China total almost SEK 40 billion, equivalent to 3.3 per cent ment a high priority. A lot of this work is based on working in partnership to develop regions of total Swedish exports. At the same and destinations to promote the entire country as a tourist destination for international pastime, Sweden imports goods from China sengers. The fact that access via airports is critical to the development of business means valued at about SEK 44 billion. (Business Sweden in China, Statistics Sweden) that we also take part in developing new destinations abroad through different partnerships. In the tourism industry, we take part in a number of partnerships at the local, regional and national level aimed at developing destinations and generating growth in the form of more international passengers. Swedavia works above all to create increased access with the help Svensk Destinationsutveckling AB of air travel to these tourist destinations. We pursue the focus noted in the Swedish Tourism In 2011 Swedavia acquired 20 per cent of Trade Association’s National Strategy for the Swedish Tourism Industry, which specifies that the shares in the newly formed company Svensk Destinationsutveckling AB, revenue in the Swedish tourism industry should double by 2020 while employment in the whose mission is to increase revenue in industry should grow. Consumption by tourists, especially by international tourists, has been Swedish tourism. on the rise for a number of years. Meanwhile Sweden has climbed the rankings in revenue The company is entrusted with the task of developing Swedish destinations generated by international tourism, placing 21st in the world in 2011, which was the highest and making them attractive to internaranking among the Nordic countries according to the World Tourism Organization (UNWTO). tional visitors. It also works to follow the We also work actively to create local collaborative models involving the tourism industry, focus adopted by the National Strategy for the Swedish Tourism Industry in 2010. business and authorities. There are a number of good examples of how cooperation led to Other owners are Svensk Turism (40 per new routes and development in the region during the year. cent) and Visit Sweden (40 per cent). One is the seasonal service starting in the winter of 2012 between Copenhagen and Kiruna. As a result of SAS rerouting its regular service between Copenhagen and Tokyo, Danish and Japanese tourists have the opportunity to fly to Sweden to experience the northern lights, Sami culture and the Icehotell in Jukkasjärvi, which is the main aim. With this venture, the number of visitors will increase sharply, which plays an important role in the region’s development and growth. To ensure Sweden’s access to the rest of the world and contribute to the competitiveness of Swedish business internationally, our larger airports in particular play a critical role. We work continuously to increase the number of intercontinental routes that could lead to new or increased traffic to Stockholm Arlanda Airport and Göteborg Landvetter Airport but also international traffic to and from the regional airports around the country. This work enhances our attractiveness for trade partners and business travellers but also for air cargo. One example of new intercontinental routes in line with this work is Air China once again increasing the frequency of service between Beijing and Stockholm to daily departures. This increase in departures is based on expectations that China will continue to be an important market for Swedish companies. Meanwhile interest is growing among Chinese companies to set up operations in Sweden. Today there are some 650 Swedish companies with over 75,000 employees in China, excluding Hong Kong. Swedish interest in ventures there is expected to grow based on the prospects of continued strong economic growth in China. Today China is Sweden’s most important trade partner in Asia and plays an increasingly significant role as a base for Swedish companies for production and purchasing, but also research and development. (Embassy of Sweden, Swedish Chamber of Commerce and Business Sweden in Beijing) Swedavia 2012 | 41 Bakvagn 42 | Swedavia årsredovisning 2012 Financial reports Annual Report 2012 Financial reports Contents Report of the Directors 44 Note 16 Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment 77 Note 17 New construction in progress related Consolidated accounts 51 to tangible fixed assets 78 Consolidated income statement 51 Note 18 Holdings in Group companies 78 Consolidated balance sheet 52 Note 19 Holdings in associated companies 79 Changes in equity 54 Note 20 Financial assets and liabilities 80 Consolidated cash flow statement 55 Note 21 Other long-term receivables 81 Note 22 Materials and stocks 81 Parent Company accounts 56 Note 23 Receivables from Group companies 82 Parent Company income statement 56 Note 24 Receivables from associated companies 82 Parent Company balance sheet 57 Note 25 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 82 Changes in equity 59 Note 26 Equity 83 Parent Company cash flow statement 60 Note 27 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 83 Note 28 Provisions for deferred tax 85 Notes 61 Note 29 Other provisions 85 Note 1 Corporate information 61 Note 30 Liabilities to credit institutions 86 Note 2 Accounting principles, 2012 61 Note 31 Overdraft facilities 86 Note 3 Segment reporting 66 Note 32 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 86 Note 4 Net revenue 67 Note 33 Financial risks 87 Note 5 Transactions with related parties 68 Note 34 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 89 Note 6 Remuneration and compensation for auditors 69 Note 35 Cash flow 89 Note 7 Employees and staff expenses 69 Note 36 Transition to financial reporting in Note 8 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses on conformity with IFRS 89 tangible fixed assets and intangible non-current assets 73 Note 9 Financial income and expenses 73 Signatures to the Annual Report 92 Note 10 Allocations and untaxed reserves 74 Note 11 Tax on the profit for the year 74 Audit Report 93 Note 12 Intangible assets 75 Note 13 Buildings and land 76 Statement of Compliance 94 Note 14 Field structures 76 Note 15 Biological assets 77 Corporate Governance Report 95 Swedavia Annual Report 2012 | 43 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors The Board of Directors and the President and CEO Vision and Mission of Swedavia AB (publ), Swedish corporate identity Swedavia’s vision is “Together we bring the world closer”, and its mission statement is “We at Swedavia create added value for our number 556797-0818, hereby submit their annual customers through attractive airports and access. We continually accounts for Swedavia AB and the consolidated develop our business together with our partners”. financial accounts for the Swedavia Group for the year of operations 2012. The Report of the Directors is for Important events during the year the Group and Parent Company, unless otherwise The year was dominated by continued passenger growth of 2.7 indicated. per cent, which meant another passenger volume record for Swedavia in 2012. Five of Swedavia’s airports – Bromma Stockholm All amounts are in million Swedish kronor, SEK M, unless otherAirport, Luleå Airport, Malmö Airport, Stockholm Arlanda Airport wise indicated. Rounding differences may occur. and Umeå Airport – also broke passenger records in 2012. During the first six months of the year, a number of airlines filed Operations for bankruptcy, which had a negative impact on routes at most of Swedavia AB is submitting this Report of the Directors for its third Swedavia’s airports. In most cases, the routes lost were picked up year of operations, which is identical to the 2012 calendar year. by other carriers choosing to expand their operations. This thus Operations in the Swedavia Group began on April 1, 2010, when had a fairly limited impact on Swedavia overall although some the Swedish State converted its airport operations, which were routes were discontinued. carried out under the Swedish State-owned enterprise LFV, into a On June 29, Swedavia acquired a corporate entity consisting limited liability company. This was accomplished through Swedaof six separate buildings from SAS through its subsidiary Swedavia via’s acquisition of 14 airports, corporate functions and subsidiReal Estate AB. The acquisition involved a large hangar facility aries from LFV. During the first three years of operations, three and two office buildings at Stockholm Arlanda Airport, a hangar airports were sold and the others consolidated into an integrated building and a cargo terminal at Göteborg Landvetter Airport and airport system with shared corporate functions. a cargo building at Malmö Airport. The investment totalled SEK The past year was characterised by continued passenger 1,775 M. This is in line with Swedavia’s ambition to develop the growth despite a challenging year in general for the aviation industry. areas around its airports in order to enhance its competitiveness. Swedavia already owns the land the buildings are on. Task All of Swedavia’s airports in Sweden’s national basic infrastructure Swedavia is a State-owned company that owns, operates and were certified by ACA at the highest European standard for climate develops the State-owned airports in Sweden. Swedavia currently work. runs operations at eleven airports, but in the long term the number The Group in brief of airports in the national basic infrastructure as determined by SEK M 2012 2011 20101) the Swedish Government will be reduced to ten, consisting of Net revenue 4,965 4,693 3,277 Stockholm Airport, Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Kiruna Airport, Operating profit 831 781 420 Luleå Airport, Malmö Airport, Ronneby Airport, Stockholm Arlanda Operating margin, % 16.7 16.6 12.8 Airport, Umeå Airport, Visby Airport and Åre Östersund Airport. Profit before tax 554 556 192 Swedavia also owns the property Göteborg City Airport and is a Profit for the year 447 438 15 minority shareholder in the company that operates the airport. Earnings per share, SEK 0.31 0.30 0.01 Swedavia’s task from the Swedish State includes working Return on equity, % 10.3 11.0 0.4 actively based on sound business principles and with long-term Return on capital employed, % 6.4 7.4 3.9 profitability to develop the transport sector and help achieve the Equity/assets ratio, % 29.1 32.7 30.4 Parliament’s transport policy objectives. The overall objective of Cash flow from operating activities 1,493 1,178 746 Swedish transport policy is to ensure the socioeconomically Capital spending 3 418 1057 520 efficient, long-term sustainable provision of transport to citizens Average number of employees 2,624 2,516 2,496 and businesses throughout the country. Operations are funded by 1) The Swedavia Group’s first financial year ran from April 1 to December 31, 2010. the revenue generated from operations. The financial year 2010 has not been restated to comply with IFRS. 44 | Swedavia Annual Report 2012 Report of the Directors Clarion Hotel Arlanda Airport was completed and inaugurated Beginning July 1, 2012, the Swedavia Group reports two busion November 1. Swedavia owns the property. ness segments, Airport Operations and Real Estate. Segment To ensure a stable financial footing and to fund the operations’ reporting can be found in Note 3 on page 66. long-term business objectives, Swedavia set up a commercial paper and a bond programme at the end of the year, with each Liquidity and financial position instrument capped at SEK 5 billion. Equity in the Group at year-end totalled SEK 4,300 M (3,989) and Beginning on January 1, 2012, Swedavia applies IFRS. Reports the equity/assets ratio was 29.1 per cent (32.7). The consolidated published in 2012 were prepared in conformity with IFRS, and key equity/assets ratio fell by 3.6 percentage points compared to 2011 financial data and financial reports for the comparative period have because the acquisition of buildings from SAS was funded largely by been restated to comply with IFRS; information about this can be external borrowings. At year-end, Swedavia had unused credit facilifound in Note 36 on pages 89–91. ties totalling SEK 632 M divided between credit lines of SEK 500 M and unused overdraft facilities of SEK 132 M. The current portion of Net revenue and income external borrowings increased because large loans from the Swedish Consolidated net revenue for the year totalled SEK 4,965 M National Debt Office, among others, will mature within a year. (4,693), which is 5.8 per cent higher than in 2011. Operating profit At the end of the year, Swedavia issued commercial paper with was SEK 831 M (781). The operating margin was 16.7 per cent borrowings totalling SEK 750 M. (16.6). Profit before tax was SEK 554 M (556). Profit for the year totalled SEK 447 M (438). Cash flow Revenue increased by SEK 272 M compared to the preceding Cash flow for the year was negative, totalling SEK –12 M (–155). year. Adjusted for non-recurring items of SEK 56 M in 2011 and Cash flow from operating activities was SEK 1,493 M (1,178). SEK 48 M in 2012, the underlying increase was SEK 280 M. Of Investing activities used cash flow of SEK –3,341 M (–1,018). this increase, SEK 98 M consists of rental revenue from the new Financing activities generated cash flow of SEK 1,836 M (–314). buildings acquired from SAS. That means an increase in revenue of SEK 182 M compared to Capital spending the preceding year, which consists of increased revenue of SEK During the year capital spending totalled SEK 3,418 M (1,057). 99 M from Aviation Business and SEK 82 M from Commercial Of this amount, SEK 629 M (359) was allocated to investments in Services, both driven by passenger growth and weather effects, electrical installations, vehicles and equipment and SEK 2,789 M which entailed the increased sale of de-icing services. (698) to buildings and land. Disposals totalled SEK 31 M (28). The Operating costs increased SEK 223 M compared to the presingle largest investment during the year, SEK 1,775 M, was the ceding year, with the acquisition of buildings from SAS accounting acquisition of six separate buildings from SAS completed on June 29. for SEK 50 M of this. Non-recurring costs totalling SEK 64 M were Apart from the acquisition from SAS, the single largest investalso charged to operating costs for efficiency improvement measment for the year was SEK 335 M (370) for the construction of ures and expenses for pension liability provisions. The increase in Clarion Hotel Arlanda Airport at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. operating costs for the year for comparable operations was SEK 110 M and consists of increased external costs driven by higher Financial targets passenger volume and higher employee expenses as a result of an Swedavia’s financial targets through 2014 were adopted at its increase in the number of employees by an average of 108. Annual General Meeting on April 28, 2011. The requirements are Operating profit was SEK 50 M higher than in 2011. Adjusted for a 9 per cent return on equity over a business cycle and an equity/ non-recurring items and pension liability adjustments, the underlying assets ratio target of 35 per cent. profit from comparable operations was SEK 72 M higher than in 2011. Interest expenses increased during the year by SEK 52 M. Dividend policy Adjusted for effects of pension liability adjustments, which totalled When the equity/assets ratio is achieved, an annual dividend of SEK 29 M, the underlying increase was SEK 23 M. The acquisition 30–50 per cent of net profit after adding back fair value changes for of buildings from SAS accounts for SEK 26 M of this increase. That the year that do not affect cash flow and related tax shall be paid out. means the interest expense for comparable operations fell by SEK 3 M, which is due to lower interest rates for external capital borrowings. Shares Comprehensive income for the year was affected by a reduction Swedavia AB (publ) has issued 1,441,403,026 shares, which in the Swedish tax rate to 22 per cent on deferred tax and totalled comprise a single share class, and all shares have equal voting about SEK 47 M. rights in the company. All shares are held by the Swedish State; Swedavia Annual Report 2012 | 45 Report of the Directors the State’s holdings in Swedavia are administered by the Ministry quarter of the year the number of passengers was down compared of Finance. The par value of a share is one Swedish krona. to the same quarter in 2011. Great caution currently dominates the aviation market as a Acquisitions and disposals result of the prevailing financial uncertainty in Europe as well as Swedavia acquired the right to land adjacent to Bromma Stockholm weak profitability and consolidation among airlines. A number of Airport during the first quarter. The acquisition cost was SEK 26 M. airlines in Sweden and Europe had financial difficulties during the On June 29, Swedavia acquired a corporate entity consisting of year, and some filed for bankruptcy. This had a negative impact six separate buildings from SAS Scandinavian Airlines through its on routes, but in most cases routes lost were picked up by other subsidiary Swedavia Real Estate AB. This is in line with Swedacarriers. The largest airline customers all increased their share of via’s ambition to develop the areas around its airports in order to passengers during the year. enhance its competitiveness. The acquisition consists of a large A relatively favourable economic trend for Swedish households hangar facility and two office buildings at Stockholm Arlanda Airand the strong krona contribute to the continued increased in port, a hangar building and a cargo terminal at Göteborg LandvetSwedish leisure travel internationally, whereas the increase in visiting ter Airport and a cargo building at Malmö Airport. The buildings tourists and international business travellers has come to a standare all fully leased. Possession was taken on June 29, and the still. Malmö Airport showed sharp growth in international traffic in economic settlement date was June 30. The acquisition cost was percentage terms as a result of new routes at the airport. Bromma SEK 1,775 M. Swedavia already owns the land the buildings are on. Stockholm Airport also showed good growth, in part following A proposed agreement was negotiated between Swedavia the expansion of routes to other Nordic countries and the Baltic and the municipalities of Sundsvall, Timrå and Härnösand for the countries. In contrast, Göteborg Landvetter Airport saw declines takeover of Sundsvall Härnösand Airport starting June 17, 2013. in international traffic during the year, largely due to lost non-stop Before a binding agreement can be entered into, the proposed capacity following the bankruptcies of several airlines. agreement must be approved by the local councils in the three Intercontinental traffic was down during the year, mainly due to municipalities. a decline in travel to countries such as Iraq, Morocco and Syria. Through its subsidiary Swedavia Real Estate AB, Swedavia Long-haul non-stop travel to and from countries such as China, acquired 33 per cent of the shares in the newly formed company Thailand and the US also decreased during the year. Airport City Stockholm AB, whose mission is to develop Sweden’s The good growth in domestic traffic early in the year turned into first airport city, Airport City Stockholm. decreases in the final quarter of the year. During the fourth quarter, conference operations at Stockholm One trend going forwards is ever larger aircraft with a higher Arlanda Airport were sold to Radisson Blu SkyCity Hotel and cabin factor. That means passenger volumes will continue to grow Clarion Hotel Arlanda Airport. The sale of the conference facilities despite fewer take-offs and landings. The average cabin factor for generated non-recurring revenue of SEK 48 M. international traffic during the year was 74 per cent, an increase of two per cent compared to 2011, and Swedavia’s airports reported The market their highest cabin factor. For domestic traffic, the average cabin 2012 was a challenging year for the aviation industry, which was factor during the year was 69 per cent, a two per cent increase affected to a large extent by the economic slowdown and uncercompared to 2011, but on par with domestic traffic levels over the tainty in the global economy. Nonetheless, the strong performance past ten years. The average number of seats per aircraft movement in 2011 was followed by another year of increased passenger was also the highest figure on record at Swedavia’s airports – 142 volumes at Swedavia’s airports, as a result of continued expansion seats for international traffic and 102 seats for domestic traffic. among airlines and good access to low fares. Demand for travel The trend in international traffic is especially pronounced, with an and experiences remained high. increase in average cabin size of over 20 per cent in the past ten A total of 32.4 million passengers flew to or from one of years. Swedavia’s airports, which is the highest figure ever recorded. The The air cargo market continues to be squeezed by declining total increase in passenger volume at Swedavia’s airports was 2.7 volumes and strong competition. per cent. The number of international passengers increased 3.6 per cent while the number of domestic passengers increased 1.4 Significant risks and uncertainty factors per cent. Five airports also broke passenger records – Bromma Risk management at Swedavia is aimed at ensuring the Group’s Stockholm Airport, Luleå Airport, Malmö Airport, Stockholm ability to achieve its business objectives and be well prepared to Arlanda Airport and Umeå Airport. However, the trend in pasmeet change both internally and externally. Carrying out proacsenger growth showed a marked deceleration, and during the final tive risk management is an important tool in our drive to provide 46 | Swedavia Annual Report 2012 Report of the Directors greater access for our customers. Through continuous, systematic straight approaches to Runway 3 from the south over the densely risk management, we direct decisions, priorities and change work populated part of Upplands Väsby after January 1, 2018. This is a toward our overall objectives. During the year, the risk work at restriction on further expansion and could in the long term have a Swedavia resulted in an analysis and measures for a number of detrimental impact on Swedavia and on Swedish businesses. This risks related to our sustainability objectives – customer, economy, risk is mitigated by giving high priority to the work on the application environmental concern and social development. for a new environmental permit for Stockholm Arlanda Airport. This is Swedavia’s most important strategic issue. Additional informaCustomer tion about Swedavia’s environmental concern can be found in the With the focus on customers, there is a continuous need for develenvironmental information on pages 49–50. opment, adaptability and flexibility. There is a risk that Swedavia will not be able to translate customer needs into new ventures Social development and business opportunities quickly enough, which could lead to Changes in international regulations, for instance concerning declining profitability. A function-based organisation has been the handling of liquids in security screening beginning in 2014, introduced to ensure that customer needs are met. could lead to increased investment needs and higher operating costs. Other events such as terrorist acts, air traffic control strikes, Economy extreme weather conditions and volcanic ash clouds could entail a One result of the high frequency of change and new activities shutdown or disruption in airport operations and commercial seris the need for investments in infrastructure that involve great vices. Aviation safety and security work is aimed at preventing and complexity and could entail a heightened risk from a project and minimising the effect of any incidents at our airports. Swedavia priority standpoint. To mitigate and control this risk, a project office works actively with crisis management and continuity plans has been set up which is entrusted with the task of monitoring, combined with realistic exercises to increase our employees’ risk assigning priorities and quality-assuring our project portfolio and awareness and competency levels. business investments. Being an attractive employer that keeps and attracts the right Swedavia and the airlines operate in a market subject to intense employees is an important part of Swedavia’s drive to minimise competition, with a small number of major airline customers and dependence on key people at all levels of the Group. where changes occur rapidly. Swedavia carries out work on a With a precise breakdown of targets and clear leadership, we continuous basis to make operations more efficient and thus make motivate and engage our employees and work to improve our the cost savings necessary to meet performance targets and over employer satisfaction index (ESI). time build a high equity/assets ratio to withstand periods of decelerating growth in traffic and passengers. Acquisitions, the formaSensitivity analysis tion of alliances and bankruptcies are examples of events that can A sensitivity analysis shows how a change in different parameters, have a significant impact on Swedavia’s business conditions. both internal and external, affects the company’s performance or Through heightened monitoring of the economic position of financial position. The three parameters that have the greatest impact customers, credit losses in the event of a bankruptcy can be on performance are passenger volume, salary costs and interest reduced. The financial operations of the Group and the Parent rates. Swedavia’s overall situation can generally be described as Company and the management of financial risks are centralised in one where revenue essentially is variable while costs are relatively the Corporate Finance unit. Operations are carried out based on fixed. That means flexibility is low in terms of the ability to adjust a financial policy adopted by the Board of Directors which is charcosts in case revenue should fall. acterised by a low risk level. The aim is to minimise the Group’s Parameter –/+ % Impact on profit, SEK M/year capital costs through effective financial solutions and effective Passenger volume –1 –29 management and control of the Group’s financial risks. For more Salary level +1 –14 information about definitions and the management of financial Interest rates –1 +23 risks, see Note 33 on pages 87–88. Passenger volume Environmental concern The number of passengers travelling to or from one of Swedavia’s One cornerstone in running airport operations is an environmental airports constitutes the basic condition for all revenue the compermit. In the current permit for Stockholm Arlanda Airport, there is pany generates. Half of Swedavia’s revenue comes from Aviation an emissions cap which includes both air traffic and ground transBusiness, which involves infrastructure services aimed at airlines port to and from the airport as well as a condition that prohibits and ground handling companies. Revenue from these operations Swedavia Annual Report 2012 | 47 Report of the Directors includes take-off and landing charges, which are related to the which means that if the rate of return falls, Swedavia must add number of aircraft movements and passengers. A change in these funds to the provision for its pension liability has an immediate impact on Swedavia’s revenue. Other revenue Swedavia is also sensitive to policy decisions that can affect air comes from Commercial Services, which are services associated traffic as well as changes in the general public’s attitudes to air traffic. with the airports such as the leasing of premises for shops, offices, restaurants and logistics. Rental revenue is based largely on its Ongoing litigation and disputes customers’ revenue, which means Swedavia’s revenue depends Swedavia is a party to ongoing litigation and disputes. The dison its tenants’ sales, which depend directly on the number of pasputes have arisen as part of the business operations carried out by sengers at the airport. Swedavia also has revenue from car parking, Swedavia. which also depends directly on the number of passengers. Legal proceedings and disputes are unpredictable by nature, An increase in passenger numbers means that Swedavia’s and the actual outcome may deviate from the assessments revenue immediately rises while a decrease means revenue imSwedavia has made. mediately falls. The correlation between percentage change in passenger volume and percentage change in revenue is not linear; Corporate Governance Report instead there is some difference due to route development discounts, The Corporate Governance Report is a separate document from differentiated charges for domestic and international traffic and the Annual Report and is released in conjunction with the publication rental revenue, which depends partly on customer revenue. of the Annual Report. A negative change in passenger growth of 1 per cent has a negative impact on Swedavia’s revenue of SEK 29 M on an annual basis. Work of the Board of Directors Under the Articles of Association, Swedavia AB’s Board of DirecStaff expenses tors shall consist of at least six and at most nine regular Board With some 2,600 employees (2,500), Swedavia’s staff expenses total members. In addition, there are two regular employee representaabout SEK 1,394 M (1,259) a year. A 1 per cent change in staff extives plus their two deputies. Swedavia’s Chief Legal Counsel is penses would have a SEK 14 M impact on costs on an annual basis. the Board secretary. The CEO is not included on the Board but presents reports at the Board meetings. The Board is responsible Interest expenses for the organisation of the company and the Group and for the As of December 31, 2012, Swedavia had external borrowings of administration of the company’s affairs. During the financial year SEK 7,656 M (5,808), which is more than half the balance sheet. 2012, 15 meetings were held. Particular attention was paid during This means the company is sensitive to changes in interest rates, the year to strategic development, business planning, measures which affect the company’s financial expenses. Through long-term for internal governance and control, and investment strategy. In borrowings and the use of financial instruments, Swedavia works 2012 a Remuneration Committee was set up and given the task actively to achieve a balance between fixed and floating interest of preparing matters pertaining to remuneration and employment rates. As of December 31, 2012, 69 per cent of its borrowings terms for senior executives. An Audit Committee was set up were hedged via financial instruments and the remaining 31 per previously; its tasks include taking responsibility for preparing the cent were exposed to interest rate changes. A 1 per cent change Board’s work to quality-assure the company’s financial reporting in interest rates would have a SEK 23 M (44) impact on Swedavia’s and maintaining an ongoing dialogue with the company’s auditors. interest rate expenses. Further information about corporate governance, the composition of the Board and internal control can be found in the Corporate Other factors affecting performance Governance Report. In addition to the three largest parameters that impact Swedavia’s performance, there are a number of others that could have an Employees and Swedavia impact in both the short and long term. Through our corporate culture, we create conditions to achieve One critical factor, especially in the long term, is the environour objectives. Our values define our corporate culture, which is mental permits required for Swedavia’s operations. A change in the cement binding the organisation together and enables the these could impact operations on a large scale. In the short term, sustainable development of our operations with the focus on cusany extreme weather conditions or natural disasters like a volcanic tomers. Our values are our internal compass and constitute the eruption constitute the main factors that have an immediate impact foundation of our company. on air traffic and thus a negative impact on revenue. Our values, our leadership and our sustainability work conInterest rate changes also affect Swedavia’s pension liability, stitute the foundation of our culture. They provide us with a clear 48 | Swedavia Annual Report 2012 Report of the Directors compass, so that Swedavia will be the attractive employer we our training programme, is to provide a common platform that want it to be seen as and so that our airports will be “airports spells out how we should act and work. people look forward to visiting”. As an employer, we work with talent management plans broken Remuneration to executive officers down to the individual level. These are part of the target and The term executive officers refers to the people who, together with development planning for every employee. All training for specific the CEO and Deputy CEO, constitute the executive management positions such as in the areas of safety, security, fire and rescue, or report directly to the CEO. The Government has established field service and airport station service, are carried out under the guidelines for remuneration to executive officers. Guidelines for scope of the Airport Academy. At year-end 2012, there were 2,712 remuneration to executive officers were adopted at the Annual (2,622) employees. Calculated as the average number of employees General Meeting (AGM) held on April 26, 2012. Swedavia follows during the financial year, the number is 2,624 (2,516). Employment the Government’s guidelines for terms of employment for execubroken down by gender is 67 (66) per cent men and 33 (34) per tive officers in State-owned companies. There is an individual cent women. Swedavia works actively to provide work-related agreement for one executive officer that deviates from the State’s rehabilitation in case of repeated short-term absences due to guidelines and from those adopted at the AGM with respect to illness as well as longer such absences. We are also carrying out pension provisions, which is attributable to the transition from a project aimed at having a workplace environment, both physical operations at LFV. For 2012 the Board proposes that the guideand psychosocial, that promotes good performance. Swedavia lines for remuneration to executive officers remain unchanged. provides occupational health service for the entire company. AdThe principles are presented in the Corporate Governance Report. ditional information about employees can be found in Note 7 on Information about those involved and the Company’s process for pages 69–73. handling remuneration to executive officers is presented in Note 7 on pages 69–73. Leadership training To support and develop leaders at Swedavia, leadership training Environmental information is provided on a continuous basis. The objective is to create a Swedavia carries out operations in Sweden subject to the condicommon platform for our leadership but also an opportunity for tions of its environmental permits under the Swedish Environmental individual development. During the year we held two Group-wide Code. These consist primarily of operations that are hazardous Leadership Days aimed at creating a shared understanding of to the environment under Chapter 9 (airport operations) and Swedavia’s challenges going forward and providing development water operations under Chapter 11 (ponds, treatment facilities and support in leadership. Sharing experiences is also an imporand groundwater redirection). Swedavia was responsible for nine tant ingredient. The Leadership Days are intended to develop a airports in 2012 subject to conditions of its environmental permits culture with confident, bold leaders. under the Swedish Environmental Code. The Swedish Armed Forces was responsible for the environmental permits for the Employee training remaining two, Luleå Airport and Ronneby Airport. An employee training programme was started in the winter of Swedavia’s primary environmental impact is atmospheric 2011/2012. This training is now included in the introduction for greenhouse gas emissions, mainly carbon dioxide. The largest new employees. The objective of the training is to understand source of the company’s emissions is exhaust from vehicles and “Employeeship at Swedavia”, what we stand for and what values operations of the terminals and other buildings. Another significant and attitudes we want to develop together. Everyone should have environmental impact is discharges into the ground and water, the same basic knowledge about Swedavia as a company, that mainly of oxygen-depleting substances from the de-icing of is, our task, objectives, targets, vision and understanding of our runways and aircraft. The vicinity of the airports is also affected by different customers’ needs. Employeeship entails that we create aviation noise as a result of airport operations. conditions for a sustainable company. During the year, Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Malmö Airport, Stockholm Arlanda Airport and Visby Airport worked on applicaSwedavia’s employeeship and leadership principles tions for entirely new environmental permits for their own airport. In 2012 we continued to make our five employeeship and leaderStockholm Arlanda Airport’s current permit contains two reship principles concrete. These principles support our vision and strictive clauses that make it impossible to fully achieve the actual long-term objectives. They are based on our values and our Code production permitted. The conditions limiting operations are the of Conduct. “emissions cap”, conditions from the Government’s decision to The aim of the employeeship and leadership principles, as in grant approval in 1991, and special condition 6 from the National Swedavia Annual Report 2012 | 49 Report of the Directors Licensing Board for Environmental Protection’s decision in 1993 The bond is listed on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm exchange. concerning overflights of Upplands Väsby. The proceeds will be used to repay outstanding loans. The emissions cap entails that emissions of carbon dioxide and Beginning in 2013, Swedavia will report properties that are nitrogen oxide may not exceed 1990 levels. All operations at the classified as investment property at fair value. airport, all traffic to and from the airport and emissions from air traffic There are no other important events taking place after the end in the landing and take-off (LTO) cycle are included in the emissions of the reporting period to report. cap. The conditions go beyond what Swedavia has control over. The condition regulating overflights of Upplands Väsby entails a The Parent Company ban on straight approaches over the built-up portions of Upplands The Parent Company’s net revenue for the year totalled SEK 4,868 M Väsby on a regular basis after January 1, 2018. In practice, this (4,687). Operating profit totalled SEK 685 M (714). The operating means that landings on the third runway from the south will not be margin was 14.1 per cent (15.2). Profit before tax was SEK 108 M allowed, which will result in a serious restriction on the airport’s ca(191). Profit for the year was SEK 44 M (178). Allocations to pacity. Preliminary assessments indicate that the highest possible untaxed reserves consist of the maximum tax-exempt amount production will be about 200,000 movements, that is, on the same allowed of SEK 212 M (280), and the tax allocation reserve was order of magnitude as 2010. On May 2, 2011, Stockholm Arlanda SEK 49 M (0). The Parent Company’s equity at year-end was SEK Airport submitted an application for a completely new environmen3,314 M (3,267) with an equity/assets ratio of 27 per cent (32.2). tal permit in accordance with the Swedish Environmental Code to The Parent Company had negative cash flow of SEK 14 M (–160). the Land and Environment Court in Nacka. The case is now being Cash flow from operating activities totalled SEK 1,772 M (1,274). considered by the court. Investing activities used SEK 3,364 M (–1,129). Financing activities Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Malmö Airport and Visby Airport generated SEK 1,848 M (–305) through increased borrowings. have old permits in accordance with the Swedish Environmental Protection Act, and operations at the airports have changed over Proposed distribution of profit the years. The airports have therefore decided to apply for new The following unrestricted equity is at the disposal of the Annual environmental permits. The application for Malmö Airport was subGeneral Meeting: mitted to the court on April 10, 2012. Göteborg Landvetter Airport and Visby Airport plan to submit their applications in the spring of Share premium account 2,161,354,539 2013. In 2010, legal proceedings were brought against Sundsvall Retained earnings –332,726,246 Härnösand Airport for violating environmental conditions for a water Profit for the year 44,241,388 treatment facility in 2009. The case has not yet been decided 1,872,869,681 Swedavia is entirely dependent on environmental permits for the company to be able to operate the airports. Aviation Business The Board proposes that the profit and share premium of the Parent today constitutes more than 50 per cent of the company’s Company, totalling SEK 1,872,869,681, be brought forward. revenue, but operating the airports is also a prerequisite for the company’s other revenue. Annual General Meeting Swedavia AB’s Annual General Meeting takes place on April 26, Events after the balance sheet date 2013, at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. The Annual Report and other Karl Wistrand, Deputy CEO and CFO of Swedavia, assumed the financial reports are available on Swedavia’s website, position of CEO of Swedavia Real Estate on February 4, 2013. In www.swedavia.se/about-swedavia/this-is-swedavia. conjunction, he stepped down from his position as CFO. Mr Wistrand retains his position as Deputy CEO and is in charge of the Group’s Calendar general business development. Jan Egenäs left Swedavia and his Annual report March 28, 2013 position as CEO of Swedavia Real Estate. The new CFO after Karl Annual General Meeting April 26, 2013 Wistrand is Lars Johansson, who worked most recently at TV4 AB; Quarterly report Q1 2013 April 29, 2013 he assumed the position on March 18, 2013. Quarterly report Q2 2013 August 15, 2013 On January 29, 2013, Swedavia issued a five-year bond for Quarterly report Q3 2013 October 28, 2013 SEK 1,500 M under its Swedish medium-term note programme. Year-end report 2013 February 14, 2014 The total issue amount is divided into one tranche of SEK 1,000 M with a fixed coupon of 2.5 per cent and one tranche of SEK 500 M For other matters concerning the company’s results and position, with a variable coupon equal to 3-month STIBOR + 0.7 per cent. consult the income statements and balance sheets below. 50 | Swedavia Annual Report 2012 INCOME STATEMENT Consolidated income statement 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 Amounts in SEK M Note 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Net revenue 3,4,5 4,965 4,693 Operating expenses Other external expenses 6 –1,890 –1,821 Staff expenses 7 –1,394 –1, 259 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment losses on tangible fixed assets and intangible non-current assets 8 –850 –831 Operating profit 831 781 Income from financial investments 9 Profit on holdings in associated companies 19 14 Interest income and similar items 3 8 Interest expenses and similar items –299 –247 Profit after financial items 554 556 Tax 11 –108 –118 Profit for the year 447 438 Attributable to non-controlling interests 10 9 Earnings per share Earnings per share before and after dilution, SEK 0.31 0.30 Number of shares 1,441,403,026 1,441,403,026 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 Amounts in SEK M Note 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Profit for the year 447 438 Other comprehensive income: Change in cash flow hedges –62 –332 Actuarial losses –81 –25 Tax 17 94 Total other comprehensive income, net after tax –126 –263 Comprehensive income for the year 320 175 Attributable to non-controlling interests 10 9 Swedavia’s Annual Report 2012 | 51 BALANCE SHEET Consolidated balance sheet Amounts in SEK M Note 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2011-01-01 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible non-current assets 12 Goodwill 352 352 352 Other intangible non-current assets 105 87 79 Total intangible non-current assets 457 439 431 Tangible fixed assets Buildings and land 13 7,585 4,972 5,157 Field structures 14 2,412 2,437 2,473 Biological assets, standing timber 15 91 88 85 Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment 16 1,999 2,009 2,163 New construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets 17 953 981 381 Total tangible fixed assets 13,040 10,487 10,259 Non-current financial assets 33 Holdings in associated companies 19 79 121 106 Other long-term receivables 21 132 94 76 Derivative instruments 20 – – 143 Deferred tax assets 28 0 57 28 Total non-current financial assets 211 272 353 Total non-current assets 13,708 11,198 11,043 CURRENT ASSETS Materials and stocks 22 38 36 34 Current receivables Trade receivables 555 424 461 Receivables from associated companies 24 10 10 7 Tax assets 56 63 0 Other receivables 40 141 106 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 25 252 201 142 Derivative instruments 20 – – 19 Cash and bank holdings 20, 31 129 141 295 Total current assets 1,080 1,014 1, 066 TOTAL ASSETS 14,788 12,212 12,109 52 | Swedavia’s Annual Report 2012 BALANCE SHEET Consolidated balance sheet, cont’d Amounts in SEK M Note 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2011-01-01 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 26 Share capital (1,441,403,026 shares) 1,441 1,441 1,441 Other paid-in capital 2,162 2,162 2,162 Hedge reserve –170 –115 119 Retained earnings 857 492 92 Total equity attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders 4,290 3,980 3,815 Non-controlling interest 10 9 9 Total equity 4,300 3,989 3,824 Non-current liabilities Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 27 784 734 706 Provisions for deferred tax 28 242 271 270 Other provisions 29 133 198 200 Liabilities to credit institutions 30 3,000 3,518 4,023 Derivative instruments 20 218 134 – Liabilities to leasing companies 16 13 14 6 Other non-current liabilities 22 22 0 Total long-term liabilities 4,413 4,891 5,205 Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 30, 31 4,653 2,290 2,105 Liabilities to leasing companies 16 8 8 23 Non-interest-bearing liabilities Derivative instruments 20 13 22 – Trade payables 606 368 327 Liabilities to associated companies 4 3 2 Current tax liabilities 0 2 1 Other liabilities 29 157 78 145 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 32 634 561 478 Total current liabilities 6,075 3,332 3,080 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 14,788 12,212 12,109 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Amounts in SEK M Note 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2011-01-01 Pledged assets 34 0 0 – Contingent liabilities 34 6 5 1 Swedavia’s Annual Report 2012 | 53 Equity Equity Group Other paid-in Hedge Retained Non-controlling Amounts in SEK M Share capital capital reserves earnings interest Total capital 2012 Equity, opening balance 1,441 2,162 –115 492 9 3,989 Dividend paid – – – – –9 –9 Comprehensive income for the year – – –55 365 10 320 Equity, closing balance 2012-12-31 1,441 2,162 –170 857 10 4,300 2011 Equity, opening balance 1,441 2,162 119 92 9 3,824 Dividend paid – – – – – – Comprehensive income for the year – – –234 400 – 166 Equity, closing balance 2011-12-31 1,441 2,162 –115 492 9 3,989 54 | Swedavia’s Annual Report 2012 Consolidated cash flow statement Consolidated cash flow statement 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 Amounts in SEK M Note 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Operating activities 35 Profit after financial items 554 556 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow etc. 634 552 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,188 1,108 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase(–)/Decrease(+) in materials and stocks –2 –2 Increase(–)/Decrease(+) in operating receivables –83 11 Increase(+)/Decrease(–) in operating liabilities 390 61 Cash flow from operating activities 1,493 1,178 Investing activities Acquisition/disposal of intangible non-current assets –38 –21 Acquisition/disposal of tangible fixed assets –3,383 –1,042 Acquisition/disposal of financial assets 80 45 Cash flow from investing activities –3,341 –1,018 Financing activities Borrowings raised 4,135 1,800 Borrowings repaid –2,290 –2,105 Dividend paid –9 –9 Cash flow from financing activities 1,836 –314 Cash flow for the year –12 –155 Liquid assets at the beginning of the period 141 295 Liquid assets at the end of the period 129 141 Swedavia’s Annual Report 2012 | 55 INCOME STATEMENT Parent Company income statement 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 Amounts in SEK M Note 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Net revenue 4 4,868 4,687 Operating expenses Other external expenses 6 –1,909 –1,857 Staff expenses 7 –1,418 –1,264 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment losses on tangible fixed assets and intangible non-current assets 8 –856 – 852 Operating profit 685 714 Income from financial investments 9 Income from holdings in Group companies 13 13 Income from holdings in associated companies 20 17 Interest income and similar items 34 12 Interest expenses and similar items –366 –285 Profit after financial items 385 471 Appropriations 10 Accelerated depreciation –212 –280 Change in tax allocation reserve –49 – Group contribution –16 – Profit before tax 108 191 Tax 11 –63 –14 Profit for the year 44 178 Parent Company statement of comprehensive income 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 Amounts in SEK M 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Profit for the year 44 178 Other comprehensive income – – Comprehensive income for the year 44 178 56 | Swedavia’s Annual Report 2012 Balance sheet Parent Company balance sheet Amounts in SEK M Note 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible non-current assets 12 Goodwill 426 450 Other intangible non-current assets 105 87 Total intangible non-current assets 531 537 Tangible fixed assets Buildings and land 13 5,162 4,903 Field structures 14 2,412 2,437 Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment 16 1,999 2,009 New construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets 17 953 981 Total tangible fixed assets 10,526 10,330 Financial non-current assets Holdings in Group companies 18 882 161 Receivables from Group companies 23 1,947 50 Holdings in associated companies 19 87 127 Other long-term receivables 21 65 30 Deferred tax assets 28 34 57 Total financial assets 3,015 425 Total non-current assets 14,072 11,293 CURRENT ASSETS Materials and stocks 22 35 36 Current receivables Trade receivables 470 421 Receivables from Group companies 23 705 29 Receivables from associated companies 24 10 10 Tax assets 68 62 Other receivables 36 139 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 25 241 195 Cash and bank holdings 20, 31 102 117 Total current assets 1,667 1,008 TOTAL ASSETS 15,739 12,301 Swedavia’s Annual Report 2012 | 57 Balance sheet Parent Company balance sheet, cont’d Amounts in SEK M Note 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 26 Share capital (1,441,403,026 shares) 1,441 1,441 Share premium account 2,162 2,162 Retained earnings –333 –514 Profit for the year 44 178 Total equity 3,314 3,267 Untaxed reserves 10 Accumulated accelerated depreciation 1,152 940 Tax allocation reserve 49 0 Total untaxed reserves 1,201 940 Provisions Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 27 1,085 1,021 Other provisions 29 191 182 Total provisions 1,276 1,204 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 30 3,000 3,518 Liabilities to leasing companies 13 14 Other non-current liabilities 22 21 Total long-term liabilities 3,035 3,554 Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 31 4,653 2,290 Liabilities to leasing companies 8 8 Non-interest-bearing liabilities Trade payables 596 366 Liabilities to Group companies 1,011 39 Liabilities to associated companies 4 3 Current tax liabilities 0 – Other liabilities 60 69 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 32 581 563 Total current liabilities 6,913 3,337 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 15,739 12,301 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Amounts in SEK M Note 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Pledged assets 34 0 0 Contingent liabilities 34 6 5 58 | Swedavia’s Annual Report 2012 EQUITY Changes in equity PARENT COMPANY Restricted reserves Unrestricted reserves Amounts in SEK M Share capital Share premium Retained earnings Total capital 2012 Equity, opening balance 1,441 2,162 –336 3,267 Profit on merger – – 3 3 Profit for the year – – 44 44 Equity, closing balance 2012-12-31 1,441 2,162 –289 3,314 2011 Equity, opening balance 1,441 2,162 –514 3,089 Dividend paid – – – – Comprehensive income for the year – – 178 178 Equity, closing balance 2011-12-31 1,441 2 ,162 –336 3,267 Swedavia’s Annual Report 2012 | 59 Cash flow statement Parent Company cash flow statement 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 Amounts in SEK M Note 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Operating activities 35 Profit after financial items 385 471 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow, etc. 882 728 Cash flow from operating activities before 1,267 1,199 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase(–)/Decrease(+) in inventories 0 –1 Increase(–)/Decrease(+) in operating receivables –692 –55 Increase(+)/Decrease(–) in operating liabilities 1,197 132 Cash flow from operating activities 1,772 1,274 Investing activities Paid-in shareholder contribution –785 – Non-current receivables, subsidiaries –1,897 – Acquisition of intangible non-current assets –38 –21 Acquisition of tangible fixed assets –1,006 –1,041 Acquisition of financial assets 93 –67 Cash flow from investing activities –3,634 –1,129 Financing activities Profit from merger 3 – Borrowings raised 4,135 –1,800 Borrowings repaid –2,290 –2,105 Cash flow from financing activities 1,848 –305 Cash flow for the year –14 –160 Liquid assets at the beginning of the period 117 277 Liquid assets at the end of the period 102 117 60 | Swedavia’s Annual Report 2012 NOTES Notes (Amounts in SEK M unless otherwise indicated) Note 1 Corporate information Swedavia AB (publ), Swedish corporate identity number 556797-0818, has cent of the shares in Arlanda Schiphol Development Company AB, corporate its registered officer in the Municipality of Sigtuna, Sweden. The address of the identity number 556653-6628, thus becoming the parent company of this company’s head office is: 190 45 Stockholm-Arlanda, Sweden. The company is group. wholly owned by the Swedish State. The company’s operations entail directly or Also included in the acquisition were the associated companies Nordic indirectly funding, owning, managing and developing airports with their associAirport Properties AB, 50 per cent, corporate identity number 556598-5941, ated buildings and facilities. Nordic Airport Properties KB, 50 per cent, corporate identity number 969673-0143, On December 3, 2009, the Swedish Parliament agreed to split LFV and and Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB, 40 per cent, corporate identity number convert its airport operations into a limited liability company as of April 1, 2010. 556195-5823. For this reason, the company Swedavia was formed on November 30, 2009. In this report, Swedavia AB is referred to either by its full name or as the Parent On April 1, 2010, the company acquired all shares in the companies FlygplatsCompany, and the Swedavia Group is referred to as Swedavia or the Group. fastigheter i Landvetter AB, corporate identity number 556142-8334, and LFV Reporting for the Group and the Parent Company is in millions of Swedish Airport Center AB, corporate identity number 556381-1057, as well as 60 per kronor, SEK M, unless otherwise indicated. Note 2 Accounting principles 2012 General The consolidated accounts have been prepared in conformity with the Interlosses are recognised in other comprehensive income. The bulk of Swedavia’s national Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and International Accounting defined benefit pension commitments are in the form of paid-up pension policies Standards (IAS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), and no new pension rights accrue to these. to the extent these have been adopted by the EU, as well as with interpretations given by the EU of current standards issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee New and changed standards and interpretations (IFRIC). that have not yet entered into force This financial report is the first complete financial report prepared in conformity The International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) has issued the following with IFRS, which is applied as of January 1, 2012. The date of transition to IFRS new and changed standards which have not yet entered into force. has been established as January 1, 2011. Accounting principles in conformity with IFRS are given below. The Group previously applied the Swedish Financial Standards that Swedavia will apply beginning January 1, 2013 Accounting Standards Council’s recommendations and statements. The transition • Change in IFRS 7 Financial instruments. The changes pertain to information to IFRS has proceeded in conformity with IFRS 1 First-time adoption of internaabout net reporting of financial assets and liabilities in the balance sheet tional financial reporting standards. • IFRS 13 Fair value measurement. The standard contains uniform rules for The Parent Company applies Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act and the calculation of and information about fair values. The new standard is not Swedish Financial Accounting Standards Council’s recommendation RFR 2 expected to impact balance sheet items but requires additional information. Accounting for legal entities. The differences arising between Parent Company • Change in IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements. Requirement to breakand consolidated accounting principles are due to restrictions in the possibility of down items in Other comprehensive income applying IFRS in the Parent Company as a result of Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act and Pension Obligations Vesting Act as well as, in some cases, the connection Standards that Swedavia will apply beginning January 1, 2014, or later between accounting and taxation. • IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements. The standard outlines uniform rules for which entities are to be consolidated and will replace IAS 27 ConNew accounting principles solidated and separate financial statements and SIC 12, which addresses New and reworked standards and interpretation statements from the IASB to Special Purpose Entities. be applied beginning January 1, 2012, have not had any material impact on Swedavia’s financial reports. The standard is not expected to have any material impact on the financial statements As a result of the EU’s adoption of the revised IAS 19, Swedavia has chosen • IFRS 11 Joint arrangements. The standard addresses the reporting of what to apply this standard in advance in its annual accounts, which entails a change are known as joint arrangements and will replace IAS 31 Interests in joint venin accounting principles compared to reports published earlier in 2012. The tures. At present Swedavia has no entities included under the new standard changes pertain mainly to recognition of and information about defined benefit • IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities. Increased requirements for pension plans. Items attributable to pension rights accruing from defined benefit information about subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associated companies pension plans, gains and losses arising in the settlement of a pension liability and have been gathered in one standard and are expected to lead to some net financial income are recognised in the income statement. Actuarial gains and increase in information contained in Swedavia’s annual report Swedavia Annual Report 2012 | 61 NOTES • IFRS 9 Financial instruments. The standard is being issued in phases and installations, vehicles and equipment consist of different components where will replace IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement. It each part has an expected useful life that differs significantly from the asset as a has not net been possible to assess the effects of the new IFRS 9 standard, whole, depreciation of such components occurs on an individual basis using the which will be applied in 2015. The EU has not yet adopted any part of the new estimated useful life of each component. standard Depreciation begins when the assets are ready for their intended use. The useful life and residual value are revised on an annual basis. Consolidated financial accounts The consolidated financial accounts include the Parent Company and all the New construction in progress related to tangible assets companies over which the Parent Company directly or indirectly has a controlling Cost includes expenditures directly attributable to the asset in order to convey interest. Controlling interest is assumed to arise when ownership entails at least it to the site and in the condition it is to be used according to the purpose for 50 per cent of the votes in the subsidiary, but can also be achieved if controlling which it was acquired. interest can be exercised over the operational and financial management. The New expenditures are added to the cost for the share of improvement in the Parent Company in all cases owns, directly or indirectly, shares/holdings in the asset’s performance compared to the level that applied when it was originally companies included in the consolidated financial accounts. Subsidiaries are acquired. All other new expenditures are recognised as a cost in the period they included in the consolidated financial accounts starting from the time controlling occur. interest is achieved and are excluded from the consolidated financial accounts from the time controlling interest is no longer exercised. Where necessary, Depreciation principles for tangible fixed assets adjustments are made in the subsidiaries’ financial statements to adapt their Scheduled depreciation is based on cost minus estimated residual value. Depreaccounting principles to those used by the Group. All intra-Group transactions, ciation is on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the asset. Useful dealings, income and expenditures are eliminated in consolidation. life is estimated as: Classification Buildings 10 – 60 years Non-current assets, long-term liabilities and provisions consist in all essential Field structures 10 – 60 years respects only of amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid after more Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment 3 – 10 years than twelve months calculated from the balance sheet date. Equipment, land 10 – 60 years Current assets and current liabilities consist in all essential respects only of Equipment, buildings 10 – 60 years amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid within twelve months calculated from the balance sheet date. Impairment losses On each recording date, the Group analyses the recognised values of tangible Valuation principles assets to determine whether there is anything to indicate that these assets have Assets, provisions and liabilities have been recognised at cost unless otherwise decreased in value. If there is an indication of this, the replacement value is indicated below. Financial assets and liabilities have been recognised at accrued calculated in order to determine the value of any impairment loss. cost, apart from certain financial assets and liabilities which are recognised at In valuation of the airports, a systems approach is applied. Since the airports fair value. Financial assets and liabilities that are recognised at fair value consist included in the national basic airport infrastructure are operated as a system, entirely of derivative instruments. integrated and mutually dependent, the individual airports have been valued according to their systemic useful life rather than based on recognised profit. Intangible non-current assets Operating the airports as a system means that it is not possible to isolate cash The Group has goodwill and other intangible non-current assets. Goodwill arises flow attributable to the individual airports included in the system on a meaningful when the cost in the acquisition of shares in a subsidiary exceeds the fair value basis. Therefore the system of airports that are included in Sweden’s national of the identifiable net assets of the company acquired. Goodwill is recognised at basic infrastructure is treated as a single cash-generating unit. The other airports cost less any impairment loss. Goodwill has an indeterminable expected useful not included in the national basic infrastructure are valued separately as cashlife, and an impairment review is carried out at least once a year. generating units. Other intangible non-current assets consist of noise insulation for the properties Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement. If of others. Straight-line amortisation is used over an expected useful life of 10 years. an impairment loss is reversed, it is done so only to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed the carrying amount, minus depreciation, Tangible fixed assets if no impairment loss had been made. A reversal of an impairment loss is recogTangible fixed assets are recognised at cost minus accumulated depreciation nised immediately in the income statement. A reversal of an impairment loss is and any accumulated impairment losses. never recognised for goodwill. Cost comprises the purchase price, costs directly attributable to the acquisition and expenditures for arranging the transfer of the asset until the time it is Biological assets – standing timber ready to be placed in service. Subsequent costs are only included under electrical In conformity with IFRS, forest assets are to be divided into standing timber, installations, vehicles and equipment or recognised as a separate asset when which is recognised as a biological asset, and land, which is recognised as a it is likely that future economic benefits attributable to the item will benefit the tangible asset. This means that standing timber is to be valued and recognised Group and the cost of this can be reliably estimated. All other costs for repair at fair value on each reporting date. Changes in fair value are recognised in the and maintenance as well as future expenditures are recognised in the income income statement. Fair value has been calculated as the present value of the statement for the period in which they occur. discounted future return from long-term sustainable forest operations, that is, Depreciation is recognised based on the expected and estimated useful life the expected future cash flow from forest operations. using the straight-line depreciation method. For cases where parts of electrical 62 | Swedavia Annual Report 2012 NOTES Stocks Other financial liabilities Stocks are recognised at the lower of cost using the first-in first-out method or Borrowings and other financial liabilities, apart from derivatives, are recognised at fair value. As a result, obsolescence risks are mitigated. amortised cost. Amortised cost is determined based on the effective interest rate calculated at the time the amount was borrowed. This means that discounts/ Financial instruments premiums and the direct costs of share issues are allocated over the maturity A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the balance sheet when of the loan. Trade payables have short expected maturities and are recognised an asset or liability arises under the terms of the instrument stipulated in the without discounting on their nominal amount. contract. A financial asset is derecognised from the balance sheet when the Non-current liabilities have an expected maturity of more than one year contractual rights are realised, expire or when the company loses control over it. whereas current liabilities have a maturity less than one year. A financial liability is derecognised from the balance sheet when the contractual obligation has been fulfilled or in any other way eliminated. Business combinations All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value plus or minus Acquisitions of businesses are recognised using the acquisition method. Cost is transaction costs, except for those financial assets belonging to the category calculated as the total fair value of assets purchased, liabilities that have arisen of financial asset or liability recognised at fair value through profit or loss and or are assumed and equity instruments issued as payment in exchange for a all derivatives. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and recognised as a net controlling interest over the acquired entity on the transaction date. Identifiable amount in the balance sheet when there is a legal right of offset and when there assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired are recognised at fair value is the intention to settle the items with a net amount or to realise the asset and on the acquisition date. The premium that consists of the difference between settle the liability simultaneously. the cost of the acquired holdings and the total fair value of the identifiable net On each recording date, the Group evaluates whether there are objective assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. A discount is charged to the income indications that an impairment loss needs to be taken on a financial asset or statement. group of financial assets as a result of events that have occurred. Objective indications could be a breach of contract as well as default or delay of payment Associated companies of interest or capital, significant financial difficulties for debtors or deterioration in Shareholdings in associated companies are recognised in the consolidated the creditworthiness of customers. accounts using the equity method. The equity method entails that the carried The recognised value after impairment losses on assets is calculated as amount of shares in the associated company is equivalent to the Group’s share the future cash flow discounted by the effective interest rate that applied when of the associated company’s equity and any residual value of the consolidated the asset was recognised for the first time. Assets with a short maturity are not premiums or discounts. The Group’s share of the associated company’s profit discounted. An impairment loss is charged to the income statement. The asset adjusted for any amortisation on or liquidation of premiums or discounts on is eliminated from the balance sheet in the event of bankruptcy. acquisitions is recognised in the consolidated income statement as holdings in associated companies. Financial assets recognised at fair value through profit or loss This category consist of two sub-groups, and only the sub-category “held for Transactions eliminated on consolidation trading” applies to the Group. This sub-category includes derivatives with a posiIntra-Group receivables and liabilities and transactions between Group comtive fair value if they are not intended for hedge accounting. Financial instruments panies as well as unrealised gains in conjunction with these are eliminated in in this category are measured at fair value with value changes recognised in the full. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associated companies and profit for the year. joint ventures are eliminated to the extent that the Group owns shares in the Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged or a liability company. Unrealised gains arising as a result of transactions with associated settled between knowledgeable, independent parties who have an interest in companies are eliminated against holdings in associated companies. Unrealised carrying out the transaction. losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains as long as there is no In determining fair value, the official price listing in an active market or other need for impairment losses. observable market data are preferably used. If these do not exist, fair value is calculated with the aid of the methods that can be considered on each occasion Receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies to give the best estimate of fair value. Receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies have been translated at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Exchange rate differences for operating Loans receivable and trade receivables receivables and operating liabilities are included in the operating profit, while such Loans receivable and trade receivables are financial assets that are not derivatives, differences for financial receivables and liabilities are recognised in financial items. are specified or determinable amounts and are not listed on an active market. These assets are recognised at amortised cost. Amortised cost is determined Liquid assets based on the effective interest rate calculated at the time of purchase. Trade Liquid assets comprise cash and banking holdings that are immediately available. receivables are recognised at the amount that is expected to be received, that is, minus bad debts, which are judged on an individual basis. Trade payables Trade payables have a short expected maturity and are valued without discounting Financial liabilities recognised at fair value through profit or loss their nominal amount. This category consists of two sub-groups, and only the sub-category “held for trading” applies to the Group. This sub-category includes derivatives with a Hedge accounting negative fair value if they are not intended for hedge accounting. Financial instruGeneral ments in this category are measured at fair value with value changes recognised Derivative instruments are recognised in the balance sheet on the contract date in the profit for the year. at fair value, both initially and in subsequent revaluations. The method for recogSwedavia Annual Report 2012 | 63 NOTES nising profit or loss arising from revaluation depends on whether the derivative with the conversion into a limited liability company of operations run previously has been identified as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item under LFV. The estimated present value of the defined contribution obligations hedged. The Group identifies some derivatives as a hedge of a given risk which is recognised in the balance sheet as a provision. The company’s obligation is is connected to a recognised liability or a very likely forecast transaction (cash calculated annually by independent actuaries. The obligation consists of the flow hedge). present value of expected future payments. The discount rate used corresponds The Group uses derivative instruments, interest rate and commodity swaps to the interest rate on government bonds with a maturity that corresponds to or currency futures, mainly to limit exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, the average maturity of the obligation. The assumption on the discount rate is commodity (electricity) prices and foreign exchange rates that qualify for hedge updated annually, which affects the recognised pension obligation. The Group accounting. bears the risk of ensuring that the payments determined are effected. When the transaction is entered into, the relationship between the hedging The accounting principles described are applied only in the consolidated instrument and the item hedged is analysed and assessed against the Group’s financial accounts (see below, Parent Company accounting principles). A risk management objectives for hedging. The analysis is documented at the receivable/liability is recognised for the special payroll tax if the pension expense inception of the hedge and on a continuous basis, to ensure that the derivative is lower/higher than the pension expense stipulated for a legal entity. The instruments used in hedging transactions are effective in evening out changes in receivable or liability is based on the difference between these amounts and the fair value or changes in cash flow for hedged items. Gains and losses on hedges present value is not calculated. are recognised in the profit for the year at the same time the gains and losses on The defined contribution plan applies as of the date of the Group’s formation the items hedged are recognised. and is secured through payments to insurance companies or managed funds. Changes in fair value for derivative instruments that do not meet the criteria A defined contribution pension plan is a pension plan for which a company pays for hedge accounting are recognised directly in the income statement (see fixed contributions to a separate legal entity. The company subsequently has no description above under “Financial instruments”). legal or informal obligations to pay additional contributions to the employee’s accrued pensions. Cash flow hedges To hedge uncertainty in highly likely forecast interest cash flows related to Tax borrowings at floating interest rates, interest rate swaps – in which the The Group’s total tax consists of current tax and deferred tax. Taxes are recogcompany receives a floating rate and pays a fixed rate – are used. Interest nised in the income statement except when the underlying transaction is recograte swaps are recognised at fair value on the balance sheet. The interest nised immediately in other comprehensive income. Current tax is tax that is to coupon portion is recognised directly in the profit for the year as part of interest be paid or received for the period in question. This also includes adjustments in expenses. Unrealised changes in fair value on the interest rate swaps are reccurrent tax attributable to previous periods. Deferred tax is calculated using the ognised in other comprehensive income and are included in the hedge reserve balance sheet method based on the temporary differences between reported until the hedged item impacts the profit for the year and as long as the criteria for and tax values on assets and liabilities. The amounts are calculated based on hedge accounting and effectiveness are fulfilled. The gain or loss attributable to how the temporary differences are expected to even out and by applying tax the non-effective portion of unrealised value changes on the interest rate swaps rates and tax regulations that are decided or advised on the balance sheet date. is recognised in the profit for the year. Temporary differences are not taken into consideration in consolidated goodwill Hedge accounting has also been applied to derivative instruments that and normally nor are differences attributable to holdings in subsidiaries and effectively offset fluctuations in cash flow from projected sales and electricity associated companies that are not expected to be taxed within the foreseeable use. Currency futures have been used as hedging instruments for projected future. Untaxed reserves including deferred tax liabilities are recognised for legal sales and electricity derivatives that are identified as hedging instruments and entities. However, in the consolidated financial accounts, untaxed reserves are fulfil the criteria for hedging the future cash flow recognised in other comprehensive divided between deferred tax liability and equity. Deferred tax credits for taxincome and accumulated in the hedge reserve under equity. The accumulated deductible temporary differences and deductions for deficits are recognised only gains or losses in the hedge reserve are reclassified to the income statement to the extent it is likely these will entail lower tax payments in the future. and recognised under sales or costs for goods sold in the same period that the Reported income tax is the total of current and deferred tax. Current tax is projected sale or consumption of electricity impacts profit. calculated based on the taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit is distinguished When a hedging instrument or hedging relationship is terminated but the from profit recognised in the income statement. The difference concerns hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the accumulated gains and losses revenue that is subject to tax and expenses that are deductible in other years in the hedge reserve remain and are recognised in the profit for the year when (temporary differences) as well as items that are never subject to tax or are taxthe contracted or projected transaction is recognised in the income statement. deductible (permanent differences). The Group’s current tax liability is calculated However, if the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the accumuusing the tax rates that have been decided or are in practice decided on the lated gains and losses in the hedge reserve are immediately reclassified in profit balance sheet date. Deferred tax liabilities are normally recognised for all for the year. temporary differences subject to tax, and deferred tax liabilities are recognised to the extent it is likely that a taxable profit occurs against which tax-deductible Pensions temporary differences can be used. The Group has both defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans. The transfer of agreed assets and liabilities for airport operations in LFV included Provisions the assumption of a defined benefit pension liability. Most of the defined benefit A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the company has a formal pension obligations after the transfer are in the form of paid-up pension policies, or informal obligation as a result of an event occurring and it is likely that an and no new pension rights accrue for these. The remaining defined contribution outflow of resources is required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of plans consist mostly of pension obligations under collective agreements and the amount can be made. pension obligations as specified in transitional provisions adopted in conjunction 64 | Swedavia Annual Report 2012 NOTES A present value calculation is made to take into account significant time tions from which it can generate revenue and incur costs, whose operating effects of future payments. Provisions are further divided into non-current and profit is examined on a regular basis by the company’s highest executive officer current provisions. and for which there is independent financial information. The Swedavia Group is organised and is run as of July 1, 2012, based on two business segments, Restoration reserve Airport Operations and Real Estate. Until July 1, 2012, Swedavia’s operations In conformity with the Group’s published environmental principles and applicable consisted solely of Airport Operations, which then constituted the Group’s only legal requirements, a reserve to restore contaminated assets is recognised when business segment. the asset is contaminated. The basis of segment reporting is internal reporting. The Board of Directors and executive team mainly use operating profit by segment to monitor operations. Reserve for onerous contracts Financial expenses, financial income and income tax are handled at the Group A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected economic level. benefits the Group expects to receive from a contract are lower than the unaThe Swedavia Group is managed and reported based on the following two voidable costs of fulfilling the terms of the contract. business segments: Airport Operations, which owns, operates and develops Swedavia’s airports, and Real Estate, which owns, develops and administers Restructuring reserve properties and exploitable land at and in the vicinity of Swedavia’s airports. A provision is recognised when a detailed restructuring plan has been adopted and the restructuring has either begun or has been publicly announced. Leases Leases are classified in the consolidated financial accounts as either financial Contingent liabilities leases or operating leases. Financial leases arise when the economic risks and A contingent liability is recognised off the balance sheet when there is a possible benefits associated with ownership in all essential aspects are transferred to the obligation resulting from past events and whose occurrence is confirmed only lessees; if not, then it is the case of an operating lease. The Group’s contracts by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events, are classified as financial leases and have been recognised as assets in the which are not entirely in the company’s control, or there is an obligation resulting consolidated balance sheet. The obligation to pay future leasing fees has been from past events but which is not recognised as a liability or provision since it recognised as a current or long-term liability. The leased assets are depreciated is not likely that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, according to a set schedule while lease payments are recognised as interest and or the size of the obligation cannot be estimated with sufficient accuracy. No principal payments on the liabilities. accounting is necessary when the likelihood of an outflow of resources is extremely limited. Discontinuing operations In the accounting of discontinuing operations, discontinuing operations are Revenue considered to be a clearly delimited part of the Group’s operations which have Revenue is recognised as the fair value of what has been received or will be been discontinued or shut down or are being discontinued according to a single received. Deductions are made for discounts provided. Rental revenue entails coherent plan. that the revenue is divided evenly over the rental period. The total cost of benefits provided is recognised as a straight-line reduction in rental revenue Other over the rental period. Deliveries of goods are recognised as revenue when The figures reported have in some cases been rounded off, which means that significant risks and benefits associated with ownership of the goods have been tables, charts and calculations do not always add up. In texts and tables, figures transferred to the buyer. Revenue is only recognised if it is likely that economic between 0 and 0.5 are reported as 0. If there is no value, a dash is used. benefits will accrue to the Group and these benefits can be reliably estimated. If there is later uncertainty as to the likelihood of receiving payment for amounts Significant judgements and assumptions already recognised as revenue, the amount for which payment is no longer likely In the preparation of financial reports in conformity with IFRS, the executive is recognised as a cost instead of as an adjustment in the amount of revenue management is required to make judgements and assumption that affect the originally recognised. application of the accounting principles and the amounts recognised for assets, liabilities, revenue and costs. These judgements and assumptions are based on Financial income and expenses historical experience and a number of other factors that seem reasonable under Financial income consists of income on invested funds, dividends, the gain on a prevailing conditions. The results of these judgements and assumptions are change in value in financial assets recognised at fair value through profit or loss then used to assess the recognised values of assets and liabilities that are not and such gains on hedging instruments as are recognised in net financial items. otherwise clear from other sources. The actual outcome may differ from these Financial expenses consist of interest expenses on borrowings, effects of assumptions and judgements. reversing provisions calculated at their present vale, the loss on a change in Judgements and assumptions are reviewed on a regular basis. Changes in value in financial assets recognised at fair value via profits and losses and such assumptions are recognised in the period the change is made if it only impacted losses on hedging instruments as are recognised in net financial items. this period, or in the period the change is made and future periods if the change Interest income and interest expenses on financial instruments are recognised impacts both the current period and future periods. using the effective interest method. Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive a dividend is established. Foreign exchange gains and losses are Disputes recognised in net financial items. Executive management’s best judgement has been used in the accounts of disputed amounts, but the actual future outcome may differ from the amounts Segment reporting assessed. A business segment is defined as a part of a company that carries out operaSwedavia Annual Report 2012 | 65 NOTES Parent Company accounting principles Pensions The Parent Company prepares its financial reports in conformity with Sweden’s Pension commitments are recognised in the Parent Company in conformity with Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and the Swedish Financial Accounting Standthe provisions in the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and the Swedish ards Council’s recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for legal entities. The differFinancial Supervisory Authority’s regulations. ences between the consolidated and Parent Company accounting principles are presented below. The accounting principles specified for the Parent Company Intangible non-current assets have been applied consistently in all the periods presented in the Parent ComIntangible non-current assets with an indeterminable useful life are not amortised pany’s financial reports. in the consolidated accounts. There is amortisation in the Parent Company. The Parent Company has goodwill from the acquisition of assets that have an exFinancial instruments pected useful life of 20 years. Useful life reflects the company’s estimation of the The Parent Company does not apply IAS 39; instead, financial instruments are period under which future economic benefits that goodwill and other intangible recognised based on their cost in conformity with Sweden’s Annual Accounts non-current assets represent will flow to the company. Straight-line amortisation Act. This means that non-current financial assets are recognised at cost minus is applied over the expected useful life of the asset. any impairment loss and current financial assets are valued based on the lower of cost or market rule. Associated companies Interest rate swaps that effectively hedge cash flow risk for interest payments Holdings in associated companies are recognised in the Parent Company using on liabilities are recognised at the net of the accrued asset on floating interest the cost method. Dividends received are recognised in the income statement and accrued liability on fixed interest, and the difference is recognised as an provided that they arise from a share of the profit earned after the acquisition. interest expense or interest income. Holdings in limited partnerships are recognised at cost. The carrying amount for the holdings changes annually with Swedavia’s share of the limited partnerTaxes ship’s net profit as well as any withdrawals or contributions during the year. The amount set aside for untaxed reserves consists of taxable temporary differences. In the Parent Company, because of the relationship between accounting and taxation, the deferred tax liability is recognised as part of the untaxed reserves. However, in the consolidated accounts, untaxed reserves are divided between deferred tax liability and equity. Note 3 Segment reporting A business segment is defined as a part of a company that carries out operaFinancial expenses, financial income and income tax are handled at the tions from which it can generate revenue and incur costs, whose operating Group level. The accounting principles conform with those applied in the profit is examined on a regular basis by the company’s highest executive officer consolidated financial reports, with the exception of amortisation on goodwill, and for which there is independent financial information. The Swedavia Group unrealised value changes that are not covered by hedge accounting, actuarial is organised and is run as of July 1, 2012, based on two business segments, gain and losses on pensions and value changes in standing timber. Airport Operations and Real Estate. Until July 1, 2012, Swedavia’s operations The Swedavia Group is managed and reported based on the following two consisted solely of Airport Operations, which then constituted the Group’s only business segments: business segment. The acquisition of buildings from SAS has entailed a change • Airport Operations owns, operates and develops Swedavia’s airports in the management of the Group. • Real Estate owns, develops and administers properties and exploitable land The basis of segment reporting is internal reporting. The Board of Directors and at and in the vicinity of Swedavia’s airports executive team mainly use operating profit by segment for monitoring operations. 66 | Swedavia Annual Report 2012 NOTES Airport Operations Real Estate Eliminations Total Swedavia Income statement Jul-Dec 2012 2011 *) 2012 2011 *) 2012 2011 *) 2012 2011*) Revenue from external customers 2,452 2,346 103 – 0 – 2,555 2,346 Revenue from other segments 9 – 0 – –9 – 0 – Total revenue 2,461 2,346 103 – –9 – 2 ,555 2,346 Operating expenses –1,655 –1,564 –27 – 42 13 –1,640 –1,551 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses –446 –432 –19 – 16 7 –449 –425 Operating profit 360 351 57 – 49 20 467 371 Income from holdings in associated companies 9 6 0 – 0 – 9 6 Net financial items –172 –127 –28 – 34 20 –166 –107 Profit before tax for the period 197 229 29 – 83 40 310 269 Airport Operations Real Estate Eliminations Total Swedavia Balance sheet 2012 2011 *) 2012 2011 *) 2012 2011 *) 2012 2011 *) Non-current assets 13,867 – 2,474 – –2,632 – 13,709 – Current assets 1,707 – 1,099 – –1,726 – 1,080 – Total assets 15,574 – 3 ,573 – –4,358 – 14,788 – Equity 4,330 – 815 – –846 – 4,300 – Liabilities 11, 244 – 2,757 – –3,513 – 10,487 – Total equity and liabilities 15,574 – 3,573 – –4,358 – 14 ,788 – *) The Swedavia Group is organised and is run as of July 1, 2012, based on two business segments, Airport Operations and Real Estate. Prior to that, Swedavia’s operations consisted solely of Airport Operations, which then constituted the Group’s only business segment. Note 4 Net revenue Group Parent Company 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Revenue by source Aviation Business Passenger-related revenue 1,849 1,778 1,849 1,778 Business-related revenue 593 591 593 591 Ground handling and aircraft parking 296 274 296 274 Other Aviation Business 11 8 11 8 2,749 2,650 2,749 2,650 Commercial Services Car parking 621 604 621 604 Retail, food and beverage 601 585 601 585 Other real estate revenue 535 399 432 389 Advertising 69 69 69 69 Other Commercial Services 307 313 320 332 2,134 1,970 2,045 2,253 Other revenue 81 72 74 58 81 72 74 58 Total 4,965 4,693 4,868 4,687 One customer accounted for 14 per cent (12) of consolidated net revenue in 2012. Swedavia Annual Report 2012 | 67 NOTES Note 5 Related party transactions Related party transactions involve State-owned companies or operations that State-owned companies account for a significant share of the Swedavia Group’s conduct business subject to market terms in which the State has a controlling net revenue or profit. Costs consist mostly of meteorological services, fees to interest. Transactions are carried out on market terms, and operations are government authorities and air navigation services. subject to competition. Related parties also include companies over which Swedavia may exercise a controlling interest or significant influence in terms of Transactions with other related parties operational and financial decisions made. Swedavia has no pledged assets for or contingent liabilities to executive officers or the Board of Directors. For information about remuneration to executive officers Transactions with the Swedish State and Board members, see Note 7. Swedavia AB is wholly owned by the Swedish State. Transactions with the State The table below shows significant transactions with related parties. For such as taxes, payroll fees etc. have not been included. The Swedavia Group’s information about Swedavia AB’s receivables from and liabilities to Group products and services are provided to the State, government agencies and companies, see Note 23 “Receivables from Group companies” and Note 24 State-owned companies in competition with other suppliers on commercial “Receivables from associated companies”. Shares in Group companies are terms. Similarly, Swedavia AB and its subsidiaries purchase products and services specified in Note 18 “Holdings in Group companies” and in Note 19 “Holdings in from government authorities and State-owned companies at market prices and associated companies”. on commercial terms. Individually, neither the State, government authorities nor Group Parent Company 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Sale of goods and services Subsidiaries – – 7 1 Associated parties 1 – 26 31 Other related parties – – 620 610 Total sale of goods and services 1 – 653 642 Sale of immovable property or other assets Subsidiaries – – 658 – Associated companies – – – – Other related parties – – – – Total sale of immovable property or other assets – – 658 – Purchase of goods and services Subsidiaries – – 59 55 Associated companies – – 1 4 Other related parties – – 5 5 Total purchases of goods and services – – 65 64 Interest, net Subsidiaries – – 31 – Associated companies – – – – Other related parties – – – – Total interest – – 31 – 68 | Swedavia Annual Report 2012 NOTES Note 6 Remuneration and compensation for auditors Group Parent Company 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Ernst & Young Auditing assignments 3 3 3 3 Tax consultancy 0 – 0 – Other services 2 1 2 1 5 4 5 4 KPMG Auditing assignments – 1 – 1 Tax consultancy 0 1 0 1 Other services 1 0 1 0 1 2 1 2 Total 6 6 6 6 Auditing assignments refers to the statutory auditing of the annual accounts as advice or other assistance stemming from observations made during such and the administration of the Board of Directors and the President and CEO as well audits or the performance of such other duties. Tax consultancy refers to all as auditing and other examination performed in accordance with agreements or consultancy pertaining to taxes. contracts. Other services refers to advice on accounting issues as well as advice on This includes other duties incumbent upon the company’s auditors as well processes and internal auditing. Note 7 Employees and staff expenses 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 Average number of employees 2012-12-31 Of which women 2011-12-30 Of which women PARENT COMPANY Sweden 2,612 33% 2,505 33% Total in the Parent Company 2,612 33% 2,505 33% SUBSIDIARIES Sweden 12 34% 11 82% Total in subsidiaries 12 34% 11 82% Group total 2,624 33% 2,516 34% Swedavia Annual Report 2012 | 69 NOTES 2012-12-31 2012-01-01 2011-12-31 2011-01-01 Gender distribution in executive management Share of women Share of women Share of women Share of women PARENT COMPANY Board of Directors 56% 44% 44% 44% Other executive officers 36% 36% 36% 42% GROUP TOTAL Board of Directors 38% 23% 23% 27% Other executive officers 31% 28% 28% 50% 2012-01-01–2012-12-31 2011-01-01–2011-12-31 Salaries and Payroll Salaries and Payroll Salaries, other remuneration and payroll fees remuneration fees remuneration fees PARENT COMPANY 927 451 833 387 (of which pension expenses) (251) (125) SUBSIDIARIES 6 3 5 2 (of which pension expenses) (1) (1) Adjustment of payroll tax on pension liability, Group –3 –2 Group-related adjustments – –30 – –10 GROUP TOTAL 933 421 838 377 (of which pension expenses) (252) (126) Remuneration to the Board of Directors Parent Company Base salary, Audit Remuneration Other 2012 SEK T Board fee Committee Committee benefits Chairman of the Board Ingemar Skogö 440 – 25 – Board members Karin Apelman 220 35 – – Adine Grate Axén 220 – – 4 Lars Backemar 220 – – – Anders Ehrling 220 – – 4 Anna Elgh 220 20 – – Hans Jeppsson 220 – – – Jenny Lahrin 1) – – – – Christopher Onajin 2) – – – – Magnus Skåninger 3) – – – – Lottie Svedenstedt 220 – 20 – Total 1,980 55 45 8 1) Jenny Lahrin was elected as a Board member on December 20, 2012. 2) When Christoffer Onajin decided to step down from his position at the Ministry of Finance, he also terminated his duties at Swedavia in conjunction with the Board meeting held on February 13, 2012. 3) Magnus Skåninger decided to step down from his position at Swedavia at the Extraordinary General Meeting held on December 20, 2012. 70 | Swedavia Annual Report 2012 NOTES Base salary, Audit Remuneration Other 2011 SEK T Board fee Committee Committee benefits Chairman of the Board Ingemar Skogö 440 – – – Board members Karin Apelman 220 – – – Adine Grate Axén 220 – – 4 Lars Backemar 220 – – – Anders Ehrling 220 – – 4 Anna Elgh 220 – – – Hans Jeppsson 220 – – – Christopher Onajin – – – – Lottie Svedenstedt 220 – – – Total 1,980 – – 8 Guidelines for remuneration to the Board of Directors Swedavia follows the State’s guidelines for remuneration to the Board. A resentatives on the Audit Committee. Since the AGM, the Audit Committee infee is paid to the Chairman and Board members based on a decision at the cludes the Board members Karin Apelman as Chair and Anna Elgh as a member. Annual General Meeting (AGM) on April 26, 2012. No pension contribution is Jenny Lahrin was elected as a member of the Audit Committee in conjunction paid for Board members. No remuneration is paid to Board members who are with the Extraordinary General Meeting held on December 20, 2012. employed in the Swedish Government Offices. No Board fee is paid to employee In 2012, a Remuneration Committee was set up. Remuneration to the Remurepresentatives or their deputies. Board fees are paid as salary or are paid to the neration Committee is based on a decision taken at the AGM on April 26, 2012. Board member’s company. No Board fee is paid to Board members in any subThe Remuneration Committee includes Ingemar Skogö as Chair, Lottie Svedensidiary since all members are employees of companies in the Swedavia Group. stedt as a member and Robert Olsson as an employee representative. Jenny Remuneration for the Audit Committee is based on a decision taken at the Lahrin was elected to the Remuneration Committee as a member in conjunction AGM held on April 26, 2012. No special remuneration was paid in 2011 to repwith the EGM held on December 20, 2012. Remuneration to executive officers Parent Company Variable Other Pension 2012 SEK T Base salary remuneration benefits expenses Chief executive officer Torborg Chetkovich CEO 3,005 – 31 886 Total 3,005 – 31 886 Other executive officers Karl Wistrand CEO and CFO 2,124 – 17 679 Per Arenhage CTO 1,438 – 44 414 Lennart Bergbom Director of Strategy starting Jan 1, 2012 1,026 – 0 223 Anna Bovaller Chief Legal Counsel 1,291 – 0 352 Jan Egenäs CEO Swedavia Real Estate 1,357 – 22 374 Bodil Garneij CIO through Jan 31, 2012 82 – 0 13 Peder Grunditz Director of Regional Airports 1,221 – 17 312 Charlotta Hyldal HR Director 1,531 – 7 436 Anders Lennerman Director of Security and Safety 1,214 – 7 342 Charlotte Ljunggren Airport Director, Göteborg Landvetter Airport starting Aug 13, 2012 675 – 1 180 Linda Sjödin Communications Director starting Jan 16, 2012 1,163 – 7 310 Michael Persson Gripkow CMO 1,468 – 0 405 Airport Director, Göteborg Landvetter Airport through Aug 12, 2012 Olle Sundin Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Airport starting Jan 1, 2012 1,593 – 25 888 Peter Weinhandl Airport Director, Malmö Airport 1,024 – 0 272 Kjell-Åke Westin Airport Director, Stockholm Arlanda Airport 1,615 – 48 486 Total 18,822 – 196 5,685 Swedavia Annual Report 2012 | 71 NOTES Variable Other Pension 2011 SEK T Base salary remuneration benefits expenses Chief executive officer Torborg Chetkovich CEO 2 ,880 – 35 864 Total 2 ,880 – 35 864 Other executive officers Karl Wistrand Deputy CEO and CFO 1,920 – 8 506 Per Arenhage CTO starting Jul 1, 2011 801 – 20 241 Anna Bovaller Chief Legal Counsel 1,207 – 28 268 Jan Egenäs CEO Swedavia Real Estate starting Aug 1, 2011 575 – 17 150 Bodil Garneij CIO 888 – – 168 Peder Grunditz Director of Regional Airports 1,183 – 31 247 HR Director and Sustainability and Charlotta Hyldal Environmental Director 1,440 – 7 358 Anders Lennerman Director Security and Safety 1,152 – – 345 Michael Persson Gripkow Marketing Director starting Aug 1, 2011 600 – – 145 Olle Sundin Airport Director, Göteborg Landvetter Airport 1,457 – 174 1,023 Peter Weinhandl Airport Director, Malmö Airport 974 – 0 256 Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Airport through Sep 8, 2011 Kjell-Åke Westin Airport Director, Stockholm Arlanda Airport starting Sep 9, 2011 1,302 – 51 379 Agnetha Marcks von Würtemberg Acting Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Airport starting Sep 9, 2011 266 – – 66 Katarina Adriansson Sturén Communications Director through Oct 25, 2011 1,603 – – – Kerstin Lindberg Göransson Airport Director, Stockholm Arlanda Airport through Sep 8, 2011 1,175 – 34 210 Mats Sigurdson Market Director through May 10 370 – 16 99 Summa 16,914 – 387 4,460 Remuneration to executive officers premium for ITP 1 as determined through a collective agreement. In 2012, it was Executive officers refers to the people who together with the CEO constitute decided that an extra pension contribution in addition to the defined contribution the company’s executive management or report directly to CEO. The executive plan under the ITP 1 plan would be made for executive officers not covered by management is appointed by the CEO. the graduated pension premium for ITP. The Airport Director of Bromma StockRemuneration to the CEO and Deputy CEO is determined by Swedavia’s holm Airport is also covered by a defined contribution direct pension agreed in Board of Directors after the matter has been prepared in the Remuneration conjunction with negotiations to arrange the transition of operations from LFV Committee. The CEO proposes remuneration to other executive officers, which to Swedavia AB as of April 1, 2010. Pension expenses for 2011 also include is decided in the Remuneration Committee based on decision rights delegated premiums for 2010 totalling SEK 244 T. Pension expenses for pension premiums by Swedavia’s Board. paid in during the year to the Deputy CEO/CFO also include an extra payment in The Board’s proposed principles for remuneration and other terms of excess of the defined contribution plan in conformity with the ITP 1 plan which employment for the company’s executive management entail that Swedavia AB totals SEK 47 T for 2011. The retirement age for the CEO and other executive (publ) shall strive for remuneration and terms of employment that are reasonofficers is 65. able and well informed. Remuneration shall be characterised by moderation, reasonableness and transparency as well as contribute to good ethics and Severance pay corporate culture. Remuneration shall not be such that it drives salaries relative The President and CEO has six months’ notice of termination by mutual consent to comparable companies but shall instead be characterised by moderation. and is entitled to all employment benefits during that period. For the President For remuneration and other terms of employment, Swedavia applies the and CEO, an agreement on severance pay has been signed in the event the principles decided in the Guidelines for Terms of Employment for Executive company gives notice of termination. Severance pay is equivalent to the officer’s Officers in Companies under State Ownership adopted by the Government on fixed salary for twelve months beyond the notification period and is not pensionApril 20, 2009. These guidelines shall result in remuneration that is competitive, able income. capped, reasonable and appropriate. The principle is a fixed base salary, which Executive officers have six months’ notice of termination by mutual consent, means that there is no incentive programme or other variable salary component with the exception of one person, who must give four months’ notice of terminafor executive officers. tion. All executive officers are entitled to all employment benefits during the notification period. Pensions For the Deputy CEO/CFO and Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Airport, The President and CEO’s pension is paid via a premium-based pension plan, severance pay agreements have been signed in the event the company gives the provision for which corresponds to 30 per cent of fixed salary. Pensions for notice of termination equivalent to the officer’s fixed salary for a maximum of six other executive officers are included under the ITP 1 defined contribution plan. months beyond the notification period. Executive officers born between 1945 and 1962 and employed in the transition For the CEO of Swedavia Real Estate AB, an agreement on severance pay from LFV to Swedavia on April 1, 2010, are also covered by a graduated pension has been signed in the event the company gives notice of termination equivalent 72 | Swedavia Annual Report 2012 NOTES to the officer’s fixed salary for a maximum of four months beyond the notification position of Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Airport on January 1, 2012, and period. For the HR Director, an agreement on severance pay has been signed in terminated his position as Acting Airport Director, Göteborg Landvetter Airport the event the company gives notice of termination equivalent to the officer’s fixed on August 12, 2012. Linda Sjödin assumed the position of Communications salary for a maximum of three months beyond the notification period. Director on January 16, 2012. Charlotte Ljunggren assumed the position of AirSeverance pay is not pensionable income. port Director, Göteborg Landvetter Airport on August 13, 2012. Agneta Marcks von Würtemberg terminated her position as Acting Airport Director, Bromma Changes in team of executive officers Stockholm Airport on December 31, 2011. Bodil Garneij, CIO, went on maternity Lennart Bergbom, Director of Strategy, who reports directly to the CEO, joined leave January 31, 2012 and was not replaced by an Acting CIO on the team of the team of executive officers as of January 1, 2012. Olle Sundin assumed the executive officers. Note 8 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment losses on tangible fixed assets and intangible non-current assets Group Parent Company 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 2012-12-30 2011-12-30 2012-12-30 2011-12-30 Depreciation and amortisation Goodwill – – 25 24 Other intangible non-current assets 16 13 16 13 Building and land 311 292 292 290 Field structures 153 148 153 148 Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment 349 362 349 362 Total 829 815 835 837 Impairment losses Buildings and land 6 6 6 6 Field structures 0 1 0 1 Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment 12 5 12 5 New construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets 3 3 3 3 Total 850 831 856 852 Note 9 Financial income and expenses Group Parent Company 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 Financial income 2012-12-30 2011-12-30 2012-12-30 2011-12-30 Income from holdings in Group companies – – 13 13 Income from holdings in associated companies 19 14 20 17 Interest income 3 7 34 11 Net changes in foreign exchange rates 0 1 0 1 Total 22 22 67 42 Group Parent Company 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 Financial expenses 2012-12-30 2011-12-30 2012-12-30 2011-12-30 Interest expenses, financial liabilities –237 –220 –237 –246 Interest expenses, interest rate swaps –34 –27 –22 –9 Portion of interest on pension expenses for the year –18 –8 –96 –13 Other financial expenses –5 8 –7 –17 Net changes in foreign exchange rates –4 0 –4 0 Total –299 –247 –366 –285 Swedavia Annual Report 2012 | 73 NOTES Note 10 Appropriations and untaxed reserves Parent Company Appropriations 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Change in accelerated depreciation –212 –280 Change in tax allocation reserves –49 – Group contribution paid in –16 – Total appropriations –277 –280 Untaxed reserves Accumulated accelerated depreciation and amortisation 1,152 940 Tax allocation reserves 49 – Total untaxed reserves 1,201 940 In calculating excess depreciation, the maximum amount of allocations allowed under Swedish tax law was taken in the Parent Company for 2011 and 2012. Accumulated depreciation and amortisation pertains to other intangible assets, electrical installations, vehicles and equipment. Note 11 Tax on the profit for the year Group Parent Company 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Current tax expense (–)[/tax income (+)] Tax expense [/tax income] for the year –58 –52 –40 –43 –58 –52 –40 –43 Deferred tax expense (–) [/tax income (+)] Deferred tax for temporary differences –50 –66 –23 29 Total tax expense recognised –108 –118 –63 –14 2012-01-01– 2012-12-31 2011-01-01– 2011-12-31 Group Per cent Amount Per cent Amount Reconciliation of effective tax Profit before tax 554 556 Tax calculated using Swedish tax rate in effect 26.3 –146 26.3 –146 Tax pertaining to taxation for the previous year –1 – Tax effect of amortisation of Group goodwill –5 –6 Tax effect of non-deductible costs –31 –38 Tax effect of non-taxable revenue – 8 Tax effect of loss carryforward 1 63 Other 8 – Effect of new tax rate 66 – Recognised effective tax 19.5 –108 21.2 –118 74 | Swedavia Annual Report 2012 NOTES 2012-01-01 – 2012-12-31 2011-01-01– 2011-12-31 Parent Company Per cent Amount Per cent Amount Reconciliation of effective tax Profit before tax 108 191 Tax calculated using Swedish rate for the Parent Company 26.3 –28 26.3 –50 Tax pertaining to taxation for the previous year –1 – Tax effect of non-deductible costs -31 –38 Tax effect of on-taxable revenue 3 11 Tax effect of loss carryforward – 63 Effect of new tax rate –7 – Recognised effective tax 58.3 –63 7.3 –14 Note 12 Intangible non-current assets Group Parent Company Goodwill 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Acquired Accumulated cost Opening balance 377 377 493 493 Closing balance 377 377 493 493 Accumulated scheduled amortisation Opening balance –25 –25 –43 –19 Scheduled amortisation for the period – – –25 –24 Closing balance –25 –25 –68 –43 Carrying amount, closing balance 352 352 426 450 Group Parent Company Other intangible non-current assets 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Acquired Accumulated cost Opening balance 109 88 109 88 Acquisitions for the year 35 21 35 21 Closing balance 143 109 143 109 Accumulated scheduled amortisation Opening balance –22 –9 –22 -9 Reversal of amortisation on disposals – – – – Scheduled amortisation for the year –16 –13 –16 –13 Closing balance –38 –22 –38 –22 Carrying amount, closing balance 105 87 105 87 Other intangible non-current assets pertains to noise insulation on the properties of others. Swedavia Annual Report 2012 | 75 NOTES Note 13 Buildings and land Group Parent Company 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Accumulated cost Opening balance 5,478 5,423 5,406 5,302 Acquisitions/reclassifications for the year 2,931 62 557 111 Disposals/divestments for the year –7 –7 –7 –7 8,402 5,478 5,956 5,406 Accumulated depreciation Opening balance –507 –216 -503 –214 Reversal of depreciation on disposals 1 1 1 1 Depreciation for the year –311 –292 –292 –290 -817 -507 –794 –503 Carrying amount, closing balance 7,585 4,972 5,162 4,903 Of which land Accumulated cost 428 421 426 390 Carrying amount at the end of the year 428 421 426 390 A property reallotment is underway, and the application is being processed by Lantmäteriet, the Swedish land registration authority. SEK 2 M (4) in the acquisition cost is for buildings pertaining to acquisitions of another party’s property at Ronneby Airport. Market value and investment properties Following the acquisition of buildings from SAS and the completion of a hotel building, Swedavia Group has investment properties which are recognised on the balance sheet at book value, which consists of cost minus depreciation. Of the total book value of SEK 7,585 M for buildings and land as of December 31, 2012, investment properties represent SEK 2,474 M. The investment properties are found in the Real Estate business segment. Fair value on the investment properties as of December 31, 2012, was SEK 2,576 M. Beginning January 1, 2013, Swedavia will recognise the investment properties at fair value on the balance sheet. In 2011 there were no investment properties in the Group. Note 14 Field structures Group Parent Company 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Accumulated cost Opening balance 2,692 2,580 2,692 2,580 Acquisitions/reclassifications for the year 128 113 128 113 Disposals/divestments for the year –1 –2 –1 –2 2,819 2,692 2,819 2,692 Accumulated depreciation Opening balance –255 –107 –255 –107 Reversal of depreciation on disposals 1 0 1 0 Scheduled depreciation for the year on cost –153 –148 –153 –148 –407 –255 –407 –255 Carrying amount, closing balance 2,412 2,437 2,412 2,437 Net field structures acquired have been treated for tax purposes as land. Field structures consist mostly of take-off and landing runways. 76 | Swedavia Annual Report 2012 NOTES Note 15 Biological assets Group 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Accumulated cost Opening balance 88 85 Change in fair value 3 3 Other changes – – Carrying amount, closing balance 91 88 A valuation of forest properties is carried out each year by an external party and includes the airports owned and administered by Swedavia AB that have significant forest holdings – Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Stockholm Arlanda Airport and Åre Östersund Airport. The valuation is based on the present value of the discounted future return from long-term sustainable forest operations. Note 16 Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment Group Parent Company 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Accumulated cost Opening balance 2,632 2,431 2,632 2,431 Reclassifications for the year 351 220 351 220 Disposals/divestments for the year –23 –19 –23 –19 2,960 2,632 2,960 2,632 Accumulated depreciation Opening balance –623 –268 –623 –268 Reversal of depreciation on disposals 11 3 11 3 Scheduled depreciation for the year on cost –349 –362 –349 –357 –962 –623 –962 –623 Carrying amount, closing balance 1,999 2,009 1,999 2,009 Leases Swedavia’s leases pertain to the leasing of vehicles. Leased objects that the Group has under leasing agreements are recognised under the item “Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment” for the following amounts. Consolidated leasing fees for the year totalled SEK 8 M (8). Group Carrying amount 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Cost – capitalised financial leasing 31 28 Accumulated depreciation –16 –13 Carrying amoun 15 15 The Group leases a number of vehicles under leasing agreements; the leasing periods run between 5 and 10 years. 2012 2011 Present value of Present value of Future minimum future minimum Future minimum future minimum Future leasing fees leasing fees leasing fees leasing fees leasing fees Within a year 7 6 7 6 Between 2 years and 5 years 13 12 13 12 More than 5 years 1 1 2 2 Total 21 19 22 20 Swedavia Annual Report 2012 | 77 NOTES Note 17 New construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets Group Parent Company 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Opening balance 981 387 981 387 Capital spending 1,629 1,057 1,629 1,057 Disposals – – –658 – Reclassifications –1,658 –463 –999 –463 Carrying amount, closing balance 953 981 953 981 Reclassifications of assets are made when the asset is placed in service in the ongoing new facility. The asset is reclassified as the type of asset it constitutes. Note 18 Holdings in Group companies Parent Company Parent Company holdings in Group companies 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Accumulated cost Opening balance 161 157 Acquisitions 785 5 Sale –64 – Accumulated cost, closing balance 882 161 Specification of the Parent Company holdings of shares in Group companies 2012-12-31 Number of Ownership Carrying amount Carrying amount Subsidiary/Corporate identity number/Registered office shares in %1) 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 LFV Airport Center AB, 556381-1057, Stockholm County, Municipality of Sigtuna 2) – – 0 Flygplatsfastigheter i Landvetter AB, 556142-8334, Västra Götaland County, Municipality of Gothenburg 3) – – 64 Arlanda Schiphol Development Company AB, 556653-6628, Stockholm County, Municipality of Sigtuna 10,000 60 93 93 TreDoffice AB, 556844-2932, Stockholm County, Municipality of Sigtuna 4) – – 0 Swedavia Real Estate AB, 556858-9872, Stockholm County, Municipality of Sigtuna 500,000 100 790 5 882 161 1) Pertains to ownership of the capital, which also corresponds to the ownership of voting rights for the total number of shares. 2) A merger took place with the Parent Company, Swedavia AB, as of October 19, 2012. 3) A merger took place with the Parent Company, Swedavia AB, as of November 12, 2012. 4) In 2012, TreDoffice AB was acquired by the Swedavia Real Estate Group. 78 | Swedavia Annual Report 2012 NOTES During the year, two subsidiaries merged with the Parent Company. LFV Airport Center AB, corporate identity number 556381-1057, was merged as of October 19, 2012. The subsidiary Flygplatsfastigheter i Landvetter AB, corporate identity number 556142-8334, was merged as of November 12, 2012. The income statements and balance sheets of the subsidiaries on their respective merger dates are presented in the tables below. LFV Airport Center AB, Flygplatsfastigheter i Landvetter AB, 556381-1057 556142-8334 Mergers 2012 2012-10-19 2012-11-12 Net revenue before merger 9 – Operating profit 3 0 Non-current assets 52 0 Current assets 20 3 Provisions – 2 Liabilities 72 1 Note 19 Holdings in associated companies Group Parent Company 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Accumulated cost Opening balance 121 106 127 110 Acquisitions 0 1 0 1 Share of profit in the associated companies for the year 19 14 20 17 Dividend for the year –60 – –60 – Carrying amount, closing balance 79 121 87 127 Adjusted Profit for the Carrying Specification of the Parent Company’s equity, year, amount in and Group’s holdings in associated Swedavia’s Swedavia’s Number of Value of holding the Parent companies 2012-12-31 share share shares Ownership in % in the Group Company Subsidiary/Corporate identity number/ Registered office Directly owned Nordic Airport Properties AB, 556598-5941, Stockholm County, Municipality of Stockholm 1 1 1,000 50 0 1 Nordic Airport Properties KB, 969673-0143, Stockholm County, Municipality of Stockholm 9 20 1 50 78 85 Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB, 556195-5823, Västra Götaland County, Municipality of Gothenburg 2 1 5,244 40 –1 – Svensk Destinationsutveckling AB, 556318-2574, Stockholm County, Municipality of Stockholm 0 0 400 20 0 1 79 87 Swedavia Annual Report 2012 | 79 NOTES Note 20 Financial assets and liabilities Derivatives for which Financial assets Loans receivable hedge accounting recognised at fair value and trade Total carrying Financial assets 2012 is applied through profit or loss* receivables amount Fair value Trade receivables – – 555 555 555 Receivables from associated companies – – 10 10 10 Other receivables – – 24 24 24 Liquid assets – – 129 129 129 Total – – 718 718 718 Financial assets 2011 Trade receivables – – 424 424 424 Receivables from associated companies – – 10 10 10 Other receivables – – 61 61 61 Liquid assets – – 141 141 141 Total – – 635 635 635 * The sub-category “held for trading”. Derivatives for which Financial liabilities hedge accounting recognised at fair value Other financial Total carrying Financial liabilities 2012 is applied through profit or loss* liabilities amount Fair value Non-current liabilities to credit institutions – – 3,000 3,000 3,014 Current liabilities to credit institutions – – 4,653 4,653 4,676 Derivative instruments 218 13 – 231 231 Liabilities to leasing companies – – 21 21 19 Other non-current liabilities – – 22 22 22 Trade payables – – 606 606 606 Liabilities to associated companies – – 4 4 4 Other liabilities – – 59 59 59 Accrued interest expenses – – 39 39 39 Total 218 13 8,404 8,635 8,670 Derivatives for which Financial liabilities hedge accounting recognised at fair value Other financial Total carrying Financial liabilities 2011 is applied through profit or loss* liabilities amount Fair value Non-current liabilities to credit institutions – – 3,518 3,518 3,562 Current liabilities to credit institutions – – 2,290 2,290 2,315 Derivative instruments 144 12 – 156 156 Liabilities to leasing companies – – 22 22 22 Other non-current liabilities – – 21 21 20 Trade payables – – 368 368 368 Liabilities to associated companies – – 3 3 3 Other liabilities – – 66 66 66 Accrued interest expenses – – 55 55 55 Total 144 12 6,343 6,499 6,567 * The sub-category “held for trading”. The Parent Company recognises its financial instruments at accrued cost. For information about fair value pertaining to derivative instruments, see the Group’s valuation. 80 | Swedavia Annual Report 2012 NOTES Net financial items 2012 2011 Financial assets/liabilities recognised at fair value* 1 –10 Total 1 –10 * The sub-category “held for trading”. Measurement at fair value Currency futures All derivatives on the balance sheet date are classified under Level 2, which Fair value of currency futures is calculated by discounting the difference between means the derivatives can be measured through directly or indirectly quoted the contract price and the price available on the balance sheet date for the prices based on observable market data. remainder of the contract. Discounting is done at a risk-free interest rate based on Swedish sovereign bonds. Holdings quoted in an active market Fair value of financial instruments traded in an active market is based on the Long-term receivables quoted market prices on the balance sheet date. A market is considered acFor information purposes, fair value of long-term receivables is calculated by tive if there is easy, regular access to prices quoted by a stock market, broker, discounting future cash flow by the current interest rate. industrial group, price setting service or oversight authority and these prices represent actual and regularly occurring market transactions carried out on an Interest-bearing liabilities arm’s length basis. For information purposes, fair value of interest-bearing liabilities is calculated by discounting the future cash flow of the amount of capital and interest discounted Interest rate swaps at the current market interest rate. Fair value for interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of expected future cash flow based on observable yield curves. Current receivables and liabilities For current receivables and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payaElectricity derivatives bles, with a remaining useful life of less than six months, the recognised value is For electricity derivatives, fair value is determined based on prices quoted. If considered to reflect the fair value. there are no prices quoted, fair value is calculated by discounting the difference between the contracted forward rate and the forward rate available on the balance sheet date for the remainder of the contract. Note 21 Other long-term receivables Group Parent Company 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Accumulated cost Opening balance 94 76 30 14 New receivables 41 38 38 36 Receivables settled 0 –17 0 –17 Reclassifications –3 –3 –3 –3 Carrying amount, closing balance 132 94 65 30 Note 22 Materials and stocks Group Parent Company 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Supplies 26 26 26 26 Gravel stocks 8 6 5 6 Supplies, building and land 2 2 2 2 Other stocks 2 2 2 2 Total 38 36 35 36 Swedavia Annual Report 2012 | 81 NOTES Note 23 Receivables from Group companies Parent Company 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Flygplatsfastigheter i Landvetter AB 1) – 12 Arlanda Schiphol Development Company AB 1 1 Swedavia Real Estate AB 2,651 65 Carrying amount, closing balance 2,652 79 1) A merger took place with the Parent Company, Swedavia AB, as of November 12, 2012. Note 24 Receivables from associated companies Group Parent Company 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Nordic Airport Properties KB 6 4 6 4 Nordic Airport Properties AB – 0 – 0 Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB 4 5 4 5 Carrying amount, closing balance 10 10 10 10 Not 25 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Group Parent Company 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Accrued income Ground handling 8 5 8 5 Accrued income Retail, food and beverage 96 97 96 97 Accrued income Advertising 13 3 13 3 Accrued income Energy 16 13 16 13 Accrued income Parking/Taxis 45 19 47 19 Prepaid insurance premiums 2 2 2 2 Other accrued income and prepaid expenses 74 61 60 55 Total 252 201 241 195 82 | Swedavia Annual Report 2012 NOTES Note 26 Equity Group Transfers between restricted and unrestricted reserves refers to untaxed reserve minus deferred tax. Note 27 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution pension obligations. Authority, which include interest rate assumptions. The Parent Company has chosen to calculate pension commitments in advance, starting in 2012 using the Defined benefit required rate of return of 0.4 per cent (1.1) per year. Beginning in 2011, unvested Most of the defined benefit pension commitments pertain to PA91 and PA03 pension obligations are entered as a liability at 60 per cent in both the Parent government employee pension agreements and were taken over from LuftfartsCompany and the Group. verket (LFV) in conjunction with the division of operations. No new pension rights Pension commitments are recognised as a provision on the balance sheet, accrue for these commitments; instead the commitments are in the form of paidto the extent the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act allows this, under the up pension policies. The actuarial bases for calculating the value of capital are item “Provisions for pensions and similar obligations”. the provisions in FFFS 2007:24 adopted by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Group Parent Company The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution pension obligation commitments 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Actuarial assumptions The following important actuarial assumptions have been applied in calculating the obligations: (weighted average values) Discount rate 3.5% 4.0% 0.4% 1.1% Future changes in price base amount (inflation) 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% 2.0% Remaining vesting period 9 years 10 years Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations Obligations as of January 1 734 706 1,021 965 Change in liability due to merger with LAC 3 Payments made for the year –26 –24 –26 –24 Cost of vesting, current period 1 1 1 2 Interest expense 28 30 11 13 Actuarial gains (–)/losses (+) 65 20 108 45 Benefits taken over 6 – – – Reversal of vesting pensions 0 –13 – –13 Other changes –24 14 –33 33 Obligation as of December 31 784 734 1,085 1,021 The carrying amount, closing balance for 2011 includes the Parent Company’s payroll fee. The Parent Company’s total obligations for defined benefit pensions are covered by credit insurance with FPG/PRI. Swedavia Annual Report 2012 | 83 NOTES Group Parent Company The cost is recognised in the profit for the year 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Defined benefit plans Cost of pensions vested during the year 1 4 1 4 Interest expense 28 30 11 13 Actuarial cost – – 108 45 Payroll fee 10 5 29 11 Effect of change in liability, unvested pensions – –11 – –13 Cost of defined benefit plans 39 28 149 60 Cost of defined contribution plans 80 72 80 72 Payroll fee 22 17 22 17 Cost of defined contribution plans 102 89 102 89 Total cost of remuneration after termination 141 117 251 149 of employment in the profit for the year Group The cost is recognised in other comprehensive income 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Defined benefit plans Actuarial losses including special payroll fee 81 25 Tax –18 –6 Recognised in other comprehensive income 63 19 Of which experience-based adjustment 7 4 Group Actuarial gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Defined benefit plans Accumulated as of January 1 39 19 Recognised during the period 65 20 Accumulated as of December 31 104 39 Group Sensitivity analysis Increase Decrease Change in discount rate 0.1 percentage point 0.1 percentage point Effect on obligation –12 13 84 | Swedavia Annual Report 2012 NOTES Note 28 Provisions for deferred tax Group 2012-12-31 Deferred tax asset Deferred tax liability Temporary difference goodwill – –29 Temporary difference tangible fixed assets – –34 Temporary difference biological fixed assets – 9 Temporary difference non-current financial assets – –51 Temporary difference untaxed reserves – 264 Temporary difference pensions – 83 Total – 242 Group 2011-12-31 Temporary difference untaxed reserves – 176 Temporary difference pensions – 95 Temporary difference tangible fixed assets 57 – Total 57 271 Parent Company 2012-12-31 Deferred tax asset Deferred tax liability Temporary difference tangible fixed assets 34 – Total 34 – Parent Company 2011-12-31 Temporary difference tangible fixed assets 57 – Total 57 – Note 29 Other provisions Group Parent Company 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Restructuring costs, opening balance 46 128 54 128 Provisions for restructuring costs 44 12 44 12 Reversal of restructuring costs –18 –86 –18 –86 Of which current portion –72 –8 Restructuring costs, closing balance 0 46 80 54 Social security fund, opening balance 17 17 17 17 Provisions for social security fund – – – – Reversal of social security fund – – – – Social security fund, closing balance 17 17 17 17 Other provisions, opening balance 135 117 111 92 Other provisions 46 26 46 26 Reversal of other provisions –65 –8 –65 –8 Other provisions, closing balance 116 135 92 111 Total 133 198 191 182 Swedavia Annual Report 2012 | 85 NOTES Note 30 Liabilities to credit institutions Group Parent Company 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Bank borrowings 5,920 4,200 5,920 4,200 Loans from Swedish National Debt Office 918 1,608 918 1,608 Commercial paper 750 – 750 – Total 7,588 5,808 7,588 5,808 Breakdown of non-current and current portion of interest-bearing liabilities 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Current portion of liabilities to credit institutions 4,588 2,290 4,588 2,290 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 3,000 3,518 3,000 3,518 Total 7 ,588 5,808 7,588 5,808 The average maturity on borrowings as of December 31, 2012, was 1.1 years with an average interest rate of 3.14 per cent. As of December 31, the share of borrowings at a fixed rate was 69 per cent and the lock-in period was 2.5 years. Note 31 Overdraft facilities Group Parent Company 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Overdraft facilities approved 200 100 200 100 Unutilised portion 132 –100 132 –100 Credit amount used 68 – 68 – Swedavia has credit facilities available as of December 31, 2012. Swedavia has an overdraft facility with SEB of SEK 200 M, of which SEK 68 M is unutilised. Note 32 Accrued expenses and prepaid income Group Parent Company 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Incentive provisions to airlines 59 72 59 72 Property tax 6 3 6 3 Accrued expenses, construction projects 72 34 72 34 Energy tax 4 6 4 6 Accrued staff-related expenses 169 142 168 142 Accrued interest 39 55 39 55 IT 4 18 4 18 Parking 6 – 6 – Property costs 16 5 8 5 Prepaid income 178 124 133 122 Other accrued expenses and prepaid income 81 102 81 106 Total 634 561 580 563 86 | Swedavia Annual Report 2012 NOTES Note 33 Financial risks The Group is exposed to a number of different financial risks in its operations, As of December 31, 2012, Swedavia had external borrowings of SEK 7,588 which in turn have an impact on the company’s profit, cash flow and valuaM (5,808), which is almost half the balance sheet. This means the company tion. Financial risks arise when there is a change in foreign exchange rates, is sensitive to changes in interest rates, which affects the company’s financial commodity prices and interest rates or when prevailing market conditions and expenses. To reduce the sensitivity to interest rate changes, Swedavia works capital structures give rise to refinancing and credit risks. The Group’s financial actively to hedge the risk exposure on most of its borrowings through interest operations and risk management are centralised in the Corporate Finance unit, rate swaps. Based on those hedges, a 1 per cent increase/decrease in the interwhere operations are carried out following a financial policy adopted by the est rate would have a SEK 24 M (1) on profit. This sensitivity analysis assumes all Board of Directors and characterised by a low risk level. The aim is to minimise other factors remain unchanged. the Group’s capital cost through effective financial solutions and the effective management and control of the Group’s financial risks. To reduce the Group’s Commodity price risks exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, electricity prices and exchange rates, Swedavia’s commodity price risk is concentrated on electricity and is regulated various types of derivatives are used. in the financial policy. There is continuous hedging of electricity prices in accordance with the financial policy. Hedging is done through electricity derivatives Exchange rate risks on the Nordpool electricity market as well as through bilateral agreements with The exchange rate risk is the risk that movements in currency prices will have a producers. The hedge ratio for 2013 is 86 per cent (87) of predicted use. negative impact on the consolidated income statement, balance sheet and/or A 1 per cent increase/decrease in the price of electricity would not have a cash flow. All subsidiaries are Swedish and use the Swedish krona as their curmaterial impact on profit, less than SEK 0.1 M, given the current hedge level. rency, so there is no translation exposure. Swedavia’s funding in Swedish kronor This sensitivity analysis assumes all other factors remain unchanged. means that there is no economic exposure. Hedge accounting Transaction exposure The Group applies cash flow hedging for its interest rate risk, foreign exchange Most revenue is not affected by any foreign exchange risk since more than risk and electricity price risk. The effective portion of the changes in fair value 99 per cent is invoiced in SEK. When invoicing is in foreign currencies, an recognised in other comprehensive income during the year was SEK –62 M internal match against supplier invoices is made in the corresponding foreign (–332). The ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement during the year currency. For other payments in foreign currencies, currency hedges are entered was SEK 2 M (–1). into that match the foreign flow. Currency hedges are entered into in conjunction with the signing of a contract or upon receipt of an invoice. Liquidity and refinancing risk Liquidity and refinancing risk refers to the risk that the cost of financing opportuInterest rate risks nities will increase or that such opportunities will be limited when loans are to be Interest rate risk refers to the risk of changes in market interest rates affecting the re-negotiated. It also comprises payment obligations that cannot be met due to net interest income/expense of the Group. Interest rate risk arises in two different insufficient liquidity. ways: The Group’s target capital structure is to have the Group’s fixed assets – investments in interest-bearing assets whose value changes when the interest funded by equity and have no more than 40 per cent of borrowings maturing in rate changes the same twelve-month period. The liquidity risk is minimised by Swedavia hav– a change in borrowing costs ing a diversified loan portfolio, which ensures access to capital and flexibility. In accordance with the financial policy, the Group has overdraft facilities of The interest rate risk for the Group and the Parent Company arises mostly SEK 500 M (500). through borrowing. To achieve the financial targets determined in the financial On the balance sheet date, there was a bank loan guarantee of SEK 500 M policy, interest rate derivatives are used. On the balance sheet date, the fair (500) and overdraft facilities of SEK 200 M (100), SEK 632 M (600) of which was value of these totalled about SEK –210 M (–133) and the nominal amount was unutilised. The tables below show the discounted cash flow for financial liabilities SEK 4,325 M (4,325). as well as net settled derivatives at the prices on the reporting date. Floating inIn accordance with the financial policy, interest rates shall be locked in for terest rates on borrowings and interest rate swaps in effect on the reporting date 3.5 years +/– 1 year. On the balance sheet date, the lock-in period was 2.5 years are assumed to apply for the remaining maturity of the respective instruments. (4.2). All excess liquidity was placed in bank accounts in Swedish commercial banks. Swedavia Annual Report 2012 | 87 NOTES Maturity analysis, Group 2012-12-31 Financial liabilities (including future interest expenses and derivative instruments) – Maturity structure < 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years > 5 years Total Liabilities to credit institutions 4,707 967 1,536 604 – – 7,814 Liabilities to leasing companies 8 13 – – – – 21 Liabilities to associated companies 4 – – – – – 4 Trade payables 597 – – – – – 597 Other liabilities 59 – – – – – 59 Derivative liabilities 54 54 51 44 37 51 291 5,429 1,034 1,587 648 37 51 8,786 2011-12-31 Financial liabilities (including future interest expenses and derivative instruments) – Maturity structure < 1 year 2 years 3 years 4years 5 years > 5 years Total Liabilities to credit institutions 2,467 2,193 929 714 – – 6,303 Liabilities to leasing companies 8 14 – – – – 22 Liabilities to associated companies 3 – – – – – 3 Trade payables 366 – – – – – 366 Other liabilities 69 – – – – – 69 Derivative liabilities 18 52 51 51 45 90 307 2,931 2,259 980 765 45 90 7,070 Credit risks and counterparty risks Credit risk in trade receivables The Group’s commercial and financial transactions give rise to credit risks against The credit risk for commercial transactions arises when there is a risk that its counterparties. Credit risk or counterparty risk refers to the risk of loss if the customers will not meet their payment obligations to the Group. This risk is mancounterparty does not meet its obligations agreed. The credit risk that Swedavia is aged by the Group assessing customers’ creditworthiness on a frequent basis. exposed to consists of: For trade receivables, operations are run in accordance with a provision regulating credit terms and working methods. Terms of payment are in most cases net Financial credit risk 30 days. As of December 31, 2012, there was no significant credit risk. The credit risk for financial transactions arises when the Group invests liquid The quality of credits appears to be good based on credit assessments made assets as well as in the form of counterparty risks when the Group enters into in accordance with the Group’s credit policy. an agreement on financial instruments with banks. The Group’s policy is to work with banks that have a good credit rating. The maximum credit risk consists of the recognised value of financial assets including derivatives with a positive market value. Swedavia has entered into ISDA agreements with its counterparties. Parent Company Age analysis, receivables past due, not written off 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Trade receivables not due 423 323 Trade receivables past due 1–30 days 38 85 Trade receivables past due 31–90 days 8 6 Trade receivables past due >90 days 2 7 471 421 Provisions account 2012 2011 Opening balance 7 8 Provisions for expected losses 3 –1 Closing balance 10 7 88 | Swedavia Annual Report 2012 NOTES Note 34 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Group Parent Company Pledged assets 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 SEB bank guarantees 0 0 0 0 Utilised credit amounts 0 0 0 0 Group Parent Company Contingent liabilities 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Company-owned endowment insurance 6 5 6 5 Swedavia has contingent liabilities (in the Parent Company) in the form of pension commitments in company-owned endowment insurance plans. Swedavia also has a guarantee to cover losses in the associated company Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB, for which it is not possible to measure the value of the commitment. Swedavia also has obligations stemming from environmental requirements for running airport operations. Note 35 Cash flow Group Parent Company 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 2012-01-01 2011-01-01 SEK M 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 2012-12-31 2011-12-31 Adjustments for items not included in the cash flow Less share of profit from holdings in associated companies –19 –14 – – Depreciation/amortisation 850 827 856 852 Provisions, pensions 50 28 64 36 Change in other provisions –64 –2 8 –56 Change in value of financial instruments 75 156 – – Other –258 –443 –46 –104 Total 634 552 882 728 Interest paid and dividend received Dividend received 60 – 60 – Interest received 5 5 5 5 Interest paid –254 –242 –254 –242 Note 36 Transition to financial reporting in conformity with IFRS Swedavia previously applied Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Below is a review of the most significant effects that the transition to IFRS Financial Accounting Standards Council’s recommendations and Emergency gives rise to. Group’s statements. The Swedish Accounting Standards Board’s recommendaIn a number of cases, the changes below have consequences for deferred tion BFN R 7 was used for currency hedging. tax; this is described in the IFRS bridges below. Beginning January 1, 2012, Swedavia prepares its financial reports in conformity with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the interpretation stateSome financial instruments are recognised at fair value; see IAS 39 below. Unments of the IFRS Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) that have been adopted by realised value changes are reported in the statement of comprehensive income the EU for application in the EU. The transition date to IFRS was fixed at January after the income statement. Unrealised value changes, which are not covered 1, 2011. The transition to IFRS was recognised in conformity with IFRS 1 Firstunder hedge accounting, are recognised in net financial items. time adoption of international financial reporting standards. The principle rule in Swedavia recognises changes in fair value for cash flow hedges in the stateIFRS 1 requires that companies apply all IFRS standards retroactively in fixing ment of comprehensive income. In the statement of changes in equity, items the opening balance in conformity with IFRS. in comprehensive income are presented separately from transactions with the However, some exceptions from retroactive application are allowed. Swedavia owners. Under IFRS, profit for the period and equity also include the minority has chosen to apply the following: shareholders’ share of these. Provisions are further divided into non-current and – Acquisition of airport operations from LFV as of April 1, 2010, and acquisition current portions. of subsidiaries in 2010 have not been restated Swedavia Annual Report 2012 | 89 NOTES IAS 12 Income taxes IAS 39 Financial instruments The Parent Company’s goodwill is tax-deductible and gives rise to a temporary The general principles for measuring financial instruments under IAS 39 are difference that was not reported under principles applied previously but is to that some financial assets and all derivative instruments are recognised at fair be recorded under IFRS. Because the Parent Company’s goodwill exceeds the value while other financial assets and liabilities are recognised at accrued cost. Group’s, a deferred tax credit was entered in the adjusted opening balance for Accounting for the value changes in the financial instruments is determined by the Group as of January 1, 2011. The deferred tax credit will decrease as the the initial classification of each financial instrument. Under Swedavia’s previously Parent Company amortises the goodwill. applied accounting principles, all financial instruments were recognised at cost. After the transition to IFRS, all financial instruments, including derivative instruIAS 19 Employee benefits ments, are recognised on the balance sheet. As a result of the EU’s adoption of the revised IAS 19, Swedavia has chosen to apply the standard in advance in its year-end accounts, which means a change IAS 41 Agriculture in accounting principles compared to those in reported published earlier in 2012. Under IAS 41 standing timber is measured and recognised at fair value. In cases Actuarial gains and losses as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions where there are no market prices, the value can instead by calculated at the are now recognised in other comprehensive income during the period in which present value of the expected future cash flow from the standing timber. The they arise. calculation of Swedavia’s fair value of standing timber and forests was made by Actuarial gains and losses have been broken down on a quarterly basis the Swedish Forest Society. based on the interest rate trend over the years. For forest holdings and the value of biological assets, that is, existing trees but not the land the trees grow on, forest assets are to be valued using IAS 41. Breakdown 2012 The land the trees grow on is valued at cost under IAS 16 Property, plant and equipment. SEK M Jan–Mar Apr–Jun Jul–Sep Oct–Dec Jan–Dec Actuarial change –10 –11 –28 –32 –81 IAS 38 Intangible assets Under accounting principles previously applied, goodwill is to be amortised over the expected useful life. Under IFRS goodwill is not amortised but is instead tested for impairment in the transition to IFRS as well as annually or when there are indications that an impairment loss is needed. Amortisation of SEK 31 M recognised in 2011 was reversed in the transition to IFRS. Statement of financial position for the Group 2011-01-01 Under previous IFRS adjustments Opening balance accounting principles Net change under IFRS Amounts in SEK M 2010-12-31 IAS 12 IAS 19 IAS 38 IAS 39 IAS 41 deferred tax 2011-01-01 ASSETS Intangible non-current assets – Goodwill 352 352 Other intangible assets 79 79 Tangible fixed assets 10,224 –50 10,174 Biological assets – 85 85 Non-current financial assets 182 143 325 Deferred tax assets 28 52 –52 28 Current assets 1,047 19 1,066 Total assets 11,912 52 – – 162 35 –52 12,109 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 3,627 52 119 26 3,824 Deferred tax liabilities 270 43 9 –52 270 Other non-current liabilities 4,935 4,935 Current liabilities 3,080 3,080 Total equity and liabilities 11,912 52 – – 165 35 –52 12,109 90 | Swedavia Annual Report 2012 NOTES Statement of financial position for the Group 2011-12-31 Under previous IFRS adjustments accounting principles Net change Balance under IFRS Amounts in SEK M 2011-12-31 IAS 12 IAS 19 IAS 38 IAS 39 IAS 41 deferred tax 2011-12-31 ASSETS Intangible non-current assets – Goodwill 321 31 352 Other intangible assets 87 87 Tangible fixed assets 10,449 –50 10,399 Biological assets 0 88 88 Non-current financial assets 215 215 Deferred tax assets 57 52 –8 41 –85 57 Current assets 1,014 1,014 Total assets 12,143 52 – 23 41 38 –85 12,212 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 4,001 52 23 –115 28 3,989 Deferred tax liabilities 346 10 –85 271 Other non-current liabilities 4,486 134 4,620 Current liabilities 3,310 22 3,332 Total equity and liabilities 12,143 52 – 23 41 38 –85 12,212 Statement of comprehensive income for the Group 2011, January–December Under previous IFRS adjustments accounting principles Net change Income under IFRS Amounts in SEK M 2011 Jan–Dec IAS 12 IAS 19 IAS 38 IAS 39 IAS 41 deferred tax 2011 Jan–Dec Net revenue 4,693 4,693 Other external expenses –1,824 3 –1,821 Staff expenses –1,269 10 –1,259 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment losses on tangible fixed assets and intangible non-current assets –862 31 –831 Operating profit 737 – 10 31 – 3 – 781 Net financial items –255 15 15 –225 Profit before tax 482 – 25 31 15 3 – 556 Tax –99 –7 –8 –4 –1 –118 Profit for the period 384 – 18 23 11 2 – 438 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Under previous IFRS adjustments accounting principles Net change Income under IFRS Amounts in SEK M 2011 Jan–Dec IAS 12 IAS 19 IAS 38 IAS 39 IAS 41 deferred tax 2011 Jan–Dec Profit for the period 384 – 18 23 11 2 – 438 Other comprehensive income: Change, cash flow hedge 0 –332 –332 Actuarial losses 0 –25 –25 Tax 0 7 87 94 Total other comprehensive income, net after tax 0 – –18 – –245 – – –263 Comprehensive income for the period 384 – – 23 –234 2 – 175 Swedavia Annual Report 2012 | 91 Signatures to the Annual Report Signatures to the Annual Report The undersigned certify that the consolidated accounts and AnThe Report of the Directors for the Group and the Parent Companual Report have been prepared in conformity with international ny gives a true and fair picture of the performance of the Group’s financial reporting accounting standards (IFRS) such as have and Parent Company’s operations, financial position and results been adopted by the EU in line with generally accepted accountand describes significant risks and uncertainty factors faced by ing principles and give a true and fair picture of the financial posithe companies included in the Group. tion and results of the Group and the Parent Company. Stockholm-Arlanda, Sweden March 18, 2013 Ingemar Skogö Karin Apelman Lars Backemar Chairman of the Board Board member Board member Anders Ehrling Anna Elgh Adine Grate Axén Board member Board member Board member Hans Jeppsson Jenny Lahrin Lottie Svedenstedt Board member Board member Board member Lars Andersson Robert Olsson Torborg Chetkovich Board member, Board member, CEO Employee representative Employee representative Our Audit Report was submitted on March 18, 2013 Ernst & Young Magnus Fagerstedt Authorised Pubic Accountant The income statements and balance sheets of the Group and the Parent Company will be subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on April 26, 2013. 92 | Swedavia’s Annual Report 2012 Audit Report Audit Report To the Annual General Meeting of Swedavia AB (publ), Swedish corporate identity number 556797-0818 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards We have audited the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts of Swedasuch as have been adopted by the EU and the Annual Accounts Act. The Report via AB (publ) for the year 2012. The annual accounts and the consolidated of the Directors is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and the accounts are included in the printed version of this document on pages 43–92. consolidated accounts. We therefore recommend that the Annual General Meeting adopt the Income Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the President for the annual Statement and Balance Sheet for the Parent Company and the Group. accounts and consolidated accounts The Board of Directors and the President are responsible for the preparation of Report on other legal and regulatory requirements annual accounts that give a true and fair picture in accordance with the Annual In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we Accounts Act, for the preparation of consolidated accounts that give a true and have examined the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and fair picture in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards such the administration of the Board of Directors and the President of Swedavia AB as have been adopted by the EU and the Annual Accounts Act, and for the (publ) for the year 2012. internal control the Board of Directors and the President determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the President are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The Board of Directors is responsible for proposing appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and the Board of Directors and President are responsible for Auditor’s responsibility administration under Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts and consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordAuditor’s responsibility ance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance on the standards in Sweden. Those standards require that we comply with ethical proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and on the administrarequirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance tion based on our audit. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally about whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts are free from accepted auditing standards in Sweden. material misstatement. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriaAn audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the tions of the company’s profit or loss, we examined whether their proposal is in amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. accordance with the Swedish Companies Act. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the As a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in addition assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts and to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we examined consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk significant decisions, actions taken and circumstances of the company in order assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the company’s to determine whether any member of the Board of Directors or the President is preparation and fair presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated liable to the company. We also examined whether any member of the Board of accounts to give a true and fair picture in order to design audit procedures that Directors or the President has, in any other way, acted in contravention of the are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an Swedish Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit also We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and apincludes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the propriate to provide a basis for our opinion. reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors and the President, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual accounts Opinions and consolidated accounts. We recommend to the Annual General Meeting that the profit be appropriated in We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and apaccordance with the proposal in the Report of the Directors and that the mempropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. bers of the Board of Directors and the President are discharged from liability for the financial year. Opinions In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with Stockholm March 18, 2013 the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, a true and Ernst & Young AB fair picture of the financial position of the Parent Company as of December 31, 2012, and of its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, a true and fair picture of the Group’s financial position as Magnus Fagerstedt of December 31, 2012, and of its financial performance and cash flows for the Authorised Pubic Accountant Swedavia’s Annual Report 2012 | 93 Statement of compliance Auditor’s Review Report on Swedavia AB’s Sustainability Report 2012 To the readers of Swedavia AB’s Sustainability Report 2012 The main procedures of our review, based on our assessment of relevance and risk, have included the following: Introduction We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Swedavia AB a. update of our knowledge and understanding for Swedavia to review Swedavia’s Sustainability Report for the year 2012. The AB’s organisation and activities, Board of Directors and the executive management are responsible b. assessment of suitability and application of criteria in respect for ongoing activities regarding the environment, health and to stakeholders’ need of information, safety, quality, social responsibility and sustainable development, c. assessment of the results of the company’s stakeholder diaand for the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability logue, Report in accordance with the applicable criteria. Our responsibility d. interviews with responsible management at selected units is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on with the aim to assess whether the qualitative and quantitative our review. information stated in the Sustainability Report is complete, accurate and adequate, The scope of the review e. obtaining of internal and external documents to assess We conducted our review in accordance with RevR 6, Assurance of whether the information stated is complete, accurate and Sustainability Reports, issued by FAR. A review consists of making adequate, inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation f. evaluation of the systems and processes used to obtain, of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other manage and validate sustainability information, review procedures. A review has a different focus and is subg. evaluation of the model used to calculate carbon dioxide stantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance emissions, with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Control and h. analytical review of reported information for 2012, other generally accepted auditing standards. The procedures i. reconciliation of financial information against the company’s performed consequently do not enable us to obtain an assurance 2012 Annual Report, that would make us aware of all significant matters that might be j. assessment of the company’s declared application level identified in an audit. The stated conclusion based on a review according to GRI guidelines, therefore does not have the same level of certainty as a conclusion k. assessment of the overall impression of the Sustainability based on an audit. Report and format, taking consideration of the internal The criteria on which our review is based are the applicable consistency of information with relevant criteria parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3, published l. reconciliation of the reviewed information against the by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are relevant to the sustainability information in the company’s 2012 Annual Report. Sustainability Report as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the company has developed and disclosed. We Conclusion believe that these criteria are suitable for the preparation of the Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that Sustainability Report. causes us to believe that the information in the Sustainability Our review encompasses the indicators presented in the GRI Report has not, in all material respects, been prepared in Cross-Reference Table, which can be found on pages 106–108, accordance with the above-stated criteria. and in the pages of the Annual Report as indicated in the table of contents as well as in the document Sustainability Report 2012 Stockholm March 18, 2013 – Statement of Results which can be found at www.swedavia.com. Ernst & Young AB Magnus Fagerstedt Curt Öberg Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant 94 | Swedavia’s Annual Report 2012 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report Swedavia AB (publ) Corporate governance Swedavia AB is a Swedish limited liability company Swedavia’s corporate governance is regulated by external legal frameworks such as the Swedish Companies Act and other appliwith its registered office in the Municipality of Sigtuna. cable Swedish laws, the State’s ownership policy and the Swedish Swedavia’s operations are described in the company’s Corporate Code of Governance (the Code). The Government Articles of Association as financing, owning, adminisdescribes its position on important matters of principles concerning tering, operating and developing airports with their corporate governance of all State-owned companies in its ownerappurtenant buildings and facilities. Swedavia shall ship policy. Among other things, the decision has been made that also take an active part in the development of the all companies in which the State owns a majority shall apply the Swedish Corporate Code of Governance. The overall objective of Swedish transport sector and help achieve the the Code is to contribute to the improved governance of Swedish transport policy goals set by Parliament based on limited liability companies. The Code is applied based on the sound business principles. “comply or explain” principle, which means that deviations from the Code are allowed but must be explained. Airport operations were previously part of the State-owned The Board of Directors is responsible under the Swedish Companies enterprise LFV, and the operations were acquired on April 1, 2010. Act and the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (the Code) for All shares in Swedavia AB are owned by the Swedish State. The Swedavia’s internal control. The Board has decided that Swedavia Ministry of Finance represents the Swedish State’s shares at shall apply a framework for documentation and analysis of internal Swedavia’s Annual General Meeting and thereby nominates Board control issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the members in Swedavia. Treadway Commission (COSO). Swedavia has continued the work to implement this framework in the company’s operations. Swedavia’s structure for corporate governance is illustrated in the drawing below. Swedavia's external External auditors Shareholders framework Laws, environmental permits, TSFS, ordinances, Board of Directors Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, Swedish State's Audit Committee Remuneration Committee ownership policy etc. Group Internal Auditing Compliance President and CEO Elects/appoints Risk Control Reports/provides information to Swedavia's internal control Articles of Association, Board’s Rules of Procedure, Group policies, control activities, communication etc. Swedavia 2012 | 95 Corporate Governance Report Deviations from the Code Swedavia is wholly owned by the Swedish State, and the principles only one owner whereas the Code is aimed at listed companies that the Swedish State applies in its ownership policy are generally in with dispersed ownership. agreement with the rules in the Code. However, under the State’s The State’s ownership policy also deviates in reporting the ownership policy, Code regulations regarding the selection of independence of Board members relative to major shareholders. Board members and auditors are replaced by a special nomination The State’s ownership policy specifies that the relevant provisions process that applies to companies wholly owned by the State. The in the Code are primarily aimed at protecting minority shareholders primary reason for deviations from the Code is that Swedavia has in companies with dispersed ownership so there is no reason to report such independence. Code requirement Deviation Explanation/comment Code rules 1.3-1.4 and 2.1-2.7 No Nomination Committee has been set up. The Nomination Committee has been replaced by The company has a Nomination Committee that the owner’s nomination process. represents the company’s shareholders. Code rules 4.5 and 4.6 Dependency relationship with major shareholders is The State’s ownership policy states that the relevant The Corporate Governance Report shall include not reported. provision in the Code is mainly aimed at protecting information about whether Board members are minority owners in companies with dispersed ownerindependent of major shareholders. ship. In State-owned companies, there is no reason to report such independence. Annual General Meeting The nomination process for the Board of Directors Swedavia’s Annual General Meeting 2012 will be held on April 26 For companies that are wholly owned by the Swedish State, a at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. The Annual General Meeting (AGM) nomination process that complies with the Swedish State’s owneris the company’s highest governing body, where shareholders ship policy is applied, replacing the Code’s rules for appointing exercise their influence. The matters considered at the AGM are Board members and auditors. regulated by the Swedish Companies Act. The nomination process for Board members is managed and According to the Swedish Companies Act, the AGM shall be coordinated by the State ownership unit at the Ministry of Finance. held annually no later than April 30. Members of Parliament are enA working group analyses the need for talent based on the compotitled to take part in the meeting and ask questions in conjunction sition of the Board and the company’s operations and situation. After with this. The general public shall also be given the opportunity to this, it is determined whether there are any recruitment needs and take part in the meeting. The AGM shall, among other activities, recruitment work is initiated. Members are selected from a broad appoint the Board and auditors, decide on remuneration to them recruitment base. Once the process has ended, the nominations and adopt the income statement and balance sheet. The Board are announced in accordance with the provisions of the Code. shall also present principles for the remuneration to executive officers at the AGM. Board of Directors The decisions of the AGM are made through a simple majority According to the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors vote. However, for any change in the Articles of Association, a shall consist of at least six and no more than nine members, qualified majority is needed. excluding deputies. Under Swedish law, employee organisations are also entitled to appoint regular members and their deputies. Extraordinary General Meetings in 2012 Swedavia’s Chief Legal Counsel is the Board secretary. The In 2012 two Extraordinary General Meetings (EGM) were held. President and CEO is not included on the Board but makes At the EGM held on September 13, the decision was made to presentations at the Board meetings. None of the Board members elect Magnus Skåninger as a Board member. At the EGM held is on the executive management team. For information about on December 20, the decision was made to elect Jenny Lahrin the appointment and removal of Board members, reference is as a Board member, after Magnus Skåninger resigned as a made to the Swedish State’s ownership policy. This is not found in Board member. Swedavia’s Articles of Association. 96 | Swedavia 2012 Corporate Governance Report The work and responsibilities of the Board at least once a year, when no one from the executive management According to the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish team may be present. State’s ownership policy, Swedavia’s Board is responsible for the company’s organisation and management of the company’s Composition of the Board affairs. The Board establishes the Rules of Procedure each year In 2012 Swedavia’s Board consisted of nine members elected for the Board’s work and instructions on the division of labour at the AGM, including the Chairman. In addition, the Board had between the Board and the President and CEO with instructions two regular employee representatives and their two deputies. for economic reporting to the Board. An account is given on pages 102-103 of each Board member’s The Board’s Rules of Procedure regulate, among other matters, age, education, main work experience, other important duties the Chairman’s duties, information to the Board and the division outside the company and number of years as a member of of responsibility between the President and CEO and the Board. Swedavia’s Board. Of the Board members elected by the AGM, Under the Board’s Rules of Procedure, at least eight statutory four are men and five are women. The average age is 52. The Board meetings apart from the statutory Board meeting shall be employee representatives in 2012 were two men with an held per calendar year. Additional meetings may be held when average age of 53. justified by events of major importance. The Board is responsible for financial reporting and has regular meetings through the Audit Chairman of the Board Committee with the company’s auditors. In addition, the auditors The Chairman of the Board is elected at the AGM. Under the Rules meet the full Board at least once a year. of Procedure for Swedavia’s Board of Directors, the Chairman shall The Board assesses the President and CEO’s work on a ensure that the Board’s work is managed effectively and that the continuous basis and gives particular consideration to this matter Board fulfils its duties. The Chairman’s duties include organising Facts about the Board Attendance, Attendance Year Attendance, Remuneration Members elected at the AGM Main Board Board meeting elected Audit Committee Committee Ingemar Skogö Chairman of the 15/15 2010 9/9 Board Karin Apelman Member 11/15 2010 10/10 Lars Backemar Member 13/15 2010 Anders Ehrling Member 10/15 2010 Anna Elgh Member 12/15 2010 10/10 Adine Grate Axén Member 11/15 2010 Hans Jeppsson Member 14/15 2010 Christopher Onajin 1) through 2012-02-13 Member 1/1 2010 1/1 Magnus Skåninger 2) from 2012-09-13 to 2012-12-20 Member 6/6 2012 2/3 2/2 Jenny Lahrin 3),starting 2012-12-20 Member 1/1 2012 Lottie Svedenstedt Member 15/15 2010 9/9 Employee representatives Lars Andersson Member 15/15 2010 Robert Olsson Member 14/15 2010 Mats Abrahamsson Deputy 1/15 2010 Agne Lindbom Deputy 0/15 2010 1) When Christoffer Onajin, Board member, decided to step down from his position at the Ministry of Finance; he also terminated his duties at Swedavia in conjunction with the Board meeting held on February 13, 2012. 2) Magnus Skåninger was elected as a Board member at the EGM held on September 13, 2012. He decided to leave his position at Swedavia at the EGM held on December 20, 2012. At the Board meeting held on August 30, 2012, Magnus Skåninger served as a co-opted member. 3) Jenny Lahrin was elected as a Board member at the EGM held on December 20, 2012. At the Board meeting held on December 17, 2012 Jenny Lahrin served as a co-opted member. Swedavia 2012 | 97 Corporate Governance Report and managing the Board’s work, keeping in regular contact with at developing a good basis for the Board’s own development work. the President and CEO and ensuring that the Board is given sufThe first evaluation took place during the second quarter of 2012. ficient information and material to make decisions in its work. The Chairman is also responsible for coordinating the Board’s views for Remuneration to the Board the owner on issues of critical importance to the company, and for Compensation to the Board is decided by the AGM. The Chairman receiving the owner’s views and conveying them to the Board. of the Board is paid a fee of SEK 440,000, and each member is paid SEK 220,000. It was also decided at Swedavia’s AGM that The Board’s work in 2012 no specific remuneration should be paid to the Board’s employee In 2012, the Board held 15 meetings, three of them statutory. representatives or members employed in the Swedish Government Offices. It was decided at Swedavia’s AGM that remuneration The main issues in 2012 were: should be paid to committee chairs and members. The Chair of • Strategic development for Swedavia the Audit Committee is paid a fee of SEK 35,000 and the com• Business plan, 2013–2016 mittee members are paid SEK 20,000. A fee of SEK 25,000 was • Internal governance and control decided for the Chair of the Remuneration Committee and SEK • Capital spending 20,000 for the members. The Board’s committee work The President and CEO and the executive management Swedavia’s Board of Directors has two committees – an Audit The Board of Directors appoints the company’s President and CEO. Committee and a Remuneration Committee, which was set up The President and CEO is responsible for the day-to-day manduring the year. The committees prepare matters for the Board agement of the company in conformity with the Board’s guidelines meetings, and guidelines for the committees’ work are found in and instructions. Within the bounds determined by the Board, the the Board’s Rules of Procedures. President and CEO manages operations and keeps the Chairman The Remuneration Committee is entrusted with the task of of the Board continuously informed about significant business preparing matters concerning remuneration and other terms of matters. The President and CEO shall organise the company’s employment for executive officers. Minutes for each commitmanagement to meet the aims set for governance and control tee meeting are attached to the minutes for the following Board of operations. Other executive officers are appointed by the meeting. In 2012, the Remuneration Committee held 9 meetings President and CEO. The executive management team is a forum for which minutes were kept. The members of the Remuneration for information, discussions and decisions for Group matters. The Committee since the AGM include Ingemar Skogö as Chair, Lottie team’s meetings are chaired by the President and CEO and are Svedenstedt as a member and Robert Olsson as an employee held every two weeks. Swedavia’s executive management, includrepresentative. Jenny Lahrin was elected to the Remuneration ing the President and CEO, is presented in more detail on pages Committee as a member in conjunction with the AGM held on 104–105. December 20, 2012. The Audit Committee’s tasks include being responsible for preRemuneration to executive officers paring the Board’s work to quality-assure the company’s financial At Swedavia’s AGM on April 26, 2012, the owner decided on the reporting and maintain an ongoing dialogue with the company’s principles for remuneration and other terms of employment for exauditors. Minutes for each committee meeting are attached to ecutive officers. For remuneration and other terms of employment, the minutes for the following Board meeting. In 2012, the Audit Swedavia shall apply the principles decided in the “Guidelines for Committee held 10 meetings for which minutes were kept, which Terms of Employment for Executive Officers in Companies under were all attended by the company’s auditors. The members of the State Ownership” adopted by the Government. Similar principles Audit Committee since the AGM include the Board members Karin are applied in Swedavia’s subsidiaries. Swedavia does not use Apelman as Chair and Anna Elgh as a member. Jenny Lahrin was variable remuneration for executive officers. elected to the Audit Committee as a member in conjunction with the EGM held on December 20, 2012. Subsidiaries and associated companies Swedavia had two subsidiaries at the end of 2012 – Swedavia Evaluation of the work of the Board of Directors, 2012 Real Estate AB and Arlanda Schiphol Development Company AB During the year, the Board’s work was evaluated through a (60 per cent ownership). Swedavia also has four associated commethodical, structured process which among other things is aimed panies – Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB, Nordic Airport Properties 98 | Swedavia 2012 Corporate Governance Report AB, Nordic Properties KB and Svensk Destinationsutveckling AB. The Board has adopted instructions for internal auditing, which in There is an officer from Swedavia’s executive management repre2012 consisted of three auditors. sented in every subsidiary and associated company in the Group. In 2011, Swedavia developed an owner directive for its The Board’s reporting on internal control subsidiaries in order to have standard principles of governance over financial reporting throughout the Group, which was implemented in every subsidiary Under the Swedish Companies Act, the Board is responsible for in 2012. internal control. Under the Code and the Annual Accounts Act, the Board must submit a description each year of the most important Auditors features of the company’s system for internal control and risk External auditing management over financial reporting. Internal control over financial Under the State’s ownership policy, responsibility for electing audireporting is aimed at providing reasonable assurance as to the tors in companies owned by the State always lies with the owner. reliability in the external reporting in the form of financial stateThe final decision on the choice of auditors is made by the owner ments, quarterly reports and annual reports and that the external at the AGM. The auditor’s duties are to examine the financial financial reporting is prepared in compliance with laws, approprireporting of the company and the Group as well as the administraate accounting principles and other requirements for limited liability tion of the company by the Board and the President and CEO. companies. This report has been prepared in accordance with the At Swedavia’s AGM on April 26, 2012, the auditing firm Ernst & Code of Corporate Governance and is restricted to internal control Young was elected; the auditing duties are to be performed until over financial reporting. the end of the AGM being held in 2013. The principal auditor is The Board has decided that Swedavia shall follow an estabthe Authorised Public Accountant Magnus Fagerstedt. Magnus lished framework for internal control based on the COSO (the Fagerstedt has no duties at the company that affect his independCommittee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Comence as an auditor for Swedavia. Remuneration has been paid mission) model. The COSO model consists of five interdependto the auditor and auditing firm for auditing and other statutory ent components: control environment; risk assessment; control examination as well as for advice and other assistance resulting activities; information and communication; and monitoring and from observations in the examination. assessment. Internal auditing Control environment The Board has an internal auditing function established at Swedavia The basis of Swedavia’s internal control consists of the control as support for its responsibility, oversight duties and assessment. environment and organisational structure, decision paths and responsibilities found in governing documents such as the Rules of Procedure, policies, guidelines and other governing documents. Included in risk management 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT RISK and COMPLIANCE INTERNAL AUDITING Responsible for mainResponsible for providing Responsible for performing taining good internal sufficient tools, evaluating independent examinations control and risk and supporting operations and ensuring that the Risk management in its work with risk and Compliance function management works in a satisfactory manner Monitoring Swedavia 2012 | 99 Corporate Governance Report Important policies in the control environment connected with ble for economic performance, while making comparisons with financial reporting are Swedavia’s financial policy and credit policy, business plans, budgets and previous results. The accounting which are adopted each year by the Board. The President and process is evaluated on a continuous basis and adjusted so that CEO also drew up and adopted a number of governing documents, it complies with appropriate regulations in the form of generally including Swedavia’s Rules of Order with a list of authorised accepted accounting standards as well as other requirements for signatories, in which the areas of responsibility for the executive the Group’s financial reporting. officers are clearly defined and monitored. Instructions and rules The company’s business processes include financial controls for the continuous work with financial processes is published on for approval and accounting of transactions. As part of Swedavia’s Swedavia’s intranet. ongoing work with risk management and internal control, work processes, policies and work instructions are evaluated on a conRisk management tinuous basis. Key controls are identified, and systematic monitorRisk management for the entire Group is a process carried out by ing of the effectiveness of these controls is developed. Swedavia’s Board, executive management and other staff, and is carried out in a strategic context and throughout the company. Information and communication Risk management is designed to identify potential events that Swedavia has information and communication channels aimed can impact the organisation and to provide reasonable assurance at promoting thoroughness and accuracy in financial reportthat the organisation’s objectives are achieved. ing. Swedavia’s public financial reporting consists of four interim At Swedavia it is the responsibility of operations to identify, reports and an annual report which includes a sustainability report. manage and control risks on a continuous basis (1st line of For external communication, there are guidelines ensuring that the defence). Each quarter, operations report risks which are consolicompany meets high standards for accurate information to the dated and reported to the President and CEO and the Board of market. Directors. In 2012, Swedavia appointed a Risk Manager (2nd line of defence), who is responsible for administering and developMonitoring and assessment ing risk management in the Group. Duties consist of supporting The executive management team meets every two weeks and operations in the administration and development of risk policy, reviews operations and related risks. The Board also evaluates the providing sufficient tools and methods for risk management, and development, economic results, financial position and cash flow reporting and assessing the risk management capability of operaof operations on a monthly basis. At the corporate level, there are tions. Internal auditing assesses Swedavia’s risk management functions, including a control and accounting unit, that analyse and work on a continuous basis (3rd line of defence). monitor results compared to the budget and forecasts which are reported to the company’s President and CEO and to the CFO. All Control activities people with responsibility for business units regularly report results The company’s President and CEO and CFO conduct monthly and annual forecasts to the company’s President and CEO and reviews of economic results with executive officers at Swedavia. to the CFO. The Board evaluates the information provided by the They in turn are responsible for analysing and quality-assuring the President and CEO on a continuous basis. There is also an internal economic results, together with controllers and those responsiauditing function that serves as an independent examination function. 100 | Swedavia 2012 Corporate Governance Report Stockholm-Arlanda March 18, 2013 Ingemar Skogö Karin Apelman Lars Backemar Chairman of the Board Board member Board member Anders Ehrling Anna Elgh Adine Grate Axén Board member Board member Board member Hans Jeppsson Jenny Lahrin Lottie Svedenstedt Board member Board member Board member Lars Andersson Robert Olsson Board member, Board member, Employee representative Employee representative Auditor’s Report on the Corporate Governance Report To the Annual General Meeting of Swedavia AB (publ), corporate identity number 556797-0818 The Board of Directors is responsible for the Corporate Governance means that our statutory examination of the Corporate Governance Report for 2012 and for ensuring that it is prepared in conformity Report is different and substantially less in scope than an audit with the Swedish State’s “Ownership Policy and Guidelines for conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing Companies with State Ownership” and thus in accordance with and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance and the Annual In our opinion, the Corporate Governance Report has been Accounts Act in applicable parts. prepared and its statutory content in accordance with the ownerWe have read the Corporate Governance Report and based on ship policy is consistent with the annual accounts and consolidated that reading and our knowledge of the company and the Group, accounts. we believe that we have a sufficient basis for our opinions. This Stockholm March 18, 2013 Ernst & Young AB Magnus Fagerstedt Authorised Public Accountant Swedavia 2012 | 101 Styrelse Board of Directors Board of Directors Ingemar Skogö Chairman of the Board (elected 2010); Chair, Remuneration Committee Born: 1949 Other Board duties: Fordonsstrategisk Forskning och Innovation (Chair) and Sensys Traffic AB. Education: BS in Economics, Lund University. Work experience: Governor, Västmanland County Board. Formerly Director-General, Vägverket; Director-General, Luftfartsverket; Undersecretary of State, Ministry of Communications; Mayor, Municipality of Södertälje; department advisor, energy, Ministry of Industry; administrator, Budget Department, Ministry of Finance; Swedish National Audit Office. Karin Apelman Member (elected 2010), Chair, Audit Committee Born: 1961 Other Board duties: EKN (Swedish export promotion agency); financing delegation for Swedish Radiation Safety Authority; advisory council for Swedish Legal, Financial and Administrative Services Agency (Kammarkollegiet). Education: BS in Economics, Stockholm School of Economics. Work experience: Director-General, EKN. Formerly CFO, Luftfartsverket; Deputy CEO, Saab Aircraft Leasing; Manager Leasing and Project Financing, Scandinavian Airlines. Adine Grate Axén Member (elected 2010) Born:1961 Other Board duties: 3 (HI3G Scandinavia), AP7, Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB and Sampo Oy. Education: BS in Economics, Stockholm School of Economics; Executive MBA (AMP), Harvard University. Work experience: Chair, NASDAQ OMX Listing Committee. Formerly Executive Vice President and Managing Director, Investor AB; Vice President Corporate Finance, Gota Group and Hägglöf & Ponsbach. Formerly member of Swedish Securities Council, Carnegie Investment Bank AB, Gambro AB, Grand Hotel Holdings, Ericsson Project Finance AB, EDB ErgoGroup A/S, Spray Ventures BV, Swedish Industry and Commerce Stock Exchange Committee and Government Council for Reduced State Ownership. Lars Backemar Member (elected 2010) Born: 1950 Other Board duties: Backemar Consulting AB (Chair), City i Samverkan AB (Chair), Villa Azur AB, Arosgruppen Fastigheter Fjärdingen AB, Arosgruppen Holding AB, Fastighets AB Velocipeden and Fresh Food Support Sweden AB (deputy). Education: Business administration and marketing, Köpmannainstitutet, Stockholm; marketing and consumer policy, Uppsala University. Work experience: Senior Advisor, Backemar Consulting AB. Formerly various executive positions at Jones Lang LaSalle. Anders Ehrling Member (elected 2010) Born: 1959 Other Board duties: Trygg Hansa AB, Destination Åre AB, Scandic Hotels AS (Chair), Scandic Hotels Holding A/S (Chair), Scandic Hotels Eesti AS (Chair), AS Finest Palace (Chair), Scandic Polen SP.z o. o. (Chair), Scandic Hotels OY (Chair). Education: BS in Economics, Stockholm School of Economics. Work experience: President and CEO, Scandic Hotels AB. Formerly CEO, SAS Sweden. Anna Elgh Member (elected 2010); member, Audit Committee Born: 1963 Other Board duties: None. Education: Master’s of Engineering, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm; Executive MBA, Instituto de Empresa Madrid. Work experience: Business Area Manager, Elder Care Private Management and Day Care Services, Carema Care. Formerly Vice President, Supply Chain and Group Logistics Director, Lantmännen; Supply Chain Director, SAS Component; various executive positions at Svenska Statoil AB. 102 | Swedavia 2012 Board of Directors Hans Jeppsson Member (elected 2010) Born: 1956 Other Board duties: Jeppsson Business & Government Consulting AB and Stockholm Business Region AB (deputy). Education: BS in Economics, Lund University; MA in Economics, UCLA. Work experience: Senior Advisor, Vinnova; consultant, Jeppsson Business & Government Consulting AB. Formerly special investigator, Innovation Procurement, Government Official Report, Ministry of Health and Social Affairs and Innovation Procurement, Ministry of Enterprise, Energy and Communications (international trade), Undersecretary of State, Ministry for Foreign Affairs; Director, Stockholm Chamber of Commerce. Jenny Lahrin Member (elected 2012); member, Remuneration Committee; member, Audit Committee Born: 1971 Other Board duties: RISE Research Institutes of Sweden Holding AB. Education: Bachelor of Laws, Uppsala University; Master of Laws in European Business Law, Amsterdam School of International Relations; Executive MBA, IFL, Stockholm School of Economics. Work experience: Deputy Director, Division for State-Owned Enterprises, Ministry of Finance. Formerly commercial lawyer, Division for State-Owned Enterprises, Ministry of Finance; Chief Legal Counsel, Veolia Transport Northern Europe AB and a lawyer. Lottie Svedenstedt Member (elected 2010); member, Remuneration Committee Born: 1957 Other Board duties: MiL Institute (Chair), Clas Ohlson AB, Stampen AB, Global Health Partner AB, Byggmax AB, ITA B Shop Concept AB, Liberala Tidningar i Mellansverige AB, Mediabolaget Promedia i Mellansverige AB and Vanna AB. Education: Law degree, Uppsala University. Work experience: Formerly CEO, Kid Interiör A/S; Business Area Manager, IKEA of Sweden; Deputy General Manager, IKEA Systems BV; CEO, Inter IKEA Systems A/S; Regional Director, H&M AB. Lars Andersson Employee representative (elected 2010) Born:1953 Other Board duties: Chair, SEKO Group trade union, Swedavia. Education: First repairman. Robert Olsson Employee representative (elected 2010) Born: 1966 Other Board duties: Section Chair ST. Education: High school, trade union training etc. Safety officer/security guard, Swedavia. Deputies (not shown): Auditor (not shown): Agne Lindbom Deputy Magnus Fagerstedt Principal auditor Ernst & Young AB Born: 1961 Born: 1957 Mats Abrahamsson Deputy Born: 1958 Swedavia 2012 | 103 Executive management Executive management Torborg chetkovich President and CEO since August 2010 Born: 1967 Education: BS in Economics, Uppsala University; MBA, Lausanne, Switzerland. Work experience: Formerly CEO, MTR Norden; Deputy CEO, Veolia Transport Sweden AB; Division Director, Veolia Transport Sweden AB; Marketing Director, ConnexTunnelbanan AB; various executive positions, SJ. Board duties: Swedavia Real Estate AB (Chair), Almega, Svensk Destinationsutveckling AB (deputy) and Svenskt Flyg Intresseaktiebolag. Karl Wistrand Deputy CEO and Chief Financial Officer since November 2010 Karl Wistrand assumed the position of CEO, Swedavia Real Estate AB on February 4, 2012. He continues as Deputy CEO but has stepped down from his role as Chief Financial Officer. Born: 1957 Education: Degree in corporate and business management law, School of Business, Economics and Law, University of Gothenburg. Work experience: Formerly CEO, Coop Sverige AB; Deputy CEO and CFO ICA AB; various positions at ICA. Board duties: Arlanda Schiphol Development Company AB, Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB, Swedavia Real Estate AB and Nordic Airport Properties AB. Per Arenhage Chief Technical Officer since July 2011 Born: 1956 Education: MS in Engineering, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm. Work experience: Chief Operating Officer, Swedavia; Chief Technical Officer and Chief Operating Officer, LFV; CEO, Uppsala Stadsnät Song; Head of Business Area, City Systems Vattenfall; Chief Technical Officer, Uppsala Energi. Board duties: None. Anna Bovaller Chief Legal Counsel since April 2010 Born: 1963 Education: Law degree, Lund University; IHM Master in Leadership. Work experience: Chief Legal Counsel, LFV; Assistant Chief Legal Counsel, Posten AB; commercial lawyer, Posten AB; lawyer, Dahlman Magnusson Advokatbyrå; law clerk, Nacka District Court; legal assistant, Michelsons Advokatbyrå. Board duties: None. Jan Egenäs CEO Swedavia Real Estate AB since August 2011 Jan Egenäs stepped down from his position as CEO, Swedavia Real Estate AB on January 25, 2013. Born: 1962 Education: BS in Economics, Umeå University. Work experience: CFO, Stockholm Arlanda Airport; Senior Project Manager, Business Acquisitions, Telia Overseas AB; Treasury Manager Pleiad Real Estate AB. Board duties: Nordic Airport Properties AB, Nordic Airport Properties KB and Airport City Stockholm AB. MiCHael Persson Gripkow Chief Commercial and Marketing Officer since August 2011 Born: 1961 Education: BS in Economics, Uppsala University; Advanced Management Program, Stockholm School of Economics; Executive Program, EMI, Stockholm; Brand Strategy RMI-Berghs School of Commerce, Stockholm. Work experience: Director of Marketing, VisitSweden AB; Director of Global Marketing Communications, Volvo Cars Corp; Senior Director Marketing, The Absolut Company; Brand Manager SAS and Product Manager, SAS Flight Shop, Scandinavian Airlines; Service Manager, Vingresor AB. Board duties: Svensk Destinationsutveckling AB and Arlanda Schiphol Development Company AB (Chair). Peder Grunditz Director of Regional Airports since April 2010 Born: 1963 Education: Executive MBA, M-gruppen. Work experience: LFV since 2002, including Airport Director, Visby Airport; interim Head of Division, Director of Passenger Services, Malmö Aviation; Director of Ground Operations, Braathens Sverige; Head of Traffic, Transwede Airways. Board duties: None. 104 | Swedavia 2012 Executive management CharlottA Hyldal HR Director since September 2010 Born: 1970 Education: Behavioural science and criminology, Stockholm University. Work experience: Various HR positions including HR partner and Head of HR for smaller companies in the Ericsson Group; Nordic HR Partner IBM; HR Director, Apoteket AB; HR Director, Telenor Sverige AB. Board duties: None. Anders Lennerman Director of Security since October 2010 Born: 1953 Education: Swedish National Police Academy; Criminology, Stockholm University. Work experience: Head of Security, Stockholm Arlanda Airport; Management consultant, Mercuri Urval International, various positions with the Swedish Security Service, particularly in counterespionage; the Swedish Police in Stockholm County. Board duties: mp3Consulting AB; Chair of ACI Europe Aviation Security Committee. Charlotte Ljunggren Airport Director, Göteborg Landvetter Airport since August 2012 Born: 1967 Education: Controls & Law, IHM Business School, Gothenburg. Work experience: Route Director and Onboard Manager, Stena Line Scandinavia AB; Route Director, SeaCat AB; Finance & HR Manager, Sea Containers LTD, various positions at B&B Fondkommission AB. Board duties: Göteborg & Co and Thomas Concrete Group AB. Linda Sjödin Chief Communication Officer since January 2012 Born: 1976 Education: Communication Executives Program, Stockholm School of Economics; Masters of Media in IT, Stockholm; BS in Media and Communication, University of Gävle; political science and sociology, Örebro University. Work experience: Head of Communication Services at Vattenfall; various positions in the SAS Group, including Head of Information, SAS Sverige AB; journalist on the news and sports desks, TV4. Board duties: Svenskt Flyg Intresseaktiebolag. olle sundin Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Airport since January 2012 Born: 1951 Education: Natural sciences, upper secondary school; air traffic control training, university studies. Work experience: Airport Director, Göteborg Landvetter Airport; Division Head, Airport Group (LFV), Chief Operating Officer Stockholm Arlanda Airport (LFV); Head of Air Traffic Management, Stockholm Arlanda (LFV); Head of HR, Air Traffic Management, Stockholm Arlanda (LFV). Board duties: Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB (Chair), Bromma Ulvsunda Företagarförening, Svenskt Flyg (deputy). Peter Weinhandl Airport Director, Malmö Airport since September 2009 Born: 1957 Education: 3-year economics program, public administration; Executive administration program for Hotels & Restaurants, IFL Executive Education; General Managers Program, Cornell University, US. Work experience: CEO, Vildmarkshotellet Kolmården; CEO, Ekerum Golf & Resort; Hotel Director, Frimurarehotellet Linköping; Hotel Director, Umeå Plaza; Hotel Director, Ystads Saltsjöbad. Board duties: Weinhandl & Weinhandl AB, Stångs Magasin AB and Tourism in Skåne AB. Kjell-Åke Westin Airport Director, Stockholm Arlanda Airport since September 2011 Born: 1957 Education: Swedish Air Force, FTS; War College F20. Work experience: Swedish Air Force; SAS Flight Academy; CEO, Skyways Express AB; CEO, Direktflyg AB; CEO, Örebro Airport AB; Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Airport. Board duties: Airport City Stockholm AB (deputy), Arlanda Schiphol Development Company AB and Destination Sigtuna AB. Swedavia 2012 | 105 GRI-index Cross-reference table Swedavia’s Sustainability Report for 2012 is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) guidelines for sustainability reporting, G3. The indicators that Swedavia has chosen to report in 2012 and where the information can be found are shown in the crossreference table: Swedavia’s Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2012 as well as a separate Statement of Results. The Sustainability Report applies GRI’s C+ level and was examined by Ernst & Young AB. Reported Reported in part 1. Strategy and analysis Scope G3 information Description Page of report Comment 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker about the relevance of 6–7 sustainability to the organisation and its strategy. 2. Organisational profile Scope G3 information Description Page of report Comment 2.1 Name of the organisation. 61 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services. 16–18 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions,operating 61, 67, 78–79 companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. 61 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and the names of countries 4 with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 4, 61 2.7 Markets served. 4 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. 3–4 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or 44, 61, 78–79 ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 27, 31, 33 3. Information about the report Scope G3 information Description Page of report Comment 3.1 Reporting period for the information provided. RR2, RR6–8 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. RR2 106 | Swedavia 2012 GRI-index Scope G3 information Description Page of report Comment 3.3 Reporting cycle. RR2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content. 111 3.5 Processes for defining report content. 35 3.6 Boundary of the report. 2, RR6-8 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 2 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 61–65, RR6-8 outsourced operations and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided RR6-8 Explanation given for indicators in earlier reports and the reasons for such re-statements. where a change has occurred. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, RR6–8 boundary or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 106–108 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance 106 for the report. 4. Governance, commitments and engagement Scope G3 information Description Page of report Comment 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under 95–100 the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an 96–97 executive officer. 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number 96 and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations 37, 96 The Swedish State owns or direction to the highest governance body. all ­shares in the company. Employees are represented by employee representatives in the company’s Board of Directors. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. 35 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 35 5. Performance indicators: economic impact Scope of Indicator Description Page report Comment EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, 24, RR9 operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained profit and payments to capital providers and governments. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 22–24, RR9 provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Swedavia 2012 | 107 GRI-index Environmental impact Scope IIndicator Description Page of report Comment EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. RR12 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source. RR12 Quantity of primary fuel and primary energy used to produce converted energy that Swedavia purchases is not reported. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 27, RR10 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. RR12 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. RR12 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 26–27, RR11 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 28, RR13 Not all recipients or parameters reported. EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other RR14 Emissions from all transport goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations and transporting or emissions from employee members of the workforce, including employee business travel. business travel not reported. AO7 Number and percentage change of people residing in areas affected by noise. 28, RR14 Social impact Labour practices and decent work Scope Indicator Description Page of report Comment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region. 3, 39, 69, RR15 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and 38, RR16 the number of work-related fatalities by region. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee 39, 69-70, Minority groups not reported. category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other RR15 indicators of diversity. Human rights Scope Indicator Description Page of report Comment HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. RR16 Product responsibility Scope Indicator Description Page of report Comment PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are 40, RR17 Health aspects and life cycle assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services perspective not reported. categories subject to such procedures. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring 12, 19, 35, customer satisfaction. RR17 108 | Swedavia 2012 UN Global Compact Cross-reference table: UN Global Compact Beginning in 2012, Swedavia supports the United Nations Global Compact and its ten principles. Swedavia’s Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2012 also includes Swedavia’s first Communication on Progress (COP), which is an annual update on how the Group complies with the ten principles. The table shows where each Global Compact principle can be found in Swedavia’s Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2012. UN Global Compact: Ten principles Page/Comment Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in the spheres they can influence 39 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 39 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 39 4. Businesses should work to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 39 5. Businesses should work to abolish child labour Swedavia complies with the regulations in effect in laws and agreements for the protection of underage workers in the labour market. Children under the age of 15 are not employed at Swedavia. 6. Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 39 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 26–31 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 26–31 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 26–31 Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 39 Swedavia 2012 | 109 Definitions Definitions ANL Operating margin Aircraft noise level, a weighted equivalent noise level in which day-time and nightOperating profit as a percentage of net revenue. time noise events are assigned different weights in the calculation. Passenger ASQ A passenger is defined as a statistical event, in which a person has departed from Airport Survey Quality, a passenger survey administered by ACI in which some or arrived at an airport by air. A traveller is defined as an individual who departs 150 airports around the world take part. from or arrives at an airport. Example: An individual flies from Luleå via Stockholm to Malmö. This journey is carried out by one (1) traveller, but is equivalent to four Aviation Business (4) passengers: one departing passenger at Luleå Airport, one arriving passenger Infrastructure services aimed at airlines and ground handling companies, such as at Stockholm Arlanda Airport, one departing passenger at Stockholm Arlanda take-off and landing services and security screening. Airport and one arriving passenger at Malmö Airport. Cabin factor Profit for the period Cabin factor is a measure of the aircraft’s utilisation rate and is calculated by Profit after tax. dividing the number of passengers by the number of aircraft seats available. Regional airports Capital employed Swedavia’s regional airports consist of Kiruna Airport, Luleå Airport, Ronneby Total assets minus non-interest-bearing liabilities (including deferred tax liability). Airport, Umeå Airport, Visby Airport and Åre Östersund Airport. Commercial Services Return on capital employed Services connected to the airports such as rental of premises for commercial Operating profit plus financial income on the basis of a rolling 12-month period as activities, offices, hotels, storage and logistics as well as leaseholds, parking a percentage of capital employed. operations and rental of advertising space. Return on equity Comparative data Profit for the period on the basis of a rolling 12-month period as a percentage of In contexts where Swedavia is mentioned before the Group was formed on April the closing balance for equity. 1, 2010, refers to airport operations under LFV. This has been done to obtain comparative data. SCI Satisfied customer index. Earnings per share Profit after tax divided by the average number of shares. Swedavia Real Estate Owns, develops and administers properties and exploitable land at and in the Equity/assets ratio vicinity of Swedavia’s airports. Adjusted equity as a percentage of total assets on the balance sheet date. Traveller GRI See definition of “Passenger”. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sets guidelines for what a sustainability report should include and how it should be prepared as well as what indicators should TSFS be reported. The Swedish Transport Agency’s regulations. IFRS UN Global Compact Beginning January 1, 2012, Swedavia prepares its financial reports in conformity The UN Global Compact consists of ten principles based on the UN’s Universal with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s conventions International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). Comparative years have been on human rights in the world of work, the Rio Declaration and the UN’s Convention restated to comply with IFRS. against Corruption. Under the UN Global Compact, businesses are encouraged to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core ISO 14001 values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and antiISO 14000 is an umbrella term for the internationally accepted standards for corruption. environmental management. National basic infrastructure Sweden’s national basic infrastructure consists of the ten airports the Government has determined Swedavia should own. The decision is aimed at securing longterm operations under the auspices of the State and a long-term sustainable air transport system that guarantees basic inter-regional access throughout the country. 110 | Swedavia 2012 Contact information Swedavia AB 190 45 Stockholm-Arlanda Sweden Visiting address: Tornvägen 1 Tel +46 10 109 00 00 Fax: +46 10 109 05 00 E-mail: info@swedavia.se Coordinates: 59°39’14.06”N 17°56’21.51”O www.swedavia.com Contact person Henrik Kelfve, Head of Public Communication, tel +46 (0)10 109 00 65 henrik.kelfve@swedavia.se Text and production: Swedavia Photos: Peter Phillips, Jörgen Hildebrant, Peter Knutsson, Clarion Hotel, Swedavia Swedavia AB 190 45 Stockholm-Arlanda Sweden
