Outstanding customer experience, driving revenue and brand loyalty Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Contents 2012 in brief 3 UN Global Compact principles are primarily Transcom at a glance 4 addressed on the following pages, but also in other parts throughout the Annual Report. Comments from the CEO 7 Several other issues of importance, such as Markets and trends 10 supply chain management, are also described in Vision, mission and values 11 our Code of Business Conduct, Supplier Code of Conduct and on our website, www.transcom.com. Business model 12 Regional overview 14 HUMAN RIGHTS Regions 16 Principle 1: pages 20, 21 Principle 2: pages 20, 21 Corporate responsibility 19 Human resources 23 LABOR The Transcom share and shareholders 26 Principle 3: pages 23, 24, 25 Principle 4: page 21 Directors’ report 27 Principle 5: page 21 Corporate governance 32 Principle 6: pages 23, 24, 25 Executive management 38 ENVIRONMENT Board of directors 40 Principle 7: page 21 5-year summary 42 Principle 8: page 21 Consolidated income statement 43 Principle 9: page 21 Consolidated statement of ANTI-CORRUPTION comprehensive income 44 Principle 10: pages 20, 23 Consolidated statement of financial position 45 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 47 Consolidated statement of cash flows 48 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 49 For more information about Independent auditor’s report 75 Transcom, see www.transcom.com Information for our shareholders 76 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 2012 in brief Highlights of 2012 Key events  Expansion of operations in the Philippines. Transcom significantly expanded operations in the Philippines, almost doubling our workforce in the country during the year, to over 8,000 employees at the end of 2012. This growth was driven both by client demands for increased offshore delivery, and by the start-up of business with new local clients in the Asia-Pacific region.  Credit Management Services (CMS). A separate business unit for Transcom’s operations in Credit Management Services (CMS) was established. The Board of Directors also initiated a review of strategic alternatives for the CMS business unit, a spin-off to Transcom’s shareholders being the main option considered.  Safeguard proceedings opened for Transcom’s French subsidiary. At the end of the year, safeguard proceedings were opened for Transcom’s French subsidiary, Transcom WorldWide (France) S.A.S. Transcom Worldwide S.A. continued to support this subsidiary until February 28, 2013. With effect from March 22, 2013, Transcom WorldWide (France) S.A.S. was placed in liquidation proceedings by the Commercial Court of Versailles, and a liquidator was appointed.  Organizational changes. Transcom’s corporate organization was streamlined, and a Group management office was established in Stockholm, Sweden. Some key Group functions have been consolidated to this location in order to increase management efficiency and strengthen control.  Updated brand positioning. In December 2012, Transcom launched its updated brand positioning, emphasizing our role in creating outstanding customer experiences, driving revenue and brand loyalty for our clients. Net revenue 2012 € 605.6 million Net revenue Gross profit and EBIT Gross profit and EBIT As reported Underlying performance € million € million € million Q Q Gross profit EBIT Q Q Gross profit EBIT 800 150 150 120 120 600 90 90 400 60 60 30 200 30 0 0 -30 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 3 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Transcom at a glance Outstanding customer experience, driving revenue and brand loyalty Transcom is a global In Europe, Transcom has one of the largest customer management footprints in the industry and is also one of the larger cuscustomer experience tomer care outsourcing operators serving North America. During specialist, providing 2012, Asia-Pacific became a home market in its own right, and customer care, sales, was also developed into a near-shore location following the win of several contracts with local clients in the Asia-Pacific region. technical support and credit management We are 30,000 people, delivering services in 33 languages to over 400 international brands in various industry verticals. Whether services through our onshore, offshore or near shore, Transcom’s people are focused on network of 70 contact delivering outstanding customer experiences, helping our clients drive satisfaction, brand loyalty and additional sales. centers and workat-home agents across 28 countries on five continents. Facts  Transcom is a global customer experience specialist, providing outsourced customer and credit management services  Established in 1995 and listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm since 2001  €605.6 million revenue in 2012  30,000 people  400+ clients in various industry sectors  70 onshore, near shore and off-shore contact centers across 28 countries  Delivering services in 33 languages 4 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Transcom at a glance Transcom’s global network 28 countries across five continents, making 1,000,000 customer contacts in 33 languages for over 400 clients. Every day. Services and Each of our European Home markets solutions and North American Australia, Austria, Belgium, ‘home’ markets is Canada, Croatia, Czech Transcom’s service portfolio is designed to Republic, Denmark, France, enable the creation of outstanding cussupported by a range Germany, Italy, Luxemtomer experiences, while also reducing cost of near and offshore bourg, Netherlands, and helping to drive growth for our clients. locations. Norway, Poland, Portugal, Our suite of services includes customer Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, care, sales, technical support and credit Switzerland, UK, US management services, delivered through our extensive network of contact centers and work-at-home agents. Our customer experience specialists engage with our Nearshore Offshore clients’ customers in multiple channels, Canada, Croatia, Czech Chile*, Peru*, the including phone, e-mail, chat and in social Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Philippines*, Tunisia media communities. Latvia, Lithuania Please read more about Transcom’s service portfolio on page 6. *Also developing into home markets. 5 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Service portfolio Customer experience specialists Transcom’s service portfolio is designed to enable the creation of outstanding customer experiences, while also reducing cost and helping to drive growth for our clients. CUSTOMER SERVICE TECHNICAL SUPPORT Customer experience specialists Tiered support models, from the trained to support best-in-class simplest questions to more complex product, service and brand experisupport scenarios. ences for our clients’ customers. CUSTOMER RETENTION CUSTOMER ACQUISITION Preventing defection and maximizing Acquiring new customers costthe lifetime of a customer. efficiently, and building strong customer relationships as a basis for future interactions. CROSSAND UPSELLING CREDIT MANAGEMENT Building relationships and identifying SERVICES (CMS) customer needs during any type of Early collections, Contingent interaction, and taking appropriate collections and Legal collections. action to satisfy the customer’s need. 6 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Comments from the CEO Positive progress on turnaround objectives During 2012, we saw a positive trend in the operational areas that are key to our success: higher capacity utilization, increased use of offshore delivery, acquisition of new clients, improved efficiency, and lower staff attrition. As a result, our financial performance improved, both in terms of top-line growth and underlying profitability. In 2013, we will continue to focus on resolving some important challenges, outlined below, in order to create a stable platform from which to reach our vision of being recognized as a global leader in customer experience. A TURNAROUND YEAR IN WHICH WE MADE ENCOURAGING STRIDES IN KEY AREAS In last year’s annual report, I highlighted three key operational dimensions as being central to a successful performance turnaround for Transcom: increased seat capacity utilization, a higher proportion of revenue generated offshore, and the broadening of our client base. Our activities during 2012 have been acutely focused on delivering against these important objectives, and I am very happy to report that we see a positive trend on all measures. First, Transcom’s seat capacity utilization improved by 9 percentage points, from 76 percent in 2011 to 85 percent in 2012. This improvement was first and foremost achieved through significant top-line growth, but also by necessary capacity adjustments in some Transcom’s primary geographical areas. goals are to improve Second, we increased the proportion of revenue that financial performance, we generate offshore by four percentage points, to 20 restore the company to percent. This is a result of the rapid expansion of our a position of strength operations in the Philippines during the latter part of 2012. We expect that our offshore delivery centers will and enhance shareholder continue to increase their share of Transcom’s total value. We will achieve our revenue in 2013. objectives through a strong Lastly, we added several new clients in various indusfocus on operational exceltry sectors during the year, bringing the total number of Transcom clients to over 400 globally. I am parlence, capacity utilization and ticularly pleased with the new client relationships we business development.” have developed in the Asia-Pacific region during the 7 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Comments from the CEO year, both in the Philippines and in Australia. This will over management of the French subsidiary on that allow us to further diversify our client portfolio, expand day. As a consequence, Transcom WorldWide (France) in new fast-growing markets, and increase our seat S.A.S. will be excluded from consolidation in Transcom capacity utilization. WorldWide S.A.’s Group accounts as of March 1, 2013. In addition to these three key performance areas, we While we improved our seat capacity utilization overall closely track our performance in terms of efficiency in 2012, performance is unsatisfactory in some areas (billable hours over worked hours) and staff attrition. of our business. During the year, we experienced a sigWhile we do not disclose data on these two measures nificant shift in the demand from our North American externally, the clear positive trend we saw for these clients, away from onshore delivery in North America indicators during 2012 is encouraging. towards a greater proportion of offshore delivery. In order to address the resulting overcapacity onshore, Our 2012 financial results are also testimony to the a number of our contact centers in North America strides we made over the past year in improving opwere closed during the year. Despite these actions, erational performance. Revenue in 2012 amounted to our capacity utilization in North America is still below €605.6 million, an increase by 9.3 percent compared our target. As a result, we are considering further to 2011. Most of this growth was generated organirestructuring activities in order to increase operational cally, while currency effects contributed 2.7 percentage efficiency in North America. points. Our profitability also improved. Transcom’s underlying EBITA increased to €12.8 million, repreWe are also working hard to improve operational senting an increase of 88 percent compared to last performance in our North region. The performance year (€6.8 million). issues in this region are delimited to a narrow number of specific client projects in Norway and Sweden, and FOCUS ON RESOLVING IMPORTANT I am confident that the identified actions will lead to a CHALLENGES IN 2013 performance uplift during 2013. While I am pleased with the progress we made during 2012, a number of important shortand mediumThe integrated global nature of our operations involves term challenges remain. The issues outlined below a significant level of intra-group transactions which need to be successfully addressed in order to achieve can give rise to complexity and delays in agreeing a meaningful financial performance improvement Transcom’s tax position with relevant authorities. We and create a stable platform from which to reach our occasionally face tax audits which, in some cases, long-term goal of being recognized as a global leader result in disputes with tax authorities. Successfully in customer experience. resolving and reaching clarity on outstanding tax claims is an important priority. It is essential that we stop the considerable losses generated over the past several years in our French OUTSTANDING CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE, subsidiary, Transcom WorldWide (France) S.A.S. This DRIVING REVENUE AND BRAND LOYALTY subsidiary has executed several restructuring proIn December 2012, we launched an updated brand grams, and its management has investigated numerpositioning for Transcom, emphasizing our role in ous different possibilities to turn the loss-making creating outstanding customer experiences, driving French operations around. A possible disposal of revenue and brand loyalty for our clients. Our vision is French operations has also been explored. Unfortuto be recognized as a global leader in customer expenately, these efforts have not been successful. In 2012, rience. Transcom’s three core values – Passion, ExcelTranscom WorldWide (France) S.A.S. generated an lence and Innovation – guide our strategy, operations operating loss amounting to €5.4 million, with a €12.5 and interactions with clients, colleagues and partners. million negative cash flow impact. We have come to Passion: We are relationship-, networkand servicea point where Transcom WorldWide S.A. cannot condriven; we see our clients’ customer challenges as our tinue supporting the loss-making French subsidiary. own, and always go that extra mile to deliver service; Therefore, we stopped financing the French company’s we are passionate about improving customer experioperations on March 1, 2013. Effective March 22, 2013, ence – whenever and wherever possible. Excellence: Transcom WorldWide (France) S.A.S., was placed in We have high ambitions – going for leadership in cusliquidation proceedings by the Commercial Court of tomer experience; we focus on quality in everything Versailles, and a liquidator appointed by the Court took we do; we incorporate industry and company best 8 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Comments from the CEO “Our vision is to be recognized as a global leader in customer experience. Transcom’s three core values – Passion, Excellence and Innovation – guide our strategy, operations and interactions with clients, colleagues and partners .” practices to continuously improve the way we deliver present how we are adhering to the ten principles of customer experience. Innovation: we are progressive the UN Global Compact in our operations. and move quickly to anticipate new customer trends and needs; we are open-minded, exploring new ways During 2012, we completed a materiality analysis in to support and deliver improved customer experience; order to identify and prioritize sustainability issues, as and we greet new ways of working with openness and well as assess risks and opportunities. In this context, enthusiasm. we performed dialogues with stakeholder groups during the year and took responses received into considerLiving these values in our day-to-day activities will be ation. Based on the results of this process, we have essential as we focus on achieving our mediumand chosen and applied relevant indicators to measure and long-term objectives: growing revenue at least in line report on our progress within the prioritized areas of with overall market growth in selected markets, imimportance to us. This is a process that will continue in proving profitability and decreasing earnings volatility, 2013 to further ensure inclusiveness and accountability strengthening operational efficiency, optimizing our from the key partakers in our value chain. geographic delivery mix, and broadening our client portfolio. The most interesting growth opportunities Finally, I would like to confirm Transcom’s continued we see in the years ahead are in the Asia-Pacific refull support of the ten principles of the UN Global gion, Latin America, North Europe and Central Europe. Compact with respect to human rights, labor rights, In Asia-Pacific, we will continue expanding with local environmental care and anti-corruption work. We are clients in parallel with developing our offshore delivery whole-heartedly committed to ensuring that the UN capabilities. In Latin America, we aim to develop new Global Compact and its principles are an integral part business in fast-growing domestic markets as well of our corporate strategy, business culture and day-toas in Spanish-speaking markets in the United States. day operations. There are also attractive growth opportunities in North Europe, and in further developing our near-shore Let me close by thanking all our employees for your capabilities in Central Europe. hard work during 2012. Your dedication and commitment were central to our achievements in 2012 and OUR SUSTAINABILITY WORK AND will be equally important in the years to come. UN GLOBAL COMPACT Sustainability issues are rising in importance every day, both within our company and externally among our stakeholders. As part of our on-going pledge to deliver an outstanding customer experience in a global sustainable society, Transcom has signed the UN Global Compact. In this integrated Communication on Johan Eriksson Progress and Annual Report for 2012, I am pleased to President and CEO of Transcom 9 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Markets and trends Geographical diversification and evolving business models Market growth will primarily be CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE MOVES TO THE FOREFRONT driven by domestic expansion in While increased cost efficiency is clearly an important Asia-Pacific and Latin America. driver of companies’ outsourcing decisions, viewing and evaluating customer management operations as a Business models are evolving cost center is becoming progressively less meaningful. due to macroeconomic factors, The fact is that, to many companies, the quality of their consumer expectations and customer care operations is fundamental to their ability to execute their service-based strategies to increase technological changes. loyalty, retention and customer sales. Declining rates of economic growth in many markets, not least in Europe and North America, have only served to accelerate this trend. As a result, outsourcing companies need to adapt their business models as contract structures and incentive schemes are evolving to put greater emphasis on DIVERGENT PATTERNS OF INDUSTRY GROWTH customer loyalty and revenue generation. WILL CHANGE COMPETITIVE DYNAMICS Based on external research by Gartner and Ovum, At the same time, customer satisfaction and loyalty is Transcom expects the global outsourced customer an increasingly moving target as consumer product contact center market to grow at an average annual complexity is rising while technologically empowered rate of approximately five percent in the next few customers expect engagement on their terms using years. However, looking behind this aggregate number, multiple voice and non-voice channels. It is critical for we see an increasingly divergent pattern of growth customer service organizations to be able to efficiently across different regions. While we do expect to see deploy flexible technology solutions that support continued expansion in mature western markets, the new channels. Customers frequently change the way bulk of the global industry increase will come as a they interact with the same company, and therefore result of higher demand from companies based in the expect to be able to move effortlessly across voice Asia-Pacific region and in Latin America. and non-voice channels as they require without having to repeat themselves. It is clear that the delivery of a This trend will influence the evolution of the industry consistent customer experience will increasingly dein the years to come as vendors move to capitalize pend on achieving and maintaining seamless integraon opportunities in these emerging growth markets, tion across a plethora of service channels and devices. in order to drive growth and diversify their client However, while technology is a key factor in the future portfolios. Historically, the presence of global contact evolution of the industry, customer experience ulticenter outsourcers in these markets has been founded mately comes down to people interacting with people. primarily on the operation of offshore delivery centers To succeed, companies need to train and empower for overseas clients. Traditional offshore locations are their agents to deliver excellent customer experience. now also developing into delivery centers for domestic The ability to provide an environment that brings toclients. These rapidly growing home markets are likely gether solutions, process changes and technology with to change competitive dynamics, as global and local people will be a fundamental competitive differentiator outsourcing companies compete for opportunities. in the years ahead. 10 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Vision, mission and values A global Transcom’s core values: customer PASSION  We are relationship-, networkand service-driven  We see our clients’ customer challenges as our own, experience and always go that extra mile to deliver service  We are passionate about improving customer experience – whenever and wherever possible specialist EXCELLENCE  We have high ambitions – going for leadership in customer experience  We focus on quality in everything we do  We incorporate industry and company best practices to continuously improve the way we deliver Brand promise: INNOVATION Outstanding customer  We are progressive and move quickly to anticipate experience, driving revenue new customer trends and needs  We are open-minded, exploring new ways to and brand loyalty support and deliver improved customer experience  We greet new ways of working with openness and enthusiasm Vision Recognized as a global leader in customer experience. Mission Transcom enables companies to enhance their business performance by improving the experience of their customers. We accomplish this through:  Talented, experienced and committed people, who deliver outstanding customer experience across a multitude of channels,  Innovative technology for capturing, processing and analyzing customer intelligence,  Continuously improved processes, working methods and systems, for serving customers and advising clients,  Deep understanding of customer trends, needs and behavior. 11 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business model The value makes the difference. Our agents are uniquely focused on making it as easy and enjoyable as possible for our clients’ customers to do business with them. They are we deliver also trained to recognize and act on revenue generation opportunities in customer interactions, based on an understanding of customers’ potential needs. We know that we are only one of many factors that influence customers’ perceptions of their interactions with our client companies. But we see examples every Transcom’s operations add day, in each and every one of our contact centers, that the quality of customer service and support is a major value to our clients’ businesses influence on customer experience. To many of our by supporting the creation of clients, the quality of their customer care operations outstanding customer expeis indeed fundamental to their ability to execute their service-based strategies to increase loyalty, retention riences, while reducing cost and and customer sales. helping to drive growth. How we do it We do this directly, by delivering exceptional multiThe management model serves as the basic foundachannel customer service and support in a cost-effection for how all our units deliver value. Continuous tive way. But we also realize that we are part of a larger improvement is embedded through our daily work ecosystem of customer touch points, with many comwith clients. ponents that need to work together to enhance customers’ overall experience of doing business with our clients. Transcom’s management model encapsulates a set Therefore, our goal is always to make sure that our of common value creation elements that we apply to activities benefit other parts of our clients’ businesses. most situations. The use of the model is tailored to For example, our analytics capabilities can generate each specific case, and the methods we employ are insights that ultimately contribute to the creation of a constantly sharpened and refined in our day-to-day differentiated customer experience, setting our clients work with clients. apart in an increasingly competitive marketplace. The fundamental objective is to cost-effectively drive While we rely on advanced technology and efficient, improved customer experience, brand loyalty and adaptable processes to deliver our services on a additional sales. Along the way, we also add insights global scale, it is truly the quality of our workforce that and value to our clients’ business operations. Business model Revenue growth Improve customer experience Baseline Apply our Apply Maximize Manage Optimize operational operating industry segmented workforce sourcing mix performance environment experience channel options effectiveness and business results Improve employee experience Cost decrease 12 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Business model Together with our clients, Transcom adds value by:  APPLYING OUR INDUSTRY EXPERIENCE AND BEST PRACTICE METHODS Through our work with clients, we develop and maintain deep know-how in a wide range of industries, including telecommunications, financial services, media & communication, consumer electronics, and travel & transportation. This knowledge is combined with, and augmented by, each client’s expertise in order to bring the right solutions to every project.  DEFINING THE RIGHT CHANNEL STRATEGY This has become even more critical as the popularity of social media has exploded in recent years. Companies have had to invest, and consistently engage with customers, in an ever-growing number of channels. Transcom helps clients who want to provide a consistent, customized customer experience that can move seamlessly across voice and non-voice channels as the customer requires.  MAXIMIZING WORKFORCE EFFECTIVENESS Effective workforce management is fundamental to successfully operating a contact center, not least in order to manage the volatility inherent in customer care management operations. Therefore, workforce optimization is at the very core of Transcom’s client proposition. Our approach to recruitment, induction, performance management and organizational culture adaptation has been refined over many years across several hundred deployments in different sectors and geographies.  MANAGING THE SOURCING MIX Transcom’s global delivery network across five continents is one of the most extensive in the industry. We deliver services from onshore, near shore as well as from offshore contact centers. We also have an extensive network of home agents, primarily in North America and Scandinavia. Our wide geographic presence means that we can offer our clients flexibility with regards to sourcing options and devise solutions that are well-adapted to client needs.  OPTIMIZING OPERATIONS AND INFRASTRUCTURE We are relentlessly working to drive operational efficiency in all areas, while at the same time improving customer experience. We are continuously investing in processes and tools that help our agents deliver better services with lower risk, higher consistency and greater efficiency. 13 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Regional overview Extensive territorial reach. Cost-competitive location choices. As a global company with operations in 28 countries, employing 30,000 people, Transcom can provide services wherever our clients have customers. Our global delivery network with 70 sites across five continents is one of the most extensive in our industry. We deliver services from onshore, near shore as well as from offshore contact centers. Our wide geographic presence means that we can offer our clients flexibility with regards to sourcing options and devise solutions that are welladapted to clients’ needs. Transcom’s global business is managed within six units. IBERIA REGION NORTH REGION NORTH AMERICA & ASIA PACIFIC Iberia consists of Spain and Portugal as well The North Region consists of Sweden, The region consists of Australia, Canada, as our offshore locations in Chile and Peru, Norway, Denmark, Latvia, Lithuania and the Philippines, the United Kingdom and serving the Spanish-speaking markets. Estonia. the United States of America. Highlights 2012 Highlights 2012 Highlights 2012 k0?KN SNMD?BBGRGML?JTMJSKCQUGRFMLC k1GƓLGƤA?LRLCUAMLRP?ARUGRFƓJM@?J k!MLRGLSCBQFGDRGLRFCBCJGTCPWMDTMJSKCQ of our largest clients in the telecommuniconsumer electronics client, based on from onshore North America to offshore cations sector, both in Spain and in Chile agents working from home, delivering Asia k#VN?LBCBMNCP?RGMLQUGRFƤL?LAG?J services in all Scandinavian languages k1GƓLGƤA?LRCVN?LQGMLMDMNCP?RGMLQGLRFC services clients in Spain k1GƓLGƤA?LRƓPMURFMDRFCGLRCPNPCR?RGML Philippines, both for offshore delivery and k'LTCQRKCLRQGLCVN?LQGMLMDMNCP?RGMLQGL business in Sweden for new local clients in the Philippines and Spain and Peru k'LTCQRKCLRQGLQRPCLƓRFCLGLƓQ?JCQ Australia organization k$GTCQGRCQUCPCAJMQCBGL,MPRFKCPGA?RM address overcapacity onshore Focus 2013 Focus 2013 Focus 2013 k#VN?LB?LBBGTCPQGDWMSPAJGCLR@?QC k CTCJMN?LB@PM?BCLRFCAJGCLR@?QC k!MLRGLSCBP?KN SNMDTMJSKCQMÊQFMPC  k!MLRGLSCRMBPGTCƓPMURFGLMSPMÊQFMPC k'KNPMTCMNCP?RGML?JNCPDMPK?LAC@W sustaining high quality levels sites addressing identified issues delimited k0CTGCUMLQFMPCDMMRNPGLR k!MLRGLSMSQGKNPMTCKCLRMDMSP to a narrow number of specific client k1?JCQDSLLCJ@SGJB SN?LBBC?JAJMQSPC operations projects in Norway and Sweden. Key figures* Key figures* Key figures* 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Revenue, € million 119.4 108.9 Revenue, € million 162.4 140.5 Revenue, € million 112.1 98.3 Gross profit, € million 24.3 21.3 Gross profit, € million 24.4 24.6 Gross profit, € million 27.9 18.8 Gross margin, % 20.3% 19.6% Gross margin, % 15.0% 17.5% Gross margin, % 24.9% 19.1% EBITA, € million 5.4 5.1 EBITA, € million 5.0 8.3 EBITA, € million 0.7 –3.4 EBITA margin, % 4.5% 4.7% EBITA margin, % 3.1% 5.9% EBITA margin, % 0.6% –3.5% Share of total revenue Share of total revenue Share of total revenue 19% 28% 20% * Underlying performance, excluding restructuring and other non-recurring costs 14 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Regional overview “Our wide geographic presence means that we can offer our clients flexibility with regards to sourcing options and devise solutions that are well-adapted to clients’ needs. ” CENTRAL EUROPE REGION SOUTH REGION CREDIT MANAGEMENT SERVICES This region consists of Austria, Belgium, In 2012, the South region consisted of CMS consists of credit management Croatia, Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, France, Italy as well as our sites in Tunisia, operations in Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Poland, serving both the French and Italian markets. Germany, Austria, the United Kingdom, Romania, Serbia, Slovakia, and Switzerland. In March 2013, the French subsidiary was Poland, and the Czech Republic. placed in liquidation proceedings by the Commercial Court of Versailles. Highlights 2012 Highlights 2012 Highlights 2012 k1GƓLGƤA?LRLCUAMLRP?ARUGRFƓJM@?J k1R?PRCBSNBCJGTCPWMD$PCLAF ?LB'R?JG?L k'LTCQRKCLRQGLQ?JCQPCQMSPACQGL consumer electronics client in the language services from our offshore Germany and Austria to drive new sales Netherlands centers in Tunis for a global consumer k1SAACQQDSJNCPDMPK?LACGKNPMTCKCLR k0CLCƓMRG?RCBJ?@MP?ƓPCCKCLRGL electronics client program executed in the United Kingdom Germany, lowering costs and increasing k.MQGRGTCTMJSKCRPCLBGL'R?JW@MRFDPMK k2P?LQAMKQ M?PBMD GPCARMPQGLGRG?RCB?L flexibility new and installed base clients evaluation of strategic alternatives for the k'LAPC?QCBTMJSKCQUGRFGLQR?JJCBAJGCLR k4ưJGXWQGRCGL$P?LACAJMQCB CMS business, a spin-off to Transcom’s base, primarily in the Netherlands, Poland k2P?LQAMKQ$PCLAFQS@QGBG?PWCLRCPCBGLRM shareholders being the main alternative and Hungary safeguard proceedings at the end of 2012 considered Focus 2013 Focus 2013 Focus 2013 k!MLRGLSCMNRGKGXGLƓMNCP?RGML?JCÈAGCLAW k PM?BCLAJGCLR@?QC k!MKNJCRCBCKCPƓCPMDRFC!+1@SQGLCQQ and increase capacity utilization k!MLRGLSCRMBPGTCMNCP?RGML?JCÈAGCLAW unit k1RMNRFCAMLQGBCP?@JCJMQQCQƓCLCP?RCB over the past several years in our French subsidiary Key figures* Key figures* Key figures* 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Revenue, € million 57.8 55.6 Revenue, € million 98.5 92.6 Revenue, € million 55.3 58.1 Gross profit, € million 11.5 11.2 Gross profit, € million 11.2 6.2 Gross profit, € million 13.6 16.7 Gross margin, % 19.9% 20.1% Gross margin, % 11.3% 6.7% Gross margin, % 24.6% 28.8% EBITA, € million 0.1 –0.1 EBITA, € million –2.4 –8.2 EBITA, € million 4.0 5.0 EBITA margin, % 0.2% –0.1% EBITA margin, % –2.5% –8.8% EBITA margin, % 7.2% 8.7% Share of total revenue Share of total revenue Share of total revenue 10% 15% 8% * Underlying performance, excluding restructuring and other non-recurring costs 15 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Regions Iberia region North Region TRANSCOM’S POSITION AND OPERATIONS TRANSCOM’S POSITION AND OPERATIONS IN THE REGION IN THE REGION Transcom operates onshore contact centers in Spain and Transcom is the leading player in our industry in the North Portugal. In addition, we have offshore locations in Chile region. We operate contact centers in Sweden, Denmark, and Peru, serving Spanish-speaking markets. Transcom Norway, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. Transcom also has is the leading provider of outsourced customer managea well-established home agent concept in the region, ment services to the Spanish banking sector. We also creating increased scheduling flexibility and efficiency. serve clients in a variety of other sectors, including telecom, insurance and energy. PERFORMANCE IN 2012* The €22 million increase in revenue compared to 2011 PERFORMANCE IN 2012* was driven both by increased contact center volumes The ramp-up of additional volumes with one of our largest with installed base clients – predominantly in the teleclients in the telecommunications sector was the most com sector – as well as by the strong development in significant factor driving the increase in revenue. We also the interpretation business during the year. New client expanded operations with financial services clients in wins also contributed to the growth. Foreign exchange Spain. New contracts contributed €2.5 million in additional effects had a €5.7 million positive impact on revenue, revenue compared to 2011. relative to 2011. The gross margin improvement is mainly due to higher The 2.5 percentage point decrease in gross margin was volumes and operational improvements in Spain during mainly driven by lower operational efficiency on some the year, despite a negative impact from the appreciation of client projects, higher attrition and higher training costs the Chilean Peso, as well as by higher salary costs in Chile compared to the same period last year. following a new labor agreement. SG&A costs increased compared to 2011, mainly due to SG&A costs increased as a result of expansion investments investments to support revenue growth in Sweden, Latvia undertaken during the year in order to support increased and Estonia. volumes with existing clients. Transcom’s new contact center in Peru, which was opened in the latter part of 2011, also contributed to higher support costs. EBITA 2012* EBITA 2012* € 5.4 million * Underlying performance, excluding restructuring and other € 5.0 million * Underlying performance, excluding restructuring and other non-recurring costs non-recurring costs Revenue Share of total revenue Revenue Share of total revenue € million % € million % 120 200 119.4 100 108.9 19% 150 28% 162.4 80 140.5 60 100 40 50 20 0 0 2011 2012 2011 2012 16 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Regions North America & Asia Central Europe Region Pacific Region TRANSCOM’S POSITION AND OPERATIONS IN THE REGION TRANSCOM’S POSITION AND OPERATIONS In the Central Europe region, Transcom has operations in IN THE REGION 13 European countries. Transcom’s centers in Croatia also Transom is one of the larger customer management outserve as nearshore locations for clients in Germany and sourcing operators serving the North American market. The Italy. region also serves clients in the United Kingdom, Australia and the Philippines. We operate contact centers in Canada, PERFORMANCE IN 2012* the United States, and the Philippines. In addition, Transcom Increased volumes with existing clients – primarily in the offers a home agent concept to its clients in the region. Netherlands, Poland and Hungary – drove higher revenues. A new consumer electronics client in the Netherlands also PERFORMANCE IN 2012* contributed to the revenue increase. Full-year revenues increased by €13.8 million, the lion’s share of which is due to increased offshore volumes with our installed Gross margin was slightly lower versus last year, driven by client base in North America and the United Kingdom. New lower volumes and efficiency in Germany. Performance in business won with several new clients based in the Asia Germany improved in the latter part of the year. Start-up Pacific region also contributed to the revenue increase. costs related to new business in the Netherlands also affected margins negatively. The shift in volumes delivered from onshore contact centers in North America to our offshore locations in the EBITA improved slightly, driven by performance improvePhilippines had a positive effect on margins. Also, the ments during the fourth quarter site closures undertaken during 2011 and 2012 in North America increased efficiency. The region reported a positive EBITA for the full year, compared to a loss last year. The positive development in the Philippines was counterbalanced by unsatisfactory performance in North America. Despite restructuring actions in 2012, capacity utilization onshore in North America was still below our target. Further restructuring actions in North America are currently being considered, in order to increase operational efficiency. EBITA 2012* EBITA 2012* € 0.7 million * Underlying performance, excluding restructuring and other € 0.1 million * Underlying performance, excluding restructuring and other non-recurring costs non-recurring costs Revenue Share of total revenue Revenue Share of total revenue € million % € million % 120 60 100 112.1 50 55.6 57.8 10% 20% 98.3 80 40 60 30 40 20 20 10 0 0 2011 2012 2011 2012 17 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Regions South Region Credit Management Services TRANSCOM’S POSITION AND OPERATIONS TRANSCOM’S POSITION AND OPERATIONS IN CMS IN THE REGION Transcom has CMS operations in eight European In 2012, Transom operated onshore contact centers in Italy countries: Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Germany, Austria, the and France. Offshore sites in Tunisia and Croatia deliver United Kingdom, Poland, and the Czech Republic services into the Italian and French markets. PERFORMANCE IN 2012* PERFORMANCE IN 2012* The revenue decrease is due to lower case volumes Higher volumes with our installed client base in Italy, as and collection rates compared to last year, especially in well as from new clients, drove the revenue increase. Lower Germany, Poland and Austria. This was counterbalanced volumes in France partly offset the positive development to some extent by increased revenue in Scandinavia, both in Italy. from existing contracts and new sales. Gross margin improved significantly compared to 2011, The drop in gross margin and EBITA is primarily due to mainly due to a higher proportion of offshore delivery, the decrease in volumes handled. Performance in the UK efficiency improvements, and restructuring savings in improved during the latter part of the year, and we expect France. a full turnaround during 2013, driven by volume growth, operational efficiency improvements and SG&A savings. The improvement in EBITA was driven by the factors Cost reduction initiatives lowered SG&A expenses by €2.1 explained above. million. EBITA 2012* EBITA 2012* € -2.4 million * Underlying performance, excluding restructuring and other € 4.0 million * Underlying performance, excluding restructuring and other non-recurring costs non-recurring costs Revenue Share of total revenue Revenue Share of total revenue € million % € million % 100 60 98.5 58.1 8% 80 92.6 15% 50 55.3 40 60 30 40 20 20 10 0 0 2011 2012 2011 2012 18 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility Global business with sustainability in focus Transcom’s business is uniquely level of understanding in test results, and to ensure full participation of all managers. focused on creating outstanding customer experience, driving reveThe responsibility for our sustainability work is delegated throughout the organization. Regional General nue and brand loyalty. We deliver Managers are responsible for the implementation in services from 70 contact centers their respective regions. The Regional General Managand an extensive home agent ers report directly to the company’s CEO. The CEO reports to the Board of Directors, which addresses network to over 400 international these issues as often as needed, at a minimum once brands with global responsible a year. requirements. Since training is key to raising awareness of sustainability issues, all managers receive CSR-training every two years. The last one was held in 2011, which implies GOVERNING SUSTAINABILITY that the next one will take place during 2013. Transcom is dedicated to high standards of responsible and ethical business conduct as stated in our own To further ensure compliance with the Code of Code of Business Conduct that covers all four areas Conduct within the organization, we have a number of of the UN Global Compact: Human Rights, Labor routines and systems in place, such as the grandfather Rights, Environmental care and Anti-corruption, all of principle and the four-eyes principle. We also have a which we respect and support in full. All Transcom’s whistle blower process in place, by which employees employees are required to sign this code when starting can safely report any anomalies. their career with us as part of the pledge to excellent service delivery to our clients. To ensure full comFOCUSING ON ESSENTIALS prehension of the content of the code of conduct, it As sustainability is an issue of growing global is available in 17 languages and we use a survey tool relevance, Transom has focused on understanding the tracker to check that employees reach a sufficient most critical issues for our business regarding human Internal rating of sustainability issues Equality & diversity VERY IMPORTANT Financial transparency Anticorruption Work related training Fair working conditions Risk assessment before entering emerging markets Supply chain management Fair and transparent recruitment practices IMPORTANT Health & safety management for employees Source and recruit from local communities Freedom of association and collective bargaining Community engagement and chartitable causes Environmental impact (energy consumption, CO2 emissions) 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 19 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility “We believe that a committed involvement in the communities in which we operate not only strengthens our employee brand, but also maintains our license to operate in emerging markets.” rights, labor rights, environmental care and anti-corOur target is to increase our stakeholder dialogues ruption to continue to add insight and assessment to during 2013 and 2014 in order to deepen our underour clients. Our materiality analysis was done through standing of how we can adapt to shifting sustainability a global web-based survey to key employees, asking requirements in the global arena. them to rate the importance and relevance of all sustainability issues. The very high response rate (78 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS percent) has strengthened our commitment to further In order to more efficiently follow up on our progress escalate our knowledge internally and our external within our focus areas, we have identified and started communication. measuring a number of key performance indicators. Our ambition over the next few years is to increase the As can be seen in the figure on page 19, the issues number of indicators in order to capture all aspects of considered as being most material were equality and our sustainability work. diversity, financial transparency and anti-corruption. The results from the materiality analysis will serve as the CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP basis for our future efforts within the sustainability area. We believe that a committed involvement in the communities in which we operate not only strengthens STAKEHOLDER VERIFICATION our employee brand, but also maintains our license to We have started to verify and implement the identioperate in emerging markets. Also, it is an expression fied issues with our stakeholders in expanded multiple of our core values. Transcom encourages employees dialogues that will continue during the coming year. to take part in charitable and voluntary activities, and The results confirmed the relevance of our efforts in 2012 this resulted in Transcom people raising funds during 2012 in the areas of increased transparency in for many charitable causes. our communication, the reaffirmation of our corporate values to increase retention and foster career One example of our community involvement is development, and the implementation of the Code Transcom Cares, which is an umbrella concept under of Business Conduct alongside the Supplier Code of which we participate in and initiate many different proBusiness Conduct with appropriate training. grams. Transcom Cares funds, supports and carries out several activities each year because we know that Transcom’s extensive global footprint puts us in an an active corporate citizen is an employer that attracts excellent position to meet our stakeholders’ demands and retains top talent, is sought after by prosperous in terms of high responsiveness and ample attention. clients and is a crucial contributor in the community We annually perform surveys that not only ensure with good relations. that we are well-suited to delivering services that are adequate for the mass consumer markets many of For example, in 2012 we sponsored a run in Bacolod our clients are active in, but also that we adhere to our together with the Bacolod ICT Council to raise clients’ requirements in terms of responsible business awareness and address the trafficking of women performance. and children and the rape and abuse of women. 332 Transcom Bacolod Employees joined this run and We have prioritized regular dialogues with our invessupported this good cause. tors to keep them informed of our performance, challenges and opportunities. Transcom’s largest Transcom Cares also held an outreach day with shareholder, Investment AB Kinnevik, has a comthe Comtrac Collection volunteers at the Bacolod prehensive policy for corporate responsibility which prison facilities with the aim to inform and motivate details its expectations on its holdings, including the inmates to join the scholarship programs made Transcom, with regards to CR-related issues. available to them and their families through CAPSI 20 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility and TESDA. These organizations provide call center TAKING RESPONSIBILITY FOR preparation training as well as other skills such as pipe OUR VALUE CHAIN fitting, welding, engine repair and more which we work To reassure the adoption of our values, attitudes and with to support former convicts to reach a better life practices throughout our value chain, Transcom has for them and their families. developed the Supplier Code of Business Conduct for our network of supplier partners across the globe. ANTI-CORRUPTION All suppliers, including their employees, agents and In 2013, we will emphasize increased preventive antisubcontractors must commit to safeguarding that all corruption training and awareness raising as part of existing and future agreements and business relationour general training for all managers to reinforce their ships with Transcom are subject to the provisions in competence and ability to handle difficult situations the code. properly in compliance with relevant legislation and international anti-corruption guidelines. Basic antiThe key principles of the Supplier Code of Business corruption training is also a customary part of the Conduct are that all suppliers are expected to adhere introductory sustainability learning that is done with to the same standards in ethical and responsible the signing of Transcom’s Code of Business Conduct. conduct as described in our own Code of Business Conduct; We have strengthened our internal control function, intensifying our efforts in fraud risk assessment and k !MKNJG?LACUGRF?JJJCƓ?JPCOSGPCKCLRQ management. As a result of this, we have improved k 8CPMRMJCP?LACMDDP?SB @PG@CPW?LBAMPPSNRGML internal processes and routines. k 0CQNCARMDCKNJMWCCQFSK?LPGƓFRQUMPINJ?ACQ free of discrimination and harassment; commitment ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION to equal opportunities; eradication of forced labor; Transcom is committed to a responsible approach respect of local laws in relation to working hours to minimizing the environmental impact from our and payment operations and to encourage our employees to conk !MKNJG?LACUGRFAMPPCARFC?JRF?LBQ?DCRWNP?ARGACQ tinuously adopt more environmentally friendly working k !MKKGRKCLRRMNPMRCARNPGT?RC?LBAMLƤBCLRG?J practices. information and to follow fair and proper business practices. To maintain our low environmental impact, we have k %SGBCJGLCQMLƓGDRQ?LBCLRCPR?GLKCLR implemented an environmental policy that encomk 2P?LQAMKQSNNJGCPQ?PCCVNCARCBRMKGLGKGXCRFC passes the precautionary principle and sets strict environmental impact of their products and services environmental demands on all our employees and our and comply with any laws or accepted standards for organisation. their industry. In 2012 we began to measure our carbon footprint We ask our suppliers to full heartedly take on the as a first step in setting reduction goals for the next responsibility to inform their employees, agents and years. Our emissions from business travel (air travel) subcontractors of their commitment to our Supplier during 2012 amounted to 1 508 Tonnes CO2e. 2013 Code of Business Conduct and educate them accordwill be set as our greenhouse gas emissions base year ingly. We place this demand on our partners, as we for the coming year’s comparisons and disclosures. believe that the adherence to ethical and responsible business practices is a fundamental obligation to the We endeavor to maximize usage of videoand telecommunities we operate in. It is also an important key conferencing, thereby reducing environmental impact to our continued success. of business travel. We will continue to raise environmental awareness in the workplace and to continuously strive to reduce our carbon footprint. 21 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate responsibility The Amazing Jeepney Race and the Operations Hope Medical Mission Transcom regularly sponsors 2MƓCRFCPUGRFRFC.,8 ! 2P?LQAMKQNMLQMPCB?LCTCLRUGRFRFC and participates in various objective of raising funds for expenses to cover a program called Operations Hope Medical Mission, whereby doctors from New community events. Two 8C?J?LBTMJSLRCCPRFCGPRGKCGLMPBCPRMTGQGRRFC.FGJGNNGLCQRM recent examples are The perform surgery on children with cleft lip and palate at no cost. Amazing Jeepney Race in Manila, an event organized by The funds raised from The Amazing Jeepney Race are used towards medicines and medical equipment required for the RFC.FGJGNNGLCQ ,CU8C?J?LB operations. Transcom was the main sponsor of the event, in SQGLCQQ!MSLAGJ.,8 !  which one of our clients (SMART) and a partner (360 Degrees) and the Run Against Traffickalso participated. Many of Transcom’s employees handling our ing in Bacolod, organized by Australian accounts joined the event, which finished at the New 8C?J?LBK@?QQ?BMPQFMSQCUFCPCFCFMQRCB?JJMDRFCN?PRGAGthe Bacolod ICT Council. N?LRQDMP?,CU8C?J?LB $GJGNGLM ?P@COSC The Run Against Trafficking in Bacolod is an event organized by the Bacolod ICT Council in order to build awareness and stimulate action to address the trafficking of women and children, as well as the rape and abuse of women. Transcom was the main sponsor of the event. More than 600 runners participated, and 353 Transcom employees joined the run after finishing their night shift. 22 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our People Our people make all the difference In our business, people make all the difference. We pride ourselves on our ability to recruit, motivate and retain the right people to help grow your business, and we relentlessly focus on refining coaching, training methods, analytical tools and incentives. At Transcom, our 30,000 people truly make all the difference. Every day, our customer experience specialists handle approximately one million interactions with our clients’ customers in more than 33 languages. We rely on knowledgeable, motivated people to deliver a great customer experience every time – in any customer situation and throughout any channel. Our ability to find the right people with the right skills and attitudes, in combination with efficient training methods and processes to drive performance, is essential to making this happen. Gender distribution, all Full-time employees and Transcom manages people in a unique way which employees, 2012 temporary staff, 2012 drives high levels of employee engagement. While we use consistent structures and processes across all Q Women Q Men Q Full-time employees Q Temporary staff our operations, management within the regions uses their own style which is adapted to local conditions. 5,416 We lead our teams from within their own cultural and 37% social context. So starting with the same expectations 63% 24,338 and same measurement in five different regions, we can manage people in five different ways, while still achieving the same top results. This also means that we recognize and protect the labor and association rights of each employee and ensure that they are apNumber of employees by region, 2012 propriately managed in each region. North 4,606 Central We have high retention of dedicated people in various 3,380 positions because we are strong on promoting training South 4,241 and career development. Long retention and employee Iberia 6,312 loyalty lead in turn to a high degree of specialist North America & Asia Pacific 10,218 knowledge and skills. CMS 843 Transcom’s flexibility extends to building up networks Total 29,754 of qualified home agents in many markets, in addition 23 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our People to our service centers. This widens our recruiting base will be provided in areas where a need for improveand also contributes to skills development and lower ment has been identified. attrition rates. LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT Our investment in people and internal mobility also A people business requires strong leaders. Therefore, simplifies our recruiting activities. All of our Business Transcom is committed to ensuring good leaderManagers, and five out of six Team Leaders, are ship at all levels of management. In 2012, Transcom internally recruited. When we do recruit externally, launched a global trainingand coaching program approximately 20 percent of our recruitments come addressing first line management. We will focus on through recommendations – up to 40 percent in implementation during 2013. some markets. AN EXCELLENT PLATFORM FOR CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT THROUGH FURTHER DEVELOPMENT PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT Transcom offers clearly defined career paths which A Group-wide initiative was launched in 2011 with the create good opportunities for our employees to aim of improving Transcom’s performance managetake responsibility and develop their expertise. The ment framework by defining additional areas that will absolute majority of our first line management posistrengthen the quality of our people management and tions, as well as functional specialist roles, are filled future development. In 2012, we focused on impleby internal candidates. In 2012, Transcom launched menting the program globally to enhance Group-wide a careers portal accessible to all employees where coordination of performance management. Companythey may find positions of interest within the company wide objectives are cascaded in the organization, and apply directly online. Career growth opportunities applied to specific role types and incorporated into within Transcom are attractive, not least in our fastestindividual objectives and development plans. growing operations. A set of employee core competency areas have been A unique position that Transcom is proud to fill defined. They are essential components in order to in many markets is that of a platform for career achieve set objectives, including peopleand technical development for young people and new graduates. In skills. Achievement of goals related to each compemany countries, we are a top employer of people aged tency area will be regularly evaluated and guidance 18-26. Our agents learn about direct client interaction 24 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Our People “In Transcom our employees are guided by our core values, Passion, Excellence and Innovation. We believe these values make Transcom a great partner and a great employer.” in a dynamic environment, strengthening their made us a forerunner in equality and diversity. We are communication and technology skills; they become focused on attracting top talent and retaining them to product specialists, handle conflicts and, in turn, are build a truly global company that is prepared to meet rewarded for a job well done. Transcom is proud of and deliver towards diverse business cultures in all the role we play in the lives of our current and former corners of the world. While a significant proportion employees. of our managers are female, we acknowledge that we still have a gender challenge in top management To maintain and further develop Transcom as a recruitment. We strive for gender equality on all levels, leading provider of customer experience, we need and are dedicated to showing that equal opportunity to ensure that we can continue to attract, retain and employment is part of our DNA. develop top talent. In 2013, Transcom decided to design and implement a program with the objective HEALTH AND SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE to identifying top talent and stimulate their further Health and safety are at the top of our agenda. development in a structured way. We are committed to a safe workplace. Being safe and confident at work is a basic right for all of our ONE TRANSCOM employees. All our centers comply with all health, In 2012 Transcom launched the “One Transcom” safety and environmental laws and requirements. framework which promotes local empowerment, Our employees benefit from a good and safe innovation and entrepreneurship while also ensuring standard in the office environment, with modern efficiency and control across our global organization. technology, equipment and ergonomically-suitable Being a global player, many good practices and solufurniture. tions are continuously being developed in different parts of the organization. So that we and our clients can fully benefit from this, our managers are encouraged to identify and share best practices. We maintain electronic platforms for knowledge sharing, news and communication, and in 2013, we will launch a project to further develop our digital collaboration platform. Significant employer We also have cross-functional communities whose for young adults members meet regularly. Thousands of new employees join Transcom each year. We provide a viable and great entry CORE VALUES opportunity for young people and new graduIn Transcom our employees are guided by our core ates. In many countries, we are a top employer values, Passion, Excellence and Innovation. We believe for first job applicants aged 18-26. The strong these values make Transcom a great partner and a prospects for long and prosperous careers great employer. Passion to understand the needs of within Transcom are most evident in our fastest our client’s customers, striving for Excellence in delivgrowing operations such as the Philippines and ering outstanding customer experiences, and Innovain countries with an above-average rate of youth tion when addressing our clients’ global opportunities unemployment. We have managed to attract and challenges. and keep a high retention rate with the best people because we provide training and career EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER development. The global presence and demands from the more than 400 international brands that we serve has 25 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Transcom share The Transcom share and shareholders On September 6, 2001, Transcom was listed on Transcom, excluding Transcom treasury shares2, as the O-list of the Stockholm Stock Exchange, the per 31 December 2012 is 622,760,130. Please see Stockholmsbörsen. Transcom class A and B shares note 13 for further information on Class B shareare currently listed on the NASDAQ OMX Nordic holders’ right to a cumulative preferred dividend. Small Cap list under the symbols “TWW SDB A” and “TWW SDB B”. The market capitalization of Transcom WorldWide S.A. at the close of business on December 31, 2012 As per 31 December 2012, Transcom had an issued was SEK 691.3 million (€80.2 million). capital of EUR 53,557,907.519 divided into a total of 1,245,532,733 shares of which 622,767,823 are of 1) This is the number of voting rights to be taken into account for the class A with one voting right each and 622,764,910 calculation of the thresholds provided for in Article 8 of the Luxembourg are of class B with no voting rights. The total numlaw of 11 January 2008 on transparency requirements for issuers of securities ber of voting rights in Transcom, including Transcom treasury shares, as per 31 December 2012 is 2) The voting rights attached to the treasury shares held by Transcom are 622,767,8231. The total number of voting rights in suspended in accordance with Luxembourg applicable law. The Transcom Share (SEK) Volume (thousand) 35 000 Transcom WorldWide B 0,8 30 000 NASDAQ OMX Nordic Small Cap 25 000 Index (rebased) 0,7 Volume (TWW 20 000 SDB B) 0,6 15 000 10 000 0,5 5 000 0,4 0 1.1.2012 28.12.2012 Transcom shareholders as at Dec 31, 2012* SDB A SDB B Total shares (A+B) % of capital % of votes Investment AB Kinnevik 247,164,416 163,806,834 410,971,250 33.0% 39.7% Creades AB 117,360,356 0 117,360,356 9.4% 18.8% Nordnet Pensionsförsäkring AB 5,328,868 70,737,670 76,066,538 6.1% 0.9% Avanza Pension 13,603,100 62,322,307 75,925,407 6.1% 2.2% Fjärde AP-fonden 25,742,492 28,322,625 54,065,117 4.3% 4.1% Odin Sverige Aksjefondet 26,035,651 19,300,120 45,335,771 3.6% 4.2% Nordea Fonder 19,522,008 21,962,259 41,484,267 3.3% 3.1% Unionen 21,517,200 19,117,200 40,634,400 3.3% 3.5% Länsförsäkringar Småbolagsfond 16,331,887 21,376,242 37,708,129 3.0% 2.6% Total, top 9 shareholders 492,605,978 406,945,257 899,551,235 72.2% 79.1% * Shareholders owning at least 3 percent of capital 26 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors’ Report Directors’ Report PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES Eriksson joined Transcom in 2010 as General ManTranscom (the “Company”) is a global customer ager of the North Region. Marcus Süllmann left the experience specialist, providing customer care, sales, position of Chief Financial Officer (CFO) in February technical support and credit management services 2013 (he joined Transcom as CFO in May 2012). In through an extensive network of contact centers and March 2013, Pär Christiansen was appointed Chief work-at-home agents. Financial Officer. Mr Christiansen will take up his posiTranscom’s operations add value to clients’ busition as CFO no later than September 1, 2013. In the nesses by supporting the creation of outstanding interim, Per Killiner will serve as acting CFO. customer experiences, while reducing cost and helping During 2011, Isabel Sánchez-Lozano joined the to drive growth. Transcom does this directly, by delivCompany as Vice President & General Manager in ering exceptional multi-channel customer service and the Iberia region, and Roberto Boggio was appointed support in a cost-effective way. But Transcom’s goal is General Manager in the South region (joined Transalso that the Company’s activities benefit other parts com in 2004). In June 2012, Neil Rae was appointed of clients’ businesses. For example, Transcom’s analytGeneral Manager of the North America & Asia Pacific ics capabilities can generate insights that ultimately PCƓGMLHMGLCB2P?LQAMKGL !FPGQRG?L&SJRưL contribute to the creation of a differentiated customer joined Transcom as General Manager of the North experience, setting Transcom’s clients apart in an region in June 2012. Jörgen Skoog was appointed increasingly competitive marketplace. Acting General Manager in the Central Europe region At the end of 2012, Transcom employed almost in 2012 (joined Transcom in 2002). John Robson, 30,000 customer experience specialists at 70 contact Chief Information Officer, joined Transcom in 2009. centers across 28 countries, delivering services in 33 In 2007, Ignacio De Montis joined the Company as languages to over 400 international brands in various Global Accounts Director. industry verticals. Whether onshore, offshore or near shore, Transcom agents are focused on delivering BOARD PROCEDURES outstanding customer experiences, driving satisfaction, Transcom’s Board held nine Board meetings during brand loyalty and additional sales while also adding 2012, of which seven were physical meetings and two insights and value to clients’ business operations. were held via conference calls. The Audit Committee held 13 meetings during 2012, of which 5 were physiCAPITALIZATION cal meetings and 8 were held via conference calls. As at December 31, 2012, the issued and outstandThe Remuneration Committee held 5 meetings in ing share capital was €53,557,907.519 consisting of 2012, which were all physical meetings. 622,767,823 Transcom WorldWide Class A voting shares, each with a nominal value of €0.043, and 2012 ACTIVITIES 622,764,910 Transcom WorldWide Class B non1. Business review voting shares, each with a nominal value of €0.043, At the end of 2012, The Company had 70 operating with a total market capitalization of SEK 691.3 million centers employing almost 30,000 people, providing (€80.2 million). services from 28 country markets. Transcom’s global operations are divided into six units: North, Central STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING Europe, South, Iberia, North America & Asia Pacific, On September 6, 2001, Transcom was listed on the and Credit Management Services (CMS). O-list of the Stockholm Stock Exchange, the StockPlease refer to pages 14-18 for a review of perforholmsbörsen. Transcom class A and B shares are mance and significant developments during the year currently listed on the NASDAQ OMX Nordic Small in each region. Cap list under the symbols “TWW SDB A” and “TWW SDB B”. 2. Consolidated results Net revenue in 2012 increased by 9.3% to €605.6 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT million (2011: €554.1 million). Earnings before interJohan Eriksson was appointed President and Chief est, taxes and amortization (EBITA) increased to €6.9 Executive Officer of Transcom in November 2011. Mr million (2011: -€26.2 million). The loss of operations 27 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors’ Report for the full year was –€17.6 million (2011: –€29.0 MARKET RISKS million). Operating income in 2012 was impacted Competition by a €20.6 million write-down of goodwill and other Transcom’s operations are conducted in a highly intangible assets. This impairment is a non-recurring, competitive industry on a global level and Transnon-cash charge to earnings. It will not affect Transcom’s operations are small relative to the total size of com’s liquidity, cash flow or bank covenants, or have the market. The customer and credit management any impact on future operations. The charges are services industry is characterized by competitive based on long-term assessments, and not specifically factors such as volume forecast, ability to acquire related to the short-term performance of the respecnew clients, workforce flexibility, operational efficiency, tive business unit. quality and service. Increased competition in these Transcom reported a pretax loss of –€23.6 million areas may lead to restraining measures such as price (2011: –€32.0 million), with a net loss of –€30.6 milpressures which could, if relevant for extended periods lion, compared with –€50.4 million in 2011. Transof time, have a material adverse effect on Transcom’s com reported earnings per share (before dilution) of operations, financial position and earnings. Further, –2 Euro cents (–63 Euro cents in 2011). countering competition might also call for necessary Transcom’s 2012 results were impacted by investments which could lead to significant costs for restructuring and other non-recurring costs amountthe Company. The market for Transcom’s services is ing to €5.9 million. These costs are mainly related to further affected by changes in service capacity and capacity adjustments and organizational restructurTranscom has recently been exposed to volatility in ing undertaken during the year in order to increase the demand for its services and has therefore expeefficiency and lower the cost base. rienced periods of significant overcapacity burdens. Excluding the effect of restructuring and other Transcom has reduced these burdens through the non-recurring costs, earnings before interest, taxes implementation of its restructuring program, but it and amortization (EBITA) in 2012 increased to €12.8 cannot be ruled out that these circumstances will not million (2011: €6.8 million). occur in the future. 3. Financial position Global economic climate sensitivity Operating cash flow before changes in working capital The level of demand for customer and credit managein 2012 was €2.2 million (2011: €2.0 million). Capital ment services, and therefore the level of revenue, is expenditure amounted to €8.5 million (2011: €5.2 mildependent upon general economic conditions in the lion). The working capital movement was -€3.5 million markets in which the Company operates. Increases (2011: €31.2 million). in revenues generally correspond with economic Transcom made no acquisitions in the financial recoveries, while decreases generally correspond with year ended December 31, 2012. Transcom had liquid economic downturns and regional and local economic funds of €42.6 million (2011: €52.1 million) at Decemrecessions. Therefore, the local market conditions and ber 31, 2012. Long-term debt was €70.5 million (2011: national economic conditions in Transcom’s markets €65.3 million) giving a net debt of €37.9 million. The are likely to affect the Company’s operating results equity to assets ratio at December 31, 2012 was 36.2% and strategic decisions. (43.0% at December 31, 2011). Geographical markets and market conditions 4. Research and Development Transcom has contact centers in many different counDuring the year ended 31 December 2012, the Comtries, including countries in emerging markets, and pany did not conduct R&D activities. revenue is generated across different markets. The Company is thus exposed to local, as well as global, RISK MANAGEMENT market trends and conditions. Historically, there have The Company’s operations are affected by several been shifts in the relative geographic concentration of risks which, to varying degrees, have an impact on the contact centers. Shifts in customer preferences with Company’s revenue and financial position. These risks regard to the location of contact centers may force are monitored and to the extent possible, controlled Transcom to adapt their operations geographically by the Company. Described below are the risk factors and thus incur additional costs. Furthermore, local which are deemed to be of most significance to the market conditions and trends might have an adverse Company. effect on the Company’s revenue and cost base. 28 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors’ Report OPERATIONAL RISKS solutions. Should a client terminate the agreement Structural risks/long-term overcapacity with Transcom, or, even more, switch the way it uses Transcom is continuously reviewing and adjusting its technology, the client tailored IT solution would no londelivery capacity to its current book of business. Any ger be needed to support the client, involving that the failure by Transcom in managing its capacity delivery relevant Group company could be facing costs which may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s can no longer be recovered from the client. overall profitability. Guarantee undertakings Dependency on key clients Some companies within the Group have made A significant portion of the Company’s revenues is guarantee undertakings. The beneficiaries of the generated from a limited number of key clients using guarantees include clients to the Group and buyers of Transcom’s services in multiple countries. Key clients businesses that have been divested by the Group. In have a significant impact on the Company’s financial the event that the Company, or the relevant Subsidperformance. Key client relationships are documented iary, would become liable under such guarantees, this under master services agreements where pricing is could have a material adverse effect on the Group’s based on forecasted volumes. Some of the agreefinancial position and results of operations, beyond ments do not contain any volume commitments. what has been provided for. Staffing Organizational risk Transcom is a staff intensive business with employee Transcom relies on the executive management team related costs accounting for the largest portion of the and management processes to deliver its services Company’s cost base. Considering the nature of the and the Company is dependent on the performance Company’s operations and the seasonality of the busiof its officers and key employees. Transcom is and will ness, it is of high importance for Transcom to have continue to be dependent on its ability to retain and a flexible workforce and access to temporary staff motivate high quality personnel. Failure to do so could of significance. As a result of the above, Transcom is have a material adverse effect on Transcom’s busiexposed to the risk of adverse movements in labor ness, financial position and results of operations. costs, legislation or other conditions relating to the Company’s staffing. Technology infrastructure Most of Transcom’s business operations rely to a Long-term lease agreements significant degree on the efficient and uninterrupted Some Group companies have entered into agreeoperation of its technology infrastructure including ments to rent premises. Generally, the Group’s lease IT and other communications systems. Any failure of contracts require deposits and certain provisions for its technology infrastructure could impair Transcom’s inflation-indexed rental increases. In addition, lease ability to punctually perform and deliver its services. agreements may contain provisions on rent related to Transcom has taken precautions regarding its technolnon-cancellable leases. Certain Group companies are ogy infrastructure in order to be prepared for interrupthus subject to future payment obligations, stretching tions such as power failures, computer viruses, loss of as far as five (5) years from December 31, 2012, for data or other anticipated or unanticipated problems. rent on material leases for premises which cannot be cancelled. In the event that Transcom would have to Reputational risk downsize or close down sites, these long-stretching Transcom is, in its ordinary course of business, payment obligations can have a negative impact on exposed to events that may damage the Company’s the Company’s overall profitability and cash flows. reputation. These events may relate to end-customer interactions, employee relations, client relations and Costs related to IT relations with its shareholders. The Company has Transcom is dependent on IT services and systems policies and procedures in place to comply with being provided to it, in order to be able to carry out regulations and quality standards but is nevertheless services to its clients. The provision of IT services and exposed to the risk that the Company’s reputation systems to Transcom involves significant costs. Some could be damaged in any way. Group companies have arranged for client tailored IT 29 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors’ Report FINANCIAL RISKS jurisdiction, the deferred tax asset in those jurisdictions Liquidity risk and going concern may need to be written off. Financing risk is defined as the risk of it being difficult and/or expensive to obtain financing for the operaTax audits and litigations tions. Liquidity risk is the risk of the Company not The Group is subject to tax audits in the normal being able to meet its financial obligations as they course of business. The Group is currently the subject fall due. The Company is dependent upon continuing of tax audits and litigation in multiple jurisdictions. The financial support from principal Share SDR holders as Group makes provisions for the outcome of such tax well as financing from external banks. The turbulence audits and litigation to the extent that the risk of cash in the financial markets can disrupt or limit the availoutflow is determined to be probable. A negative outability of financing which the Company has obtained come in respect of such audits or litigation may have in the past and also adversely affect the terms and a materially adverse effect on the Group’s business, conditions of such financing. financial condition and results of operations, beyond what has already been provided for. Goodwill A substantial part of Transcom’s intangible fixed assets DISPUTES AND CLAIMS consists of goodwill. Goodwill is tested annually to Companies within the Group are occasionally involved identify any necessary impairment requirements. in disputes in the ordinary course of business and are subject to the risk, like other companies active in the Currency risk translational and transactional risk customer and credit management services industry, Translational exposures are differences resulting from of becoming subject to claims regarding, for instance, the translation of subsidiaries financial statements into contractual matters and alleged defects in the delivery the Group’s presentation currency. Transactional expoof services. In addition, in connection with the restrucsures are differences arising from the sales, purchases, turing program that Transcom has launched, there assets or liabilities denominated in currencies other is a risk that Transcom becomes subject to claims than the functional currency of the operating unit that related to the downsizing and the closure of sites, carries these transactions. As of December 2012, the such as employee related claims. These disputes and Group was mostly exposed to the Philippine Peso, claims may prove time-consuming and may have an USD, SEK, and Chilean Peso. adverse effect on the Company’s financial position and revenue. Interest risk The Company’s exposure to the risk of changes in CHANGES TO APPLICABLE LEGISLATION market interest rates relates primarily to any outAND POLITICAL RISKS standing loan under the Company’s revolving credit Transcom conducts business in a large number of lefacility. Changes in market interest rates could result gal jurisdictions worldwide, is incorporated and existing in increased interest costs for the Company. under the laws of Luxembourg and due to its listing at NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, is also subject to some Credit risk of the Swedish stock market rules and regulations. The Company’s trade receivables accounts for the This implies that there could be an increased risk for majority of the Company’s credit risk. To maintain a Transcom being negatively affected by changes to controlled level of credit risk, credit risk is reviewed legislation and practices applied within such jurisdicmonthly by executive management based on the aged tions, in particular if such changes should increase debt reports. the conceptual differences between jurisdictions. Transcom is subject to changes in applicable laws and Risks relating to deferred tax assets regulations relating to e.g. foreign ownership, state inThe Group assesses the ability to utilize tax losses and volvement, tax, labor legislation and contact centers in other tax attributes and to the extent that tax relief is the countries where the Company conducts business, expected to be available in the foreseeable future a such changes could have a materially adverse effect deferred tax asset is recognized in the balance sheet. on the Company’s business operations, results and To-date a deferred tax asset of EUR 2.9 million was financial condition. The Company’s business, financial recognized in relation to available tax losses. Although condition and results of operations could additionally it is believed that the tax relief justifying the deferred be adversely affected by acts of war or terrorism, as tax assets will be available, there is a risk that if insufwell as other political and financial instability. ficient profits arise in the future in the appropriate 30 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors’ Report REQUIREMENTS OF ARTICLE 11 (1) OF THE LAW (j) This section of the Law of Takeover Bids is not OF 19 MAY 2006 ON TAKEOVER BIDS (‘’LAW ON applicable to Transcom. TAKEOVER BIDS’’) (k) The remuneration guidelines for senior executives According to the Law on Takeover Bids, Transcom is were approved by of the annual general meetrequired to publish certain information on the following of the shareholders on 30 May 2012. Any ing items: agreements between Transcom and the board (a) Structure of the share capital with, among other, members or the employees are made on cases by the indication of different classes of shares and case basis according to the customary laws in the the rights attached to them together with the country in which they are employed. percentage of of total share capital represented by each class. POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS Such information is provided on page 26 under On January 10, 2013 Transcom Worldwide SAS section “The Transcom share and shareholders” of (France) filed for “redressement judiciaire”. Transcom this Annual Report. WorldWide S.A. continued to support this subsidiary (b) Restrictions on transfer of securities – As per the until February 28, 2013. With effect from March 22, articles of association of Transcom, there are no 2013, Transcom WorldWide (France) S.A.S. was put restrictions on the transfer of shares. The proviinto liquidation proceedings by the Commercial Court sions of the insider trading policy of Transcom of Versailles, and a liquidator was appointed. There introduce however an approval process (CEO/ were no other significant events during the period beCFO approval) for insider trading tween 31 December 2012 and the date of this report. (c) Direct and indirect shareholding is presented on page 26 under section “The Transcom share and OUTLOOK shareholders” of this Annual Report. Entering 2013, Transcom will continue to focus on (d) This section is not applicable to Transcom as there revenue growth and improved profitability through are no holders of any securities at Transcom with operational efficiency and business development. The special control rights. Company is in a good position to generate healthy re(e) The system of control of any employee share turns on the expansion investments made in the latter scheme where the control rights are not exercised part of 2012, particularly in the Philippines. directly by the employees. Transcom’s seat capacity utilization improved in The Long Term Incentive Program was ap2012 as a result of successful business development proved by the annual general meeting of shareand necessary capacity adjustments in some geoholders in 2012 and it is published on Transcom’s graphical areas. Transcom’s target will always be to website. optimize the utilization of available capacity, and this (f) Apart from the existence of class A voting shares will continue to be an important focus area throughout and class B non-voting shares in the share capital 2013. of Transcom, there are no restrictions on voting rights attached to the shares. (g) As of the date hereof, Transcom not aware of any agreements between the shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and/or affect their voting rights. Henning Boysen (h) The corporate governance of the Company is Chairman of the Board of Directors, described and can be found in the articles of assoLuxembourg, Grand Duchy of Luxembourg ciation of Transcom and the corporate governance charter posted on the Transcom’s website, as well March 29, 2013 as in the corporate governance section of this annual report. (i) The powers of the board members, and in particular the power to issue and buy back shares can be found in the articles of association of Transcom, corporate governance charter and the resolutions of the annual general meeting of the shareholders taken on 30 May 2012, all posted on Transcom’s website. 31 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance 1 OVERVIEW Corporate governance within the Company is based Transcom WorldWide S.A. (the “Company”) is a on the Luxembourg law and the listing requirements *SVCK@MSPƓNS@JGAJGKGRCBJG?@GJGRWAMKN?LW?QMAGưRư of the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm. The Company folanonyme), and its shares are listed on the NASDAQ lows the ‘’Ten Principles of Corporate Governance’’ OMX Stockholm Exchange. of the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, as amended on October 2009. Refer page 37 for related explanations. The Company recognizes the importance of, and is committed to the highest standards of corporate The Company’s corporate governance rules are also governance. Among other things, this means that based on the Company’s articles of incorporation, the the Company maintains an efficient organizational corporate governance charter, and the Company’s structure with clearly defined areas of responsibilinternal regulations. ity, ensures that the financial reporting is transparent and that the Company continuously strives be a good 2 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF corporate citizen. SHAREHOLDERS The Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) is convened in The Company’s current framework of corporate Luxembourg each year on the last Wednesday of May governance is illustrated below: at 10am at the registered office of the Company or at such other place as may be specified in the notice The Company is governed by the board of direcconvening the Meeting. tors and its committees, whilst it is managed by an Executive Management Committee (the “Executive The last AGM was held on May 30, 2012. At the meetCommittee”) which comprises of the President & ing, shareholders representing 59.4 percent (rounded) CEO, Head of Group functions and Regional General of the total number of class A shares, were present Managers. either personally or by proxy. Nomination Commitee Shareholders External Audit Remuneration Commitee Board of Directors Audit Commitee President & CEO Internal Audit Regional Group Global Sales Group Chief Group Chief General Operations & & Accounts Information Financial Manager HR Director Director Officer Officer 32 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Shareholders exercised their rights to decide on the 3 BOARD OF DIRECTORS affairs of the Company and the following resolutions 3.1 Composition of the Board of Directors of the were adopted by the AGM: Company (“The Board of Directors”) The current Board of Directors comprises of seven k NNPMT?JMDRFC?LLS?J?AAMSLRQ?LBAMLQMJGB?RCB non executive directors. accounts for 2011. k  GQAF?PƓCMDJG?@GJGRWMDRFCKCK@CPQMD M?PBMD In 2012, Laurie Bowen, Alexander Izosimov, Dermot Directors for and in connection with year ended Jenkinson and Mikael Larsson joined the Board of December 31, 2011. Directors, whereas Mia Brunell Livfors, Charles Burdick, k 0C CJCARGMLMD&CLLGLƓ MWQCL 1RCD?L!F?PCRRC?LB 0M@CPR*CPUGJJ?LB2MPSL*GRXưLJCDRRFC M?PBMD Roel Louwhoff as Directors of the Company for the Directors. With the above changes, the Board of Direcperiod until the close of the next AGM. tors now has 5 independent directors vis-à-vis major k #JCARGMLMD*?SPGC MUCL JCV?LBCP'XMQGKMT  shareholders. Dermot Jenkinson and Mikael Larsson as Directors of the Company for the period until the close of the Summary curriculum vitae for each member of the next AGM. Board of Directors and the list of other paid positions k #JCARGMLMDCVRCPL?J?SBGRMPQMDRFC!MKN?LW held by them in other listed companies is disclosed on k CRCPKGL?RGMLMD GPCARMPQDCCQ pages 40–41. k NNPMT?JMDRFCNPMACBSPCQDMPRFC,MKGL?RGML committee. The table below gives an overview of the number of k NNPMT?JDMPƓSGBCJGLCQMLPCKSLCP?RGMLMD1CLGMP meetings by the Board of Directors and its commitExecutives. tees and information about the attendance of the k NNPMT?JMDJMLƓRCPKGLACLRGTCNJ?LDMP#VCASRGTC members of the Board of Directors. Management. k NNPMT?JMDQF?PCPCNSPAF?QCNJ?L  The independence criteria used by the Company in order to determine the independence of the members The minutes of the AGM are available on the of its Board of Directors are those listed in Annex Company’s website. ii of the European Commission recommendations of February 15, 2005 on the role of Non-Executive Directors (and members of the Supervisory Board) of listed companies and on the committees of the Board (or Supervisory Board). INDEPENDENCE STATUS ATTENDANCE Vis-à-vis major Vis-à-vis the company Audit Remuneration shareholders and its management Board Committee Committee Laurie Bowen1 Independent Independent 5/5 8/9 Henning Boysen Independent Independent 9/93 8/13 5/53 Stefan Charette Not independent Independent 9/9 9/9 3/3 Alexander Izosimov1 Independent Independent 5/5 2/2 Dermot Jenkinson1 Independent Independent 4/5 2/2 Mikael Larsson1 Not independent Independent 5/5 9/93 Roel Louwhoff Independent Independent 5/9 Directors active for part of the year, no longer part of Board of Directors Charles Burdick2 Independent Independent 3/4 4/4 Robert Lerwill2 Independent Independent 3/4 4/4 Mia Brunell Livfors2 Not independent Independent 4/4 3/3 2MPSL*GRXưL2 Not independent Independent 4/4 4/4 Number of meetings (Total) 9 13 5 – Physical meetings 7 5 5 – Conference calls 2 8 1) For New Directors active only part of the year number of meetings reflect the meetings held from the beginning of their Directorship. 2) For Ex-Directors active only part of the year numbers of meetings reflect the meetings held till end of their Directorship. 3) Chairman. 33 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance 3.2 The responsibility of the Board of Directors and Dermot Jenkinson. Henning Boysen was elected and work in 2012 as its Chairman. The Board of Directors is in charge of the overall governance and direction of the Company. It provides The responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee effective support for, and control of, the activities of include issues regarding salaries, pension plans, bonus the Executive Committee. programs and other employment terms of the Chief Executive Officer and senior management. The Board of Directors is responsible for the performance of all acts of administration necessary or The Remuneration Committee held five meetings useful for accomplishing the Company’s purposes, during 2012; all the members attended the meetings. except for matters reserved by Luxembourg law or the articles of association to the general meeting of 3.4 Audit Committee shareholders. At the statutory Board of Directors meeting following the 2012 Annual General Meeting, the Board of DirecIn order to carry out its work more effectively, the tors decided that the Audit Committee be comprised Board of Directors has created a Remuneration Comof Mikael Larsson, Stefan Charette and Laurie Bowen. mittee and an Audit Committee. These committees Mikael Larsson was elected as its Chairman. handle business within their respective areas and present recommendations and reports on which the The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board of Board of Directors may base its decisions and actions. Directors to assist the Board of Directors in the areas The internal regulations of the Audit Committee, the of financial reporting, internal control environment, Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Cominternal audit, compliance, risk management and code mittee have been formally defined in the corporate of business conduct. governance charter and are all available on the Company’s website. The Audit Committee focuses on ensuring quality and accuracy in the Company’s financial reporting, the The Board of Directors has also adopted procedures internal controls within the Company, the qualification related to the instructions and mandates issued to the and independence of the auditors and the Company’s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer adherence to prevailing rules and regulations. which define the delegation of the day-to-day management of the Company to them. The Audit Committee held thirteen meetings during 2012, of which five were physical meetings and eight The Board of Directors held nine meetings during were held via conference calls. For details of the atten2012, of which seven were physical meetings and dance, refer to the table on page 33. The CEO, CFO, two were held via conference calls. For details of External audit engagement partner, Head of Internal the attendance, refer to the table on page 33. Also, Audit, etc. were called for the meeting as required. the CEO and CFO were present at each meeting. 3.5 Nomination Committee Evaluation of the Board A Nomination Committee of major shareholders in The Board of Directors carries out an annual assessTranscom has been formed in accordance with the ment wherein the Board of Directors evaluates its own resolution of the 2012 Annual General Meeting. The performance and the performance of its committees. Nomination Committee is comprised of Mia Brunell This annual assessment process also entails a review Livfors on behalf of Investment AB Kinnevik, Stefan of competencies, board process & internal communiCharette on behalf of Creades AB, and Arne Lööw on cation within the board. A summary of the evaluation behalf of the Fourth Swedish National Pension Fund is also presented to the Nomination Committee. This (Fjärde AP-fonden). Mia Brunell Livfors has been process is conducted in accordance with the corporate elected Chairman of the Nomination Committee. governance charter of the Company. These evaluations have not led to any important changes in respect The Nomination Committee will submit a proposal of the Board of Directors or the committees. for the composition of the Board of Directors; remuneration for the Board of Directors and the auditor; 3.3 Remuneration Committee and a proposal on the Chairman of the 2013 Annual At the statutory Board of Directors meeting followGeneral Meeting, which will be presented to the 2013 ing the 2012 Annual General Meeting, the Board of Annual General Meeting for approval. The Nomination Directors decided that the Remuneration Committee Committee met three times during 2012. be comprised of Henning Boysen, Alexander Izosimov 34 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance No of meetings attended maintenance of the internal control systems, which Mia Brunell Livfors (Chair) 1/1 are reviewed periodically. Stefan Charette 2/3 The Company has a matrix organization, which means Arne Lööw 1/1 that those on the Executive Committee are responsible for ensuring that the work within their regions is Past Members carried out efficiently. Thomas Ramsälv 2/2 Cristina Stenbeck (Chair) 2/2 Internal audit (referred as Group Internal Control in Caroline af Ugglas 2/2 the Company) reviews the internal controls throughout the Group. The Board of Directors monitors the ongoing process by which critical risks to the business 4 Executive Committee are identified, evaluated and managed. The Board of Directors has appointed an executive management team (the “Management Team” or Each year the Audit Committee assesses the Executive Committee). A full list of its members is effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal provided on pages 38-39. controls (including financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management systems) on the 5 Remuneration basis of: The total amount of remuneration and other benefits granted directly or indirectly by the Company to the k #QR?@JGQFCBNPMACBSPCQ GLAJSBGLƓRFMQC?JPC?BW members of its Board of Directors is provided in note 24. described, which are in place to manage perceived risks; The total amount of remuneration and other benefits k +?L?ƓCKCLRPCTGCUQ?LBPCQNMLBQRMGLRCPL?J?SBGR granted directly or indirectly by the Company to the and external auditors’ reports, and advises the Audit members of its Management Team is provided in note Committee on controls; 24. k 2FCAMLRGLSMSQ%PMSN UGBCNPMACQQDMPDMPK?JJW identifying, evaluating and managing the significant The Company did not grant any loan to any member risks to the achievement of the Group’s objectives; of its Board of Directors nor to any member of the and Management Team. k 0CNMPRQRMRFCSBGR!MKKGRRCCMLRFCPCQSJRQMD internal audit reviews. 6 Major holdings The Company’s share ownership is disclosed on page The Group’s internal control systems are designed to 26 under “The Transcom share and shareholders” manage, rather than eliminate, risks that might impact section. All other significant relationships between the on the achievement of the Group’s objectives, and can Company and its major shareholders, insofar as it is only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance aware of them, are described in note 29 “Related Party against material misstatement or loss. In assessing Transactions”. what constitutes reasonable assurance, the Board of Directors considers the materiality of financial and 7 Market abuse related considerations non-financial risks and the relationship between the The Company has adopted and applies an insider costs of, and benefit from, internal control systems. trading policy. The Board of Directors regularly reviews the actual 8 Internal Control performance of the business compared with budgets The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for and forecasts, as well as other key performance the Company’s and its subsidiaries’ (“the ’Group’’) indicators. internal control systems and for monitoring their effectiveness. The Executive Committee and senior management are responsible for the implementation and 35 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance Lines of responsibility and delegated authorities are and financial assumptions and incorporate an asclearly defined. The Group’s policies and procedures sessment of the risk and sensitivities underlying the are regularly updated and distributed throughout the projections. Group. The principal features of the Group’s systems of internal control are designed to: Performance monitoring and review k 1?DCƓS?PB?QQCRQ Monthly performance and financial reports are k +?GLR?GLNPMNCP?AAMSLRGLƓPCAMPBQ produced for each business unit, with comparisons to k .PMTGBCPCJG?@JCƤL?LAG?JGLDMPK?RGML budget. Reports are consolidated for overall review by k 'BCLRGDW?LBK?L?ƓC@SQGLCQQPGQIQ the Management Team together with forecasts for the k +?GLR?GLAMKNJG?LACUGRF?NNPMNPG?RCJCƓGQJ?RGML income statement and cash flow. Detailed reports are and regulation; and presented to the Board of Directors on a regular basis. k 'BCLRGDW?LB?BMNR@CQRNP?ARGAC The principal features of the control framework and Risk identification, assessment and management the methods by which the Board of Directors satisfies The Group’s risk management and control framework itself that it is operating effectively are detailed below. is designed to support the identification, assessment, monitoring, management and control of risks that are Control environment significant to the achievement of the Group’s business The Group has an established governance framework, objectives. the key features of which include: k 2CPKQMDPCDCPCLACDMPRFC M?PBMD GPCARMPQ?LB The Management Team is responsible for reviewing each of its committees; and monitoring the financial risks to the Group. Simik AJC?PMPƓ?LGX?RGML?JQRPSARSPC UGRFBMASKCLRCB larly, management also monitors risks associated with delegation of authority from the Board of Directors information technology, human resource management to Management Team; and regulatory compliance. Management monitors the k %PMSNNMJGAWDP?KCUMPI UFGAFQCRQMSRPGQI completeness of the Group’s risk profile on a regular management and control standards for the Group’s basis through a Group risk monitoring framework. operations worldwide; and k 2FC%PMSNQ@?QGAƓSGBCJGLCQDMPK?L?ƓCKCLRMD The Company’s risk management framework is based its activities and decision-making processes are on the following key principles: governed by the Group’s code of conduct. k  CƤLCBNPMACBSPCQDMPRFC?NNPMT?JMDK?HMPRP?LQa. Comprehensive scope: Risks are assessed for a actions and capital allocations. number of defined categories. Both “Top Down” and “Bottom up” risk assessment processes are For financial reporting, the Company has established employed which helps the Company to proactively an accounting policy and updates it on a need basis. It identify the most important risks. The risk assesscontains detailed guidelines of the financial reporting ment process also entails identification of risk ownprinciples adopted by the Company. Group Financial ers in the Company. Control manages the reporting process to ensure the completeness and correctness of financial reporting b. Regular reporting: Risks are evaluated for their poand its compliance with IFRS requirements. tential impact and likelihood. The results of the risk assessment along with mitigation plans for key risks Whistle-blower process: The Board of Directors has are presented to the Audit Committee on a periodic established a whistle blowing process which enables basis for review. employees to report violations in accounting, reporting or internal controls, non-compliance with code of c. Follow up: Risk mitigation plans are followed up on conduct, Group policies, applicable laws, etc. a periodic basis and the status of mitigation plans/ activities are periodically reported to the Audit ComCorporate plan mittee. The Management Team submits an annual corporate plan to the Board of Directors for approval. The plan The Group Internal Control function is responsible for includes a quantified assessment of its planned opercoordinating and monitoring the risk management ating and financial performance for the next financial processes in the Group and consolidating the periodic year for each business unit, together with a strategic risk reporting for the Board of Directors and the Audit plan for the group for the following two years. Group Committee. management reviews the plans with each operational team. The individual plans are based on key economic 36 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Corporate Governance The Company continuously works to improve the The governance framework adopted by the Company policies which govern the management and control is in principle compliant with the regulations contained of both financial and non-financial risks in light of in the Swedish Corporate Governance Code, subject emerging risks identified. The adoption of these polito key deviations mentioned below. cies throughout the Group enables a broadly consistent approach to the management of risk at business Instead of rule 1.5 of the Swedish Corporate Goverunit level. At Group level, the functional heads are nance Code which requires the shareholders’ meeting responsible for the Group-wide aggregation and overto be conducted in Swedish and the material presight of their specific risks. sented to be available in Swedish., the shareholders’ meetings are conducted in English and the related Monitoring material presented at such meetings is also in English. The Board of Directors reviews the effectiveness of English is the official language of the Company and established internal controls through the Audit Comthe only language comprehensible to all key stakemittee, which receives reports from the Management holders given that the Company’s place of registration Team and the Group’s internal control function as and stock market listing are in different countries. described above. Instead of rule 6.1 of Swedish Corporate Governance The Company’s Internal Control function is responCode which requires the chairman of the board to be sible for following up on critical risks and action plans elected by the shareholders’ meeting, the chairman and reporting the status of action plans to the Audit is elected by the Board of Directors at the statutory Committee on a periodic basis. board meeting following the Annual General Meeting. This is in line with the Luxembourg law, the Company’s 9 Explanation from the Company of its decision articles of association and the recommendation 2 4 of relating to corporate governance and key deviations the Ten Principles of Corporate Governance. from the Swedish Corporate Governance Code Corporate governance within the Company is based Instead of rule 10.2 of Swedish Corporate Governance on Luxembourg law and the Company follows the Code which requires the Company to publish infor“Ten Principles of Corporate Governance” issued by mation regarding Directors’ and President & CEO’s the Luxembourg Stock Exchange, except as described holdings of shares and other financial instruments in below. the company and any such holdings owned by the Directors’ and President & CEO’s related natural or legal Instead of 10.6 of the Ten Principles of Corporate persons, the Company does not publish this, as it is Governance, which recommends the company to not required by the Corporate Governance principles acknowledge the right of any shareholder or group of of Luxembourg, which the Company follows. shareholders holding at least 5 percent of the capital to ask for items to be placed on the agenda for the 10 Disclosure regarding action from Annual General Meeting and to lodge draft resolutions Disciplinary Committee on the items on the agenda on the day of the Annual In 2012, NASDAQ OMX Disciplinary Committee General Meeting, the Company follows the provisions (”the Committee”) imposed a fine on the Company of Luxembourg company law pursuant to which one amounting to three times the annual fee paid or more shareholders who together hold at least 10 to NASDAQ OMX Stockholm, corresponding to percent of the subscribed capital may request that approximately EUR 65 thousand. The Committee one or more additional items be put on the agenda of found that the Company has committed a breach any general meeting. of the disclosure rules in the Exchange’s Rulebook for Issuers by not disclosing information in a timely Instead of 4.2 which recommends the board to manner about tax proceedings in Italy. A press release establish a nomination committee from amongst its concerning the tax assessment in question was issued members to assist in the selection of directors, and by Transcom on 12 October 2011, following a careful the associated recommendations related to structure evaluation of the potential financial effects of a Court of nomination committee of the Ten Principles of of Appeals decision. Corporate Governance, the Nomination Committee of the Company is made up of representatives of major shareholders and is elected during the third quarter of the year. 37 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Executive management Executive management Johan Eriksson, Roberto Boggio, President General Manager, & CEO South Region  Johan was appointed President and Chief Executive Officer of Transcom  Roberto joined our Executive team in July 2011. As Regional General in 2011. He joined Transcom in October 2010 to head up our operations in Manager, Roberto is responsible for our operations in France and Italy, as Scandinavia as General Manager of the North Europe region. He brought well as the offshore operations in North Africa and Croatia that most efwith him substantial international experience, having held a series of senior fectively serve the French and Italian markets. operational and executive leadership roles within business services and Prior to taking on the Executive role with Transcom, Roberto served outsourcing companies. our company for seven years as Italy Country Manager, during which time Immediately before joining Transcom Johan spent three years as CEO of he oversaw the development of our Italian business through several key international staffing and recruitment company, Poolia AB (publ). He joined milestones. Through Roberto’s leadership, Transcom Italy has grown into a Poolia from Loomis, one of the world’s leading players in cash handling major market player. In 2009, Roberto led our crisis recovery response after services, where he held the post of Chief Operating Officer, responsible the earthquake in L’Aquila. He was named Employee of the Year in recognifor operations in 14 countries. Between 1992 and 2007 he worked for the tion of his outstanding performance and commitment to Transcom at the global outsourced security business, Securitas, latterly as Regional PresiOur Group Sales Awards in 2009 held by our parent company Kinnevik. dent for the Nordic Region. During his time with the company he also held Roberto’s career in the outsourcing industry includes ten years of general posts in the UK, Germany, Austria and Sweden. management experience and an additional ten years in Hewlett Packard Johan holds a Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Business Administration and (HP). Before joining Transcom, Roberto developed expertise in business Economics from the University of Karlstad. process outsourcing serving many vertical markets such as telco, banking, insurance and value-added services. Roberto holds a degree in Business Administration from Bocconi University in Milan and has been a member of the board of the Italian Call Center Association since the late 1990’s. Ignacio de Montis, !FPGQRG?L&SJRưL  Global Sales & General Manager, Accounts Director North Region  Ignacio joined Transcom in 2007. As Global Sales & Accounts Director he  Christian joined Transcom in 2012 as General Manager of the North is responsible for leading a coordinated and strategic sales approach toward Region, with overall responsibility for Transcom’s operations in Sweden, expanding our business partnerships with our clients, while also focusing on Norway and Denmark. Christian brings extensive experience and industry attracting major new clients to our global service offering. expertise, having spent over 15 years in various operational and executive Ignacio makes sure that our solutions fit precisely with our clients’ needs management positions in the Nordics and internationally. He has a strong through the creation of a clear global account strategy, and that the delivery track record of driving growth, building strong client partnerships and of those services is as good as it can be – wherever our clients and their improving operational performance. customers are located. Transcom’s global accounts team works to ensure .PGMPRMHMGLGLƓ2P?LQAMK !FPGQRG?LU?Q!#-MD8CPM*GKC ?QMDRU?PC consistency across our organization’s vast international footprint and company developing and deploying video-based recruitment solutions. engages with clients to develop complementary growth strategies in each Christian also spent several years in senior management roles at Sykes, geographical market. where he contributed to the company´s European expansion, and was parIgnacio’s career has been grounded in customer management. Before ticularly involved in strengthening Nordic service delivery. He was also part coming to Transcom, he served as CEO for Tele2 Portugal, following his of the management team that built up and established the Excellent Group previous role as Customer Operations Manager for Tele2 Spain, where he as a major player in the Nordics. was responsible for setting up the operational support department. Christian holds a Masters Degree in Political Science, International RelaA speaker of five languages, Ignacio has also held customer managetions from the University of Uppsala. ment positions at Sol Meliá, the leading worldwide hotel and resort chain. 38 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Executive management Per Killiner, John Robson, Interim CFO Chief Information Officer  Per is interim CFO, and will hold this position until Pär Christiansen takes  John joined us in 2009 from Sitel, where he was Global CTO. As our up his position as CFO, no later than September 1, 2013. Mr Killiner was Chief Information Officer, he is helping to transform the way we do business most recently acting CFO at CDON Group, where Investment AB Kinnevik by ensuring we invest in the right technology for the future to help us exis a major shareholder. Prior to this, he held equivalent positions with the ceed customer expectations and drive growth. He brings to Transcom deep publicly listed companies Cybercom Group, Acando and Resco experience and solid understanding of outsourcing, shared service centers, Transcom appointed Pär Christiansen as CFO in March 2013. He will financial services and contact center environments. take up his position as CFO of Transcom no later than September 1, 2013. John worked previously at global contact center provider Sitel, joining the Since 2011, Mr Christiansen serves as CFO of MTR Stockholm, the MTR company when it merged with Client Logic, where he had been since 2006. company that operates the Stockholm underground system. The MTR CorHere he helped deliver a series of ICT transformation projects, including the poration is listed on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. Prior to this role, Mr creation of the company’s global IT operations center in the Philippines. Christiansen held a number of senior management positions at SAS Group, Prior to that John gained general management experience in Europe and the Scandinavian airline carrier, most recently as Vice President Group the US in senior IT roles for both public and private companies including Business & Financial Control at SAS Operations. He also has management Verizon, MCI, and NetSec as well as Chief Technology Officer at Liberata. consulting experience from Establish Inc, and has managed a number of turnaround and efficiency improvement programs. Pär Christiansen holds a Master of Science Degree in Mechanical Engineering from the Lund Isabel SánchezInstitute of Technology, as well as a Bachelor’s Degree in Economics and Lozano, Business Administration from the University of Lund. General Manager, Iberia & Latin America Neil Rae, General Manager North America &  Isabel joined Transcom in 2011 as General Manager of Iberia and Latin Asia Pacific region America. In this role she is responsible for our operations and business activities in Spain, Portugal and Latin America. Isabel’s career experience includes more than 20 years in the contact center industry. She brings a wealth of experience and knowledge of the outsourcing field to Transcom, having held senior roles at several key players, including Teleperformance Spain, where she served as CEO and President for more than 11 years. During her tenure at Teleperformance, she  Neil joined Transcom in 2004 as a Key Account Manager and has since drove significant growth in the company’s customer base and oversaw the gone on to accumulate significant experience in our organization. Neil was expansion of their operational footprint. promoted to the position of Acting Regional General Manager for North Isabel is the president of the Spanish Contact Centre Association, a nonAmerica & Asia Pacific at the beginning of 2012 to spearhead our growth in profit organization which aims to strengthen and develop our sector, while North America, the world’s largest customer management market, and our ensuring a high quality of service among associated companies through the offshore operations in Asia. In June 2012, Neil was promoted to General implementation of regulatory principles. She has worked with clients from Manager on an ongoing basis. a variety of industries such as telecommunications, energy, banking, insurPrior to this role, Neil oversaw the expansion of the region’s largest ance, travel and leisure, travel and public administration. client partnership and has subsequently served in the roles of Director of She holds a Degree in Law from the Universidad Autónoma de Madrid Client Services, Director for Sales and Account Management, and Country and a Masters in Marketing, Communication and Publicity, which she comManager in North America. pleted at the Instituto de Directivos de Empresa. Before joining Transcom, Neil spent two years at the helm of a training and development consulting firm in Toronto, Canada which serviced both private and public sector enterprises with competency-based learning and Jörgen Skoog, development initiatives. During his career he also held a leadership position at a business services company specializing in working with commercial Global Operations properties, playing a key role in the expansion of the company to major & HR Director and markets in the USA. Neil’s strong background in business strategy, sales and marketing, as Acting General well as client services, has been integral to the recent developments in the Manager, Central North American and Asia market for Transcom. He has been at the forefront in development of new and innovative strategic offerings from social media Europe region customer care and shared services to early collections within the region. He holds a BA from the University of Guelph.  Jörgen joined Transcom in 2002 as Regional HR manager for the North Region. Over time, his operational responsibility was extended, and in 2010 he was promoted to Head of Operations for the North region. In 2011, he was appointed as Acting General Manager, North Region, and during 2012 he became Acting General Manager of the Central Europe Region. Jörgen’s experience prior to Transcom includes 13 years in the Ericsson Group, where he held positions in global management of Human Resources as well as in Administration. Over his career, Jörgen has gained experience in manufacturing and R&D, both at a national level and internationally. He has worked in businesses operating in Europe, North America, and Asia, during which time he lived and worked in China. Jörgen holds a degree in Human Resource Management and Enterprise Organization from University of Karlstad. 39 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Board of Directors Board of Directors Henning Boysen Laurie Bowen  Chairman of the Board of Transcom WorldWide S.A. since 2012.  Joined Transcom Worldwide S.A.’s Board in 2012. Joined Transcom WorldWide S.A.’s Board in 2009. Chairman of the Member of the Audit Committee of Transcom WorldWide S.A. Mrs Remuneration Committee of Transcom Worldwide S.A. Mr Boysen is Bowen has held numerous international leadership roles, most recently as Chairman of Kuoni, one of Europe’s leading leisure travel companies, a President, Enterprise Business for Tata Communications (part of the multiposition he has held since 2006, board member since 2003. Other board national Indian Tata Group). Prior to her time at Tata Group, Mrs. Bowen was assignments: Chairman of Apodan Nordic and member of the board of President of British Telecom’s Global Financial Services business and the Nupo AS. Mr Boysen was formerly President and CEO of Gate Gourmet Chief Executive of BT Radianz. Mrs Bowen spent over twenty years at IBM from 1996 to 2004. Between 1988 and 1992 he was COO and Deputy working in the USA and Europe in a number of senior leadership positions, President of Saudia Catering in Saudi Arabia. Mr Boysen holds a Masters in including global roles in the telecommunications and financial services Economics from Aarhus University, Denmark. sectors. Mrs Bowen graduated from Washington University in St Louis, USA, with an MBA and BSc degrees in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science. Stefan Charette Alexander Izosimov  Member of the Board of Transcom WorldWide S.A. since 2011.  Joined Transcom WorldWide S.A.’s Board in 2012. Member of the Audit Committee of Transcom WorldWide S.A. Chairman of Member of the Remuneration Committee of Transcom WorldWide S.A. Mr. the Board of the public companies Concentric AB and Note AB and board Izosimov is a director of LM Ericsson AB, Modern Times Group (MTG), East member of the public companies Haldex, Lindab and Creades. Experi!?NGR?J #408%PMSN1  #408.JA?LB WL?QRW$MSLB?RGML &CGQ ence from 9 public boards and 6 nomination committees. CEO of public also on the Executive Board of ICC (International Chamber of Commerce), investment company Creades AB. Previously CEO of the public companies and has been a member of the Board of the GSMA (the governing body for Investment AB Öresund, AB Custos and private company Brokk AB. Mr the global mobile telecommunications industry), as well a member of the Charette holds a MSc in Mathematical Finance from Cass Business School Russian Prime Minister’s Council for Competitiveness and Entrepreneurship. and a BSc in Electrical Engineering from the Royal Institute of Technology. Alexander Izosimov served as Chief Executive Officer of the VimpelCom Group and, latterly, the enlarged VimpelCom Ltd, which is one of the world’s largest emerging market telecommunications companies, between 2003 and 2011. Mr. Izosimov previously held several senior management positions at Mars, Inc. over a period of seven years, including as a member of the Global Executive Management Board and as Regional President for Russia, the CIS, Eastern Europe and the Nordics. Mr. Izosimov also worked as a consultant for McKinsey & Co in Stockholm and London for five years. Mr. Izosimov graduated from the Moscow Aviation Institute with a Master’s degree in Science and from INSEAD with an MBA. 40 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Board of Directors Dermot Jenkinson Mikael Larsson  Joined Transcom WorldWide S.A.’s Board in 2012.  Joined Transcom WorldWide S.A.’s Board in 2012. Member of the Remuneration Committee of Transcom WorldWide S.A. Chairman of the Audit Committee of Transcom WorldWide S.A. Mr. Larsson Dermot Jenkinson is the founder of beCogent Ltd, and was the company’s is a member of the boards of BillerudKorsnäs AB, Bergvik Skog AB, and Chairman until its sale in August 2010. Mr. Jenkinson remained with the Vireo Energy AB, among others. Mikael Larsson is Chief Financial Officer of business in an advisory capacity until March 2011. Mr. Jenkinson has a wide Investment AB Kinnevik since 2001. Prior to joining Kinnevik, Mr. Larsson range of other business interests, including membership of the boards of worked six years with audit and transaction advisory services at Arthur John Menzies plc, the Scottish Friendly Society, Sunlaws Development Andersen in Stockholm. He also has experience from his position as Group Company Ltd, and Renewable Resources (Energy Solutions) Ltd, where he Controller at Scandinavian Leisure Group (today Thomas Cook Northern is Chairman. Mr. Jenkinson was previously Executive Chairman of Early Europe). Mr. Larsson is a graduate in Business Administration from Uppsala Learning Centre and Executive Chairman of Smythsons. Mr. Jenkinson University. was also one of the founder shareholders of Regal Hotel Group, and was its director from inception until the business was sold in 1999. Mr. Jenkinson won Scottish Entrepreneur of the Year 2009, and is a graduate of the GSIA program at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, USA. Roel Louwhoff  Member of the Board of Transcom WorldWide S.A. since 2007. Currently Chief Executive Officer of BT Operate, part of British Telecom plc. Previously Chief Operating Officer for the international business process outsourcer ClientLogic Corporation. Before that, Chief Operating Officer at SNT Group, a European call center provider. His early career was as a management consultant with Andersen Consulting where he worked in the CRM practice in Europe and North America. Mr Louwhoff holds an MBA from Rijksuniversiteit, Groningen in the Netherlands. 41 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Five-year summary 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Jan–Dec NET REVENUE (€M) 605.6 554.1 589.1 560.2 631.8 Profit before tax (€m) -23.6 -32.0 -5.6 25.3 21.9 Net Income (€m) -30.6 -50.4 -8.0 20.6 16.2 Net cash flow from operations (€m) -12.8 27.5 29.1 17.7 1.4 Net cash flow from operations per share (Euro cents) -1 32 40 24 2 EPS (Euro cents) -2 -63 -11 28 22 Return on Equity -23.0% -29.5% -4.6% 12.0% 11.3% Operating margin -2.9% -5.1% -1.1% 4.3% 4.4% Debt/equity ratio* 61.4% 41.3% 67.7% 77.5% 88.3% Net debt/EBITDA** 1.97 0.8 2.5 2.3 1.7 * Gross debt/shareholders’ equity ** At end of period 42 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated income statement for the year ended December 31, 2012 € 000 Note 2012 2011 Restated Revenue 5 605,581 554,069 Cost of sales (493,749) (458,335) Gross profit 111,832 95,734 Selling expenses (6,459) (6,426) Administrative expenses (102,742) (84,203) Other income/(expenses) 23 622 (15,978) Restructuring 6 (247) (18,167) Intangible assets impairment 8 (20,641) Loss from operations (17,635) (29,040) Finance income 25 366 1,393 Finance costs 25 (6,320) (4,361) Loss before tax (23,589) (32,008) Income tax expense 26 (6,975) (18,350) Loss for the year attributable to owners of the parent 5 (30,564) (50,358) Earnings per share for the year (expressed in € per common share) 27 Basic – per A class share, for loss for the year attributable to owners of the parent (0.02) (0.63) – per B class share, for loss for the year attributable to owners of the parent (0.02) (0.63) Diluted – per A class share, for loss for the year attributable to owners of the parent (0.02) (0.63) – per B class share, for loss for the year attributable to owners of the parent (0.02) (0.63) The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 43 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2012 € 000 2012 2011 Restated Loss for the year (30,564) (50,358) Other comprehensive income Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 1,522 (9,514) Actuarial profit/(loss) on post employment benefits obligation (388) 251 Cash flow hedges – gains/(losses) recognized directly in equity – (502) Income tax relating to cash flow hedges – 166 1,134 (9,599) Total comprehensive income attributable to owners of the parent (29,430) (59,957) The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 44 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated statement of financial position for the year ended December 31, 2012 As at € 000 Note 2012 2011 January 1, 2011 Restated Restated ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 7 14,518 12,386 19,139 Intangible assets 8 147,921 171,682 174,820 Deferred tax assets 9 3,540 5,088 5,554 Other receivables 1,350 2,185 – 167,329 191,341 199,513 Current assets Trade and other receivables 10 114,976 104,837 112,294 Income tax receivables 3,542 3,817 – Prepaid expenses and accrued income 11 29,685 25,300 18,731 Derivative financial instruments 12 – – 1,959 Cash and cash equivalents 42,600 52,076 40,977 190,803 186,030 173,961 Total assets 358,132 377,371 373,474 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 45 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated statement of financial position (continued) for the year ended December 31, 2012 As at € 000 Note 2012 2011 January 1, 2011 Restated Restated EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to owners of the parent 13 Share capital 53,558 53,558 31,548 Share premium 11,458 11,458 10,156 Legal reserve 4,213 3,908 3,908 Retained earnings 47,306 78,175 128,602 Equity-based payments 42 342 Foreign exchange reserve (11,461) (12,983) (3,469) Other reserves 14 27,910 28,298 38 Total equity 133,026 162,414 171,125 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 17 70,530 65,286 118,462 Leasing and other similar obligations 18 42 163 – Deferred tax liabilities 9 2,650 5,342 6,811 Provisions for other liabilities and charges 19 10,518 18,081 5,117 Employee benefit obligations 20 2,834 2,414 2,704 Government grants 21 67 147 917 86,641 91,433 134,011 Current liabilities Borrowings 10,000 – – Derivative financial instruments 12 – 272 – Leasing and other similar obligations 18 167 152 – Trade and other payables 22 111,117 100,108 58,930 Government grants 21 78 79 – Provisions for other liabilities and charges 19 16,559 22,913 7,885 Income tax payable 544 – 1,523 138,465 123,524 68,338 Total liabilities 225,106 214,957 202,349 Total equity and liabilities 358,132 377,371 373,474 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 46 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated statement of changes in equity for the year ended December 31, 2012 Attributable to the owners of the parent EquityShare based Foreign Other capital Share Legal Retained payexchange Reserves € 000 (Note 13) premium reserve earnings ments reserve (Note 14) Total Balance as at January 1, 2011 31,548 10,156 3,908 132,437 342 (3,469) 38 174,960 Correction of error (note 2.1.1) – – – (3,835) – – – (3,835) Balance as at January 1, 2011 (restated) 31,548 10,156 3,908 128,602 342 (3,469) 38 171,125 Loss for the year – – – (49,593) – – – (49,593) Correction of error (note 2.1.1) – – – (765) – – – (765) Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – – – – (9,514) (85) (9,599) Transaction with owners Dividends (note 16) – – (69) – – – (69) Equity based payments – – – – (342) – – (342) Issue of share capital 50,403 4,730 – – – – – 55,133 Transaction costs – (3,428) – – – – (3,428) Decrease of share capital (28,393) – – – – – 28,393 – Purchase of treasury shares – – – – – (48) (48) Balance as at December 31, 2011 (restated) 53,558 11,458 3,908 78,175 – (12,983) 28,298 162,414 Loss for the year – – – (30,564) – – – (30,564) Transfer to legal reserve 305 (305) – Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – – – – 1,522 (388) 1,134 Transaction with owners Equity based payments – – – – 42 – 42 Total transaction with owners – – – – 42 – – 42 Balance as at December 31, 2012 53,558 11,458 4,213 47,306 42 (11,461) 27,910 133,026 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 47 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Consolidated statement of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2012 € 000 Note 2012 2011 Restated Cash flows from operating activities Loss before tax (23,589) (32,008) Adjustments for non cash items: Depreciation and amortization 7, 8 11,083 13,637 Impairment loss 20,641 2,168 Share-based payments 42 (342) Increase/(decrease) in provisions including employee benefit obligations (13,496) 27,992 Other non-cash adjustments 3,165 (9,457) Cash flows from operating activities before changes in working capital (2,154) 1,990 Changes in working capital: (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (10,139) 5,272 Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 11,009 32,457 (Increase)/decrease in prepaid expenses and accrued income (4,385) (6,569) Changes in working capital (3,515) 31,160 Income tax paid (7,136) (5,625) Net cash flows from operating activities (12,805) 27,525 Cash flows from investing activities Purchases of property, plant and equipment 7 (8,530) (5,121) Purchases of intangible assets 8 (823) (120) Disposal of sites – (8,662) Interest received 366 269 Net cash flows used in investing activities (8,987) (13,634) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings 15,244 31,116 Repayment of borrowings – (84,292) Proceeds from issuance of shares net of share issuance costs 13 – 53,882 Interest paid (2,981) (3,429) Dividends paid to owners 16 – (69) Net cash flows used in financing activities 12,263 (2,792) Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (9,529) 11,099 Net foreign exchange difference 53 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 52,076 40,977 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 42,600 52,076 The accompanying notes form an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 48 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Notes to the consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 Note 1 Corporate information As a consequence, the Group has recorded the following adjustments to the previously issued financial statements: Transcom WorldWide S.A. (the “Company” or the “parent entity”) and its subsidiaries (together, “Transcom” or the “Group”) provide multi€ 000 1 January 2011 language customer relationship management products and services Increase in trade and other payables 3,835 (“CRM”) and credit management services (“CMS”), including customer Decrease in retained earnings (3,835) help lines and other telephone-based marketing and customer service programs (“teleservices”) to clients in customer-intensive industries. The Company is a limited liability Company (“Société Anonyme”) 31 December 2011 incorporated and existing under the laws of the Grand Duchy of Increase in trade and other payables 765 Luxembourg. The Company was registered on June 11, 1997 with the Luxembourg Register of Commerce under the number RCS B59528. Decrease in retained earnings (765) The registered office of the Company is at 45, Rue des Scillas, L-2529, Increase in cost of sales 726 Luxembourg. Transcom WorldWide S.A. class A and class B shares are Increase in administrative expenses 39 listed on the Nordic Exchange Mid Cap list under the symbols “TWW SDB A” and “TWW SDB B”. The consolidated financial statements were authorized for issue by 31 December 2011 the Board of Directors on March 29, 2013. These consolidated financial Decrease in EPS of A class shares (0.01) statements will be submitted for approval at the Annual General Meeting on May 29, 2013. Decrease in EPS of B class shares (0.01) Decrease in diluted EPS of A class shares (0.01) Note 2 Summary of significant Decrease in diluted EPS of B class shares (0.01) accounting policies The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of these 2.1.2 Changes in accounting policies and disclosures consolidated financial statements are set out below. These policies (a) New and amended standards and interpretations adopted by the have been consistently applied to all the years presented, unless Group otherwise stated. The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year. The IASB has amended some standards. However, these standards 2.1 Basis of preparation or changes are not relevant to the accounting policies of the Group. The consolidated financial statements of Transcom WorldWide S.A. These changes are: have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reportk '1'LAMKC2?VCQKCLBKCLRg CDCPPCB2?VCQ0CAMTCPWMD ing Standards and IFRIC Interpretations, as adopted by the European Underlying Assets Union (“IFRS”). The consolidated financial statements have been k '$01$GPQR 2GKCBMNRGMLMD'LRCPL?RGML?J$GL?LAG?J0CNMPRGLƓ prepared under the historical cost basis, except for derivative financial Standards (Amendment) – Severe Hyperinflation and Removal of instruments that have been measured at fair value. The consolidated Fixed Dates for First-Time Adopters financial statements are presented in Euros which is the Group’s k '$01$GL?LAG?J'LQRPSKCLRQ GQAJMQSPCQ#LF?LACB CPCAMƓLGreporting currency, rounded in thousands of Euros. tion Disclosure Requirements The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates. It also requires (b) New standards, amendments and interpretations issued but not management to exercise its judgment in the process of applying the effective for the financial year beginning January 1, 2012 and not early Group’s accounting policies. The areas involving a higher degree of adopted judgment or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates Standards issued but not yet effective up to the date of issuance of the are significant to the consolidated financial statements are disclosed Group’s financial statements are listed below. This listing of standards in note 3. and interpretations issued are those that the Group reasonably expects to have an impact on disclosures, financial position or performance when applied at a future date. The Group intends to adopt these stand2.1.1 Prior year error ards when they become effective. Since 2007, the Group has contributed to an employee plan in its Italian operation. When preparing the financial statements for 2012, k IAS 1 Financial Statement Presentation – Presentation of Items of management discovered that this defined contribution plan was not Other Comprehensive Income recorded in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benefits. The amendments to IAS 1 change the grouping of items presented As of 1 January 2011 and 1 January 2012, the accrued expenses in OCI. Items that could be reclassified (or “recycled”) to profit or were understated for an amount of EUR 3,835 thousand and EUR loss at a future point in time (for example, upon derecognition or 4,600 thousand, respectively. settlement) would be presented separately from items that will never be reclassified. The amendment affects presentation only and has no impact on the Group’s financial position or performance. The amendment becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after July 1, 2012. 49 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 k IAS 19 Employee Benefits (Amendment) In addition the IASB has released new standards or amended the existThe IASB has issued numerous amendments to IAS 19. These range ing standards that are not relevant to the Group operations: from fundamental changes such as removing the corridor mechak 'LTCQRKCLR#LRGRGCQKCLBKCLRQRM'$01 '$01?LB'1 nism and the concept of expected returns on plan assets to simple k %MTCPLKCLR*M?LQKCLBKCLRQRM'$01 clarifications and re-wording. The amendment becomes effective k '$01(MGLR?PP?LƓCKCLRQ for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013. k IFRS 7 Disclosures — Offsetting Financial Assets and Financial (c) Annual Improvements to IFRS May 2012 Liabilities — Amendments to IFRS 7 These improvements will not have an impact on the Group, but include: These amendments require an entity to disclose information about IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting rights to set-off and related arrangements (e.g., collateral agreeStandards ments). The disclosures would provide users with information that is This improvement clarifies that an entity that stopped applying IFRS in useful in evaluating the effect of netting arrangements on an entity’s the past and chooses, or is required, to apply IFRS, has the option to refinancial position. The new disclosures are required for all recogapply IFRS 1. If IFRS 1 is not re-applied, an entity must retrospectively nised financial instruments that are set off in accordance with IAS restate its financial statements as if it had never stopped applying IFRS. 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation. The disclosures also apply to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements recognised financial instruments that are subject to an enforceable This improvement clarifies the difference between voluntary additional master netting arrangement or similar agreement, irrespective of comparative information and the whether they are set off in accordance with IAS 32. These amendminimum required comparative information. Generally, the minimum ments will not impact the Group’s financial position or performance required comparative information is the previous period. and become effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. IAS 16 Property Plant and Equipment This improvement clarifies that major spare parts and servicing equipk IFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and Measurement ment that meet the definition of property, IFRS 9, as issued, reflects the first phase of the IASB’s work on the plant and equipment are not inventory. replacement of IAS 39 and applies to classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities as defined in IAS IAS 32 Financial Instruments, Presentation 39. The standard was initially effective for annual periods beginning This improvement clarifies that income taxes arising from distributions on or after 1 January 2013, but following the Amendments to IFRS to equity holders are accounted for in 9 Mandatory Effective Date of IFRS 9 and Transition Disclosures, accordance with IAS 12 Income Taxes. issued in December 2011, the IASB moved the mandatory effective IAS 34 Interim Financial Reporting date to 1 January 2015. The EU has not decided yet when IFRS 9 The amendment aligns the disclosure requirements for total segment will be effective. In subsequent phases, the IASB will address hedge assets with total segment liabilities in interim financial statements. accounting and impairment of financial assets. The adoption of the This clarification also ensures that interim disclosures are aligned with first phase of IFRS 9 will have an effect on the classification and annual disclosures. measurement of the Group’s financial assets, but will not have an These improvements are effective for annual periods beginning on impact on classification and measurements of financial liabilities. or after 1 January 2013. The Group will quantify the effect in conjunction with the other phases, when the final standard is issued. k IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 2.2 Consolidation IFRS 10 replaces the portion of IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate (a) Subsidiaries Financial Statements that addresses the accounting for consolidated Subsidiaries are all entities (including special purpose entities) over financial statements. It also includes the issues raised in SIC – 12 which the Group has the power to govern the financial and operating Consolidation Special Purpose Entities. IFRS 10 establishes a policies generally accompanying a shareholding of more than one single control model that applies to all entities including special half of the voting rights. The existence and effect of potential voting purpose entities. The changes introduced by IFRS 10 will require rights that are currently exercisable or convertible are considered when management to exercise significant judgment to determine which assessing whether the Group controls another entity. The Group also entities are controlled, and therefore, are required to be consolidated assesses existence of control where it does not have more than 50% of by a parent, compared with the requirements that were in IAS 27. the voting power but is able to govern the financial and operating poliThis standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or cies by virtue of de-facto control. De-facto control may arise in circumafter January 1, 2014. stances where the size of the Group’s voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of other shareholders give the Group the k IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities power to govern the financial and operating policies, etc. Subsidiaries IFRS 12 includes all of the disclosures that were previously in IAS are fully consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to 27 related to consolidated financial statements, as well as all of the Group. They are deconsolidated from the date that control ceases. the disclosures that were previously included in IAS 31 and IAS 28. The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business These disclosures relate to an entity’s interests in subsidiaries, joint combinations. The consideration transferred for the acquisition of a arrangements, associates and structured entities. A number of new subsidiary is the fair values of the assets transferred, the liabilities disclosures are also required, but has no impact on the Group’s incurred to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests financial position or performance. This standard becomes effective issued by the Group. The consideration transferred includes the fair for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2014. value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration k IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement arrangement. Identifiable assets acquired and liabilities and contingent IFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under IFRS for all liabilities assumed in a business combination are measured initially at fair value measurements. IFRS 13 does not change when an entity their fair values at the acquisition date. The Group recognizes any nonis required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance on how to controlling interest in the acquiree on an acquisition-by-acquisition bameasure fair value under IFRS when fair value is required or permitted. sis, either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate The Group is currently assessing the impact that this standard will have share of the recognized amounts of acquiree’s identifiable net assets. on the financial position and performance. This standard becomes Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013. If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition k Transition Guidance (Amendments to IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12) date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the It includes some amendments to IFRS 10 and IFRS 12. These acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date through amendments are expected to become effective for annual periods profit or loss. beginning on or after January 1, 2014. 50 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the Group is transferred. Accounting policies of associates have been changed recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent changes to where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the fair value of the contingent consideration that is deemed to be an the Group. asset or liability is recognized in accordance with IAS 39 either in profit Dilution gains and losses arising in investments in associates are or loss or as a change to other comprehensive income. Contingent recognized in the income statement. consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured, and its As at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, the Group did not subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. own any associates. Goodwill is initially measured as the excess of the aggregate of the consideration transferred and the fair value of non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If 2.3 Segment reporting this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognized in profit or loss. internal reporting provided to the chief operating decision-maker. Intercompany transactions, balances, income and expenses on The chief operating decision-maker, who is responsible for allocating transactions between Group companies are eliminated. Profits and resources and assessing performance of the operating segments, has losses resulting from intercompany transactions that are recognized been identified as the regional general manager that makes strategic in assets are also eliminated. Accounting policies of subsidiaries have decisions. been changed where necessary to ensure consistency with the policies adopted by the Group. 2.4 Foreign currency translation (b) Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries without change (a) Functional and presentation currency of control Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s Transactions with non-controlling interests that do not result in loss of entities are measured using the currency of the primary economic control are accounted for as equity transactions – that is, as transacenvironment in which the entity operates (‘the functional currency’). tions with the owners in their capacity as owners. The difference The consolidated financial statements are presented in ‘Euro (€)’, which between fair value of any consideration paid and the relevant share acis the Group’s presentation currency. quired of the carrying value of net assets of the subsidiary is recorded in equity. Gains or losses on disposals to non-controlling interests are (b) Transactions and balances also recorded in equity. Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transac(c) Disposal of subsidiaries tions or valuation where items are re-measured. Foreign exchange When the Group ceases to have control any retained interest in the gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such transactions entity is re-measured to its fair value at the date when control is lost, and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of monetary with the change in carrying amount recognized in profit or loss. The fair assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are recognized value is the initial carrying amount for the purposes of subsequently in the income statement within “finance income/finance costs”, except accounting for the retained interest as an associate, joint venture or when deferred in other comprehensive income as qualifying cash flow financial asset. In addition, any amounts previously recognized in other hedges and qualifying net investment hedges. comprehensive income in respect of that entity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. This (c) Group companies may mean that amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive The results and financial position of all the Group entities (none of income are reclassified to profit or loss. which has the currency of a hyper-inflationary economy) that have a functional currency different from the presentation currency are trans(d) Associates lated into the presentation currency as follows: Associates are all entities over which the Group has significant k ?QQCRQ?LBJG?@GJGRGCQDMPC?AFQR?RCKCLRMDƤL?LAG?JNMQGRGMLNPCQCLRinfluence but not control, generally accompanying a shareholding of ed are translated at the closing rate at the date of that statement of between 20% and 50% of the voting rights. Investments in associates ƤL?LAG?JNMQGRGML are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Under the k GLAMKC?LBCVNCLQCQDMPC?AFGLAMKCQR?RCKCLR?PCRP?LQJ?RCB equity method, the investment is initially recognized at cost, and the at average exchange rates (unless this average is not a reasonable carrying amount is increased or decreased to recognize the investor’s approximation of the cumulative effect of the rates prevailing on the share of the profit or loss of the investee after the date of acquisition. transaction dates, in which case income and expenses are translated The Group’s investment in associates includes goodwill identified on ?RRFCP?RCMLRFCB?RCQMDRFCRP?LQ?ARGMLQ?LB acquisition. k ?JJPCQSJRGLƓCVAF?LƓCBGÊCPCLACQ?PCPCAMƓLGXCBGLMRFCPAMKNPCIf the ownership interest in an associate is reduced but significant hensive income. influence is retained, only a proportionate share of the amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income is reclassified to On consolidation, exchange differences arising from the translation of profit or loss where appropriate. the net investment in foreign operations, and of borrowings and other The Group’s share of post-acquisition profit or loss is recognized in currency instruments designated as hedges of such investments, are the income statement, and its share of post acquisition movements in taken to other comprehensive income. When a foreign operation is other comprehensive income is recognized in other comprehensive partially disposed of or sold, exchange differences that were recorded income with a corresponding adjustment to the carrying amount of the in equity are recognized in the income statement as part of the gain or investment. When the Group’s share of losses in an associate equals loss on sale. or exceeds its interest in the associate, including any other unsecured Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a receivables, the Group does not recognize further losses, unless it has foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign entity incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf and translated at the closing rate. Exchange differences arising are of the associate. recognized in other comprehensive income. The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that the investment in the associate is impaired. If this is the case, the Group calculates the amount of impairment as the 2.5 Property, plant and equipment difference between the recoverable amount of the associate and its All property, plant and equipment is stated at historical cost less deprecarrying value and recognizes the amount adjacent to ‘share of profit/ ciation. Historical cost includes expenditure that is directly attributable (loss) of an associate’ in the income statement. to the acquisition of the items. Profits and losses resulting from upstream and downstream Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or transactions between the Group and its associate are recognized recognized as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is probable in the Group’s financial statements only to the extent of unrelated that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the investor’s interests in the associates. Unrealized losses are eliminated Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. The carrying unless the transaction provides evidence of an impairment of the asset amount of the replaced part is derecognized. All other repairs and 51 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 maintenance are charged to the income statement during the financial 2.7 Impairment of non-financial assets period in which they are incurred. Assets that have an indefinite useful life – for example, goodwill or Depreciation on assets is calculated using the straight-line method intangible assets not ready to use – are not subject to amortization and to allocate their cost less their residual values over their estimated useare tested annually for impairment. Assets that are subject to amortizaful lives, as follows: tion are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in cirk 2CJCNFMLCQUGRAF WC?PQ cumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. k $GVRSPCQ?LBƤRRGLƓQ  WC?PQ An impairment loss is recognized for the amount by which the asset’s k !MKNSRCP F?PBU?PC?LBQMDRU?PC  WC?PQ carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. The recoverable k -ÈACGKNPMTCKCLRQ?LBMRFCPQ  WC?PQ amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs to sell and value in use. For the purposes of assessing impairment, assets are Grouped The assets’ residual values and useful lives are reviewed, and adjusted at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash if appropriate, at the end of each reporting period. An asset’s carrying flows (cash-generating units). Non-financial assets other than goodwill amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the that suffered an impairment are reviewed for possible reversal of the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable impairment at each reporting date. amount (note 2.7). Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing the proceeds with the carrying amount and are recognized within ‘other 2.8 Financial assets income/ other expenses’ in the income statement. 2.8.1 Classification The Group classifies its financial assets in the following categories: at 2.6 Intangible assets fair value through profit or loss, held to maturity investments, loans (a) Goodwill and receivables, and available for sale. The classification depends on Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the the purpose for which the financial assets were acquired. Management fair value of the Group’s share of the net identifiable assets of the determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. acquired subsidiary at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries is included in ‘intangible assets’. Goodwill is tested an(a) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss nually for impairment and carried at cost less accumulated impairFinancial assets at fair value through profit or loss are financial asment losses. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. Gains sets held for trading. A financial asset is classified in this category if and losses on the disposal of an entity include the carrying amount of acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Derivagoodwill relating to the entity sold. tives are also categorized as held for trading unless they are designated Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of as hedges. Assets in this category are classified as current assets if impairment testing. The allocation is made to those cash-generating CVNCARCBRM@CQCRRJCBUGRFGLKMLRFQMRFCPUGQC RFCW?PCAJ?QQGƤCB units or Groups of cash-generating units that are expected to benefit as non-current. from the business combination in which the goodwill arose, identified according to operating segment. (b) Held to maturity investments Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments (b) Contractual customer relationships and fixed maturities are classified as held to maturity when the Group Contractual customer relationships acquired in a business combinahas the positive intention and ability to hold it to maturity. They are tion are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. The contractual included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 months customer relations have a finite useful life and are carried at cost less after the end of the reporting period. These are classified as nonaccumulated amortization and are assessed for impairment whenever current assets. As at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, the there is an indication that the asset is impaired. Amortization is Group did not own any held to maturity investments. calculated using the straight-line method over the expected life of the customer relationship which is between 7 to 15 years. (c) Loans and receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed or (c) Development costs determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They Costs associated with maintaining computer software programs are are included in current assets, except for maturities greater than 12 recognized as an expense as incurred. Development costs that are months after the end of the reporting period. These are classified as directly attributable to the design and testing of identifiable and unique non-current assets. The Group’s loans and receivables comprise ‘trade software products controlled by the Group are recognized as intangible and other receivables’, and ‘prepayments and accrued income’ in the assets when the following criteria are met: statement of financial position. k GRGQRCAFLGA?JJWDC?QG@JCRMAMKNJCRCRFCQMDRU?PCNPMBSARQMRF?RGR UGJJ@C?T?GJ?@JCDMPSQC (d) Available-for-sale financial assets k K?L?ƓCKCLRGLRCLBQRMAMKNJCRCRFCQMDRU?PCNPMBSAR?LBSQCMP Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either QCJJGR designated in this category or not classified in any of the other categok RFCPCGQ?L?@GJGRWRMSQCMPQCJJRFCQMDRU?PCNPMBSAR ries. They are included in non-current assets unless the investment k GRA?L@CBCKMLQRP?RCBFMURFCQMDRU?PCNPMBSARUGJJƓCLCP?RC matures or management intends to dispose of it within 12 months of NPM@?@JCDSRSPCCAMLMKGA@CLCƤRQ the end of the reporting period. As at December 31, 2012 and Decemk ?BCOS?RCRCAFLGA?J ƤL?LAG?J?LBMRFCPPCQMSPACQRMAMKNJCRCRFC ber 31, 2011, the Group did not own any available for sale financial BCTCJMNKCLR?LBRMSQCMPQCJJRFCQMDRU?PCNPMBSAR?PC?T?GJ?@JC assets. and k RFCCVNCLBGRSPC?RRPG@SR?@JCRMRFCQMDRU?PCNPMBSARBSPGLƓGRQBCTCJopment can be reliably measured. 2.8.2 Recognition and measurement Regular purchases and sales of financial assets are recognized on the Directly attributable costs that are capitalized as part of the software trade date – the date on which the Group commits to purchase or sell product include the software development employee costs and an apthe asset. Investments are initially recognized at fair value plus transacpropriate portion of relevant overheads. tion costs for all financial assets not carried at fair value through profit Other development expenditures that do not meet these criteria are or loss. Financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are recognized as an expense as incurred. Development costs previously initially recognized at fair value, and transaction costs are expensed recognized as an expense are not recognized as an asset in a subsein the income statement. Financial assets are derecognized when quent period. the rights to receive cash flows from the investments have expired or Computer software development costs recognized as assets are have been transferred and the Group has transferred substantially all amortized over their estimated useful lives, which is between 3 to 5 risks and rewards of ownership. Available-for-sale financial assets and years. financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are subsequently 52 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 carried at fair value. Loans and receivables are subsequently carried at If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases amortized cost using the effective interest method. and the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring Gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of the ‘financial after the impairment was recognized (such as an improvement in the assets at fair value through profit or loss’ category are presented in the debtor’s credit rating), the reversal of the previously recognized impairincome statement within ‘finance income/costs’ in the period in which ment loss is recognized in the consolidated income statement. they arise. Dividend income from financial assets at fair value through profit or loss is recognized in the income statement as part of other (b) Assets classified as available for sale income when the Group’s right to receive payments is established. The Group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether there Changes in the fair value of monetary and non-monetary securities is objective evidence that a financial asset or a Group of financial asclassified as available for sale are recognized in other comprehensive sets is impaired. For debt securities, the Group uses the criteria refer to income. (a) above. In the case of equity investments classified as available for When securities classified as available for sale are sold or impaired, sale, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security the accumulated fair value adjustments recognized in equity are below its cost is also evidence that the assets are impaired. If any such included in the income statement as ‘gains and losses from investment evidence exists for available-for-sale financial assets, the cumulative securities’. loss – measured as the difference between the acquisition cost and Interest on available-for-sale securities calculated using the effecthe current fair value, less any impairment loss on that financial asset tive interest method is recognized in the income statement as part of previously recognized in profit or loss – is removed from equity and other income. Dividends on available-for-sale equity instruments are recognized in the consolidated income statement. recognized in the income statement as part of other income when the Impairment losses recognized in the consolidated income stateGroup’s right to receive payments is established. ment on equity instruments are not reversed through the consolidated income statement. If, in a subsequent period, the fair value of a debt instrument classified as available for sale increases and the increase 2.8.3 Offsetting financial instruments can be objectively related to an event occurring after the impairment Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in loss was recognized in profit or loss, the impairment loss is reversed the statement of financial position when there is a legally enforceable through the consolidated income statement. Impairment testing of right to offset the recognized amounts and there is an intention to settle trade receivables is described in note 2.10. on a net basis or realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. 2.9 Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities 2.8.4 Impairment on financial assets Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value on the date a derivative (a) Assets carried at amortized cost contract is entered into and are subsequently re-measured at their fair The Group assesses at the end of each reporting period whether value. The method of recognizing the resulting gain or loss depends there is objective evidence that a financial asset or Group of financial on whether the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument, and if assets is impaired. A financial asset or a Group of financial assets is so, the nature of the item being hedged. The Group designates certain impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there is objective derivatives as either: evidence of impairment as a result of one or more events that occurred (a) hedges of the fair value of recognized assets or liabilities or a firm after the initial recognition of the asset (a ‘loss event’) and that loss AMKKGRKCLRD?GPT?JSCFCBƓC event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows (b) hedges of a particular risk associated with a recognized asset or of the financial asset or Group of financial assets that can be reliably JG?@GJGRWMP?FGƓFJWNPM@?@JCDMPCA?QRRP?LQ?ARGMLA?QFØMUFCBƓC estimated. or The criteria that the Group uses to determine that there is objective (c) hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation (net investment evidence of an impairment loss include: hedge). k QGƓLGƤA?LRƤL?LAG?JBGÈASJRWMDRFCGQQSCPMPM@JGƓMP k ?@PC?AFMDAMLRP?AR QSAF?Q?BCD?SJRMPBCJGLOSCLAWGLGLRCPCQRMP The Group documents at the inception of the transaction the relationNPGLAGN?JN?WKCLRQ ship between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk k RFC%PMSN DMPCAMLMKGAMPJCƓ?JPC?QMLQPCJ?RGLƓRMRFC@MPPMUCPQ management objectives and strategy for undertaking various hedging financial difficulty, granting to the borrower a concession that the transactions. The Group also documents its assessment, both at hedge JCLBCPUMSJBLMRMRFCPUGQCAMLQGBCP inception and on an ongoing basis, of whether the derivatives that are k GR@CAMKCQNPM@?@JCRF?RRFC@MPPMUCPUGJJCLRCP@?LIPSNRAWMPMRFCP used in hedging transactions are highly effective in offsetting changes ƤL?LAG?JPCMPƓ?LGX?RGML in fair values or cash flows of hedged items. k RFCBGQ?NNC?P?LACMD?L?ARGTCK?PICRDMPRF?RƤL?LAG?J?QQCR The fair values of various derivative instruments used for hedging @CA?SQCMDƤL?LAG?JBGÈASJRGCQMP purposes are disclosed in note 12. Movements on the hedging reserve k M@QCPT?@JCB?R?GLBGA?RGLƓRF?RRFCPCGQ?KC?QSP?@JCBCAPC?QCGLRFC in other comprehensive income are shown in statement of other estimated future cash flows from a portfolio of financial assets since comprehensive income. The full fair value of a hedging derivative is the initial recognition of those assets, although the decrease cannot classified as a non-current asset or liability when the remaining hedged yet be identified with the individual financial assets in the portfolio, item is more than 12 months, and as a current asset or liability when including: the remaining maturity of the hedged item is less than 12 months. (i) adverse changes in the payment status of borrowers in the Trading derivatives are classified as a current asset or liability. NMPRDMJGM?LB The Group does not hold or issue derivative instruments for specu(ii) national or local economic conditions that correlate with defaults lative purposes, although derivatives not meeting the above criteria for on the assets in the portfolio. hedge accounting are classified for accounting purposes at fair value through profit and loss as appropriate. Such derivatives predominately The Group first assesses whether objective evidence of impairment relate to those used to hedge the foreign exchange exposure on recogexists. nized monetary assets and liabilities. For loans and receivables category, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and (a) Fair value hedge the present value of estimated future cash flows (excluding future Changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated and qualify credit losses that have not been incurred) discounted at the financial as fair value hedges are recorded in the income statement, together asset’s original effective interest rate. The carrying amount of the asset with any changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognized in the consolidated are attributable to the hedged risk. income statement. If a loan or held-to-maturity investment has a variIf the hedge no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, the able interest rate, the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss adjustment to the carrying amount of a hedged item for which the is the current effective interest rate determined under the contract. As effective interest method is used is amortized to profit or loss over the a practical expedient, the Group may measure impairment on the basis period to maturity. of an instrument’s fair value using an observable market price. 53 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 (b) Cash flow hedge 2.14 Share based payments The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that The Group issues equity-settled share-based payments to certain emare designated and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognized in other ployees and key management. Equity-settled share based payments comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective porare measured at fair value (excluding the effect of non market-based tion is recognized immediately in the income statement within ‘finance vesting conditions) at the date of grant. The fair value determined at the income/costs’. grant date of the equity-settled share-based payments is recognized The Group uses such contracts to fix the income from foreign as an expense on a graded vesting basis over the vesting period, based currency sales in the functional currency of the entity concerned. The on the Group’s estimate of the shares that will eventually vest and cumulative gain or loss initially recognized in equity is reclassified to adjusted for the effect of non market vesting conditions. Fair value the income statement at the same time the hedged transaction affects is measured using the Black-Scholes pricing model or any relevant the income statement. valuation model. The expected life used in the model is adjusted at the When a hedging instrument expires or is sold, or when a hedge no end of each reporting period, based on management’s best estimate, longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, any cumulative gain or for the effect of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioral loss existing in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognized considerations. when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognized in the income statement. When a forecast transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immediately 2.15 Borrowings transferred to the income statement within ‘finance income/costs’. Borrowings are recognized initially at fair value, net of transaction costs GLASPPCB  MPPMUGLƓQ?PCQS@QCOSCLRJWA?PPGCB?R?KMPRGXCBAMQR?LW (c) Net investment hedge difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the reHedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for demption value is recognized in the income statement over the period similarly to cash flow hedges. of the borrowings using the effective interest method. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of the hedge is recognized in other comprehensive income. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately 2.16 Leases in the income statement within ‘finance income/costs’. Leases in which a significant portion of the risks and rewards of Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the income ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. statement when the foreign operation is partially disposed of or sold. Payments made under operating leases (net of any incentives received When the hedge no longer meets the criteria and becomes ineffecfrom the lessor) are charged to the income statement on a straight-line tive, the cumulative gain or loss that was reported in equity is immedibasis over the period of the lease. ately transferred to the income statement within ‘finance income/costs’. The Group leases certain property, plant and equipment. Leases of property, plant and equipment where the Group has substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. 2.10 Trade receivables Finance leases are capitalized at the lease’s commencement at the Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for services lower of the fair value of the leased property and the present value of performed in the ordinary course of business. If collection is expected the minimum lease payments. in one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business if Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance longer), they are classified as current assets. If not, they are presented charges. The corresponding rental obligations, net of finance charges, as non-current assets. are included in other long-term payables. The interest element of the Trade receivables are recognized initially at fair value and subfinance cost is charged to the income statement over the lease period sequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining method, less provision for impairment. balance of the liability for each period. The property, plant and equipment acquired under finance leases is depreciated over the shorter of the useful life of the asset and the lease term. 2.11 Other receivables and prepayments Other receivables and prepayments are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective inter2.17 Current and deferred income tax est method, less provision for impairment. The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Tax is recognized in the income statement, except to the extent that it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income or directly 2.12 Cash and cash equivalents in equity. In this case, the tax is also recognized in other comprehensive In the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents income or directly in equity, respectively. includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date in less and bank overdrafts. In the consolidated statement of financial pothe countries where the Company and its subsidiaries operate and sition, bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities. generate taxable income. Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where 2.13 Share capital and treasury shares appropriate on the basis of amounts expected to be paid to the tax Ordinary shares are classified as equity. authorities. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new ordinary Deferred income tax is recognized, using the liability method, on shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from temporary differences arising between the tax bases of assets and the proceeds. liabilities and their carrying amounts in the consolidated financial Where any Group Company purchases the Company’s equity share statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognized if they capital (treasury shares), the consideration paid, including any directly ?PGQCDPMKRFCGLGRG?JPCAMƓLGRGMLMDƓMMBUGJJBCDCPPCBGLAMKCR?VGQLMR attributable incremental costs (net of income taxes) is deducted from accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders until the shares are in a transaction other than a business combination that at the time of cancelled or reissued. Where such ordinary shares are subsequently the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. reissued, any consideration received, net of any directly attributable Deferred income tax is determined using tax rates (and laws) that have incremental transaction costs and the related income tax effects, is been enacted or substantially enacted by the reporting date and are included in equity attributable to the Company’s equity holders. expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. Deferred income tax assets are recognized only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the temporary differences can be utilized. 54 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Deferred income tax is provided on temporary differences arising on 2.20 Government grants investments in subsidiaries and associates, except for deferred income Government grants are initially recognized as deferred income at fair tax liability where the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference value when there is reasonable assurance that they will be received and is controlled by the Group and it is probable that the temporary differthe Group will comply with the conditions associated with the grant. ence will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is recognized in the income statement as income in the expense category a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current the grant relates to on a systematic basis based on the conditions of tax liabilities and when the deferred income taxes assets and liabilities the grant. relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either Grants that compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are the same taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an recognized in income statement on a systematic basis over the useful intention to settle the balances on a net basis. life of the assets. 2.18 Employee benefits 2.21 Trade Payables Group companies operate various pension schemes. The schemes are Trade payables are obligations to pay for goods or services that have generally funded through payments to insurance companies or trusteebeen acquired in the ordinary course of business from suppliers. administered funds, determined by periodic actuarial calculations. The Accounts payable are classified as current liabilities if payment is due Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution plans. within one year or less (or in the normal operating cycle of the business A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group if longer). If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities. pays fixed contributions into a separate entity. The Group has no legal Trade payables are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if the fund does measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to employee service in the current and prior periods. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that is not a defined 2.22 Other payables, other liabilities, accrued expenses contribution plan. Typically defined benefit plans define an amount of and prepaid income pension benefit that an employee will receive on retirement, usually Other payables, other liabilities, accrued expenses and prepaid income dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and are recognized initially at fair value and subsequently measured at compensation. The liability recognized in the statement of financial amortized cost using the effective interest method. position in respect of defined benefit pension plans is the present value of the defined benefit obligation at the end of the reporting period less the fair value of plan assets, together with adjustments 2.23 Revenue recognition for unrecognized past-service costs. The defined benefit obligation is Revenue comprises the fair value of the consideration received or calculated annually by independent actuaries using the projected unit receivable for the sale of services in the ordinary course of the Group’s credit method. The present value of the defined benefit obligation is activities. Revenue is shown net of value-added tax, returns, rebates determined by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using and discounts and after eliminating sales within the Group. interest rates of high-quality corporate bonds that are denominated in The Group recognizes revenue when the amount of revenue can be the currency in which the benefits will be paid, and that have terms to reliably measured, it is probable that future economic benefits will flow maturity approximating to the terms of the related pension obligation. to the Group and when specific criteria have been met for each of the In countries where there is no deep market in such bonds, the market Group’s activities as described below. The Group bases its estimates rates on government bonds are used. on historical results, taking into consideration the type of customer, the Actuarial gains and losses arising from experience adjustments type of transaction and the specifics of each arrangement. and changes in actuarial assumptions are charged or credited to other Revenues related to inbound teleservices are recognized at the comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. time services are provided on a per-call basis. Revenues on outbound Past-service costs are recognized immediately in income, unless the teleservices and debt collection are recognized at the time services are changes to the pension plan are conditional on the employees remainprovided on either a per-call, per-sale or per-collection basis depending in service for a specified period of time (the vesting period). In this ing on the terms of the related contract. Revenues from other CRM case, the past-service costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over services are recognized as services are provided. Generally service the vesting period. revenues are billed in the month following provision of related services. The Group’s main defined benefit plans are pension scheme plan in Contracts to provide call centre services typically do not involve fees Norway and termination indemnity plan in Italy. related to customer set-up, initiation or activation. Accrued income is recognized on incomplete activities where a fair assessment of the work achieved to date and the future cash inflows 2.19 Provisions associated with it can be measured with reasonable accuracy. Provisions for restructuring costs and legal claims are recognized when: the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation as a PCQSJRMDN?QRCTCLRQGRGQNPM@?@JCRF?R?LMSRØMUMDPCQMSPACQUGJJ@C 2.24 Advertising costs PCOSGPCBRMQCRRJCRFCM@JGƓ?RGML?LBRFC?KMSLRF?Q@CCLPCJG?@JWCQAdvertising costs are charged to operations as incurred. timated. Restructuring provisions comprise lease termination penalties and employee termination payments. Provisions are not recognized for future operating losses. 2.25 Dividend Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that (a) Dividend income an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering Dividend income is recognized when the right to receive payment is the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognized even if established. the likelihood of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small. (b) Dividend distribution Provisions are measured at the present value of the expenditures Dividend distribution to the Company’s shareholders is recognized as expected to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that a liability in the Group’s financial statements in the period in which the reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and dividends are approved by the Company’s shareholders. the risks specific to the obligation. 55 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Note 3 Critical accounting estimates and litigation, claim or assessment, the legal process and potential level of damages in the jurisdiction in which the litigation, claim or assessment judgements has been brought, the progress of the case (including the progress after the date of the financial statements but before those statements Estimates and judgments are continually evaluated and are based on are issued), the opinions or views of legal advisers, experience on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future similar cases and any decision of the Group’s management as to how it events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. will respond to the litigation, claim or assessment. The Group makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. The estimates and assumptions that Note 4 Financial instrument risk managehave a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are adment objectives and policies dressed below. Like other internationally operating businesses, the Group is exposed (a) Deferred tax assets to risks related to foreign exchange and interest. This note describes Deferred tax assets are recognized for all unused tax losses to the the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for managing these risks extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against and the methods used to measure them. Further quantitative informawhich the losses can be utilized. Significant management judgment tion in respect of these risks is presented throughout the financial is required to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can statements. be recognized, based upon the likely timing and level of future taxThe Group’s principal financial liabilities, other than derivatives, able profits together with future tax planning strategies. The carrying comprise of bank loans, trade and other payables and accruals and value of recognized deferred tax assets as at December 31, 2012 was deferred income. The main purpose of these financial instruments is to €3,540 thousand (2011: €5,088 thousand) (Note 9). raise finance for the Group’s operations. The Group has various financial assets consisting of trade and other receivables, prepayments and (b) Provisions for bad and doubtful debts accrued income and cash and short term deposits which arise directly 2FC%PMSNAMLRGLS?JJWKMLGRMPQNPMTGQGMLQDMP@?B?LBBMS@RDSJBC@RQ from its operations. however a significant level of judgment is required by management The main risks arising from the Group’s financial instruments are to determine appropriate amounts to be provided. Management interest rate risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency risk and credit risk. The reviews and ascertains each debt individually based upon knowledge Board of Directors reviews and agrees policies for managing each of of the client, knowledge of the sector and other economic factors, and these risks which are summarized below. There have been no substancalculates an appropriate provision considering the time that a debt has tive changes in the Group’s exposure to financial instrument risks, its remained overdue. At December 31, 2012, the provision for bad and objectives, policies and processes for managing those risks or the doubtful debts was €1,785 thousand (2011: €2,905 thousand). methods used to measure them from the previous period unless stated in this note. (c) Impairment of goodwill and intangible assets The Company annually evaluates the carrying value of goodwill for Management controls and procedures potential impairment by comparing projected discounted cash flows The Board has overall responsibility for the determination of the (using a suitable discount rate) associated with such assets to the Group’s risk management objectives and policies. It has delegated related carrying value. An impairment test is also carried out should the authority for designing and operating the required processes that events or circumstances change which may indicate that there may be ensure the effective implementation of the objectives and policies to need for impairment. An impairment loss would be recognized when the Group’s treasury department. As such, the Group’s funding, liquidity the estimated future discounted cash flow generated by the asset is and exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks are manless than the carrying amount of the asset. An impairment loss would aged by the Group’s treasury department under policies approved by be measured as the amount by which the carrying value of the asset the Board of Directors. exceeds the recoverable amount. Risk exposures are monitored and reported to management on a The Group performed its annual impairment test of goodwill as at quarterly basis, together with required actions when tolerance limits are December 31, 2012. Please refer to Note 8 for further details. In the exceeded. year ended December 31, 2012, an impairment loss was recorded in The overall objective of the Board is to set policies that seek to connection with goodwill (2011: € thousand) and other intangible reduce risk as far as possible, without unduly affecting the Group’s assets (2011: € 1,674 thousand) for an amount of €14,729 thousand competitiveness and flexibility. Further details regarding these policies and €5,912 thousand respectively. Changes in the assumptions and are set out below. estimates used may have a significant effect on the income statement For the presentation of market risks, IFRS 7 requires sensitivity and statement of financial position. analysis that shows the effects of hypothetical changes of relevant risk variables on the income statement and shareholders’ equity. Transcom (d) Pension assumptions is exposed to interest rate risk and liquidity risk, the periodic effects of The liabilities of the defined benefit pension schemes operated by the which are determined by relating the hypothetical changes in the risk Group are determined using methods relying on actuarial assumptions variables to the balance of financial instruments at the reporting date. It and estimates. Details of the key assumptions are set out in Note 20. is assumed that the balance at the reporting date is representative for The Group takes advice from independent actuaries relating to the the year as a whole. appropriateness of the assumptions. Changes in the assumptions and estimates used may have a significant effect on the income statement Interest rate risk and statement of financial position. The Group’s exposure to the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily to the Group’s revolving credit facility. (e) Provisions The interest is calculated on each loan under the facility agreement The Group recognizes a provision where there is a present obligation for each term as the aggregate of the Interbank offered rate, plus a from a past event, a transfer of economic benefits is probable and the margin calculated on the basis of consolidated total net debt to consoliamount of costs of the transfer can be estimated reliably. The Group dated EBITDA. reviews outstanding legal cases following developments in the legal Consolidated EBITDA is defined as the consolidated profit (earnings) proceedings and at each reporting date, in order to assess the need for any period of the Group before interest, income taxes, depreciation for provisions and disclosures in its financial statements. Among the and amortisation. factors considered in making decisions on provisions are the nature of 56 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Interest rate risk table Increase/ Effect on Effect on The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a possible change (decrease) in EBITDA net income in interest rates, with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s 2011 Euro rate €000 €000 profit before tax (through the impact on floating rate borrowings). There is no impact on the Group’s equity. US Dollar 10% 1,144 1,281 Swedish Krona 10% (1,040) (258) Increase/ Effect on profit Norwegian Krona 10% (37) 32 (decrease) in basis, before tax, 2012 points €000 Great Britain Pound 10% 142 165 Euro 10 (65) US Dollar (15)% (2,221) (2,487) US Dollar 10 (17) Swedish Krona (15)% 2,020 501 Euro (10) 65 Norwegian Krona (15)% 72 (61) US Dollar (10) 17 Great Britain Pound (15)% (275) (320) Increase/ Effect on profit Interest income and interest expense from financial instruments can (decrease) in basis, before tax, be recorded in either the functional or non-functional currency and 2011 points €000 therefore could be affected by exchange rate movements. Euro 10 50 Credit risk US Dollar 10 17 With respect to credit risk arising from the financial assets of the Group, which comprise balances from credit sales and cash and cash Euro (10) (50) equivalents, the Group’s exposure to credit risk arises from default of US Dollar (10) (17) the counterparty, with a maximum exposure equal to the carrying value of these instruments. Prior to accepting new accounts and wherever practicable, credit Foreign currency risk checks are performed using a reputable external source. Credit risk is Foreign currency risk as defined by IFRS 7 arises on account of finanreviewed monthly by senior management based on the aged debt recial liabilities being denominated in a currency that is not the functional ports, and corrective action is taken if pre-agreed limits are exceeded. currency and being of a monetary nature, differences resulting from This risk of default of a customer is considered to be small based on the translation of financial statements into the Group’s presentation historical default rates and credit checks. However, if needed, appropricurrency are not taken into consideration. Relevant risk variables are ate provisions are made in accordance with Group policy. Nothing is generally all other non EUR currencies in which Transcom has financial held as collateral against this risk as it is not deemed necessary. instruments. Further analysis on gross trade debtors, provisions and ageing of net Certain entities within the Group have transactions in non-functional trade debtors are provided in Note 10. The maximum exposure to credit currencies and therefore the Group has transactional currency risk is represented by the carrying amount of each financial asset on exposures. Such exposures arise from sales by an operating unit in the statement of financial position. currencies other than the Group’s presentation currency. In 2012, 54% (2011: 47%) of the Group’s sales were denominated in currencies other Liquidity risk than the presentation currency of the Group. These exposures are Liquidity risk arises from the Group’s management of its working capital not hedged as they constitute translation risk rather than a cash flow as well as the finance charges and principal repayments on its debt inexposure. struments. In essence, it is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting its financial obligations as they fall due. Foreign currency risk table The Group monitors this risk using a consolidated cash flow model The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably posin order to identify peaks and needs in liquidity and identify benefits sible change in the currencies the Group is most exposed to, with all which can be attained by controlled placement and utilization of availother variables held constant, of the Group’s profit before interest, tax, able funds. depreciation and amortization and the impact on the net profit. ExpoA significant mitigating factor of the Group’s liquidity risk is the unsures in other currencies have an immaterial impact. used proportion of the revolving credit facility agreement as disclosed in note 17. The unused proportion as at December 31, 2012 was €21.7 Increase/ Effect on Effect on million (December 31, 2011: €44 million). (decrease) in EBITDA net income The table below summarizes the maturity profile of the Group’s 2012 Euro rate €000 €000 financial liabilities as at December 31, 2012, based on contractual undiscounted payments. US Dollar 10% 131 (300) Swedish Krona 10% 571 560 Year ended December 31, 2012 Norwegian Krona 10% 21 100 <3 3–12 1–5 >5 €000 months months years years Total Great Britain Pound 10% (125) (250) Borrowings – 10,000 70,530 – 80,530 US Dollar (15%) (196) 450 Trade and other payables 111,117 – – – 111,117 Swedish Krona (15%) (856) (840) Norwegian Krona (15%) (32) (150) Year ended December 31, 2011 Great Britain Pound (15%) 187 375 <3 3–12 1–5 >5 €000 months months years years Total Borrowings – – 65,286 – 65,286 Trade and other payables 100,108 – – – 100,108 57 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Capital management The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong credit rating and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximize shareholder value. The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the years ended December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011. The Group monitors capital using a return on capital employed ratio, which is profit before interest, tax and amortisation divided by total assets less current liabilities. The Group’s policy is to ensure that the ratio follows predicted patterns based on previous year’s results, and is in accordance with forecasted results. The table below summarizes the ratio as at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011. € 000 2012 2011 Restated Profit/(loss) before interest, tax and amortisation 6,901 (26,221) Total assets 358,132 377,371 Current liabilities (138,465) (123,524) Capital employed 219,667 253,847 Return on capital employed 3.14% (10.3%) Set out below is a comparison by category of carrying amounts and fair values of all of the Group’s financial instruments. There are no discontinued operations. Carrying amount Fair value € 000 2012 2011 2012 2011 Restated Restated Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 42,600 52,076 42,600 52,076 Trade and other receivables 114,976 104,837 114,976 104,837 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 29,685 25,300 29,685 25,300 Derivative financial instruments – – – – Financial liabilities Borrowings 80,530 65,286 81,674 67,003 Leasing and other similar obligation 209 315 209 315 Derivative financial instruments – 272 – 272 Trade and other payables 111,117 100,108 111,117 100,108 58 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Note 5 Segmental information In line with IFRS 8 – Operating Segments, the segmental reporting services (“CRM”) and credit management services (“CMS”). bases used by the Group are those which are reported to the Chief The Group reportable segments are composed as follows: Operating Decision Maker. k CRM North America & Asia Pacific: Canada, the Philippines, USA, In 2012, the management changed the structure of the internal RFC3LGRCB)GLƓBMK?LBSQRP?JG? organization of the Group in a manner that has caused the composik CRM Central Europe: Austria, Belgium, Croatia, Germany, Hungary, tion of the Group reportable segments to change, compared to the *SVCK@MSPƓ RFC,CRFCPJ?LBQ .MJ?LB 1JMT?IG??LB1UGRXCPJ?LB prior financial year. Consequently, the corresponding items of segment k CRM Iberia:!FGJC .CPS .MPRSƓ?J?LB1N?GL information for the year ended 31 December 2011 have been restated. k CRM North: Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Estonia, Latvia and Since 2012, revenue is reported in the segment in which it is delivered *GRFS?LG? whereas it used to be reported in the segment of the lead contractor. k CRM South:$P?LAC 'R?JW?LB2SLGQG? For management purposes the business is considered from k CMS: Austria, the Czech Republic, Germany, the United Kingdom, a service perspective where management separately considers Poland, Denmark, Norway and Sweden. multi-language customer relationship management products and 2012 CRM CMS Total North America Central € 000 & Asia Pacific Europe Iberia North South Total CRM Total CMS Group Revenue Total segment revenue 114,512 69,067 119,791 168,043 106,680 578,092 56,043 634,135 Inter-segment revenue (2,381) (11,245) (358) (5,684) (8,144) (27,811) (742) (28,554) Revenue from external 112,131 57,822 119,433 162,359 98,536 550,281 55,301 605,581 customers Gross profit 27,072 11,327 24,297 24,353 11,180 98,228 13,604 111,832 EBITA* (1,318) (1,455) 5,252 4,780 (4,264) 2,994 3,906 6,901 Amortization (3,895) Intangible assets impairment (20,641) Finance income 366 Finance costs (6,320) Income taxes (6,975) Profit/(loss) after tax (30,564) * Earnings before interest, taxes and amortisation 2011 (Restated) CRM CMS Total North America Central € 000 & Asia Pacific Europe Iberia North South Total CRM Total CMS Group Revenue Total segment revenue 100,599 65,336 108,896 145,526 99,952 520,309 59,044 579,353 Inter-segment revenue (2,268) (9,734) 19 (5,022) (7,357) (24,362) (922) (25,284) Revenue from external 98,331 55,602 108,915 140,504 92,595 495,947 58,122 554,069 customers Gross profit 18,527 10,528 20,423 23,919 5,930 79,327 16,407 95,734 EBITA* (16,613) (2,711) 3,127 4,768 (17,029) (28,458) 2,237 (26,221) Amortization (2,819) Finance income 1,393 Finance costs (4,361) Income taxes (18,350) Profit/(loss) after tax (50,358) * Earnings before interest, taxes and amortisation Inter-segment transfers are priced along the same lines as sales to external customers, with an appropriate discount being applied to the CRM and CMS segments amounted to €106,746 thousand (2011: encourage use of Group resources at a rate acceptable to local tax €94,419 thousand) and €58,344 thousand (2011: €45,463 thousand) authorities. respectively. Revenue from two single customers and arising from sales by both 59 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Note 6 Significant disposals amounted to €959 thousand and are reported as other accruals under the caption “trade and other payables” and €612 thousand correand restructuring sponded to write offs of tangible assets. The transfer of capacity to the Philippines resulted in a reversal of €3,938 thousand of the onerous Disposals – 2010 lease provision recorded in 2011 as well as in other reversals of €769 In 2010, Transcom’s Board of Directors approved the disposal of thousand, totalling €4,707 thousand. two French sites located in Roanne and Tulle. The transactions were During the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company launched another reflected in the Group’s financial statements for the year-ended restructuring program aiming at reorganizing central support teams. December 31, 2010 as a charge of €19.4 million. This amount included This program consisted of restructuring and non-recurring costs a charge of €10.0 million which corresponds to the funding provided amounting to €1,870 thousand, of which restructuring costs amounted to the acquirers in order to manage the takeover (€7.6 million) as well to €1,255 thousand and non-recurring costs amounted to €615 as the transition costs (€2.4 million), and a charge of €9.4 million thousand. related to the provisioning of contracts which are either discontinued or considered onerous as a consequence of this operation. These programs are reflected as follows in the consolidated income In April and June 2011, Transcom entered into a definitive agreestatement: ment to sell these sites and transfered ownership of the site and its business. This transaction follows the positive completion of the infor€ 000 2012 2011 mation/consultation procedure with employee representatives. Cash outflow for these operations amounted to €8.7 million comprising the Consolidated income statement funding and the amount of accruals related to transferred employees. Total expenses recognized within As at December 31, 2012, the residual provision amounts to €3,389 ‘Cost of sales’ 612 2,574 thousand (2011: €7,219 thousand) and is reported under the caption provision for onerous contracts in the amount of €2,499 thousand Total expenses recognized within (2011: €5,879 thousand) and other provision in the amount of €1,340 ‘Other expenses’ 1,574 12,071 thousand (2011:€1,340 thousand). Total expenses recognized within ‘Restructuring costs’ 247 18,167 Restructuring programs – 2011 and 2012 In June 2011, Transcom entered into a restructuring program through Total 2,433 32,812 which 4 sites were closed in Canada and other sites were consolidated in NAAP, North, Iberia, South and Central Europe regions. The program As at December 31, 2012, the residual provision relating to these consisted of restructuring and non-recurring costs amounting to restructuring programs amounts to €5,564 thousand (2011: €13,222 €32.812 million. thousand) and is included in the caption provision for restructuring in During the second quarter of 2012, four sites in North America were the amount of €4,902 thousand (2011: €6,869 thousand) and proviclosed and capacity was transferred to the Philippines. The cost to sion for onerous contracts in the amount of €662 thousand (2011: close these sites amounted to €5,270 thousand, out of which restruc€6,353 thousand) as detailed in note 19. turing costs amounted to €3,699 thousand, other non-recurring costs 60 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Note 7 Property, plant and equipment Telephone Fixtures Computer hardware Office € 000 switch and fittings and software improvements Total COST As at January 1, 2012 36,204 24,962 50,832 21,120 133,118 Additions 856 1,744 4,808 1,122 8,530 Disposals/write-off (524) (255) (1,006) (540) (2,325) Transfers (763) 231 (106) (638) Exchange differences 359 376 116 630 1,481 As at December 31, 2012 36,132 27,058 54,644 22,332 140,166 ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION As at January 1, 2012 (34,083) (22,202) (47,549) (16,898) (120,732) Depreciation charge for the year (1,505) (1,592) (2,201) (1,761) (7,058) Disposals/write-off 504 255 1,005 528 2,292 Transfers 763 (17) 106 (214) 638 Exchange differences (290) (245) (16) (236) (787) As at December 31, 2012 (34,611) (23,801) (48,655) (18,581) (125,648) Net book value as at December 31, 2012 1,521 3,257 5,989 3,751 14,518 Telephone Fixtures Computer hardware Office € 000 switch and fittings and software improvements Total COST As at January 1, 2011 42,524 25,865 47,421 23,195 139,005 Additions 434 698 3,397 592 5,121 Disposals/write-off (3,686) (3,007) (3,114) (692) (10,499) Transfers (3,487) 1,470 2,709 (758) (66) Exchange differences 419 (64) 419 (1,217) (443) As at December 31, 2011 36,204 24,962 50,832 21,120 133,118 ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION As at January 1, 2011 (38,082) (21,591) (43,637) (16,556) (119,866) Depreciation charge for the year (2,523) (1,703) (2,879) (1,891) (8,996) Disposals/write-off 3,552 2,918 2,989 546 10,005 Transfers 3,504 (1,916) (2,636) 1,114 66 Exchange differences (534) 90 (1,386) (111) (1,941) As at December 31, 2011 (34,083) (22,202) (47,549) (16,898) (120,732) Net book value as at December 31, 2011 2,121 2,760 3,283 4,222 12,386 61 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Note 8 Intangible assets Customer Development € 000 Goodwill relationships cost Others Total COST As at January 1, 2012 154,795 26,333 9,680 2,234 193,042 Additions – – 457 366 823 Transfers 50 – – (50) – Exchange differences 117 (207) – (17) (107) As at December 31, 2012 154,962 26,126 10,137 2,533 193,758 ACCUMULATED AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT As at January 1, 2012 (12,487) (6,854) (2,019) (21,360) Amortization charge for the year (2,781) (1,114) (130) (4,025) Impairment charge (14,729) (5,912) – – (20,641) Exchange differences – 164 – 25 189 As at December 31, 2012 (14,729) (21,016) (7,968) (2,124) (45,837) Net book value as at December 31, 2012 140,233 5,110 2,169 409 147,921 COST As at January 1, 2011 152,088 24,677 9,158 4,403 190,326 Additions – – – 120 120 Disposals/write-off – – (3,332) – (3,332) Transfers – 1,205 3,854 (2,199) 2,860 Exchange differences 2,707 451 – (90) 3,068 As at December 31, 2011 154,795 26,333 9,680 2,234 193,042 ACCUMULATED AMORTISATION AND IMPAIRMENT As at January 1, 2011 – (9,091) (5,530) (885) (15,506) Amortization charge for the year – (2,819) (1,786) (36) (4,641) Disposals/write-off – – 1,658 – 1,658 Transfers – (577) (1,196) (1,087) (2,860) Exchange differences – – – (11) (11) As at December 31, 2011 – (12,487) (6,854) (2,019) (21,360) Net book value as at December 31, 2011 154,795 13,846 2,826 215 171,682 Amortization expenses of €130 thousand (2011: €1,822 thousand) have been charged to cost of sales and €3,895 thousand (2011: €2,819 thousand) has been charged to other expenses (Note 23). 62 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Goodwill Impairment testing for cash generating units containing goodwill For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the Group’s operating divisions which represent the lowest level within the Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes, which is not higher than the Group’s operating segments as reported in note 5. The aggregate carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each unit is as follows: Carrying value as of December 31, 2012 Carrying value as of Carrying value as of € 000 (before impairment)* Impairment December 31, 2012 December 31, 2011 CRM North 36,216 – 36,216 52,595 CRM Central Europe 1,131 – 1,131 47,718 CRM Iberia 10,120 – 10,120 10,120 CRM North America & Asia Pacific 43,046 – 43,046 44,362 CMS 64,449 (14,729) 49,720 – 154,962 (14,729) 140,233 154,795 *As explained in Note 5, in 2012, the management changed the structure of the internal organization of the Group in a manner that has caused the composition of the Group reportable segments to change, compared to the prior financial year. Consequently, the carrying value of the goodwill allocated to each operating division has been modified compared to the prior financial year in order to reflect the new Group structure. Value in use was determined by discounting the future cash flows genthe development in market prices and demand, cost and efficiency erated from the continuing use of the units and it was concluded that development. the fair value less cost to sell did not exceed the value in use. Based on the results of the testing, the management of the Group The calculation of the value in use was based on the following key has recognised an impairment charge of €14,729 thousand in 2012 assumptions: (2011: nil). For North, Central Europe and Iberia units, reasonably possible k !?QFØMUQUCPCNPMHCARCB@?QCBMLN?QRCVNCPGCLAC ?ARS?JMNCP?Rchanges in key assumptions (such as discount rates, revenue growth ing results and the 3-year financial plans approved by the Board of and terminal growth rate) would not trigger any impairment loss to be Directors. Beyond the specifically forecasted period of three years, recognized. For North America & Asia Pacific, the estimated recoverthe Company extrapolates cash flows for the remaining years based able amount exceeded the carrying value by less than 1 percent. As on estimated constant growth rates ranging from 1.75% to 2.25% a consequence, any negative change in key assumptions, including (2011: 1.6% to 2.5%) depending on management’s understanding of change in price, volume, cost, discount rate and future capital expendithe market in the region in which the unit is based. The anticipated ture would cause the estimated recoverable amounts to decline below annual revenue growth included in the cash-flow projections has carrying value and therefore would trigger an impairment charge in the been based on historical experience and expectations of future income statement. changes in the market conditions. Market conditions take into account the nature of risk within geographical markets and manageCustomer relationships and development costs ment’s estimations of change within these markets. These rates Customer relationships mainly consist of intangible assets that were do not exceed the average long-term growth rates for the relevant identified during the past acquisitions based on the discounted cash markets. flows expected to be derived from the use and eventual sale of the ask .PC R?VBGQAMSLRP?RCQP?LƓGLƓDPMK RM  RM set, determined at the date of acquisition. As at December 31, 2012 and 15.2%) were applied in determining the recoverable amounts of the December 31, 2011 these assets were tested for impairment. Based on units. The discount rates were estimated based on past experience, the results of the testing, the management has recognised an impairindustry average weighted cost of capital and Group’s industry rement charge of €5,912 thousand in 2012 (2011: nil). lated beta adjusted to reflect management’s assessment of specific Development costs consist of amounts identified by management risks related to the unit. where it is considered that technological and economical feasibility exists, usually determined by reference to the achievement of defined In general, as was already observed in 2011, the impairment tests for milestones according to an established project management model. 2012 were to a large extent affected by the global economic slowdown These costs relate to development of assets for the use in the Group. and the continued revenue erosion which significantly reduced the As at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 these assets were estimated recoverable amounts of the different cash-generating units tested for impairment. Based on the results of the testing, the managecompared to prior year. In spite of the various recovery actions taken ment has recognised no impairment charge in 2012 (2011: €1,674 by the Company, the future development is still uncertain, including thousand). 63 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Note 9 Deferred income tax Note 10 Trade and other receivables The movement in deferred income tax assets and liabilities during the year, without taking into consideration the offsetting balances within the € 000 2012 2011 same tax jurisdictions, is as follows: Trade receivables 91,612 89,220 Deferred tax assets Less: provision for impairment of trade Property, receivables (1,785) (2,905) plant and Tax € 000 equipment losses Others Total Trade receivables-net 89,827 86,315 Opening balance as at Other receivables 25,149 18,522 January 1, 2012 1,158 3,325 605 5,088 Total trade and other receivables 114,976 104,837 Income statement movement (1,060) (418) (81) (1,559) Other receivables includes VAT recoverable €3,848 thousand (2011: Tax relating to components of €Nil thousand), amounts due from Public authorities €8,019 thousand other comprehensive income – 5 6 11 (2011: €9,053 thousand) and amounts receivable for CMS performance contracts €10,160 thousand (2011: €8,174 thousand). Closing balance as at The carrying value less impairment of trade receivables is assumed December 31, 2012 98 2,912 530 3,540 to approximate their fair values. Opening balance as at Provision for impairment of trade receivables is as follows: January 1, 2011 1,172 3,880 502 5,554 € 000 2012 2011 Income statement As at January 1 (2,905) (1,634) movement (14) (555) 103 (466) Provision (made)/reversed during the year 1,120 (1,271) Closing balance as at December 31, 2011 1,158 3,325 605 5,088 As at December 31 (1,785) (2,905) Deferred tax liabilities The following table provides an overview of the ageing of trade receivables: Property, plant and Intangible <30 30–60 60–90 90–120 >120 € 000 equipment assets Others Total Total days days days days days Opening balance as at 2012 89,827 86,341 1,814 393 584 695 January 1, 2012 200 3,694 1,448 5,342 2011 86,315 80,170 3,561 1,139 1,008 437 Income statement movement 247 (2,495) (433) (2,681) Tax relating to components of The Group operates in several jurisdictions and payment terms vary other comprehensive income – – – – upon this, and also vary on a client by client basis. Therefore, based upon the maximum payment terms, trade receivables of €3,486 Exchange differences – (43) 32 (11) thousand are past due more than 30 days but not provided for (2011: Closing balance as at €6,145 thousand). These relates to a number of independent customDecember 31, 2012 447 1,156 1,047 2,650 ers for whom there is no recent history of default. Details of credit risk are included in note 4. Opening balance as at January 1, 2011 3 4,108 2,700 6,811 Note 11 Prepaid expenses Income statement movement 197 (672) (1,088) (1,563) and accrued income Tax relating to components of other comprehensive income – – (166) (166) € 000 2012 2011 Exchange differences – 258 2 260 Prepaid expenses 10,268 8,560 Closing balance as at Accrued income 19,417 16,740 December 31, 2011 200 3,694 1,448 5,342 29,685 25,300 Deferred tax assets are recognized for tax losses carried forward to the extent that the realization of the related tax benefit through future taxable profit is probable. The Group did not recognize deferred tax assets of €55,448 thousand (2011: €27,088 thousand) in respect of losses amounting to €192,100 thousand (2011: €93,572 thousand) which do not expire. No deferred tax liability was recognized in respect of €133,069 thousand (2011: €119,742 thousand) of unremitted earnings of subsidiaries because the Group was in a position to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences and it was unlikely that such differences would reverse in a foreseeable future. 64 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Note 12 Derivative financial instruments Number Value Class B shares 000 € 000 € 000 2012 2011 As at January 1, 2012 622,764 26,779 Foreign exchange forwards and Share capital decrease – – swaps-held for trading – (272) Share capital increase – – Foreign exchange forwards and As at December 31, 2012 622,764 26,779 swaps-cash flow hedging – – Total as at December 31, 2011 1,245,532 53,558 Total – (272) Total as at December 31, 2012 1,245,532 53,558 a) Forward foreign exchange contracts.There are no derivatives outstanding as at December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2012 the share capital amounts to EUR 53,558 As of December 31, 2011, the following derivatives were outstanding: thousand (December 31, 2011: EUR 53,558 thousand). The share capik QU?N#30 31 UGRFLMKGL?JT?JSCMD31  KGJJGMLK?RSPGLƓ tal is divided into 622,768 thousand Class A voting shares (December on March 30, 2012 31, 2011: 622,768 thousand), with a nominal value of EUR 0.043 each, k DMPU?PB#30 ,-)UGRFLMKGL?JT?JSCMD,-)KGJJGMLK?RSPGLƓ and 622,764 thousand Class B non voting shares (December 31, on January 31, 2012 2011: 622,764 thousand), with a nominal value of EUR 0.043 each. All shares are fully paid. These derivatives are recognized through the consolidated income statement as they are designated as trading instruments and do not Share capital qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39. Each Class A share has one vote attached and has the right to receive The fair value of all derivatives has been calculated using the open dividends as shown below. Each Class B share has no voting rights atmarket value, being level 2 in the hierarchy of valuation under IAS 39. tached and has the right to receive dividends as shown below. Dividends Dividends may be paid in Euros or in the Company’s shares or Note 13 Equity otherwise as the Board may determine in accordance with the provisions of the Luxembourg Companies Act. The Transcom WorldWide Authorized capital Class B Shares are entitled to the greater of (i) a preferred dividend Number 000 2012 2011 corresponding to 5% of the nominal value of the Class B non voting QF?PCQGLRFC!MKN?LW?LBGGMDRFCMTCP?JJBGTGBCLBBGQRPG@SRGMLQ Class A voting shares of €0.043 nominal made in a given year. Any balance of dividends must be paid equally value (2011: €0.43 nominal value) 710,000 710,000 on each Transcom WorldWide Class A and Transcom WorldWide Class Class B non-voting shares of €0.043 B Share. nominal value (2011: €0.43 nominal value) 710,000 710,000 No cumulative preferred dividend was paid to Class B shareholders in relation to the 2011 financial year. According to article 46 (2) of Luxembourg law on commercial companies dated 10 August 1915, as Ordinary shares issued and fully paid amended, Class B shareholders may obtain voting rights if, despite the Number Value existence of distributable profits, the Company does not distribute the Class A shares 000 € 000 preferred dividends for a period of two consecutive years. Given that there were distributable profits in 2011 but not in 2012, article 46 (2) is As at January 1, 2011 36,685 15,775 not applicable this year and Class B shareholders will therefore not reShare capital decrease – (14,198) ceive voting rights. Class B shareholders’ right to the preferred dividend is cumulative. Even though there are no distributable profits available in Share capital increase 586,083 25,202 a given year, the preferred dividend right continues to accrue, and Class As at December 31, 2011 622,768 26,779 B shareholders will have a right to recover their minimum preferred dividend right in future profitable years, even for the financial years in which there were no distributable profits available. As at January 1, 2012 622,768 26,779 Nature and purpose of reserves Share capital decrease – – Legal reserve In accordance with statutory requirements in Luxembourg, the parent Share capital increase – – Company must maintain reserves not available for distribution. The As at December 31, 2012 622,768 26,779 parent Company is required under Luxembourg law to transfer 5% of its annual net profits to a restricted legal reserve until such reserve amounts to 10% of the subscribed share capital. Similar restrictions are Number Value applicable for some of the subsidiaries. Class B shares 000 € 000 Retained earnings As at January 1, 2011 36,681 15,773 The Luxembourg Companies Act provides that the parent Company’s Share capital decrease – (14,196) own earnings, after allocation to its legal reserve and after covering losses for previous years, shall be available for distribution to shareShare capital increase 586,083 25,202 holders. As at December 31, 2011 622,764 26,779 The shareholders have the authority to declare dividends, upon the recommendation of the Board of Directors, out of retained earnings of the parent Company subject to the Luxembourg Companies Act. The Articles provide the Board of Directors with the general authority to make dividend payments in advance of shareholder approval and to fix the amount and the payment date of any such advance dividend payment. Dividends declared by the Board of Directors are subject to the approval of the shareholders at the next general meeting of shareholders. 65 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Equity-based payment reserve The equity-based payment reserve is used to record the value of equityNote 15 Share-based payments settled payments provided to certain employees, including key management personnel, as part of their remuneration package (note 15). Share option agreement In 2006, the Company granted options to key management employForeign currency translation reserve ees and executive officers of the Company to purchase shares in the The foreign currency translation reserve is used to record exchange Company. The options were granted for a fixed number of shares and differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of at a fixed exercise price that was equal to the estimated fair market subsidiaries reporting in a non-functional currency. value on the date of grant. Each option vests in three equal parts: the first after one year, the second after two years and the third after three Cash flow hedge reserve years. These share options vested on June 30, 2007, June 30, 2008 The cash flow hedge reserve is used to record the effective element and June 30, 2009, and can be exercised up to June 30, 2012. The of financial instruments, carried at fair value, designated as hedging share options have been valued at the start date of the plan and in acinstruments. cordance with IFRS have not been re-valued as no significant changes to the contents or rules of the plan have been made. The value of the Treasury shares reserve plan has been apportioned equally over the total period of the plan and The treasury shares reserve is used to record purchases of the provisions were made as necessary through the income statement. The Company’s own shares from the market. expense recognized in the consolidated income statement for share options was nil at December 31, 2012 (2011: nil). Actuarial reserve The right to exercise the share options expired on June 30, 2012 The pension reserve is used to record actuarial losses and gains on and no shares were granted, exercised, forfeited or cancelled during the post employment benefit obligation plans (Note 20). year (2011: nil). As of December 31, 2012 the number of share options outstanding amounted to nil (2011: 537,000). Long-term incentive plan 2010 (“2010 LTIP”) Note 14 Other reserves In May 2010, at the Annual General Meeting, the 2010 LTIP was approved. This plan consists of two elements, a performance share plan 2FCKMTCKCLRMDMRFCPPCQCPTCQBSPGLƓRFCWC?PU?Q?QDMJJMUQ (“performance element”) and a matching share award plan (“loyalty element”). This LTIP was granted to Transcom’s executives and the Other grant date was determined to be July 1, 2010. Cash non The shares awarded under the performance element vest over a flow Treasury distriTotal hedge Actuarial shares butable other three year period, subject to market conditions based on the “total € 000 reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves shareholder return”, and performance conditions related to Transcom’s EBITDA and earnings per share. The achievement of a certain level of Balance as at January 1, 2011 336 (212) (86) – 38 each condition, measured at each vesting date, yields a specific percentage of shares awarded to each employee at the grant date. For the Other comprehensive 2010 LTIP, the shares granted vest 15% on December 31, 2010, 20% income, net of tax (336) 251 – – (85) on December 31, 2011 and 65% on December 31, 2012. Total comprehensive The loyalty element requires eligible employees to invest a certain income for the year (336) 251 – – (85) percentage of their salary in shares of the Company on the market in order to receive potential matching shares. The shares awarded under Transactions with owners this plan vest at the end of a three year period. Share capital decrease – – – 28,393 28,393 The value of the plan is apportioned equally over the total period of Purchase of treasury the plan and charged as necessary through the income statement. shares (48) (48) At December 31, 2011, due to the performance of Transcom, no award vested for 2011 and the likelihood of any award vesting in Total transaction with 2011-2013 has been assessed as unlikely. As a consequence, the share owners – – (48) 28,393 28,345 option reserve of 342 thousand EUR related to the 2010 LTIP has been Balance as at fully reversed through the income statement as of December 31, 2011. December 31, 2011 – 39 (134) 28,393 28,298 In May 2012 the 2010 LTIP has been replaced by the 2012 LTIP. Long-term incentive plan 2011 (“2011 LTIP”) Other In May 2011, at the Annual General Meeting, the 2011 LTIP was Cash non approved. This plan is similar to the 2010 LTIP and consists of two flow Treasury distriTotal hedge Actuarial shares butable other elements, a performance share plan (“performance element”) and a € 000 reserve reserve reserve reserve reserves matching share award plan (“loyalty element”). This LTIP was granted to Transcom’s executives and the grant date was determined to be Balance as at January 1, 2012 – 39 (134) 28,393 28,298 January 1, 2011. The shares awarded under the performance element vest over a Other comprehensive three year period, subject to market conditions based on the “total income, net of tax – (388) – – (388) shareholder return”, and performance conditions related to Transcom’s Total comprehensive EBITDA and earnings per share. The achievement of a certain level income for the year – (388) – – (388) of each condition, measured at each vesting date, yields a specific percentage of shares awarded to each employee at the grant date. For Transactions with owners the 2011 LTIP, the shares granted vest 15% on December 31, 2011, 20% Share capital decrease – – – – – on December 31, 2012 and 65% on December 31, 2013. The loyalty element requires eligible employees to invest a certain Purchase of treasury percentage of their salary in shares of the Company on the market in shares – – – – – order to receive potential matching shares. The shares awarded under Total transaction with this plan vest at the end of a three year period. owners – – – – – The value of the plan is apportioned equally over the total period of the plan and charged as necessary through the income statement. Balance as at December 31, 2012 – (349) (134) 28,393 27,910 66 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 At December 31, 2011, as a consequence of the performance of Transcom, the likelihood of any award vesting in 2012-2014 has been Note 17 Borrowings assessed as unlikely. As a consequence, the share option reserve related to the 2011 LTIP was nil. In May 2012 the 2011 LTIP has been 2012 2011 replaced by the 2012 LTIP. Local Local currency 2012 currency 2011 Long-term incentive plan 2012 (“2012 LTIP”) (000) € 000 (000) € 000 In May 2012, at the Annual General Meeting, the 2012 LTIP was apEuro 65,000 65,000 50,000 50,000 proved. This plan consists of two elements, a performance share plan (“performance element”) and a matching share award plan (“loyalty US Dollar 22,000 16,674 22,000 17,003 element”). This LTIP was granted to Transcom’s executives and the Unamortised transaction grant date was determined to be May 30, 2012. costs (€ 000) (1,144) (1,144) (1,717) (1,717) The shares awarded under the performance element vest over a three year period, subject to market conditions based on the “total 80,530 65,286 shareholder return”, the average normalized EBIT and average normalThe Company has a 3 year syndicated credit facility for an amount ized seat utilization ratio. The achievement of a certain level of each of €112.5 million divided into a € 50 million term loan and a € 62.5 condition, measured at each vesting date, yields a specific percentage million revolving credit facility. The interest rates are based on IBOR of shares awarded to each employee at the grant date. for non-Euro drawings and EURIBOR for Euro drawings plus margins The loyalty element requires eligible employees to invest a certain which may vary based on the Transcom’s Consolidated Net Debt to percentage of their salary in shares of the Company on the market in Consolidated EBITDA ratio at the end of each quarter. The facility is order to receive potential matching shares. The shares awarded under due to expire on 18 October 2014. The facility is multi-currency with this plan vest at the end of a three year period. elements denominated in Euros. The Company is committed under The value of the plan is apportioned equally over the total period this agreement to maintaining a number of covenants requiring certain of the plan and charged as necessary through the income statement. financial ratios to be maintained within agreed limits in order to provide The expense recognized in the consolidated income statement as sufficient security to the lender. There was no breach of these covat December 31, 2012 with respect to 2012 LTIP amounted to € 42 enants during the year. The loan is unsecured. In December 2012 the thousand. credit facility was amended to provide greater flexibility to the Group, The 2012 LTIP replaced both the 2010 LTIP and 2011 LTIP. whilst reducing the total facility by €12.5 million from €125 million to €112.5 million. Movements during the year As of December 31, 2012, an amount of €65 million and US$ The following table illustrates the number and movements in share 22 million was drawn (December 31, 2011: €50million and US$ 22 awards during the year: million). The table above shows the drawn amounts in each of the currencies utilized by the Group. In addition, an equivalent of €9.1million of LTIP 2010 2011 2012 the facility is utilized to cover the issuance of bank guarantees. Outstanding at 1 January 2012 907,428 1,127,332 – An unused amount of €21.7 million on the revolving borrowing facility exists at December 31, 2012 (December 31, 2011: €44 million). Granted during the year – – 1,803,612 The fair value of borrowings equals their carrying amount, after Cancelled during the year (907,428) (1,127,332) – unamortized transaction costs, as the interest rates are based on market rates. Outstanding at 31 December 2012 – 1,803,612 The exposure of the group’s borrowings to interest rate changes and the contractual repricing dates at the end of repricing dates at the end of the reporting period is as follows: Note 16 Dividends paid and proposed € 000 2012 2011 6 months or less 81,674 67,003 2012 2011 6–12 months – – Declared and paid during the year (€ thousands) – 69 1–5 years – – Dividend per share (€) – 0.0022 Over 5 years – – 81,674 67,003 On 25 May 2011, further to the proposal of the Board of Directors, the Annual General Meeting approved the preferred dividend in relation to year 2010 in the amount of €0.0022 per share to Class B Transcom shareholders in accordance with article 21 of the Company’s Article of Association. The Annual General Meeting held on May 30, 2012 did not declare any dividend in relation to the financial year 2011. According to the applicable laws, the Class B shareholders are entitled to annual cumulative preferred dividends for 2011 and 2012 totaling a minimum of €2,678 thousand. The Annual General Meeting to be held on May 29, 2013 will determine whether any dividends are to be paid. 67 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Note 18 Leases Note 19 Provisions for other liabilities and charges Operating leases Operating lease rentals amounting to €30,630 thousand (2011: €26,877 thousand) relating to the lease of office building and equipOnerous Legal Restrucment respectively, are included in the income statement. In 2012, € 000 contracts claims1) turing Others Total €22,218 thousand (2011: €19,786 thousand) was paid for rent related Opening balance as at to non-cancellable leases. Generally, the Group’s lease contracts January 1, 2012 12,209 18,575 6,869 3,341 40,994 require deposits and certain provisions for inflation-indexed rental increases. Future payments for rent on non-cancellable leases for Charged/(credited) to premises at December 31, 2012 are as follows: the income statement: Additional provisions – 4,845 4,954 375 10,174 2012 2011 -Reversal during the € 000 Premises Premises period (3,938) (1,300) (769) (200) (6,207) Not later than 1 year 23,141 25,651 Used during the Later than 1 year and no later than 5 years 39,448 51,124 period (5,110) (5,874) (6,153) (747) (17,884) Later than 5 years 1,212 787 Closing balance as at December 31, 2012 3,161 16,246 4,901 2,769 27,077 Total 63,801 77,562 Finance leases Onerous Legal RestrucProperty, plant and equipment (note 7) includes the following amounts € 000 contracts claims1) turing Others Total where the Group is a lessee under a finance lease: Opening balance as at January 1, 2011 9,354 2,308 – 1,340 13,002 € 000 2012 2011 Charged/(credited) to Cost – capitalized finance leases 259 428 the income statement: Accumulated depreciation (72) (100) Additional provisions 10,255 16,267 9,482 2,001 38,005 Net book amount 187 328 Used during the period (7,400) – (2,613) – (10,013) Lease liabilities are effectively secured as the rights to the leased Closing balance as at assets revert to the lessor in the event of default. December 31, 2011 12,209 18,575 6,869 3,341 40,994 1) Refer to note 28 € 000 2012 2011 Gross finance lease liabilities Analysis of total provisions: – minimum lease payments: € 000 2012 2011 12 months or less 137 168 Non-current 10,518 18,081 1–5 years 108 171 Current 16,559 22,913 Over 5 years – – Total 27,077 40,994 245 339 Future finance charges on finance leases (36) (24) (a) Onerous contracts Present value of finance lease liabilities 209 315 This amount represents a provision with respect to onerous contracts related to the sale of 2 sites in France (note 6) as well as provision for onerous contracts related to the restructuring program described in The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows: note 6. The amount which is not expected to be paid within the next 12 months has been classified as non-current liabilities. € 000 2012 2011 (b) Legal claims 12 months or less 167 152 This amount represents a provision with respect to legal claims 1–5 years 42 163 brought against the Group by tax authorities with respect to transfer pricing, withholding tax, direct tax, or VAT. In the light of the information Over 5 years – – currently available the Group believes that its positions with respect to Present value of finance lease liabilities 209 315 all open tax audits are robust and supportable and that the provision is appropriate. (c) Restructuring and others Please refer to note 6 for further details. 68 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Note 20 Employee benefit obligations The Group has employee benefit schemes in Italy and Norway in relation to termination indemnity and defined benefit pensions. A full actuarial valuation was carried out to December 31, 2012 by a qualified, independent actuary. Reconciliation to the statement of financial position 31/12/12 31/12/11 31/12/10 Long term Long term Long term rate of return Value rate of return Value rate of return Value expected, % € 000 expected, % € 000 expected, % € 000 Italy – – – – – Norway 2.2 1,329 4.8 927 4.6 837 Total market value of assets 1,329 – 927 – 837 Italy (2,069) – (1,967) – (2,285) Norway (2,094) – (1,374) – (1,256) Present value of scheme liabilities (4,163) – (3,341) – (3,541) Italy (2,069) – (1,967) (2,285) Norway (765) – (447) (419) Net scheme liability (2,834) – (2,414) (2,704) Analysis of the amount charged to operating profit 2012 2011 € 000 Italy Norway Total Italy Norway Total Current service cost – 226 226 – 179 179 Total operating charge – 226 226 – 179 179 Analysis of the amount credited to other finance costs 2012 2011 € 000 Italy Norway Total Italy Norway Total Expected return on pension scheme – 8 8 – (10) (10) assets Interest on pension scheme liabilities 77 45 122 98 40 138 Net expense 77 53 130 98 30 128 The major assumptions used by the actuary for the calculation of the defined benefit pension scheme were: Italy Norway % At 31/12/12 At 31/12/11 At 31/12/10 At 31/12/12 At 31/12/11 At 31/12/10 Rate of increase in salaries 2.00 2.00 2.00 3.3 4.00 4.00 Rate of increase in pensions in payment 2.00 2.00 2.00 – 0.70 0.50 Discount rate 4.27 5.70 4.27 2.2 3.30 3.20 The expected return on plan assets is equal to the weighted average return appropriate to each class of asset within the schemes. Assumptions regarding future mortality experience are set in accordance with published statistics and experience in each territory. 69 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Amount recognized in the statement of financial position – movement in deficit during the year 2012 2011 € 000 Italy Norway Total Italy Norway Total Deficit in scheme at beginning of the year 1,967 447 2,414 2,285 419 2,704 Movement in year: Current service cost and settlements – 226 226 – 179 179 Interest cost 77 45 122 98 40 138 Contributions – (231) (231) – (155) (155) Expected return on plan assets – 8 8 – (10) (10) Actuarial (gains)/ losses 188 200 388 (244) (7) (251) Benefits paid (163) – (163) (172) – (172) Foreign exchange difference – 70 70 – (19) (19) Deficit in scheme at end of the year 2,069 765 2,834 1,967 447 2,414 The Italian scheme actuarial valuation at December 31, 2012 showed an increase in the deficit from €1,967 thousand to €2,069 thousand. The Norway scheme actuarial valuation at December 31, 2012 showed an increase in the deficit from €447 thousand to €765 thousand. Contributions amounted to €231 thousand, 1.39% of pensionable pay (2011: €155 thousand, 1.39% of pensionable pay). It has been agreed that contributions will remain at that level. History of experience gains and losses – Norway scheme € 000 2012 2011 2010 2009 Difference between the expected and actual return on scheme assets: amount (€000) (63) 2.2 1 (31) percentage of scheme assets (5%) 0.1% 0.1% (5.6%) Experience gains and losses on scheme liabilities: amount (€000) 44 (89) 127 274 percentage of the present value of the scheme liabilities 2% 6.5% 10.1% 29.4% Note 21 Government grants The present value of finance lease liabilities is as follows: of time (from one year to six years depending on the country) the employees covered by the grant. Transcom will therefore recognize in its € 000 2012 2011 accounts the income during the period for which the employees must be kept within the Company (credited to cost of sales). Opening balance as at January 1 226 917 There were no other contingencies or unfulfilled conditions relating Income statement charge (400) (931) to government grants which existed during the current accounting period that have not been disclosed in the accounts. Received during the year 319 240 Closing balance as at December 31 145 226 Note 22 Trade and other payables Analysis of government grants: € 000 2012 2011 € 000 2012 2011 Restated Non-current government grants 67 147 Trade payables 24,797 21,637 Current government grants 78 79 Other payables 24,648 19,905 Total government grants 145 226 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 61,672 58,566 111,117 100,108 Government grants Since 2001, Transcom has received grants from local governments for having engaged a certain number of employees. As per agreements with local authorities, the grants received may be subject to repayment if Transcom does not keep for a certain period 70 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Note 23 Other income/expenses net Note 26 Income tax expense Of the other income/expenses €3,895 thousand (2011: €2,819 thou€ 000 2012 2011 sand) relates to amortization of intangible assets and the rest of the balance relates to other operating income and charges. In 2011 €12,071 Current income tax on profits for the year (6,031) (5,368) thousand related to non-recurring costs related to restructuring as Adjustments in respect of prior years (a) (2,067) (14,079) explained in Note 6. Total current income tax (8,098) (19,447) Note 24 Salaries and employee pensions Current year origination and reversal of temporary differences 1,638 638 Salaries, other remuneration and social security charges Adjustment in respect of previous periods (515) 459 Salaries, other remuneration and social security charges were as follows: Total deferred income tax 1,123 1,097 Income tax expense (6,975) (18,350) 2012 2011 Board of (a) This amount mainly represents provisions with respect to legal Board of Directors claims brought against the Group by tax authorities in various EU Directors and jurisdictions. and senior senior manageOther manageOther € 000 ment Employees ment Employees Effective tax rate A reconciliation of the statutory tax rate to the Company’s effective tax Salaries and other 3,045 394,931 4,031 362,650 rate applicable to income from continuous operations was: remuneration Social security charges 598 62,836 733 58,442 € 000 2012 2011 Pension expenses 234 8,971 144 7,384 Loss before tax (23,589) % (32,008) % Statutory tax (expenThe following amounts of salaries are included in cost of sales, selling ses)/benefit tax rate in expenses and administrative expenses respectively: €432,327 thouLuxembourg 6,953 (29.6) 9,232 (29.6) sand, €3,808 thousand, €34,480 thousand (December 31, 2011 was Foreign tax rate dif€395,188 thousand, €3,848 thousand, €34,348 thousand). ferential 3,445 (14.6) 5,305 (17.0) Directors’ remuneration The President and Chief Executive Officer, Johan Eriksson, who was appointed on November 18, 2011, received Losses for which no tax salary and remuneration of €641 thousand in the year. The Chairman benefit is recognized (10,508) 44.6 (11,246) 36.0 of the Board, Mr Henning Boysen, received €95 thousand as Board Losses utilized for which fees (2011: €95 thousand), and the other members of the Board reno DTA were previously ceived a total of €292 thousand as Board fees (2011: €272 thousand). recognized 1,097 (4.7) 258 (0.8) The Board fees are determined by the Annual General Meeting, compensation of the President and Chief Executive Officer is determined Adjustments in respect by the Board, compensation of senior management is determined by of prior years (2,582) 11.0 (13,619) 43.6 the Board in conjunction with the President and Chief Executive Officer. Expenses not allowable The Board fees are proposed by the Nomination Committee. for tax purposes (7,152) 30.3 (14,260) 45.6 Income not taxable for tax purposes 1,540 (6.5) 6,590 (21.1) Note 25 Finance income and costs Other 232 (1.0) (610) 1.8 Finance income Total tax charge (6,975) 29.6 (18,350) 58.8 € 000 2012 2011 Interest received on bank deposits 366 – Foreign exchange, net – 1,393 Note 27 Earnings per share 366 1,393 Basic earnings per share amounts were calculated by dividing loss for Finance expense the year attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average € 000 2012 2011 number of shares in issue during the year. Interest payable on bank borrowings 2,628 3,495 2012 2011 Other financing costs 2,211 866 Restated Foreign exchange, net 1,481 – Loss for the year attributable to owners 6,320 4,361 of the parent (€000) (30,564) (50,358) Weighted average number of shares in issue during the year (000) 1,245,532 79,790 Basic earnings per share (€) (0.02) (0.63) 71 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Note 27 Earnings per share (continued) Tax risks estimated with less than probable, but more than remote, cash outflows and therefore not provided for in the amount of approximately €17.6 million (2011: €15 million) related to ongoing tax disputes Diluted earnings per share amounts were calculated by dividing loss for in several jurisdictions. the year attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year adjusted for outstanding Guarantees share options of nil (2011: 537 thousand). At December 31, 2012 the Group had outstanding bank guarantees for an amount of €12.9 million (2011: € 16.6 million) with respect to perfor2012 2011 mance and warranty guarantees mainly for the provision of services/ rental agreements. The Company is also supporting its subsidiaries Restated through guarantees issued in the normal course of business. Loss for the year attributable to owners of the parent (€000) (30,564) (50,358) Weighted average number of shares in issue during the year adjusted for outstanding Note 29 Related party transactions stock options (000) 1,245,532 80,327 Investment AB Kinnevik and subsidiaries are significant shareholders of Diluted earnings per share(€) (0.02) (0.63) the Group as well as Tele2 group, MTG group, accordingly, these companies have been regarded as related parties to the group. Business During 2012, there were 622,768 thousand weighted average Class relations between Transcom WorldWide and all closely related parties A Shares and 622,764 thousand weighted average Class B shares in are subject to commercial terms and conditions. issue (2011: 39,896 thousand Class A shares, 39,894 Class B shares). The Group provided customer service functions for certain Tele2 There are no subsequent events which could have an impact on the group companies in exchange for service fees determined on an arm’s basic earnings per share or the diluted earnings per share. length basis. The Group’s sales revenue from the Tele2 companies amounted to €104,372 thousand in 2012 (2011: €93,541 thousand). Sales revenues mainly relate to customer help lines and other CRM services. Note 28 Commitments and contingencies Operating expenses, mainly for telephone services and switch, paid to Tele2 group companies amounted to €574 thousand in 2012 (2011: The Group has contingent liabilities related to litigations and legal €514 thousand). The Company rents premises from Tele2 group comclaims arising in the ordinary course of business. panies under sub-lease agreements on the same commercial terms The integrated worldwide nature of Transcom’s operations involves a provided to Tele 2. significant level of intra-group transactions which can give rise to comThe group’s receivables from and liabilities to Tele2 group compaplexity and delays in agreeing the Group’s tax position with the various nies at December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows: tax authorities in the jurisdictions in which the Group operates. The Group occasionally faces tax audits which, in some cases, result in dis€ 000 2012 2011 putes with tax authorities. During these tax audits, local tax authorities may question or challenge the Group’s tax positions (in such matters Trade and other receivables 18,548 17,110 as transfer pricing, withholding tax, direct tax or VAT). Disputes with tax Trade and other payables (241) (171) authorities can lead to litigations in front of several courts resulting in lengthy legal proceedings. Net receivable 18,307 16,939 As of December 31, 2012, there are ongoing tax audits in the Philippines, Canada, Switzerland, France, Denmark and Italy. Some of these tax enquiries have resulted in re-assessments, whilst others are still at The Group provided customer service functions for certain MTG group an early stage and no re-assessment has yet been raised. Managecompanies in exchange for service fees determined on an arm’s length ment is required to make estimates and judgments about the ultimate basis. The Transcom WorldWide Group’s sales revenue from the MTG outcome of these investigations or litigations in determining legal group companies amounted to €3,065 thousand in 2012 (2011: €7,814 provisions. Final claims or court rulings may differ from management thousand). Sales revenues mainly relate to customer help lines. estimates. Operating expenses paid to MTG group companies amounted to The Group has provided €16,246 thousand (2011: €18,575 thou€12 thousand in 2012 (2011: €19 thousand). sand) (note 19) in relation to tax risks for which management believes it The Group’s receivables from MTG Group companies were €481 is probable that there will be cash outflows in relation to these tax risks. thousand at December 31, 2011 (2011: €1,020 thousand). In addition, based on its analysis, its risk assessment as well as ongoing tax audits in certain jurisdictions referred to above, management estimated additional possible tax exposure of approximately €17,600 Note 30 Audit fees thousand (2011: €15,000 thousand), which has not been provided for, but rather, are the subject of this disclosure. Management believes it For the financial year ended December 31, 2012 and December 31, has strong arguments to defend against such claims and therefore es2011 the approved statutory auditor, and as the case may be affiliated timates that the likelihood of cash outflows for these risks is less than companies of the auditor, billed fees to the Group in relation with the probable. In addition to the above tax risks, the Group may be subject following services: to other tax claims going forward for which the risk of future economic outflows is currently evaluated to be remote. € 000 2012 2011 December December Audit of the statutory and consolidated € 000 31, 2012 31, 2011 accounts 707 680 Tax risks estimated with probable cash outInterim review 70 70 flows and therefore provided for (note 19) 16,246 18,575 Other audit related fees 60 255 Tax risks estimated with less than probable cash outflows and therefore not provided Total 837 1,005 for 17,600 15,000 Total tax exposure estimated by management 33,846 33,575 72 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Note 31 Investment in subsidiaries 2012 2011 Country of Capital/voting Capital/voting incorporation interest (%) interest (%) Transcom WorldWide (Australia) Pty Ltd Australia 100 100 IS Forderunsmanagement GmbH Austria 100 100 IS Inkasso Service GmbH Austria 100 100 Transcom WorldWide Forderungsmanagement GmbH Austria 100 100 Transcom WorldWide GmbH Austria 100 100 Transcom WorldWide Belgium SA Belgium 100 100 Transcom WorldWide (North America) Inc. (formerly The NuComm Corporation)* Canada 100 100 Transcom International Solutions Inc. (formerly NuComm Global Solutions Inc)* Canada – 100 Transcom Insurance Agency Inc. (formerly NuComm Insurance Agency Inc) Canada 100 100 Transcom WorldWide Canada Inc* Canada – 100 Transcom WorldWide Chile Limitada Chile 100 100 IS Inkasso Servis d.o.o. Croatia 100 100 Transcom WorldWide d.o.o. Croatia 100 100 Transcom WorldWide Czech Republic s.r.o. Czech Republic 100 100 Transcom CMS AS Denmark 100 100 Transcom Denmark A/S Denmark 100 100 Transcom Eesti OÜ Estonia 100 100 Transcom Finland OY Finland 100 100 TMK WorldWide SAS France 100 100 Transcom WorldWide France SAS France 100 100 CIS International GmbH Germany 100 100 IK Transcom Europe GmbH Germany 100 100 Transcom CMS Forderungsmanagement GmbH Germany 100 100 Transcom WorldWide GmbH Germany 100 100 Transcom WorldWide Hong Kong Ltd Hong Kong 100 100 CEE Holding KFt Hungary 100 100 Transcom Hungary KFT Hungary 100 100 Transcom WorldWide Spa Italy 100 100 SIA Transcom WorldWide Latvia Latvia 100 100 Transcom WorldWide Vilnius UAB Lithuania 100 100 Transcom Europe Holdings BV The Netherlands 100 100 Transcom WorldWide BV The Netherlands 100 100 CIS Concept AS Norway 100 100 Ergo Inkasso AS Norway 100 100 Transcom AS Norway 100 100 Transcom Financial Services AS (formerly Transcom Credit Management Services AS) Norway 100 100 Transcom Norge AS Norway 100 100 Transcom Worldwide Peru SAC Peru 100 100 NuComm International Philippines Inc. (under dissolution) Philippines 100 100 Transcom WorldWide Philippines Inc Philippines 100 100 Transcom WorldWide (Philippines) Holding, Inc Philippines 100 – Transcom WorldWide CMS Poland Sp. z o.o. Poland 100 100 Kancelaria PrawnaTranscom S. K. Poland 100 100 Transcom WorldWide Poland Sp. z o.o. Poland 100 100 TWW servicos de Helpline e de Atendimento Telefonico Lda Portugal 100 100 73 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Note 31 Investment in subsidiaries (continued) 2012 2011 Country of Capital/voting Capital/voting incorporation interest (%) interest (%) Transcom WorldWide Slovakia s.r.o. Slovakia 100 100 Transcom WorldWide Global S.L. Spain 100 Transcom WorldWide Spain S.L.U. Spain 100 100 Stockholms Tolkförmedling AB Sweden 100 100 Tolk och Språktjänst i Östergötland AB Sweden 100 100 Transcom AB Sweden 100 100 Transcom Credit Management Services AB Sweden 100 100 Transvoice AB Sweden 100 99 Is Inkasso Service GmbH Switzerland 100 100 Transcom WorldWide AG Switzerland 100 100 Transcom WorldWideTunisie SARL Tunisia 100 100 TWW Gagri Merkezi Servisleri Limited Sirketi (liquidated) Turkey 100 100 Credit & Business Services Limited (dissolved during the year) United Kingdom 100 100 Top Up Mortgages Ltd United Kingdom 100 100 Transcom WorldWide (UK) Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Newman & Company Limited United Kingdom 100 100 Cloud 10 Corp United States 100 100 Transcom WorldWide (US) Inc. United States 100 100 * During the year 2012, Transcom International Solutions Inc. (formerly NuComm Global Solutions Inc.) and Transcom WorldWide Canada Inc., all 100% held Canadian based subsidiaries, were merged into Transcom WorldWide (North America) Inc. (formerly The NuComm Corporation). Note 32 Subsequent events On January 10, 2013 Transcom Worldwide SAS (France) filed for “redressement judiciaire”. Transcom Worldwide S.A. continued to support this subsidiary until February 28, 2013. With effect from March 22, 2013, Transcom WorldWide (France) S.A.S., was put into liquidation proceedings by the Commercial Court of Versailles and a liquidator appointed. There were no other significant events during the period between 31 December 2012 and the date of this report. 74 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Independent auditor’s report To the Shareholders of Transcom WorldWide S.A. 45, rue des Scillas L-2529 Howald Luxembourg Report on the consolidated financial statements of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, Following our appointment by the General Meeting of the Shareholders whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the dated 22 August 2012, we have audited the accompanying consolidat“réviseur d’entreprises agréé” considers internal control relevant to the ed financial statements of Transcom WorldWide S.A., which comprise entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial the consolidated statement of financial position as at 31 December statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in 2012, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on of comprehensive income, the consolidated statement of changes in the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes equity, the consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended, evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanareasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directory information. tors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Board of Directors’ responsibility for the consolidated financial We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and statements appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance Opinion with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and European Union and for such internal control as the Board of Directors fair view of the financial position of Transcom WorldWide S.A. as of 31 determines is necessary to enable the preparation and presentation of December 2012, and of its financial performance and its cash flows for consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatethe year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reportment, whether due to fraud or error. ing Standards as adopted by the European Union. Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to the fact that the Responsibility of the “réviseur d’entreprises agréé” Company has restated its consolidated financial statements as of 31 Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated December 2011 and for the year then ended as disclosed under note financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in 2.1.1. accordance with International Standards on Auditing as adopted for Luxembourg by the “Commission de Surveillance du Secteur FinanReport on other legal and regulatory requirements cier”. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements The consolidated management report, which is the responsibility of and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about the Board of Directors, is consistent with the consolidated financial whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material statements. misstatement. The accompanying corporate governance statement which is the An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence responsibility of the Board of Directors, is consistent with the consoliabout the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statedated financial statements and includes the information required by the ments. The procedures selected depend on the judgement of the law with respect to the corporate governance statement. “réviseur d’entreprises agréé”, including the assessment of the risks ERNST & YOUNG Société Anonyme Cabinet de révision agréé Olivier Lemaire Luxembourg, March 29, 2013 75 Transcom Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Financial calendar April 18, 2013 First quarter earnings announcement May 29, 2013 Annual General Meeting of shareholders in Luxembourg July 18, 2013 Second quarter earnings announcement October 22, 2013 Third quarter earnings announcement February 2014 Fourth quarter earnings announcement Contact Corporate and registered office Transcom WorldWide S.A. 45, rue des Scillas L-2529 Howald Luxembourg Company registration number: RCS B59528 www.transcom.com Investor relations Rålambsvägen 17 11th Floor SE-112 59 Stockholm Sweden Tel: +46 8 120 800 88 76 NARVA Transcom WorldWide S.A. 45, rue des Scillas L-2529 Howald Luxembourg Company registration number: RCS B59528 www.transcom.com
