CSR Report 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2012 NEC Fielding,Ltd. Message from the President Our mission as an IT support company is to contribute to the best of our ability to the stable operation of social infrastructures. My name is Yukio Ito, and I assumed the role of President of NEC Fielding , Ltd. in June 2012. Thank you very much for taking the time to read this “2012 NEC Fielding CSR Report”. In FY 2011, due to the Great East Japan Earthquake and the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, many people felt that their “peace of mind and safety were under threat.In addition, a series of scandals shook the business world last year seriously testing the CSR, such as business continuity and governance. I believe that our mission, and our social responsibility as an IT support service company, is to continue to support IT systems, which have become a critical lifeline for society in general, and to contribute toward the realization of an information friendly society for mankind and the earth itself. Therefore, we have been pushing for the development of various kinds of governance systems including CSR committees consisting of all associate senior vice presidents, as well as the development of a BCP (Business Continuity Plan) in case of disasters such as earthquakes, inﬂuenza epidemics, torrential downpours and so on, to ensure that business continues, even in the face of scandal and natural disaster. For more information on our progress in rising to these challenges, please read this “2012 NEC Fielding CSR Report”. The driving force behind our activities Pride, Confidence and a Sense of Purpose -We support our society, our customers and our friendsAs a member of this team Striving for Change ●Credit and Respect President ●Courage and Decisions to Change ●Crossing Borders As a Person For Customers Independence and Pursuit of Safety and Growth Comfort ●Have a Dream ●View Things with a ●Be active Customer's Eye ●Always Strive to ●Be a Professional Improve Oneself ●Learn from Customers and Grow as a Company 1 Management based on CS and CSR We recognize CS and CSR as our basic management policies to achieve our principle of The core guiding principle behind NEC Fielding's activities CS CSR is to facilitate new dynamism and business expansion for our customers, Day-to-Day Work whilst also contributing to the creation of a stable and prosperous society. Corporate Values Fiscal Year Policy Code of By implementing the two major factors of Stable business growth thanks to Medium-Term Management Plan Conduct higher Customer Satisfaction (CS) and Execution of company responsibility by fulﬁlling CSR , we aim to be a reliable and trustworthy Management Policy company for customers and society with stable and steady business Vision growth through the attainment of these two goals. Principles/Charter of Corporate Behavior Completion of the 2nd CSR Medium-term Plan and Institution of the 3rd CSR Medium-term Plan FY 2012 is the ﬁnal year of “the 2nd CSR Medium-term Plan” instituted in Governance/Accountability FY 2009. We have promoted comprehensive CSR activities so that we are Unswerving and comprehensive internal control and not simply carrying out our social responsibilities, but are aiming to be a increased transparency by all members of the Fielding Group ●Promotion of CSR activities in which the entire FIELDING group plays company trusted by customers and society alike.As a result of these a role in OneNEC Basic Policy (FIELDING-VV implementation) endeavors, in the last ﬁscal year we won “The 15th Environmental ●Continued strengthening activities toward zero occurrence of serious risks (Rank S, Rank A) Communication Awards” Excellence Prize awarded by the Ministry of the ●Creation of a “well-organized culture” through strengthening of Environment, as well as the ﬁrst place in Toyo Keizai Inc's “Corporate CSR corporate ethics and compliance Survey 2011” (service industry category). Market We will now seek to continue to steadily expand our CSR activities, and do – Developing business that functions as a lifeline for the modern era – our best to formulate “the 3rd CSR Medium-term Plan” for the further ●Implementation and expansion of CSR in core business activities development of CSR activities. which boost CS (ex. CSR business expansion) ●Pursuit of higher reputation as a CSR implementing company ●CSR alliance with partners/supply chains Toward No.1 Corporate Value Employment A company that offers rewarding work and develops diverse human resources●Creating an easy-to-work-in environment where all members can Unswerving and comprehensive internal share a sense of accomplishment (Reviving communication and control and increased transparency by sharing a sense of accomplishment) all members of the Fielding Group ●Higher HR performance Cultivating personnel who are ﬁlled with energy and dedication. Contribution to Society Governance/ Working to solve social problems and contributing by being a “good neighbor” Developing business that Accountability A company that offers ●Building a “good neighbor” scheme for solving local community functions as a lifeline rewarding work and develops problems (Developing of activity teams for each block) for the modern era diverse human resources (Expanding philanthropy club's in communities and promoting activities along with local communities (Autonomous communities CSR and NPO/NGO)) Market Management Employment ●Being a company that is actively involved in social problems and ●CSR plays a central role in those activities Basic Policies ●Integrated management ●Strategy deployment Environment and implementation Working toward a sustainable society in harmony with the environment ●Disclosure and dialog Creating a society with a low-carbon footprint, that is recycle-oriented, and is in harmony with nature.●Strengthening environmental governance (Strengthening group Society Environment governance, supply chains, and environmental risk management) ●Strengtheningand promoting environmentally responsible business (Developing Working to solve social problems and Working toward a sustainable society and promoting energy-saving ofﬁce solutions, Promoting carbon-offset services) ●Changing to a sustainable business style (Promoting global contribute to local communities by in harmony with the environment Creating a society with a low-carbon footprint, that warming prevention, resource recycling countermeasures, and being a “good neighbor” education and communication countermeasures) is recycle-oriented, and is in harmony with nature. As a company for sustaining society infrastructure Let me repeat again, we at NEC Fielding will do our best as an IT support company to contribute to the stable operation of society’s IT, in particular the stability of society through IT, with “Pride”, “Conﬁdence”, and “a Sense of Purpose”. We look forward to your continued business in the future. 2 Contents/Editing Philosophy/ISO26000 and our Efforts to Meet the Standards 1 Message from the President Editing Philosophy 3 Contents/Editing Philosophy/ISO26000 and our Efforts to Meet the Standards The “NEC Fielding CSR Report 2012” examines the company's CSR activities from ﬁve angles according to 4 Company Overview NEC Fielding's own “CSR Management Framework”. 5 Feature:Employee's CSR round-table talk 11 Management Philosophy/Corporate Principles/The NEC Fielding Group Charter of Corporate Behavior Scope of the report 12 The NEC Fielding Group Vision/the NEC Fielding Group Code of Conduct ● Target Period:This report is primarily based on data 13 CSR Management Framework/What is CS for NEC Fielding? about NEC Fielding's CSR activities during the 2011 ﬁscal year (April 2011 to March 2012). 14 CSR Promotion Framework ● Target Organization:This report primarily describes the 15 History of our CSR Activities CSR activities of NEC Fielding, Ltd., with some contents 16 Mission Statement/Support for the Global Compact/ISO26000 Support also covering the group companies ( see page 4 ).When the scope is more narrowly deﬁned, this is described in 17 TOPIC 1:Stakeholder Meeting additional detail. 21 Governance/Accountability Readability aids 21 TOPIC 2:Promoting CSR activities throughout the Fielding Group by utilizing the CSR Management Prize 23 Governance Structure Efforts by the Group Companies/24 The layout of this report is intended to make the report as readable as possible for the stakeholders＊. 28 Corporate Ethics and Compliance ● An asterisk (＊) is placed next to any terminology that may require an 29 Accountability explanation, with the deﬁnition following shortly after. ● Related content within this document is referenced with 31 Market ( See Page XX ) to navigate to a related page. 31 TOPIC 3: Supporting reconstruction by restoring IT Systems 33 Communication with our Customers Environmentally-responsible printing 35 Fielding Solutions Business Efforts by the Group Companies/37 The printing speciﬁcations used for the “NEC Fielding 41 Proactive Maintenance CSR Report 2012” are environmentally responsible. 42 Collaboration with Partner Companies ● Computer To Plate (CTP) printing is used to create a plate directly and eliminate the use of a prepress ﬁlm. 43 Employment ● Organic ink is used to control air contamination. 43 TOPIC 4:Starting a new initiative to revitalize workplaces, IKI-IKI Fielding ● The paper used for this repor t is FSC cer tiﬁed, 45 Hiring and Employment Initiatives and uses wood pulp that comes from forests that are strictly managed with environmental, social, 46 Health and Safety Initiatives in the Field of Employment and economic sustainability in mind. 47 Creating an Easy-to-work-in Environment Efforts by the Group Companies/48 49 Human Resource Development NEC Fielding Website 53 Society 53 TOPIC 5:Sponsoring the World Heritage Theater to help conserve and contribute to local communities http://www.fielding.co.jp/ 55 Social Contribution Activities Efforts in the Group companies/58 ＊Stakeholder: A person with a stake in the company or 61 Environment its activities.Traditionally, this term referred largely to shareholders and customers, but as is made clear by the 61 TOPIC 6:Protecting biodiversity and promoting new initiatives for carbon offset principles of CSR, all people who have a stake in the 63 Environmental Management Efforts by the Group Companies/64 activities of a company, either direct or indirect, should fall within the definition of stakeholder.This broader definition 67 Environmental Performance includes business partners such as suppliers, the local 71 Environmental Training community, nonprofit organizations, employees, and future generations. 72 Environmental Communication NEC Fielding strives for a synergistic relationship with society, and endeavors to achieve transparency with all 73 Third-Party Review stakeholders as a part of its corporate social responsibility. 74 Fielding's Journey A word from the Editor ＊Positions and titles referenced in this publication are contemporary to its publication. ISO26000 and our Efforts to Meet the Standards NEC Fielding has reorganized and begun work on the five fields of the Corporate Code of Conduct＊ and CSR Management Framework＊ regarding the core subjects for ISO26000 as shown in the following table. ＊Corporate Code of Conduct:See Page 12. ＊CSR Management Framework:See Page 13. Core Subjects Relationship to CSR Relationship to Corporate Code Management Framework of Conduct Organizational Governance Governance/Accountability Ⅰ.General Rules Human Rights Market Ⅱ.Relationship with Employees and Executive Officers ●Due Diligence ●Critical Predicaments Related to Human Rights ●Avoidance of Complicity ●Grievance Resolution Employment Ⅲ.Relationship with Customers ●Discrimination and the Socially Vulnerable ●Civil and Political Rights ●Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights ●Foundational Rules and Rights for Labor Society Ⅵ.Relationship with Society Labor Custom Market Ⅱ.Relation with Employees and Executive Officers ●Employment and Employment Relationships ●Labor Conditions and Social Protection ●Social Communication ●Work-related Health and Safety ●Human Resource Development and Training in a Work Environment Employment Relation with Clients and Competitors Environment Market Ⅵ.Relationship with Society ●Contamination Prevention ●Use of Sustainable Resources ●Climate Change Mitigation and Support ●Environmental Conservation, Biodiversity and Recovery of Natural Habitat Environment Fair Operating Practices Governance/Accountability Ⅴ.Relationship with Clients and Competitors ●Anti-Corruption ●Responsible Political Commitment ●Fair Competition ●Promotion of Social Responsibility in Value Chains ●Respect for Property Rights Market Ⅵ.Relationship with Society Consumer Issues Ⅴ.Relationship with Clients and Competitors ●Fair Marketing, Fact-based Unfeigned Information, and Fair Contract Practices ●Protection of Consumer Health and Safety Governance/Accountability Ⅵ.Relationship with Society ●Sustainable Consumption ●Service and Support for Consumers and Settlement of Complaints and Disputes Market Ⅶ.Management of Corporate Assets and Information ●Consumer Data Protection and Privacy ●Access to Essential Services ●Education and Awareness Ⅷ.Operational System Community Involvement and Development Market Ⅱ.Relationship with Employees and Executive Officers ●Community Involvement ●Education and Culture ●Employment Creation and Skill Development Employment Ⅲ.Relationship with Customers ●Technology Development and Access to Technology ●Creation of Wealth and Income ●Health ●Social Investment Society Ⅵ.Relationship with Society 3 Company Overview NEC Fielding, Ltd. Overview 01 Company Overview Company Name NEC Fielding, Ltd. ● Group Companies (Business Name) NDEC Co., Ltd.（NDEC) http://www.ndecweb.com/ Headquarters Mita Kokusai Bldg., 1-4-28 Mita, 5-47-7 Higashi Nippori, Arakawa-ku, Tokyo Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan Business: Manufacturing and sales of electronic equipment, and the supervision and conduct of electrical equipment installation Established March 1957 NEC Fielding System Technology, Ltd. (FiST) http://www.fielding-st.co.jp/ Changed Company Name to the 1-4-28 Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo current name in April 2000. Business: Consulting, design, construction, operation, and management services for computer/network systems, as well as Representative President Yukio Ito associated or related technical guidance and training, and information processing/provision services via networks such as the Internet. Capital ¥9.67bln NEC Fielding Supportcrew, Ltd. (FSC) http://www.fsc-fielding.co.jp/ Employees Consolidated total:6,170 (as of 1-4-28 Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo March 31, 2012) Business: Staffing (general office, sales support, IT equipment installation support, help desk, IT equipment installation, inventory and Offices Japan:408 ofﬁces(as of March 31, 2012) warehouse work, courier service, and IT equipment maintenance) Overseas：9 ofﬁces in 2 countries (as of March 31, 2012) NEC Fielding Information Technology Services (Beijing) Co., Ltd. (NEFITS) http://www.nefits.com.cn/ Rm. 1102A, Shining Tower, No.35 Xueyuan Rd., Haidian Dist., Beijing 100083 Business Business: Computer, network, and related equipment maintenance, installation, consulting, training, tech development, services, design, construction, sales, transfer, and import/export of related products. ●Performance Bln yen (Left Axis) / % (Right Axis) / FY ●Sales by segment 300 Margin 6.0 Operation Support 5.1％ Service ￥19.4 bln 200 4.0 Sales Supply Service Total Sales Maintenance ￥183.7 bln ￥41.5 bln ￥183.7 bln Service 100 2.0 ￥93.8 bln Recurring Proﬁt System Development ￥9.4 bln Service 0 0 ￥29.1 bln 2009 2010 2011 ● NEC Fielding business sectors IT System Lifecycle Hardware and Software Hardware and Software Planning and Implementing and Operating and Maintenance Improvement Design Manufacturing Designing Constructing Monitoring System deployment services ● NEC Supply services ● NEC Group Companies ● Sales Offices Operation support services Fielding solution business ● Software Vendor ● Hardware Vendor Maintenance services Proactive maintenance business NEC Fielding, Ltd. 4 Feature Employee's CSR round-table talk With new President Ito who assumed the presidency in June, employees in various kinds of fields held talks regarding NEC Fielding business activities and actual CSR status. Taking CSR as the most important topic, they actively exchanged opinions regarding how respective offices understand CSR from the viewpoint of an IT support company, and how they will handle their challenges in the future. Introducing NEC Fielding business President LCM Business Promotion Division Yukio Ito Platform Service Support Department Kushibe Thank you for coming today.Please introduce (Center in the front row) Junji Tachizawa, Manager yourself with a brief description of your current business (Second from the right in the back row) activities. Shutoken Block Planning Division Service Engineering Division, Tachizawa I am involved in education and management CSR and General Affairs Department for the SE platform＊ offering LCM services ( see Page 38 ).We Yasuhiko Hirose, Department Software Engineering Department Hideyuki Yashima, Manager are planning to place 550 engineers nationwide this ﬁscal Manager (Far right in the front row) (Center in the back row) year. Engineers who actively worked as CE＊ are now appointed as platform SEs. I support them in acquiring CS Senior Advisor Tokyo Branch Division, Shinjuku Education and Training Division, posted to various kinds of skills not only for device maintenance but Branch Office, Service Section also for system design/architecture, Higashi Kanto Branch Division Masaru Iwata, Manager administration/operation/proposal through communication (Second from the left in the back row) Hiroyuki Kobayashi, CSSA (Far right in the back row) with customers. Business Planning Division, Service Kushibe Could you give us a simple description of what Development Department 〈Moderator〉 platform SE is? Etsuko Miyazaki CSR Promotion Division ＊Platform SE: A technical supervisor offering comprehensive services from IT (Far left in the front row) Tatefumi Kushibe, system planning/design/architecture to business operations. General Manager ＊Customer Engineer (CE)：An engineer that assists in the operation or (Far left in the back row) maintenance of customer IT systems. NEC Fielding has 4,300 customer engineers working throughout Japan, providing a variety of services. 5 TOPICS NEC Fielding, Ltd. Overview Feature Employee's CSR round-table talk Tachizawa The Platform SE is responsible for checking a series of processes from system Firstly, be respected by family and then... implementation to operation policy and placement, and offering the most appropriate support and Kushibe Please tell us how you feel about CSR whatever operation and maintenance are expected activities in your ﬁeld. I would also like to hear President according to the customer’s business needs. Ito’s opinion. Yashima I am in charge of technical development for President Ito To put it simply, I want our company to be solution services. Speciﬁcally, I work for the Windows respected by employees' families as “a good PC technology development, data deletion, as well as company”.That is, families can see that we contribute to technical development for clear ofﬁce views.I used to many ﬁelds. In my opinion, that is a vital point for be part of the Education and Training Division and current CSR.Taking that as a background, we can worked as a maintenance business instructor.When I contribute to societies, local communities and the entered the solution ﬁeld, I found it a little confusing, environment through practical business activities. but I used what I had learned in the past and tried And employees will make contributions through not to rely too heavily on the past. volunteer and cultural activities.Based on those results, Hirose In the metropolitan Shutoken block area, I it is important that CSR evaluation of the company is work for the company’s drastic legal compliance made by a third party.We won ﬁrst place in the service towards improving problems.In addition, I want to sector in one famous CSR company survey, but I want further ensure the implementation of social all sectors to target a place of 50th or higher. contribution and environmental protection activities, Kusibe What do you think about this idea ? as well as BCP and coping with brownout after the Hirose I’m impressed by the idea of “a company that earthquake in the area. can be respected as “a good company””. Kobayashi I have been in the maintenance ﬁeld for Each individual has a very technical job that can be many years, and because of this I was appointed as difﬁcult to understand, but I want everyone including my a CSSA (CS Senior Advisor)＊ about two years family to say “my father’s company makes a good ago.The CSSA institution was established in April contribution to our society”. I have been mainly involved 2010. I was appointed about six months later as part in compliance so far, but I of the second-term personnel.Currently, 41 engineers feel that I need to promote play this CSSA role. A CSSA visits customers with the CSR activities in a broader CE and draws on his/her experience to instruct the ﬁeld. CE on how to communicate with the customer Kushibe What do you depending on the time and situation.Collecting think about our new target thoughts and opinions not only from the customers of 50th place or higher in but also from CEs in the ﬁeld as a means of all sectors? improvement is another important task. Kobayashi Our business Miyazaki I am part of the Service Development is in ICT service, which Department, which is separated into two groups. comparatively has less of One group is for service planning, mainly for an environmental products related to environment, energy efﬁciency, burden.So, what is the problem? I think the answer is and business continuity.The other is a promotional company management stance, employee’s attitude group.The group sets up seminars and events such toward jobs, and self-consciousness, and how our as exhibitions nationwide. We sometimes offer business activities are seen.That is what makes “a good support to branches.As a part of the promotional company” for our stakeholders and customers, and this group, I do my best to promote NEC Fielding means a company that has excellent CSs.So, the characteristics at exhibitions. important thing is our day-to-day feedback from the Iwata I joined the company about 15 years ago, and front line about how our customers see CEs including since then I have been a CE in the maintenance us.The CSSA system exists exactly for this ﬁeld.Currently, our Shinjuku branch is in charge of purpose.When I visit a customer and exchange large-scale customers such as administrative business cards, I introduce myself saying that “CSSAs agencies, large hospitals as well as pharmaceutical like myself come here to provide higher customer companies and universities which have on-site CEs. satisfaction.”It can be satisfying to hear the customer This makes it particularly important that maintenance say “you guys at NEC Fielding are doing a good personnel acquire higher skills for an enormous job.”High skill levels are of course a must, but we have number of models.At the same time, it is an honor to to be able to communicate with our customers and be involved in socially critical systems. I ﬁnd myself impart this knowledge, which is really a fantastic feeling. learning along with customers to understand systems Yashima You mention a company which can be and business details to ensure stable system respected as “a good company” by families, but how operations. can we attain that?Personally, I think we can show our sense of responsibility in supporting IT systems. For ＊CS (Customer Satisfaction):Client satisfaction level At NEC Fielding, we believe that providing a level of service satisfactory to our example, our action at the Great East Japan customers makes it possible for us to work and grow together with our Earthquake.At that time, I was off work the following day, customers . This is the fundamental principle of how we do business. but I went to ofﬁce to help my colleagues to prepare to ＊CSSA (CS Senior Advisor):a veteran employee selected for their rich ﬁeld experience and technical and personal skills.CSSAs visit customers with CEs to go there.My family sees me behaving in this way, they offer know-how as required. can learn that I am trying to support our society. 6 Our stance is to protect customer systems. It Our mission is to protect customer’s systems doesn’t make any sense if our work places additional risks on them. Kushibe Please tell us what you feel about the Kushibe Can we share any speciﬁc examples? President’s comments, what the situation is now, Iwata Our Shinjuku branch has a customer who and what you want to do next. contacted us.Their system engineer said that their Iwata Our responsibility toward customers is to server had a fault and could not recover. It had have them continue to use our stable been down for a while.We visited the site and systems.Honestly, protecting customer’s systems listened to him about the problem. It was not is our No.1 priority. completely broken, but the server was So, when performing maintenance, we have to occasionally down.In such situations, we need to access sensitive customer information many take the log data including customer information times.If a hard disk is broken, I replace it. If the for fault analysis.However, their regulations server system is down, I extract customer prohibited the removal of such data.So we were information to analyze the defects.In this way, I unable to make a clear analysis there because we ﬁnd myself frequently accessing our customer’s couldn’t obtain the information instantly. information, but I take every conceivable effort to The importance of information security is critical protect information security.For example, when I in this era.This sort of situation calls for innovative replace a broken hard disc drive, I place security technology to quickly and accurately recover from locks on site.In addition, when I extract customer such failures, and I think this is our challenge for data I use maintenance media such as USB the future.For your information, the customer gave memories, but even this type of device is strictly us the necessary information after we completed controlled when removed. When you try to remove a number of procedures, and the system is now it, virus checks have to be done when it is running smoothly. returned.This type of maintenance should never cause additional problems for our customers. What is NEC Fielding’s mission? Through changing times and last year’s earthquake, we now see the necessity of a new approach to IT support that is a cornerstone of today’s society. Through our business activities, our enthusiasm to contribute can be found in our mission toward society, local communities, and the environment. What is the contribution to local communities by utilizing core business? Kushibe We have heard from personnel who work closely with customers.Now, let’s talk about social contribution activities in local communities that have been focused since the earthquake. Hirose I feel that working closely together with local communities is the key to success for us.I don’t think this is limited to the Shutoken block＊, but to implement social contribution activities, we need to do what is expected by the community.In addition, social contribution is not just the activity performed after making careful preparations, but instead you can start with what you can do right now. That is also Tachizawa As Mr. Iwata said, NEC Fielding’s important.For example, let’s consider cleaning activities in the mission is to provide fundamental support to our neighborhood. Start with an activity which is largely accepted by customer’s IT needs.Not only for hardware the community, and then learn from local NPOs one by one.First, maintenance, but it is also critical that we support you assimilate into the community, ﬁnd their needs, and then use our customer’s business continuity.That is, we need what you can do such as ICT skills, etc. to contribute to the to develop personnel who can understand our community. I think that is necessary in the future. customer’s business, think about what is important for individual systems, acquire the skills for different ＊Shutoken Block:A block responsible for Tokyo Branch (Tokyo and Okinawa), Kita Kanto Branch (Saitama, Tochigi, Gunma, Niigata, systems, and make proposals with conﬁdence.For me, Nagano), Higashi Kanto Branch (Chiba and Ibaraki) and Nishi Kanto this is what it means to support our customers. Branch (Kanagawa and Yamanashi) 7 TOPICS NEC Fielding, Ltd. Overview Feature Employee's CSR round-table talk Kushibe Last year, our new recruits took part in tree Tachizawa User friendliness can also be applied to thinning and underbrush clipping in a wild forest in ofﬁce environments.In a global society, it is important Akiruno city as their ﬁrst step in social contribution that we accept foreigners and prepare environments activities.Not only forestry work, but you also need where employees with disabilities can work comfortably. to share problems with local NPOs and residents, President Ito Major manufacturers broadcast which is important.For example in Sendai, since the sensational commercials about their social contribution earthquake, people have been patrolling the city in activities, which I think costs a sizable amount of the evening, while in Tokyo Midori no Ongakutai (The money.That is one CSR activity, which is important Green Orchestra) visits a variety of facilities to corporate PR.However, we are not looking at what our support families raising children and support young competitors do. mothers. These types of activities are found As Mr. Yashima just mentioned, by returning to your throughout Japan. (See pages 59 and 60). ofﬁce during the earthquake, your children would have We want to be more aggressively involved in these been deeply moved by your actions.When I was a activities, and be accepted by many local child, my father worked for a railroad company.Trains communities.I want there to be broad knowledge of run during the day, but not at night.But he went to work our good actions, which is important. I want us to at night.I thought at that time, he was doing a very continue to show enthusiasm for these activities. hard, but very important job.This attitude can be easily Are there any other contributions you have been understood by families.NEC Fielding does not do making? business for consumers and we don’t have Kobayashi I’d like to talk about the brownouts that opportunities to broadcast TV commercials. That is why occurred due to the electricity problem. Just like we need to show what we do through our own actions. everyone here, we do not turn on the lights until Volunteer activities and other social contribution ofﬁce hour’s start, we turn them off during lunch activities are not supposed to be set up beforehand, breaks, and make sure computers are turned off but begin with what you can do right now. I think this is when not in use.In the morning, natural light is perfectly true.If you are afraid to take a large ﬁrst step, enough until ofﬁce hours start and during lunch then start with breaks, the lights are all turned off.Although these something that are little things, we can feel that we are at least is easy to contributing. This is being done across the board, do.Small steps and I am proud of our company’s bond of solidarity. can bear large Miyazaki I have been a part of the service planning fruit in the group in the Service Development Department since future. July, and was involved in the development of the Kushibe You Enepal ® series＊.I attended the initial presentation of mentioned the where Enepal ® , in its development stage, was shown Mountain forest on a computer.At ﬁrst, the screen gave a stiff and caretaking formal impression, with lots of ﬁgures such as CO2. I project in told them frankly that I simply couldn‘t understand Akiruno city the contents.As general consumers would be using earlier.The this software, I felt that a far more user friendly initial purpose display that could be understood by anyone was was simply to take care of the mountain by thinning vital.After that, the team made improvements making and pruning, but over the years we learned of various the software more easily understandable. other problems.With more and more advocates, this Joining the Enepal ® series development gave me my project has developed into a project comprising ﬁrst taste of the concept of universal design.This industry, government, and university collaborations. concept includes, for example, easily recognizable President Ito That’s great to hear. So as we see in designs such as adding dotted and/or diagonal lines other areas, people do not try to make sudden, large in a chart for users who ﬁnd it difﬁcult to recognize contributions to local communities, environment, and colors.Creating user friendly products is extremely culture, when they ﬁrst start out. Instead, they naturally important these days. evolve to these points. That is the ideal for social contribution activities. NEC Fielding’s most important attitude is to support our customer’s BCP＊.Our BCP is without question, but now that IT provides a backbone to society, we need to focus on it and how we behave. That should lead to our customer’s BCP. ＊Enepal series:A service for grasping a clearer view of the amount of power consumed and CO2 discharged for computers, air conditioners, and lights in ofﬁces, so that we can reduce unnecessary power consumption through “autonomous power conservation” according to the user’s behavioral patterns. ＊BCP:Business Continuity Plan:A plan (document) highlighting policies and procedures for ensuring the continuity of services in the event of natural disasters, terrorism, or other unforeseen events. 8 implementation of further CSR-like behavior. Kushibe I have some questions from the attendees to the President. The ﬁrst question is, what is your prime focus for CSR? President Ito We should be trying to do everything, not focusing on one single point. Kushibe Next, what do you think about company-wide training to familiarize everyone with CSR? President Ito NEC Fielding's most valuable asset is its employees.To increase the abilities of our personnel, I believe education is the key. In that sense, I know web education is important, but it's not enough. CS senior advisors go out with them into the ﬁeld and offer suitable advice by observing engineer's conversations with customers. Japan has long had a culture of teaching one Shine the light back on yourself, another.In Japan, juniors learn many things from and that will lead to the next step. the behavior of their senior as well as seniors teaching things directly to their juniors. Iwata After the 3.11 earthquake the value of the This is an important factor of Japanese culture.We BCP was re-evaluated and Tokyo branch prepared can take strength from this, and it will lead to a BCP proposal check sheet.It was a higher levels of CSR. questionnaire such as Are you ready for a Kushibe In conclusion, please let us hear your blackout?”. At ﬁrst we didn’t even understand ﬁrst impressions about our CSR activities since what a BCP was.Then we gradually came to learn you took ofﬁce in June. that it was to help customer's systems continue, President Ito For compliance, I think education is and thereby help business to continue.A UPS thoroughly taken care of.The Education and (Uninterruptible Power System) is a device for Training Division has nearly 200 education maintaining electrical power even if a blackout personnel including CS senior advisors.As much occurs. Customers now understand the necessity as 3% of our total workforce. of UPS and dynamos. We have received more I have come to see the importance of having such orders for batteries and I think we gave those a number of educators on our team. I have customers a sense of ease. become acutely aware that we need them to Kushibe Customers could accidentally forget.By maintain this level and brush up on our skills. making proposals, customers are encouraged to Instead of a Do this! Don't do this type of think of other points that might need to be education, I think a good education is to steer considered. people into thinking This is what I should do . In addition, are there any challenges in new You have all proven yourselves to be reliable, ﬁelds? which in turn makes me very happy. Miyazaki From the viewpoint of promotions, NEC Kushibe Thank you for sharing such a broad Fielding offers a wide range of products and range of thoughts and experience with us today. services.However, we have not been effective in imparting this information to potential customers.How we make those sales points is critical.For example, a security network product is worthy of being strongly recommended. Kushibe How about a mission for technical development? Yashima I am thinking of promoting development of battery products for smart grids or energy saving ﬁelds.In addition, I think any service technology is promising for the future because it can be utilized in the ﬁrst industry and ﬁeld servers. President Ito For now, customers are satisﬁed with what we are doing.We offer services to customers. Those customers make contributions to society, and that can stand for our CSR activity accomplishments. Now, think about your job objectively, and consider how it is used.This can help you see clearly what you can do to help, and lead to the 9 TOPICS NEC Fielding, Ltd. Overview Feature Employee's CSR round-table talk After the round-talk, the attendees made some general comments on their thoughts and feeling. LCM Business Promotion Division CS Senior Advisor Platform Service Support Department Education and Training Division (CSSA), posted to Higashi Kanto Branch Division Junji Tachizawa, Manager Hiroyuki Kobayashi I think we can take for Since I became a CS granted that it is difﬁcult advisor, I try to tell CEs for most people to what is expected of us in understand the IT service clear and plain manner. business, and so I would I have done about my like to see us use clear, daily business like this for plain explanations and two years, and now I can expressions.To do this, ﬁrst see that they understand of all, I need to understand what I want them to do the company's and I have been advancement as a whole.I also feel that I need to evaluated that way.It gives me great pleasure to clearly indicate the company's orientation to impart the know-how I have accumulated for CS platform SEs who are scattered throughout and CSR. Japan.I will keep in touch with them for fur ther advance our communication. Tokyo Branch Division, Shinjuku Branch Office Business Planning Division, Service Section Service Development Department Masaru Iwata, Manager Etsuko Miyazaki Growing with our customers Today, I heard opinions could lead to us being No.1 in from a variety of the service industry.There are standpoints. I ﬁnd it many on-site CEs who can interesting that people act voluntarily and with such a wide variety spontaneously.We have of opinions work in the been working every day same company. to attain stable operation I conduct promotional of customer's systems. I activities nationwide and will strive to maintain work in a glamorous ﬁeld. good communication with CEs so that our I want to capture the attention of a broader customers are satisﬁed with us and that could base of customers and tell them about the lead to an increase in NEC Fielding's social great things our company can offer. responsibility. Shutoken Block Planning Division Service Engineering Division, CSR and General Affairs Department Software Engineering Department Yasuhiko Hirose, Department Manager Hideyuki Yashima, Manager Social contributions and NEC Fielding's strength environmental protection is the CS knowledge have to start from what you that we have can do now.Act accumulated.In our casually.That mindset has service development, I always been important, want to utilize CS and and I felt it again today.To CSR as our fundamental sum up employee’s mental driving force for attitude, we use the determining our expression Pride, direction. Conﬁdence and a Sense of mission . If you act while I will impart what I have learned here today considering this expression, your family will view us to the rest of the team so that I can show my as a good company. attitude to junior employees. 10 Management Philosophy/Corporate Principles/ The NEC Fielding Group Charter of Corporate Behavior Management Philosophy The Management Philosophy at NEC Fielding is based on the Corporate Principles and Charter of Corporate Behavior, which in principle remain unchanged. The company vision, derived from the CS CSR management policy, outlines our medium and long term goals.The Day-to-Day Work Corporate Values management policy, Medium-term Management Plan, and fiscal-year Fiscal Year Policy policies exist to realize these goals and guide day-to-day operations. Code of Medium-Term Management Plan CS and CSR act as the axes that link these components together as Conduct the backbone of management. The Corporate Code of Conduct is a Management Policy breakdown of the values that constitute the soul of the organization and Vision the Charter of Corporate Behavior. Corporate Principles/Charter of Corporate Behavior Corporate Principles The core principle guiding NEC Fielding's activities＊ is to facilitate new dynamism and business expansion for our customers, while also contributing to the creation of a stable and prosperous society. ＊NEC Fielding's activities:NEC Fielding works to create and provide various services within the ﬁeld of information technology by anticipating our customers’ needs while ensuring the optimum performance and availability of our customers’ IT assets for their work. The NEC Fielding Group Charter of Corporate Behavior＊ NEC Fielding shall endeavor to increase its profitability through sound business practices, and actively work for the vigorous advancement and emergence of a sustainable society.To these ends, we realize it is important for us not only to observe all pertinent laws and regulations, but also to discharge our responsibilities as a good corporate citizen, meet the expectations of our customers, shareholders/investors, transaction partners, communities, employees, and all other stakeholders, and to aim for advancement society while increasing our corporate value. ●Customer satisfaction We shall gain the satisfaction and trust of our customers by developing and providing goods and services that embody high levels of utility and dependability with full consideration for safety, and increasing the value delivered to them. ●Taking up the challenge of new technology We shall take up the challenge of developing creative technology, pioneering new ﬁelds of business, and providing goods and services of genuine value. ●Fair business activities We shall engage in fair, transparent, and free competition.Furthermore, we shall maintain sound and normal relations with political and government entities. ●Transparency and communication We shall provide accurate, plain, and complete information about the company both promptly and appropriately to increase the transparency of our corporate activities. Similarly, we shall engage in communication with all sectors of society and strive for harmony and mutual advancement. ●Putting environmental management to practice We shall reduce our environmental impact, work to protect biodiversity, and contribute to a more sustainable society. ●Globalization and harmonious coexistence with local communities We shall honor international regulations including human rights, based on our respect and understanding of national and regional cultures and traditions and our stakeholders' interests. We shall respect the laws and regulations in each country and region, and shall endeavor towards management that contributes thereto. ●Social contribution activities With a keen awareness that our company and our employees are members of society, we shall engage in social contribution on our own initiative as a good corporate citizen. ●Respect for human rights We shall behave with respect for the human rights of all people that we interact with and shall not engage in prejudice, harassment, child labor, or forced labor. ●Respect for employees We shall respect the diversity, personalities, and individual characteristics of our employees. Furthermore, we shall provide an employment climate enabling the full exercise of capabilities and work with a feeling of fulﬁllment. ●Appropriate management of corporate assets and information We shall not use corporate assets for any non-business purposes, and shall manage appropriately all customer and personal information. We shall appropriately protect and utilize the intellectual property that we create and obtain, and shall respect the intellectual property rights of others. ●Disassociation from antisocial influences We shall ﬁrmly oppose antisocial inﬂuences or groups that pose a threat to the order and safety of society, and shall disassociate ourselves from all such entities. ＊The NEC Fielding Group Charter of Corporate Behavior was established in 2004, and is amended as necessary.Recent years have brought to the business environment major changes such as the globalization of business activities, an increased awareness of environmental problems and the supply chain, and the publication ISO 26000, guidelines for the social responsibility of organizations. In response to these changes, NEC Fielding released an amended NEC Fielding Group Charter of Corporate Behavior in April 2011. 11 The NEC Fielding Group Vision/ the NEC Fielding Group Code of Conduct CSR at NEC Fielding 01 The NEC Fielding Group Vision NEC Fielding aspires to be an ideal partner by creating valuable services and supporting an information society that is friendly to both people and the planet. We will evolve as our information society evolves and offer a unique value by identifying and pursuing what we can do, what only we can do, and what needs to be done for a NEC Group Vision 2017 brighter future. A leading global company building an information society friendly to both At NEC Fielding, we offer convenient and reliable services to people and the planet through support the efforts of the NEC group to achieve an NEC Fielding aspires to be an innovation ideal partner by creating information society that is kind to both people and the valuable services and planet ; a society that is in harmony with the global supporting an information environment and a seamless part of people's lives. society that is friendly to both people and the planet. By continuing to create these valuable services, we hope to become an irreplaceable ideal partner for society. The NEC Fielding Group Corporate Code of Conduct NEC Fielding has established the NEC Fielding Group Code of Conduct that provides guidelines for abiding by its Corporate Principles and making the NEC Fielding Group Vision a reality. This code of conduct is shared throughout the NEC Fielding Group and serves as a guideline for CSR activities carried out by all of the group companies. The NEC Fielding Group Corporate Code of Conduct 1.Free Competition and Fair Transaction 1.General meaning and scope 2.Transaction Policies with Retailers and Ⅴ.Relationship of application of this Code Partners with Clients Ⅰ.General Rules 2.Abidance Responsibility for 3.Transaction Policies with Sales Partners and this Code 4.Business Entertaining and Gift Policies Competitors 3.Basic Attitude 5.Compliance with Export/Import Related Regulations Ⅱ.Relationship 1.Respect for Human Rights of 1.Compliance with Public Order with Employees and Executive Ofﬁcers 2.Environmental Management Employees 2.Respect for Privacy Ⅵ.Relationship 3.Social Contributions and 3.Prohibition of Harassment with Society 4.Donations and Political Donations Policies Executive 4.Workplace Safety and 5.Prohibition of Involvement in Antisocial Officers Maintenance of Sanitary Conditions Behavior 1.Appropriate Management of Corporate Assets 1.Ensuring Safety/Reliability/Quality Ⅶ.Management 2.Appropriate Management of Conﬁdential Ⅲ.Relationship of Products and Services of Information and Customer Information with 2.Security of Customer Information Company 3.Appropriate Management of Personal Information Customers 3.Advertisement and Publication Assets and 4.Protection and Usage of Intellectual Property Policies Information Rights Ⅳ.Relationship 1.Operational Systems 1.Precise and Timely Issuance of Ⅷ.Operational 2.Fielding Help Line with Corporate Information Systems 3.Disciplinary Action, etc. Shareholders 2.Prohibition of Insider Trading 4.Reference and Investors 12 CSR Management Framework/What is CS for NEC Fielding? CSR Management framework CSR Policy Our commitment is to strive to satisfy the expectations of all stakeholders, to proactively contribute toward a more sustainable society, to act in a socially responsible way, and to pursue synergistic growth as a good corporate citizen and an integral part of society. Unswerving and comprehensive internal control ● Management philosophy ● Corporate governance and increased transparency by ● Risk management ● Business ethics all members of the Fielding Group ● Disclosure and communication Governance/ Accountability Developing business that functions A company that offers rewarding work and as a lifeline for the modern era develops diverse human resources CSR ●Honorable treatment of customers and consumers Market Management Employment ● Improved employee satisfaction ● Diversity of employment ●Treatment of partners and suppliers ● CSR Policy ●Easy-to-work-in environment ●Fair and honest treatment of ● Integrated management ●Positive action ●Strategy deployment shareholders and investors ●Continued dedication to product safety and implementation ●CSR through our primary business activities ●Disclosure and dialog Society Environment Working to solve social problems Working toward a sustainable society and contributing through being a in harmony with the environment Creation of a society that is low-carbon/ good neighbor to local communities. recycling-oriented/in harmony with nature ● Social contribution activities and being a good neighbor to the local community ● Environmental management ● Coordination with NPOs and NGOs ● Environmental communication ●International support ●Working to protect biodiversity ●Environmental business ●Environmental risk management CSR Management Framework The NEC Fielding management philosophy rests on the two pillars of CSR and CS.Our CSR activities are categorized as Governance/Accountability, Market, Employment, Society, and Environment. We are developing speciﬁc policies in each of these categories, and manage the implementation of these policies according to the CSR Basic Policy. In the area of governance and accountability, we are working to further clarify the vision put forth by our management philosophy and seek to achieve ever more robust governance of the group as a whole. Some of our efforts in the market category include collecting feedback about speciﬁc customer service cases, carefully selecting business partners and improving the work conditions and work environment standards for our support activities. In the area of employment, NEC Fielding has improved its career options and is developing human resources with diverse types of market value. Social contributions are aided by the establishment of a social contribution scheme that uses existing frameworks from our primary business and expanded support of the Fielding Philanthropy Club. Our commitment to the environment is demonstrated by environmentally responsible services, an expanded offering of services with environmental beneﬁts, approaching more clients with proposals that beneﬁt the environment and environmental management instituted throughout our group companies, including our foreign subsidiaries. What is CS for NEC Fielding? As an IT service company, NEC Fielding places the highest “CS is a cornerstone of business importance on customer satisfaction. With this clear concept in mind, we determined that management based on CS and CSR -Everything for the customer's satisfaction…would inform our basic policy for business operation and then determined our company-wide quality policy. Company-wide quality policy If we lose the customer's satisfaction and our own reliability in CS is a cornerstone of business equal measure, we lose our business fundamentals. Quality is fundamental for work Therefore, the customer's satisfaction must come before Continuous improvement of CS and quality everything else for NEC Fielding. 13 CSR Promotion Framework CSR at NEC Fielding 02 CSR Promotion Framework In October 2010, NEC Fielding established the “CSR committee”.This committee is led by the company president and includes all corporate officers and presidents of the company’s subsidiaries. Participants discuss and approve overall CSR strategy from a management standpoint and deliberate on and approve preventative measures for potential risks and responses when an incident occurs, and then disseminate these results to their respective divisions. The board of directors (CSR-related matters) ● Periodic reporting and discussion of CSR-related matters (strategy/progress update) Corporate officers meeting Executive officers meeting (CSR-related matters) (CSR-related matters) ● Approval of mediumand short-term CSR plans ● Periodic reporting on CSR-related matters ● Requests for and approval of items such as (strategy/progress update) implementation of measures and information sharing ●Requests and notiﬁcations related to CSR activities CSR Committee M i s s i o n ：●Executive discussion, approval, and oversight of the overall CSR strategy ● Discussion, approval, and dissemination to respective divisions of strategies to prevent potential risks and responses to identiﬁed risks ●Discussion of response and oversight over initiatives related to ISO 26000 key issues Meeting period ：Quarterly Chairperson ：Company President Vice Chairperson ：CSR Associate Senior Vice President Board Members ：All Corporate Ofﬁcers and the Presidents of company subsidiaries (Corporate Auditors: Attend as observers) S e c r e t a r i a t ：CSR Promotion Division, Business Planning Division, Internal Auditing Division Approval and Policy Development CSR Promotion Proposal and Approval Division Report and Notiﬁcation ● Planning Ofﬁce ● Environmental Management Promotion Ofﬁce ●Corporate Ethics Promotion Ofﬁce ●Customer Information Management Promotion Ofﬁce Dual Related Committees Appointees ● Compliance Committee ● Central Environment, Workplace All top-tier divisions＊and Safety and Health Committee domestic subsidiary Discussion and Implementation ●Education Committee companies ●Business Continuity Planning Project (29 people) ●Pandemic Response Project CSR Promotion Meeting M e e t i n g p e r i o d ： Monthly O b j e c t i v e ： To promote practical CSR activities and raise CSR awareness on company-wide basis, through deployment of speciﬁc strategies and measures in each of the ﬁve ﬁelds (governance/accountability, market, employment, society, and environment). C h a i r p e r s o n ： CSR Promotion Division General Manager Meeting Participants ： All ﬁrst-tier division promoters (Department Manager level) ＊First-tier divisions refer to branches, business promotion divisions, and corporate staff divisions that manage ofﬁces (branch level). 14 History of CSR Activities History of CSR activities NEC Fielding launched its CSR activities with the institution of its “CSR Committee” in May 2003, and formulated its CSR Activity Policy in December of the same year.To reinforce our CSR activity promotions, the Committee was reorganized into the “CSR Promotion Division”* in April 2005.This made it possible for us to lead the company with management integrating the various elements of CSR, and to construct a setup for the systematic and ongoing fulﬁllment of our corporate mission. In 2011, the Charter of Corporate Behavior and Corporate Code of Conduct were developed among group companies to prepare a framework for the NEC Fielding group to promote CSR activities as one unit. ＊As of June, 2011, this became known as the CSR Promotion Division Management Targets Promotion Phase of CSR Activities CSR CSR Activity Goals Actions needed to achieve the goals (From 2009) Promotion Division 2011 September Amendment of the NEC ● Promote CSR activities by ●Build consensus through sharing Fielding Group Code of both the NEC Fielding of the NEC Fielding Group Conduct Group and partner Vision with the group companies April Revision of the NEC Fielding Group companies ●Promote CSR activities by Charter of Corporate Behavior expanding the scope of the Establishment of the Fielding CSR Management Prize to Group Environmental Management include group companies Action Plan 2017/2030 ● Improve the quality of social ●Promote nationwide activities of 2010 November CSR Committee reestablished contribution activities the Fielding Philanthropy Club April Reorganized as CSR Promotion Division ●Promote measures to ●Discuss and develop 2009 December Created the 2nd Medium-Term CSR Plan improve employee measures through the ES satisfaction (ES) Improvement Project Establishment Phase of CSR Goals for Actions needed to achieve CSR and (from 2005 to 2008) further establishment of CSR the goals Internal Auditing 2008 June Fielding Vision & Values created ● Promote activities ●Strengthen the risk Division and Corporate Philosophy reviewed aimed at Zero Risk management scheme March Founded the Fielding Philanthropy Club ●Implement and expand ●Select products as a CSR Major revisions made to the CSR in core business supplier and expand sales October Corporate Governance System activities (110% YoY) Internal Auditing Division ●Move from creating a Business 2007 April Merged into CSR and Internal Continuity Plan (BCP) to Auditing Division Business Continuity Management (BCM) 2006 April Established CSR Promotion Promotion Division ●Steadily expand social ●Coexistence with local community Phase of CSR contributions activities at 414 offices Activities 2005 February Created the Medium-Term throughout Japan, centered on (From 2009) CSR Plan the NEC Group’s Social Contribution Activity Campaign Introduction and Consensus-building Phase ”NEC Make-a-Difference Drive” CSR of CSR(from 2003 to 2004) ●Commit to achieving the ●Meet and clearly exceed the Committee 2004 December Corporate branding activities 2010 Environment targets for greenhouse gas Management Targets emissions reduction established August Restructured the Management in the Kyoto protocol Philosophy ●Establish a system for ●Set KPI to quantitatively 2003 December Created the CSR Activity Policy self-evaluation of activities measure the success of May Created the CSR Committee CSR initiatives 2000 April Company name was changed to NEC Fielding, Ltd. 1957 March Established 15 Mission Statement/ Support for the Global Compact/ISO26000 Support CSR at NEC Fielding 03 Mission Statement＊ IT systems are lifelines for the contemporary age. They play an important role in the infrastructure of our society and are essential to the building of an affluent and sustainable future. We provide support services that make IT a dynamic force in the business and life of our customers, and these services are centered on advanced technological skills, nationwide deployment of engineers, and information management skills for swift problem-solving. We aim not only to provide IT support services that increase the value of our customer’s IT assets but also to understand our customer’s business and IT environments from their perspective, to support their business and lives, and to contribute to the sustainable development of society as a whole. To maintain our reputation as a corporation that can be trusted and relied upon, we aim to fulfill our corporate social responsibility and grow synergistically with society as a conscientious corporate citizen. We will contribute to the sustainable development of society and our customers through a partnership based on shared security and profit. ※ Mission Statement : A clear statement of the company s mission and a promise to the stakeholders Support for the Global Compact The “Global Compact” was advocated by Koﬁ Annan, then the United ●The 10 Principles of the Global Compact Nations Secretary-General, in January 1999 to address issues arising Human 1.Businesses should support and respect the protection of from globalization. The companies subscribing to it are called upon to Rights internationally proclaimed human rights support and practice universal principles covering ten items in the four 2.Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ﬁelds of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and 3.Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Labor anti-corruption (see list on right).In June 2004, NEC Fielding became the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Standards the 15th Japanese company to announce its support for the Global 4.The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Compact. As of August 8, 2012, the member companies and 5.The effective abolition of child labor. organizations numbered more 6.The elimination of discrimination in respect to than 10,400 worldwide with 164 employment and occupation. 7.Businesses should support a precautionary approach to in Japan.NEC Fielding works for Environment environmental challenges. rigorous compliance with the 8.Undertake initiatives to “Global Compact” and its promote greater environmental responsibility. principles among its employees, 9.Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. and is engaged in vigorous 10.Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, activities based on them. Anti-Corruption including extortion and bribery. Response to ISO26000 Regarding ISO26000 issued in November 2010, we reviewed the ISO's seven core subjects in February 2011 to see how much our CSR activities had accomplished.Most items were evaluated as Action taken , Action under consideration or No action necessary in this company . There were also some unexpected items that arose from this review, and so we continuing to look for ways to tackle these situations. Number of Correspondence level Correspondence level Correspondence level Correspondence level Seven core subjects subjects A B C D Correspondence level 6.2 Organizational Governance 12 4 8 0 0 A Measures have already been developed and handled. B Measures are under consideration. 6.3 Human rights 32 15 4 0 13 C Actions need to be done taken in the future. 6.4 Labor Practices 44 42 2 0 0 D At this point, this item does not apply to our company. 6.5 Environment 31 16 6 0 9 Item number Core Subjects 6.6 Fair Operating Practices 30 23 6 0 1 We are considering supporting appropriate activities to promote 6.7 Consumer Issues 52 38 10 0 4 （6.8.7） diversity in existing economic 6.8 Community Involvement 35 6 7 2 20 activities in various communities. and Development We are considering supporting Total 236 144 46 2 47 （6.8.7） organizations working in an appropriate （61％） （18％） （1％） （20％） legal framework. 16 TOPIC 1：Stakeholder Meeting CSR Report 2011 Feedback Meeting Over vi ew On Friday February 3rd, 2012, we held the “CSR Report 2011 Feedback Meeting”.This meeting has been annually held since the FY 2007 edition was released, and this year marks the 5th meeting.These extensive discussions centered on “What is expected of companies by society through BCP and in the light of how the aftermath of the earthquake was handled.”We will call on a great number of valuable opinions and requests that we shared with participants in the creation of the CSR Reports, and we will reﬂect these in our CSR activities for further improvement. ● Overview of the “CSR Report 2011” Feedback Meeting Date/Time Friday February 3rd, 2012 from 13:00 to 17:30 Location NEC Fielding “Aru Parts Kawasaki” Mr. Yoshihiro Kishimoto (Editor-in-chief of CSR Company Comprehensive List, TOYO KEIZAI INC.) Mr. Tomoki Naoi (Tokyo University of Science) Participants Ms. Shiori Abe (Rikkyo University) ＊All afﬁliations are Mr. Kazuki Hasebe (Musashi University) as of the time of the event. Ms. Moe Asano (Kwansei Gakuin University) Koichi Ikeda (NEC Fielding, Kita Block Planning Division, General Manager) Masuo Maekawa (NEC Fielding, Customer Support Division, Assistant General Manager) Tatefumi Kushibe (NEC Fielding, CSR Promotion Division, General Manager) Facilitator Mr. Takashi Fukushima (Sustainability Accounting Co., Ltd., President) To get things started, NEC Fielding’s introduction movie was aired and the company’s CSR management was introduced.They then used videos and panels to explain what actions the company took after the Great East Japan Earthquake, which was not included in the CSR Report 2011 and their actual conditions at that time. They further mentioned future challenges to be faced for the BCP. 1.“ C SR Re p o rt 2011 ” Feedbac k Me e t in g Miyamoto, our CSR Associate Senior Vice President, began the Feedback Meeting with the following address. CSR’s future direction after the great earthquake Takashi Miyamamoto,CSR Associate Senior Vice President Let me begin by thanking you all for participating in today's CSR Report 2011 Feedback Meeting.We are holding this meeting with guests from outside the company to improve our CSR activities and to ensure objectivity for the report. The largest incidence last year was of course the tragic Great East Japan Earthquake.I have learned that someone here today joined with the volunteer activities.“What can we do to aid in the earthquake reconstruction” was obviously a question that was raised at a personal level, but I was also keenly aware that a “company’s social responsibility” was brought under the microscope due to the earthquake. Through these situations, we would like to hear your honest opinions about the ideals of a company’s social responsibility.Not only the earthquake, but we would like also to hear about overall CSR activities including social contributions. We posed several questions to the participants in advance and asked them to share their answers in the meeting.This section represents three of the themes presented by the participants. ①What were your thoughts when you read the “CSR Report 2011”. ②Ideal company attitude in case of an emergency. ③What do you expect from NEC Fielding now and in the future. 17 TOPICS CSR at NEC Fielding ① M y thoughts wh e n I re a d th e “CSR Re p o rt 2 0 11 ”. The company’s seriousness toward CSR by Mr. Yoshihiro Kishimoto First of all, I would like to mention the Message from the President. By displaying such an earnest response to CSR, the President gives a positive image of the company.With a two-stage medium-term CSR Plan that has been unveiled twice in the past, they demonstrate a willingness to take action that is not seen in other companies.The company gives a clear impression overall that it wants to integrate CSR into BCP and its core business. Although CSR activities are focused domestically now due to the earthquake, we can see that CSR activities are gradually gaining traction overseas.It is probably best to consider what CSR activities can be applied overseas, and address them little by little.In addition, the Employment field requires concrete figures in the results to make a persuasive argument. I think that including such information could make it more balanced. I see the company’s quality by Mr. Kazuki Hasebe When I started job hunting, I asked an older friend for advice on what factors I should consider when looking for a job. She said The first step would be to look at the company s prospectus, but you would be better off taking a thorough look at the CSR reports.These will give you a clear idea of the company s qualities and activities. And so I spent my time reading CSR reports from many different companies.Although I wasn t completely clear what IT support jobs entailed until then, when I read your CSR reports the charts and images painted a clear picture allowing me to easily understand everything. Specific BCP countermeasures are expected by Ms. Shiori Abe I was satisfied with your immediate response to stakeholders during the Great East Japan Earthquake because you continued to give training to your employees as part of your on-going BCP measures.I would like to know how this great response will be integrated into preparations for a near-field earthquake that could hit the metropolitan area in the near future. I saw smiles on the faces of employees in all of the sections that I visited, and learned that the company values true voice over objectiveness. I had an impression that this company values personnel, and their people communicate well. ② Ideal com pany attitude in case of a n e me rg e n c y. Companies should constitute the foundation of recovery by Ms. Moe Asano I have taken part in volunteer activities four times so far in the area affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. It is hard to be an individual in such circumstances.What one person can do has obvious limitations, so if large organizations are responsible for making up the backbone of reconstruction, a mutual cooperation system can be prepared.Disasters can hit anyone at any time. Companies having branches nationwide and should offer them flexible support. Immediate response helps to fulfill a company’s social responsibility by Mr. Kazuki Hasebe (Picture shown before) I heard from an older friend that when the Great East Japan Earthquake hit, many companies were in full recruitment drives with many students applying for jobs. Those companies web sites froze and many students could not get a response to their inquiries.Unfortunately this sort of situation promotes a distrust of companies.So it is important that companies make every endeavor to respond immediately to emergencies. So it is important that companies make every endeavor to respond immediately to emergencies. Koichi Ikeda I think we were able to fulfill our social responsibility as an IT service company after the Great East Japan Earthquake.As shown in CSR Report 2011, we created a task force immediately, deployed materials from offices throughout Japan, and dispatched employees six times. I think we contributed well to early IT system recovery in the area. Handling new challenges is expected by Masuo Maekawa In an emergency, what we expect to happen varies according to the situation. What NEC Fielding can offer is the recovery of IT infrastructures as soon as possible and maintain their operation.During the earthquake, I believe we responded well in this capacity. In my office, we gathered information about personnel who could return home and who were stuck that day. We tried to place a priority on sending home women and long-distance commuters.Trains started up again late at night and we could make it home anyway, but as a lesson we have to consider the possibility that all employees could be displaced during an emergency. We need to develop strategies to combat this risk and integrate them into our annual BCP training. 18 ③ What do you e xpect fro m NE C F ie ld in g n o w a n d in t h e f u t u re Raise the presence for IT infrastructure companies by Mr. Tomoki Naoi Honestly speaking, any companies involved in IT infrastructure face harsh criticism when errors occur. Under normal conditions, the average citizen doesn’t even know we exist.This is an unusual situation for such a large industry. I would like to see these companies more widely recognized, which means getting them into the public eye. We expect to see SNS utilization, creation of smart cities and global expansion by Ms. Shiori Abe (Picture shown before) These days, more and more students are getting their information not from TV, but rather Social Networking Services (SNS) such as Twitter and Facebook. While studying local government ﬁnance at an economics department, I learned the term “Smart City”.Overseas we can see smart cities that are adopting next generation transmission networks with smart grids to integrate the entire city based on information technology. By applying such technology to a city in Japan, you can raise the awareness and importance of IT for the average citizen. In addition, I would like to see the company globally developing IT activities for mega solar electric generation and renewable energy. Answers from the audience to those questions by Motohiro Nakayama,Manager at Corporate Communication Division Our business is basically B to B, so PR activities targeting the average citizen has been considered unlikely to offer us any beneﬁts, and ofﬁcially we do not intend to join Twitter and FaceBook.However, we are aware that the use of such SNS is gradually evolving and changing.If we reach a point where we can see the value of using such Networks to disseminate information to people, then despite our B to B business characteristic, we will look into ways of making use of their services. Valuable opinions from everyone by Tatefumi Kushibe(CSR Promotion Division, General Manager) Thank you very much for your very valuable input. changes across the board, Someone mentioned BCP, and after the earthquake and we have seen little experience, we came to realize that the only thing to indication that is happening do is to try to implement as many responses as so far.However, after the possible, and grow our experience every year about great earthquake the myth what we can learn when risks exceed of nuclear power security anticipation.The nuclear power accident is still has gone, and now we are on-going, and in the future we face the risk of a searching for alternative metropolitan epicentral earthquake.I think we need energies. Not only in to educate people about how we can protect Japan, but people all over ourselves at a personal level, and how we can work the world have started together with people who are new to us. actively considering new We are also seeing drastic changes in the IT ideas. So, when you environment, such as ICT farming. IT covers all mention a smart grid, I feel like we may be on the industries and will have a signiﬁcant impact on cusp of great changes in our world.When we look our futures.Society now expects a certain level to the future and see such an era spreading out from IT, and realizing society’s expectations is in front of us, we must make sure that we offer part of our social contribution through our core the support necessary as we grow to a higher business.As for smart grids, the entire social level as an IT support company. structure is now changing.It has been a long time Thank you ver y much again for your long time since discussions started regarding natural energy. of joining us today.With your input, we would A change in infrastructure requires fundamental like to fur ther improve our CSR activities. 19 TOPICS CSR at NEC Fielding TOPIC 1 Stakeholder Meetings 2.Tour of “A ru P a rts K a wasa k i” NEC Fielding holds an ofﬁce tour alongside the CSR Report Feedback Meeting.As with last year, the tour was of “Aru Parts Kawasaki” as a means of further increasing understanding of our business activities. “Aru Parts Kawasaki” is the core facility of NEC Fielding's Equipment Support Unit and consists of warehouse and ofﬁce buildings.The three divisions that operate at Aru Parts Kawasaki are the Logistics Division which procures, transports, and manages maintenance inventories, the Repair Division which performs repairs on them, and the Equipment Planning Division which manages and supports the other two divisions. Before the tour, we explained Aru Parts Kawasaki’s concept and its uniquely developed system, such as our six principles for preventing mistakes (1. Walk Less, 2. Search Less, 3. Think Less, 4. Write Less, 5. Handle Less, 6. Wait Less.), our management and protection of customer information through multiple security checks, shorter and simpler ﬂow line, and an efﬁcient parts transportation system with the unique name “Mizusumashi (whirligig beetle)” as well as offering a detailed explanation about our backup activities after the earthquake. Participants got to see the “Aru Parts Kawasaki” from a variety of angles. We then held a ﬁeld trip with the newly launched “APC (Aru Parts Concierge) member acting as our guide.Participants visited the Logistics Division and the Repairs Division to witness the six “Less” principles in action, the Mizusumashi system was explained during the orientation, as well as some characteristic facilities. We feel conﬁdent that participants ﬁnished the tour with a better understanding of the essential role played by Aru Parts Kawasaki in supporting our Equipment Support Unit during the seamless handling process from receiving to shipping and of the fact that we can smoothly send parts even if something happens somewhere in Japan. R eactions to th e “A ru P a rts K a wasa k i” To u r We conducted interviews on students during the tour. ● “You mentioned the “six Less principles”, and I noticed employees working efficiently even with less walking. It truly is an impressive framework. I saw far more people than I expected, so I can understand the importance you place on communication among employees.” ● “Tasks are di vi ded i n far more detai l than I thought, and thei r w ork i s excepti onal l y accurate. They come across as real professi onal s.” 20 Governance/Accountability Unswerving and comprehensive CONTENTS ● Governance Structure P.23 internal control and increased ● Corporate Ethics and Compliance ●Accountability P.28 P.29 transparency by all members of the Items correspond to the core subjects in ISO26000 Fielding Group ● ● Organizational Governance Fair Operating Practices ●Consumer Issues TOPIC 2 Promoting CSR activities throughout the Fielding Group by utilizing the “CSR Management Prize” Yoshinori Takasuka, Senior Vice President and Member of the Board At NEC Fielding, we have deﬁned “CS” and “CSR” as cores of our negative aspects, such as the number of incidents and accidents management policy. For many years now, we have used that occur. We endeavor to create not just an award system, but evaluation and award systems for CS activities, but for CSR an effective one that incorporates the results of activities into the activities we have only used award systems for activities related to evaluation of the performance of each division. the environment and social contributions. We changed the name of the “CSR Award” into the “CSR Therefore, in 2H of FY 2007 we established the “CSR Awards”, in Management Prize” in FY 2011 and all group companies in Japan which CSR activities are evaluated and commended in a are currently eligible for the prize.The objective is “to promote comprehensive manner. This was achieved by expanding the CSR activities throughout the Fielding Group”. There was a variety scope of the evaluation into ﬁve ﬁelds (governance/accountability, in the level of understanding for CSR activities and their progress market, employment, society, and environment). mainly due to differences in industries and company histories. Our objectives for establishing this award were to motivate each However, we are currently aiming to accelerate CSR activities division to achieve its target and to create a drive to promote conducted at each company to drive group-wide activities with company-wide CSR activities by establishing a system for everyone working from the same page. objectively evaluating divisions that would contribute to As all three group companies successfully achieved their targets strengthening the corporate values of NEC Fielding.The scope of in 2H of the last ﬁscal year, I believe that a certain level of results the evaluation is reviewed every year to keep up with changes in has been accomplished. the social landscape and activity status. It is our policy to Moving forward, we will further strengthen our functions a driving establish a system under the principle that good work should be force for promoting our CSR activities by reviewing evaluation rewarded and bad work punished, and this system evaluates not items to indirectly support our group-wide challenge, the only positive matters, including contributions to society, but also “promotion of CSR in business activities”. 21 TOPICS Governance/Accountability Promoting CSR activities throughout the Fielding Group by utilizing the “CSR Management Prize” System of the CSR Management Prize Governance/ Evaluation items for the CSR Management Prize (NEC Fielding, NDEC) Field Evaluation item Accountability Governance/Accountability ●Status of accidents related to information security ●Matters identified during audits, etc. Market ●Sales of CSR goods＊1, etc. ●Status of employment for employees with disabilities and female supervisors Employment ●Status of communication in the workplace, etc. ●Status of social contribution activities Society ●Promotion of activities in cooperation with the Fielding Philanthropy Club＊2, etc. Market ●Status of CO2 emission reduction at our customers’ place of business Environment ●Energy reduction in business activities ●Practice of eco-driving, etc. Calculated on a scale of one to 100 points Evaluation items for the CSR Management Prize (Fist, FSC) Field Evaluation item Governance/Accountability ●Status of accidents related to information security ●Matters identified during audit, etc. Market ― (No evaluation item at present) ●Status of employment for employees with disabilities and female supervisors Employment ●Status of communication in the workplace, etc. Employment ●Status of social contribution activities Society ●Promotion of activities in cooperation with the Fielding Philanthropy Club＊2, etc. Environment ●Energy reduction in business activities ●Practice of eco-driving, etc. Calculated on a scale of one to 100 points Calculated based on the results of the CSR Management Prize Reflecting the results Evaluation through figures in the performance evaluation (e.g. level of budget attained, year-to-year improvement level), CS evaluation, CSR evaluation, etc. Society ＊1 CSR goods: Products that lead to environmental protection and risk reduction realized for our customers in all products created by NEC Fielding. We aim to support our customers' CSR activities as well by promoting the sale of these products. (Examples: recycled EP cartridges, backup power sources, earthquake-proof products, etc.). ＊ 2 Fielding Philanthropy Club: See page 59. Employee Interview Since FY 2011, three group companies in Japan have been evaluated based on the evaluation items and criteria almost equivalent to those used at NEC Fielding, Environment CSR Promotion Division except for items that cannot be conducted due to the Planning Office difference in business categories. Each company Manager deploys promotional activities while devising them on Junji Komiya their own. It is my belief that “uniform CSR activities” within the group is being implemented. 2012 marked the sixth year since we introduced the CSR With regard to the highest priority challenges for the Management Prize and we are currently evaluating the future, I consider that we have to achieve results in more implementation status of CSR activities covering 17 effective evaluation items . In order to prevent CSR items in ﬁve ﬁelds. We regard these evaluation items as activities from becoming those to simply win the CSR driving force to promote CSR activities, which are Management Prize, I would like to discover activities considered of primarily importance, throughout the valuable not only to NEC Fielding but also to society and company, thus review the items every year. For example, add such activities to the evaluation items, thus in FY 2012 we added the status of the BC training contributing to the enhancement of our corporate value. implemented in each area to the evaluation items. 22 Governance Structure FY 2011 Activity The topics for 2011 were Promoting CSR activities with ISO26000 in mind and resolving topics challenges related to the BCP exposed by the Great East Japan Earthquake. Achievements ●After obtaining ISO26000 accreditation, which has come into effect, we revised our “NEC Fielding Group Charter of Corporate Behavior” and “NEC Fielding Group Code of Conduct”, to promote awareness of actions in line with more international standards. ●We have been identifying issues and taking appropriate measures by developing an in-house project system to resolve challenges related to the BCP. Future Challenges The NEC Fielding Group will work in unison to promote group-wide risk management in order to bolster CSR management and realize risk management without “unexpected problems”. Corporate Governance＊ Framework Corporate governance at NEC Fielding is the decisions.We have also set the term of a director at one responsibility of our board of directors and board of year clarify their responsibilities. corporate auditors. We also have an associate senior vice The Board of Corporate Auditors meets every other president system to ensure swifter decision-making and month. At this meeting the corporate auditors, an more effective supervision and monitoring by the board of accounting auditor (KPMG AZSA LLC), and our Internal directors. Auditing Division share information and work in close The Board of Directors holds extraordinary meetings when collaboration with each other. needed, in addition to regular monthly meetings. It reviews ＊Corporate Governance: A framework for monitoring corporate management. It is the responsibility and discusses important issues prior to meetings, thus of management to manage the company to maximize proﬁt for the shareholders, and corporate governance includes evaluating performance to see if that duty is being performed. This includes an enabling more ﬂexible and higher quality management oversight function to encourage the creation of proﬁt for shareholders. Ensuring corporate governance of subsidiaries NEC Fielding dispatches directors and corporate providing guidance and warnings when auditors to our subsidiaries, and provides guidance improvement is required. and support for legal compliance to ensure Presidents of subsidiaries attend a “CSR corporate governance of subsidiaries.Our Internal Committee”, which was established in 2010, and Auditing Division also audits our subsidiaries, develop CSR activities within each company. ● Corporate Governance Framework General meeting of shareholders Appointment and Appointment and Dismissal Dismissal Management and Auditing Accounting Auditor Board of Directors Board of Corporate Auditors Auditing Auditing Auditing Collaboration Business Administration Corporate Officers Meeting Internal Auditing Division Executive Officers Meeting Internal Auditing All divisions (41 divisions) 23 Governance/Accountability 01 Developing an Internal Control＊ System Governance/ Under our “Basic Policy on the Development of Internal Control management and information security. Accountability Systems” pursuant to Article 362, Paragraph 5 of the Companies ＊Internal Control: Internal control generally refers to controlling, monitoring, and Act of Japan, NEC Fielding has established an internal control guaranteeing the reliability of operations within a company through standardization and system, which consists of various systems such as risk documentation to monitor for illegal behavior and ensure a sound business environment. Basic Policy on the Development of Internal Control Systems Pursuant to Article 362, Paragraph 5 of the Companies Act of Japan, we have determined the following basic policy with respect to systems (internal control systems) stipulated in Article 362, Paragraph 4, Section 6 of the Companies Act of Japan and Article 100, Paragraphs 1 and 3 of the Ordinance for Enforcement of the Companies Act. Under this basic policy, we ensure the appropriateness of, and constantly review, improve, and enhance our business operations according to changing social, economic, and other conditions in our business environment. Market 1.A structure to ensure that the duty of the directors and employees is compliant with laws, regulations, and the Articles of Association 2.A structure for storing and managing information related to the duties of the directors 3.Rules and other structures related to the management of the risk of losses 4.Structures to ensure that directors can carry out their duties efficiently 5.Structures to ensure that work is carried out appropriately within the corporate group comprising NEC Fielding, its parent company, and subsidiaries 6.Structures for employees requested by a corporate auditor to assist them in their work and articles related to the independence of that employee from the director 7.Structures for directors and employees to report to corporate auditors and other structures for reporting to corporate auditors 8.Other structures to ensure that corporate auditors can carry out their audits effectively Employment NEC Fielding Information Technology Services (Beijing) Co., Ltd. Activities in group companies President Ji Sidong Establishment of Governance Structure in China NEC Fielding Information Technology Services (Beijing), which was founded in March 2005, has provided ICT support service in China as a wholly-owned subsidiary of NEC Fielding since December 2006. As part of the Fielding Group, we have been working on various activities to establish governance structure equivalent to our parent company in Japan.Currently, we are developing and formulating the company's Society operation rules to bring them into line with NEC Fielding.In addition, we have been going through internal audit conducted by NEC Fielding to check the status of our corporate governance. Moving forward, we will continue to promote these activities so that we can achieve CSR in unison with the Fielding Group while observing Chinese laws and business practices. Establishing a supervision function by separating back-office operations Back-ofﬁce operations such as processing orders, sales, 11 business compliance centers (BC Centers) and 2 and payments were previously carried out at branches accounting centers across Japan for greater and sales ofﬁces. To segregate these duties, we have inter-accountability and segregation of duties as well as relocated all back-ofﬁce operations from sales locations to ensuring governance structure. Environment ● The role of business compliance centers and accounting centers Phase Role The BC center checks order-processing information received from sales divisions Process orders in accordance with internal regulations as well as the Construction Industry Act and other laws, and carries out proper processing of orders. Centers place orders with subcontractors for speciﬁc services, or for appropriate BC Center Procurement goods from suppliers based on orders received, and carry out receiving inspections. Processing Sales Centers check delivery conﬁrmations from customers, and promptly record sales in the ledger. Billing Centers issue invoices to customers. Accounting Center Deposits The accounting centers record and account deposits. 24 Risk Management＊ Efforts NEC Fielding has established a Risk Management Basic Policy, and consolidated a structure, in which Risk Management Basic Policy the CSR Promotion Division oversees all risk 1.Increase the penetration of risk management and expand management, allowing for quick and the risk management system highly-integrated risk management. 2.Provide measures to follow up on and reduce existing ＊Risk management:The process of managing risks across an risks organization to avoid or reduce losses and damages. Risk management 3.Identify new risks and pursue preventative measures is a management technique for effectively minimizing unforeseen 4.Assign the division in charge of managing recognized damages from all types of threats at the minimum cost. risks and debate collateral measures (such as insurance) 5.Conduct periodic risk assessments These steps help to avoid threats to company operations. ●Risk management system Division where risk exists and incidents occur (All divisions, employees, and subsidiaries) Risk notiﬁcation CSR Promotion Division Integrated risk management: (Manage the entire risk management process, from identifying exposed risks, preventing recurrence and handling events to closing the case.) Risk management: ●Management decision ●Shares ●Finance ●Trading ●HR/Organization ●Responding to Society ●Overseas ●Service quality ●Product Safety ●Safety/Environment ●Information Management ●Intellectual Property ●Contracts ●Transport Incident investigation and response team (Division with jurisdiction and related divisions) Recognition Escalated or output to Updating the Risk Management Table ●Emergency Response Division ●CSR Committee ●Compliance Committee ●Corporate Ofﬁcers Meeting ●Executive Committee Meeting ●Individual Settlement Reporting, Company-wide Notiﬁcation Examples of risk occurrences and handling of risk The highest priority issues in FY 2011 were to respond to the before the planned blackouts and distributing them to earthquake disaster and to take electricity saving customers to prevent failures associated with computer measures.With regard to electricity saving measures in system shutdowns due to the blackouts. particular, we had to provide proper customer services and We also introduced electricity generators for the company's operate the company's system while facing the rolling system operations to avoid any impact on maintenance work, blackouts scheduled by Tokyo Electric Power Company, etc. caused by system shutdowns due to the scheduled Incorporated. blackouts.In FY 2012 we continue to recognize these risks as For customer services, we took measures that included necessary priority measures and consider them as permanent preparing procedures to safely shut down computer systems measures in our business continuity project. 25 Governance/Accountability Governance Structure 02 Improvements to the Business Continuity Plan (BCP)＊ Governance/ NEC Fielding ﬁrst established a Business Continuity Plan Accountability (BCP) in FY 2006 swiftly to resume business operations and Basic Policy on the Establishment of a Disaster Response BCP continue to provide services necessary for the stable 1.Place the highest priority on checking the safety of operation of lifelines in case of a major natural disaster. employees and their families, providing aid and Approximately 30 minutes after the Great East Japan support, and preventing secondary disasters. Earthquake occurred, we established a Company-wide BC 2.Create a system that allows for resumption of Response Headquarters and began work on restoring operations＊ on the day after a disaster strikes. customer IT systems from Monday, March 14, the ﬁrst 3.Create a system that allows for resumption of working day after the earthquake. We also conﬁrmed the services＊ two days after a disaster strikes. whereabouts of all employees of NEC Fielding on March 15. ＊Resumption of operations: Resuming basic in-house operations such as receiving damage reports ＊Resumption of services: Actively calling on customers and fully resuming business following the Market recovery of customer systems ＊BCP（Business Continuity Plan）:See page 8. Anti-pandemic measures In response to the spreading of the H1N1 inﬂuenza in 2009, NEC Fielding implemented the following measures Basic Policy on Response to Pandemics to reduce infection among its employees to the minimum NEC Fielding established the following basic policy on as part of our role as a ﬁrm underpinning the responding to new, highly virulent strains of inﬂuenza. socioeconomic infrastructure. Placing top priority on safeguarding the lives of our ● Creation of an escalation plan in the event of an employees and others, the policy is also aimed at outbreak fulﬁlling our social responsibilities. 1.Place the highest priority on the safety and health of our Employment ● Instructions to stand-by at home to employees who employees and others. themselves contract, or whose family members contract, 2.Continue with the work of supporting IT systems key to the H1N1 influenza socioeconomic functions after taking the greatest possible care to ensure employee safety. ● Distribution and strict rules for wearing of surgical masks by 3.Do everything possible to continue support services for IT employees making visits to clients or customers systems which are not critical to socioeconomic functions, while recognizing that there may be cases in which a ●Distribution of non-contact thermometers in preparation pandemic requires that services be reduced or stopped. for an outbreak in workplaces 4.Cooperate in protecting the safety of the local community. FY 2011 BC Training Society We have begun BC training sessions that are attended by executives and through In the BC training in FY 2011, we assumed that an earthquake had occurred in the executive ofﬁcer meetings, to verify the validity of our BCP and ensure that all divisions Northern Tokyo Bay (with a magnitude of seven) in conjunction with an earthquake at are thoroughly familiarized with the plan by connecting ofﬁces across Japan through Boso-oki (with a magnitude of eight), resulting in a Tsunami reaching a height of 10 videoconference. meters centering on the east coast of In response to the Great East Japan Earthquake, we have produced certain results, Chiba Prefecture and veriﬁed how to such as early establishment of company-wide BC structures and restarting business establish the Metropolitan Area Rescue activities at an early stage through the dispatch of disaster response personnel and and Response Headquarters and respond immediate transportation of relief supplies, thanks to positive results achieved through to people who had difﬁculty returning the BS training, etc. However, we also discovered issues, including the inability to home during a total breakdown at provide full support to people who had difﬁculty returning home in the head ofﬁce area. headquarters. ●Structure of BC Response Headquarters Environment Company-wide BC Disaster Response Headquarters Manager: Company President/Representative Assistant manager Secretaria NEC BC Disaster Response Senior Vice President CSR Promotion Division Headquarters Head Office BC Response Headquarters Front-Line BC Response Headquarters Establishing when metropolitan area is Manager: BC Senior vice president/Representative Manager: Associate senior vice president responsible hit by a disaster for the disaster area/Representative Metropolitan Area Rescue and ①Public Relations Group ⑤Technical Support Group ①Human Resource and Public Welfare Team Response Headquarters (Osaka) ②Human Resource and ● Customer Response Logistics ②Receiving Damage Reports/Restoration Manager: Senior vice president responsible for the western area/Representative Public Welfare Group Support Team Situation Management Team ● Daily Commodity ● Support Personnel Response Team ③Technical Support Team Chubu and Kansai Block Procurement Team ● Measures Response Team ④Parts and Equipment Deployment Team Secretariat Planning Division, General Manager ③Parts and Equipment Group ● Nuclear Emergency ⑤Information System Support Team ④IT System Response Team ⑥Facilities/Equipment Restoration Team Metropolitan Area Rescue and Restoration Group ⑥Business Impact Group ⑦Dispatched Personnel Support Team Response Group Branch Manager:Associate Senior Vice President responsible for Kita Block/Representative Front-line locations Associate Senior Vice President responsible being restored or Nishi Block/Representative 26 Protecting Information Security NEC Fielding provides maintenance services for information systems and networks for our customers, and in the course of Information Security Basic Policy these duties handles customer information. We have identiﬁed It is the responsibility of NEC Fielding to protect the violations of information security or the leakage of personal information assets entrusted to us by our customers and information as a priority risk, and are actively working to prevent transaction partners as well a sour own, and thereby to any incidents from recurring. contribute to socioeconomic advancement through the The company is working in unison to protect information security supply of better goods and services. NEC Fielding has through our “Information Security Management System” which is determined the following Information Security Basic grounded in our “Basic Policy on Information Security” , so that Policy, and hereby proclaims its commitment to we can prevent any problems from occurring. practicing this policy. 1.We shall establish an Information Security Management System ●Information Security Management Framework and make the appropriate efforts for the proper management of information assets. Reporting 2.We shall create and enforce rules in accordance with this basic Company president policy. 3.We shall provide the training required for information security. 4.We shall take appropriate human resource, organizational, and technical measures, and endeavor to prevent information assets Communication from incurring through improper access, leakage, alteration, ● Division promoting loss/theft, destruction, hindrance to use, or other damage. information security (CSR Promotion Division) 5.In the event of a security problem involving information assets, we ● Division handling Related shall immediately ascertain the cause and take action to minimize information assets divisions any damage as well as take preventive steps for the future. 6.We shall observe all laws and regulations, guidelines set forth by (Internal Auditing Division) Auditing division Instructions/ the state, and social norms related to information security. Reporting Enforcement 7.We shall constantly review the aforementioned activities and strive Instruction / to improve upon them. Contract All divisions/ all employees Using a digital pledge to raise employee awareness Partner NEC Fielding has created a list of working rules to follow when companies visiting a customer and as part of our information security measures, NEC Fielding Group companies entitled Rules for Service Visits and Handling of Corporate Secrets. These rules have been shared with all of our employees.Since FY 2007, NEC Fielding has instituted a practice of employees signing a digital pledge after reviewing and thoroughly understanding the Service Visit Rules as a part of our effort to raise employee awareness. In FY 2011, all employees signed the pledge. Approaches to personal information protection Under the President’s supervision, we formulated our ●Personal Information Protection System Personal Information Protection Policy in 2001, and have Company president since worked to protect personal information under the Associate senior vice president company-wide management system for personal ● ● ● information protection.In each division, we appoint a Personal Information Personal informationprotection (CSR Promotion Division) Protection Supervisor Supervising division personal information protection division supervisor as well auditing supervisor (General Manager, (General Manager, as a personal information protection promotion ofﬁcer to CSR Promotion Division) Internal Auditing Division) make all employees aware of their Personal information protection office Top-tier division Personal information protection personal information protection duties. division supervisor Auditing division (General Manager) (Internal Auditing Division) NEC Fielding and its group company, Personal information protection Responsibility for in-house education promotion officer NEC Fielding System Technology, earned Personal information the Privacy Mark (P Mark) certiﬁcation in handling supervisor Person handling personal 2002 and 2011 respectively. information PIICO (Personal Identifiable Information Control System) We register the management status of personal management slips, risk analysis tables and contract information in the Personal Identiﬁable Information Control documents, etc. that are necessary for management, System (aka PIICO) to carry out appropriate management which enhances the efﬁciency and speed of management in accordance with the nature of personal information. operations. We integrate management of personal information 27 Corporate Ethics and Compliance Governance/Accountability 03 FY 2011 Activity Governance/ NEC Fielding Group worked in unison to strengthen communication at workplaces and prevent the occurrence topics of incidents, accidents, scandals and operational errors by establishing an open work environment. Achievements We continue our monthly practice of distributing our list of Priority Reminders throughout the company to Accountability encourage the entrenchment of these practices. In this ﬁscal year, we also added to the list reminders that help prevent operational errors, resulting in greater CS as well as those related to saving electricity.In the latter half of FY 2011, we also developed activities for reinvigorating the workplace known as IKI-IKI Fielding , for which a leader was elected for all divisions.Through these activities, initiatives that contributed to the revitalization of the workplace were commended during a service competition. Future Challenges By bolstering IKI-IKI Fielding to ensure that the activities are actively carried out at all divisions, we will seek to enhance employee satisfaction levels and performance, as well as reduce various other Market risks and turn them into corporate value improvements. Corporate ethics promotion We have appointed corporate ethics officers that promote officers assist in the implementation of various measures set corporate ethics in all divisions, including branch offices, forth by the CSR Promotion Division and create systems nationwide.In cooperation with staff members concurrently and policies for penetrating the implementation of such assigned to the CSR Promotion Division, corporate ethics measures at all our offices nationwide. ●Corporate Ethics Promotion Employment Division responsible for corporate ethics promotion Communication CSR Associate Senior Vice President CSR Promotion Division Promotion CSR promotion meeting Business Group Business Promotion Group Corporate Staff Corporate Planning Unit Block Engineering Support Unit Business Planning Unit Resources Management Unit (5 blocks in Japan) Equipment Support Unit Comptroller Unit Society Branch Office Staff members concurrently assigned to the CSR Promotion Division 147 corporate ethics officers ＊Corporate ethics officer:An employee who supports the following activities promoting corporate ethics in each division. 1) Monitoring compliance with the Corporate Code of Conduct and related laws and regulations 2) Educational and awareness building activities 3) Oversight in the workplace and communication with other divisions Educational activities to raise awareness of corporate ethics Deployment of Priority Reminders Distributing the “Corporate Code of Conduct Case Sheet” Since FY 2009, we began issuing reminders related to corporate ethics The “Corporate Code of Conduct Case Sheet” is and information security for the purpose of making practices into habit in distributed throughout the company to build awareness Environment accordance with rules on the personal level, toward the larger goal of about corporate ethics and compliance. This document achieving Zero Risk performance. All organizational units in the uses case studies to explain the “NEC Fielding Group company are notiﬁed of these “Priority Reminders” every month. Corporate Code of Conduct” and other company's rules to Each “Priority Reminder” is a haiku-like phrase concisely stating how to share information and build understanding. behave in line with the Company rules. They are recited on a daily basis in order to prevent incidents and accidents through the vigilance of individual employees. Examples of the “Corporate Code of Conduct Case Sheet” In FY 2011, we adopted reminders that prevent operational errors, ●Critical information was left on a whiteboard which was resulting in greater CS and save on electricity. not erased. (Loss or leakage of information, corporate secrets) Examples of “Priority Reminders” ●How far can a manager go with their instructions to ●Conduct operations while following procedures since habituation and inattention may cause subordinates? errors. (Harassment, character and respect, the Fielding Helpline) ●At the end of a company social gathering, everyone at the party checks that they have their ●It's time to review the smoking policy in the workplace! belongings. (Smoking, social common sense and manners) ●Making every effort to switch off and unplug as much as possible electrical appliances. 28 Accountability FY 2011 Activity Since our listing on the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) in September 2002, we have continued to topics work to provide all stakeholders with management information in a “timely, accurate, and fair” manner.In FY 2011, we launched an effort to further raise the quality of this information. Achievements 1.We promptly submitted our “ﬁnancial statements” and “quarterly reports” , the disclosure of which is stipulated by law, as well as “ﬁnancial report summaries” , “corporate governance reports” , and other documents in accordance with the Securities Listing Regulations of the TSE. 2.We actively disclosed information that is not required by law but which inﬂuences investment decisions, such as “earnings presentation materials” and “fact sheets”. 3.To encourage a better understanding of NEC Fielding, we provided more information on our website and prepared as well as distributed our annual report, the Fielding Communication Report, and various other tools. Future Challenges In addition to prompt and proper information disclosure, we will disclose information that will deliver even higher levels of satisfaction to investors.We also intend to expand events for individual investors and facility tours for investors to offer more opportunities to learn about NEC Fielding. Disclosure Disclosure Methods Information Disclosure Basic Policy We will disclose information in compliance with the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, Companies Act, and the rules We shall endeavor to continually provide our for timely disclosure of TSE. shareholders and investors in a timely, accurate, and Our “ﬁnancial statements”, “quarterly reports”, etc., are fair manner with information on our business activities, as well as major initiatives and decisions which may registered on the “EDINET” system managed by the Financial affect our valuation. Services Agency. Furthermore, we register priority data 1.We shall provide current information on our stipulated in the rules for timely disclosure by the TSE on its management that is deemed necessary for “TDnet system” and release this information to the press through shareholders and investors to make decisions the “Kabuto Club” (the reporters club within TSE). on shareholding (investment decisions). 2.When disclosing information indicative of Voluntary disclosure our future direction, we shall append a NEC Fielding actively discloses information concerning cautionary statement (safe harbor our operations that does not fall under the scope of statement) specifying factors that could legal requirements but is deemed important for make targets unattainable. investment decisions by shareholders and investors, or necessary for enhancing their understanding of our company. Investor Relations (IR) Activities ● IR achievements ● External evaluation of our IR activities FY 2010 FY 2011 We have been selected for the “Overall Frequency Participants Frequency Participants Ranking Good Website” at the “Excellent General Meeting of November Corporate Website Award” in FY 2011 1 76 1 87 Shareholders 2011 (overall ranking for website quality among Presentation and explanation 1 28 1 29 listed companies) by Nikko Investor of financial results Midterm presentation and Relations Co., Ltd. 1 26 1 24 explanation of financial results Publication of the annual report 1 ーー 1 ーー Publication of a stockholder 2 ーー 2 ーー report Events for individual investors 1 327 1 218 29 Governance/Accountability 04 Communication with our shareholders and individual investors Governance/ Since most of our business activities are based on Interactive communications via the Fielding Communication Report Accountability business-to-business (B to B)＊ transactions, we do not have a high degree of recognition among the general We publish the “Fielding Communication Report” public.Bearing this in mind, we are actively working on IR bi-annually and send it to our individual shareholders. This activities to help our shareholders and individual investors publication delivers a message from the President, along properly understand our business and activities. with a variety of information about the company, business developments, and ﬁnancial results in an easy to read and ＊B to B:Means Business to Business and refers to transactions between businesses. understand manner. The “Investor Relations” page introduces shareholder ●Status of the company's shares (as of March 31, 2012) opinions and answers to questions received from shareholders, thus leveraging this report as a tool for Market ■Total number of shares issued:54,540,000 interactive communication. ■Number of shareholders:9,756 ■Percentage of shares held by owner Individuals and others 17.23％ Financial Foreign institutions corporations, 36.87％ etc. 7.84％ Other corporations Securities 37.60％ corporations Employment 0.46％ (Shares under the name of the company 0.00%) Events for “Individual Investors” Our Investor Relations Website On August 6, 2011, NEC Fielding held an “event for individual investors” at the Marunouchi Building located in We offer an “Investor Relations” website to Chiyoda Ward, Tokyo.Senior Vice President and Member improve our accountability practices by providing of the Board, Yoshinori Takasuka, spoke to individual information to investors. investors about NEC Fielding's business activities, We use our website to introduce our business by performance, and strengths.Over half of the participants posting IR news and other information announced by reviewed the event positively, stating that the NEC Fielding in the “IR Library” section. We also explanations were clear and easy to understand and Society offer streaming footage of earnings presentations more than 70% of the participants indicated their and informational events for individual investors, so willingness to purchase our shares.We will continue to that visitors can actually hear the voices of our hold regular “events for individual investors”. executives in real time. In addition, we provide investors who have re g i s t e re d w i t h o u r w e b s i t e w i t h i n f o r m a t i o n v i a e-mail. Publication of the Annual Report Environment NEC Fielding publishes an “annual report” as a tool for institutional investors and analysts to better understand our company.This publication offers ample information on our performance and ﬁnances useful for analyzing NEC Fielding, and presents basic management policies, growth strategy, and business activities that may be difﬁcult to view from outside the company. The report has Comments from individual investors Voice been praised for effectively who attended the event “conveying statements from ●My impression was that the company would continue to be stable in the future.I top management” and “being would like to make a timely purchase of the company's shares as it seems that of value when making the price is reasonable. investment decisions”.We are ● I would like to acquire shares in the company since it has been stably committed to continue distributing dividends as a result of their sound performance. ●I was amazed by the company's quick response to the post-disaster recovery. providing institutional investors ● I feel that NEC Fielding is a great company that provides ﬁnely tuned and analysts with useful after-sales support service for IT systems and provides swift recovery from information in the future. almost all failures. 30 Market Developing business that CONTENTS ● Communication with our customers P.33 functions as a lifeline for ● Fielding solutions business ●Proactive Maintenance P.35 P.41 the modern era ●Collaboration with partner companies P.42 Items correspond to the core subjects in ISO26000 ● Human Rights ●Labor Practices ●Environment ● Fair Operating Practices ●Consumer Issues ● Community Involvement and Development TOPIC 3 Supporting reconstruction by restoring IT Systems Customer Support Division, General Manager, Hisashi Nakatsukasa In FY 2011, not only the Great East Japan Earthquake and maintenance cases in total. the subsequent nuclear accident hit Japan, but we also In addition, for individual customers who suffered damage experienced various natural disasters, such as several from the heavy rain in Niigata and Fukushima regions in July heavy rain falls including Typhoon No. 12.NEC Fielding and Typhoon No. 12 in September, we offered special believes that “IT systems are lifelines for the modern era” maintenance services＊. and if a major natural disaster occurred, as a maintenance As part of the NEC Fielding Business Continuity Plan (BCP), company, it is our social responsibility to quickly restore IT we placed two Customer Support Centers (CSCs), which are systems and support early recovery and reconstruction of support contact points for our customers in the east and the damaged region. west of Japan. This system allows us to continue business, As we reported last year in “CSR Report 2011”, we even if one of the centers is damaged due to a disaster. dispatched 35 members of Group 1 on Monday, March 14, In April 2012, we opened new Area Contact Centers (ACCs) next week after the earthquake. Following that initial at nine sites in Japan to further enhance our business response, we dispatched 125 personnel in six groups until continuity. April 22nd to help with the early restoration of customer's Through the sales and provision of our products and systems on their sites.Also, as maintenance support for the solutions that support the customer's BCPs, we are areas surrounding the nuclear plant, we deployed contributing to the stable operation of the IT infrastructure dose-meters and protective clothing at the nearest ofﬁces to that supports our society. prevent radioactive material from sticking to clothing etc., ※Special Maintenance Services: Under ordinary circumstances, maintenance of and established our basic policy and safety check criteria equipment damaged by natural disasters such as typhoons incurs maintenance fees regardless of the warranty period, but NEC Fielding offers a special rate for the repair of based on the national policy to safely engage in tasks such salvageable equipment that was damaged by heavy rain in FY 2011. as system relocation.In FY 2011, we completed 97 Repair fees:20% off (30% off for word processors) 31 TOPICS Market Supporting reconstruction by restoring IT systems Support for Affected Areas Governance/Accountability Customers Automatic Customer Maintenance Call Services NEC Fielding, Ltd Frontline Locations Supply components Being Restored and equipment Market Engineering Support Department Request required Components and (Customer Support Division etc.) components Equipment Supply Department Request required personnel Companywide Dispatch response BC Response Headquarters personnel Protective clothing to prevent the adhesion of radioactive material ●Disaster Response Personnel Dispatch Schedule ●Maintenance Activities in the Areas Surrounding the Nuclear Plant Employment Personnel Departure Destination Remarks Areas to Stay Indoors Danger Zones PlannedZones Evacuation Group 1 35 3/14 Sendai Maintenance: 24, Office Recovery: 11 April 18 cases October None None Group 2 33 3/20 Sendai Maintenance: 30, Office Support: 3 May 12 cases November None None Group 3 29 3/26 Sendai Maintenance: 26, Office Support: 3 June 19 cases December 3 cases 1 case Group 4 4 4/1 Koriyama POS System Support July 13 cases January None 1 case Group 5 18 4/8 Sendai Maintenance August 14 cases February None 2 cases Group 6 6 4/22 Sendai Maintenance September 14 cases March None None ＊The classiﬁcation of maintenance activities was changed based on the lifting of the designated emergency evacuation preparation zones at the end of September. Establishing a System for Disaster Response Society Based on the experience of the Great Hanshin-Awaji ● ACC Locations Map Earthquake, NEC Fielding has been working to establish a system for disaster response. Sapporo ■ACC：Nine sites in Japan (12 centers) As part of this effort, in 2001, we placed two Customer Support ■ContactCenter： Centers (CSCs), which accept maintenance calls from our Tokyo and Osaka (2 centers) customers in Tokyo and Osaka. Under this system, both centers duplicate and share data with each other, so even if one of the centers is damaged due to a disaster, the other center allows us Sendai Hiroshima to continue our business. Fukuoka Osaka×2 In 2012, at nine sites in Japan, NEC Fielding opened Area Environment Kawagoe Contact Centers (ACCs) that cooperate with CSCs to accept our Nagoya customers' maintenance calls and further enhance our business Takamatsu Tokyo×3 continuity. Providing Disaster Countermeasure Products and Solutions NEC Fielding provides various products and solutions to protect customer IT systems against disasters such as earthquakes. We contribute to the establishment of our customers' BCPs by offering housing/hosting services based on data centers (DCs) that protect information assets, seismic isolators that prevent IT equipment from overturning, and uninterruptible power supplies (UPSs) that provide power during a power outage. Seismic Isolators UPS 32 Communication with our Customers FY 2011 Activity Since FY 2008, NEC Fielding has continued the companywide CS enhancement project to topics increase our CS levels aiming to reach the No. 1 in Customer Satisfaction Second to None Challenge ＊.In particular, during FY 2011, to enhance communication with our customers, we studied and promoted a system in which CEs who are actually in contact with our customers in the ﬁeld can concentrate on doing their activities. At NEC Fielding, CS takes center stage in how we manage our business.Surveys carried out by third parties have shown year after year that our customers value us highly, but we still have many areas targeted for improvement.We will continue our No. 1 in Customer Satisfaction Second to None Challenge to improve our CS performance. In addition, we have begun the Get-CSNo.1 activity as the ﬁrst stage in regaining the CSNo.1 title. Achievements 1.Enhancing the added value of our services ●Continuingand enhancing customer visits 2.Improving work quality ●Furtherimproving technical skills and customer service skills 3.Improving and promoting CS activities in ●CS improvement initiatives in the Chinese market global business 4.Continuing conventional activities ●Improving stable system operation ●Faster customer service ●Optimal deployment of maintenance parts and equipment Future Challenges Although we have achieved our service quality targets, we sometimes receive harsh comments from our customers. We need to focus on service quality management based on our customer's point of view.We are therefore promoting quality management appropriate to the characteristics of each customer's system and providing quality services that satisfy our customers. The NEC Fielding approach to CS＊ The fundamental building block of our business is we must provide each customer with a level of service “ﬁeldwork we do when visiting customers”.Through high enough that they will associate NEC Fielding with a Fielding activities* that support the effective utilization of “genuine sense of security”. our customer’s IT assets, we hope to be reliable and dependable specialists for our customers and work ＊CS (Customer Satisfaction):See page 6. closely with them to solve their problems. To these ends, ＊Fielding activities:See page 11. Proposing solutions that will meet our customers’ needs At NEC Fielding we enjoy frequent contact with our customers, effective service that our customers demand.NEC Fielding as many as 3.74 million interactions this year. The information provides our customer engineers (CE＊) and sales staff with a that we obtain during these interactions, such as customer Knowledge Note terminal (KN terminal) that gives them access opinions and requests, is a precious asset. This knowledge to the information they need to offer innovative proposals in helps us achieve more stable operations and effective response to customer questions and requests. maintenance which in turn allows us to provide the quick and ＊CE (Customer Engineer):See page 5. Framework for continuous improvement to CS We have employed the ISO 9001 PDCA cycle to continuously improve company. CS Promotion Department that exists within each division our CS.Policies are determined in CS Improvement Meetings, which takes a central role in implementing these policies, making sure that are held every month and attended by the company president and all these policies take hold and improve our CS performance in every corporate ofﬁcers, followed by the proposal and approval of speciﬁc branch of the company.We hold divisional activity report meetings on a initiatives through the “No. 1 in Customer Satisfaction Second to None quarterly basis so that our top management has an opportunity to see Challenge” Project.These initiatives are then pursued throughout the how CS improvement initiatives are progressing. ● CS improvement activities at NEC Fielding ISO 9001 Quality Management System Block, branch and office activities Company-wide activities Checking Meeting progress Customers customer's needs Division activity Branch CS CS improvement No.1 in Customer Satisfactionreport meeting improvement initiatives meeting Second to None Challenge CE activities Following CS Instruction Improving service quality improvement initiatives Functions as No.1 in Customer SatisfactionCompany-wide CS steering committee Manager visits Checking progress on Second to None Challenge Reporting CS Management quality targets Project in action 33 Market 01 Voice Governance/Accountability Common services and appealing services CS Management Division, CS Strategy Promotion Department Manager Takashi Yurino We believe that to provide better customer satisfaction, we must provide services in two steps. The ﬁrst step is to provide high-quality support service quickly and accurately to all of our customers. This is the basic requirement in providing the stable operation of IT systems. Second, we make the effort to hold a deep understanding of our customers’ needs as well as their demands and challenges. We are keenly aware that these differ for each customer, and we will therefore suggest and provide the most suitable services tailored to each customer to solve their problems. Based on this concept, to provide common services and appealing services for our customers, we will continue to promote our CS improvement initiatives. How we use your opinions to help us grow At NEC Fielding, we see the feedback we receive from our Market customers through a variety of routes in the course of our ● CSVOICE “Fielding activities” as an important asset to the company. By Info gathering/sharing Utilization disseminating these opinions within the company, we can work on further improving various aspects of our business. Fielding branch CSVOICE Related division Customer regional office ●Needs Access These efforts to achieve more satisfying customer service are ●Satisfaction feedback Proposal info ●Survey followed up with a customer satisfaction survey done on a Search/analyze/deliberate on information Organizational response regular basis.With a clearer sense of how our customers feel about our services, we are better able to identify key issues that Create Propose Create need to be improved and the CS improvement cycle continues. statistics response new business Develop and improve services Employment ● How we use your opinions to help us grow Review and instructions from top management Customer feedback, a valuable asset, is shared Customers throughout the company and leads to improvements. Customer NEC satisfaction Sales offices Answering CSVOICE Sales SE, etc. surveys customer Our customers’ requests and opinions are recorded in demands CSVOICE. After an initial analysis, each issue is classiﬁed by type and sent to the relevant division. The speciﬁc Customer feedback response is then determined.The data can be accessed by other divisions and is shared throughout the company. CSMAIL CSVOICE Using CSMAIL, NEC Fielding can catalog information in a database on major failures in customer systems and Society NEC Fielding CSMAIL cases in which a client was likely dissatisﬁed.Any problems are promptly communicated internally and within the NEC Group via CSMAIL, to be solved quickly FR through the collaboration of the entire group. FR（Field Request） A Field Request is a system for improving the quality of our products, Key improvements which delivers information on problems caused by products and NEC and product vendors product-improvement requests which occur in the ﬁeld to the factory or quality control division of the product vendor via our engineering division. Customer Engineer development supporting CS Environment Improving the technical and personal skills of our customer engineers (CE) supports our CS efforts, and CS Senior Adviser contributes to the security and well-being of our CS Senior Advisors are veteran employees customers. NEC Fielding uses our CS Senior Advisors and selected for their rich ﬁeld experience and technical and personal skills.They share lessons CS Trainers to achieve this development. of craftsmanship and advice with the CS Trainers and CEs at service locations. ● Operation of the CS trainer system Company-wide policymaking and implementation (CS Management Division) CS Trainer Education and Block CS improvement activities Training Division (Block Planning Division, CS trainers implement the block CS improvement policies CS Promotion Department established according to the company-wide CS policies Dispatching Checking Instruction・ certiﬁed Support and measures at each service location. Coordinating with ﬁeld Branch CS Trainer personnel condition Service Instruction・Development CS Advisors, they instruct and support the individual CEs CS Senior Adviser Division locations CE CE that are the face of our CS efforts.CS Trainers are certiﬁed through a training program. 34 Fielding Solutions Business FY 2011 Activity This ﬁscal year, through the promotion of solutions business, we will contribute to society and topics our customers by meeting various customer needs and solving new problems. Achievements 1.We expanded the lineup of our small to large UPS＊1 products, which offer energy efﬁciency and high reliability.In addition, we have provided various systematized solution services, such as blackout/earthquake recovery solutions, IT environment solutions, disaster response solutions, and business continuity solutions. 2. e-lding , our service for online sales to corporations, supports the operation of customer IT systems as a one-stop shopping venue with a wide range of items from consumable supplies to peripherals, and is being very well received. 3.We have published a carbon offset version of the “e-lding Catalog” for online sales (carbon offset＊2 catalog).We are also selling small UPS products with carbon offsets. ＊1 UPS (Uninterruptible Power System): A power supply that is intended to protect IT equipment and data by using the energy stored in batteries or capacitors to supply electricity to the IT system. ＊2 Carbon offset:See page 61. Future Challenges We will contribute to society and our customers in the course of our primary business through further research, development, and timely provision of services and products that meet market needs from a CSR perspective, with the key concepts of eco , green , universal , and BCP measures . As part of these efforts, we will start considering how we can introduce CRM (Cause Related Marketing)＊3. ＊3 CRM (Cause Related Marketing): An approach to solve social problems, such as the revitalization of local areas and the preservation of the environment, by donating a part of the proﬁt gained from the product sales to NPOs or NGOs that are trying to solve social issues and collaborating with these organizations. CSR within supply services Used toner and EP cartridge collection Since 1995, we have been recovering and recycling cartridges Through the cartridge recycling Voice Solutions Business Promotion Division, from laser printers, facsimile machines, and multi-function Supply Business Promotion Department, Naoko Takahashi devices together with the NEC Group, to make effective use of As a member of the NEC Group, in our attempt to decrease resources and preserve the global environment.After rigorous environmental impact, we provide environmentally responsible quality control achieved by dismantling, inspecting, and cleaning products and also implement material recycling by collecting used the recovered cartridges, they are recycled as new cartridges. cartridges and reducing our net waste creation to as close to zero as possible.We are promoting global environmental protection activities and continue to provide stable printing quality for our customers. ● Recycling flow of EP cartridges Production Recovery and recycling secondary batteries assembly line Under the Act on the Promotion of Effective Utilization of Recycling of New raw Resources that took effect in 2001, all manufacturers who incinerated ash materials and new parts Processing and Products make portable rechargeable batteries (PRB) or devices assembling using PRB are required to recover and recycle these batteries.When this Act took effect, the NEC Group Inspection Components became a member of the Japan Portable Rechargeable Battery Recycling Center (JBRC), and recovers PRB through the recycling system operated by the center. Customers Cleaning Use of energy Assembling ●Recycling process for PRB (ex. nickel-cadmium batteries) Reclaimed parts produced materials Collected PRB Disassembly Sorting Recycling process Collection Recycling as Recycling as Nickel-cadmium Nickel-hydrogen Lithium-ion raw materials raw materials batteries batteries batteries Creating Acceptance Disassembly-Separation fuels screening Heat treatment Sorting Recycled resources Iron-Nickel alloys Metallic cadmium Material Disassembly Reused products separation Stainless steel products Nickel-cadmium batteries 35 Market 02 Collecting used IT equipment from companies Governance/Accountability Applying the 3 Rs (reduce, reuse, recycle) to used IT equipment ● 3Rs flow ● Case (metal) ● Steel Sale to steel manufacturers Fe Crushing and ● Unit type Manual disassembly and sorting ● Aluminum sorting ● Power source Sale to non-ferrous metal manufacturers Au,Ag,Cu,Ni,Pb,Sn, etc Removal of parts ● Copper ● Chassis ● Deﬂection yoke ● Shredder dust Landﬁll disposal Used IT equipment ● Printed circuit boards Sale to metal reﬁneries Au,Ag,Cu,Ni,Pb,Sn, etc ● Cables Sale to non-ferrous metal manufacturers Cu ● CRT glass Washing and crushing Sale to glass manufacturers ● LCD units Heat recovery and slag utilization Market Heat recovery and slag utilization ● Plastics Inspection and repair Processing company → Materials company Reuse in NEC products （PC98NX, etc.） ● Fluorescent lamps Processing by mercury collection companies Hg Reuse as spare parts ● Batteries Sale to metal reﬁneries Pb,Cd,Co,Zn, etc Approaches to product safety ● Promoting product safety activities Product Safety Activity Supervisor CSR Associate NEC Fielding is committed to preventing defects Senior Vice President and accidents with not only products of its own Product Safety Manager CSR Promotion Division Employment General Manager development but also outsourced products and products we repair. Towards this aim, we have taken Technology Laws and Regulations Officer the appropriate safety-related measures and are Product Safety Activity Leader (General Manager) Product Safety Activity Leader (General Manager) actively working to improve product safety. PS Division Leader PS division leader PS Engineer PS engineer The role of our Integrated Management Support Center In 2007, our Integrated Management Support Center obtained Improvements to enhance information security Society certiﬁcation as an Information Security Management System 1.Acquisition of ISMS knowledge and ISMS assistant (ISMS).Through this certiﬁcation, we are striving to further enhance auditor certiﬁcation by system operators our information security and achieve more stable operations. 2.Organization of operating areas and security measures Because our ultimate priority is securing our customers' information, 3.Formulation and implementation of rules for entering and leaving operating areas we have established a total information security management system, 4.Preparation and maintenance of manuals and including a room-entry control system to prevent the entry of procedures for system operations non-system operators, a data transport prevention system to prevent 5.Review and improvement of systems the unauthorized removal of customer information, and an access 6.Risk analysis on equipment and devices control system to prevent unauthorized access to data by non-system Actions taken to improve quality operators.This also gives us the ability to detect problems in 1.Reduction of the time to communicate the results of customer networks and hardware soon after they occur, which primary analysis after a problem is reported contributes to the stable operation of customer systems. Environment ● The role of our Integrated Management Support Center Customers Problem classiﬁed and Maintenance call answered Remote notiﬁcation Service call Monthly report Integrated Management Support Center Service Desk Operations monitored CM database Alert database Action taken if necessary to restore Escalation Escalation operations SE (System engineer) Vendor Hardware maintenance NEC Customer Support Center CE (Customer engineer) NEC Fielding Contact Center NEC Fielding Office Dispatch order 36 Expanding CSR business Holding seminars to promote the CSRs of our customers (environment, BCP) Each year, we hold many exhibitions and events throughout the country and introduce our environmentally-friendly services and products such as Enepal® PC, IT Environmental Assessment, and the Cut One System for reducing lighting costs. We actively propose solutions to support our customers’ CSR activities.In 2012, based on our experiences in the Great East Japan Earthquake, we held BCP (Business Continuity Plan) seminars with examples for our customers.We will proactively hold BCP seminars also in the future to contribute to the CSR activities of our customers. CSR activities of NEC Fielding at exhibitions (collection of PET bottle caps) Exhibitions and events are opportunities for NEC Fielding were happy to join us in collecting PET bottle caps to to interact with its customers and we use these deliver needed vaccines to children around the world! opportunities to introduce our CSR activities to them.One Collecting many bottle caps is not simply a social of our CSR activities is collecting PET bottle caps, and we contribution. Sorting these caps increases the recycling did this on-site at 6 events around the country such as the rate and also contributes to the environment.We plan to Fielding Solution Fair held by NEC Fielding in promote further social contribution activities at future Nagoya.Many of our guests who attended the seminars exhibitions and events. NDEC Co., Ltd. Efforts in group companies Power Solution Division General Manager, Kenichi Isoya BCP-related services I believe that more customers have realized the importance of power sources as part of their BCP (Business Continuity Plan) since the Great East Japan Earthquake. During the summer, we are expecting planned blackouts to avoid serious situations. Securing power is therefore considered as a matter of the highest urgency.To ﬂexibly respond to these changes, we worked to gather information on state-of-the-art technologies and acquire these technologies. For many years, we have been developing uninterruptible power supplies, storage cells, and power-generating units. By taking advantage of them as core technologies, we will ﬂexibly suggest and provide photovoltaic devices and EV rapid chargers, which contribute to reducing carbon dioxide emissions. We will continue these efforts to support the BCPs and CSRs of our customers. Beginning ISO examinations and training In October 2010, NEC Fielding began ISO examinations Group and our own experience becoming ISO certiﬁed. and training. This business allows us to contribute to the progress of our We now provide ISO examinations as a partner company to customers' CSR activities through the improvement of their ISO certifying institutions and offer ISO training services to quality, environmental, and information security customers around the country based on this know-how in management systems and the development of internal our ISO management system efforts provided by the NEC auditors. ● ISO Auditor Locations ● Menu of ISO Seminars (paid) Seminar Title Month Two-day ISO 9001 Internal Auditor Development Seminar Monthly 8 locations and Two-day ISO 14001 Internal Auditor Development Seminar Every other month 32 auditors nationally (Rotated with Quick Seminar) One-day ISO 14001 Internal Auditor Development Quick Seminar Every other month Two-day ISO 27001 Internal Auditor Development Seminar Three times per year One-day P-Mark Internal Auditor Development Seminar Three times per year ISO 14001 Environmental Laws and Regulations Seminar Three times per year 37 Fielding solutions business Market 03 What are LCM (Lifecycle Management) services? Governance/Accountability LCM services refer to services that optimize a customer's IT system by comprehensively managing the system from planning to operation, maintenance, and removal. Customer's System Operation, Consulting, Design, Installation, maintenance, IT planning construction adoption Removal improvement Components of the IT system Monitoring Security Market From Availability, capacity, Migration Install Operation measures, ●Business applications consulting to detailed Recycling, ●Server systems general design of the Replacement ●Network design of the Improvement systems IT system IT system ●Client systems Maintenance ●IT facilities Operation, documents Construction of the IT IT control control system, IT Implementation, system installation, maintenance, migration, adoption improvement LCM services comprehensively support the entire IT system “lifecycle”, from design to maintenance Employment and removal, and through all parts of the IT system such as business applications, server network clients, and IT facilities. By supporting our customers' IT systems, we are able to improve quality, reduce costs, and provide the realization of system operation. Expanding consulting services To properly protect our customers' information Reduction of assets and allow them to securely use their assets, it power cut risks Environment and power is absolutely essential to ensure information security consumption and maintain stable operation of IT systems. NEC Fielding provides consulting services that Society analyze current security risks and problems for Stable operation IT Operation of IT systems stable operation at our customer's site and improve the IT system together with our customer. The services were launched in the information Reduction of security ﬁeld, but as the environment changes, our disaster risks in IT IT Business Continuity customers' needs expand to IT-BCP＊, IT operation in systems general, and even the environmental ﬁeld. To respond to these changes, we are developing human resources suitable for covering the Reduction of Information Security expanding consulting areas and also trying to security risks improve the quality of our services. Environment ＊BCP:See page 8. IT-BCP development support service IT-BCP development support service As disaster risks such as huge earthquakes are coming Suggestions of to the fore, IT system continuity has attracted much Risk specific measures Development of disaster scenarios Business impact analysis (products and IT-BCP development attention.However, because our business depends response planning services) largely on IT systems that are getting more advanced and Risk analysis complicated, it is not easy to take effective measures. This service is a consulting service that examines and analyzes our customer's IT system and supports the Restoration development of IT-BCP required for IT system continuity. action Based on the consulting results, NEC Fielding supports planning the continuity of our customer's IT systems, from suggestions of speciﬁc preventive and restoration measures to installation and operation of the IT system. Examination/Analysis 38 Developing platform system engineers (PF-SEs) NEC Fielding is actively trying to develop platform system this number to 550 by the end of March in 2013.To respond to the engineers (PF-SEs), who provide and suggest various services, customer's demands for IT cost-cutting and outsourcing of IT such as designing and construction of our customer's systems, systems, PF-SEs are actively working in various scenarios, for performing daily operation and management, and responding to example, by suggesting, designing, and constructing system unexpected problems in the entire lifecycle of the system.At virtualization, making operation design at system replacement, and present, we have 450 personnel and we are working to increase providing operational outsourcing services after system launch. ●Activities of PF-SEs Answering inquiries about virtualization from offices around the country and sales divisions, supporting our customers in the configuration planning, proposition, and construction phases, etc. Support phases for virtualization IT planning Configuration planning Proposition Design & construction Operation & improvement Range of activities ●Support from system configuration planning to proposition for server/desktop virtualization ●Support for the introduction of a virtualization infrastructure and the construction of servers Configuration Configuration planning explanation System construction ● Selection of software and ●Proposal writing ●Construction support hardware ●Attendance ●Attendance at the site ● Sizing, configuration check at proposal presentation ●Answering inquiries ● Presentation of ●Answering inquiries approximate costs ●What is server virtualization? ●Multiple Operating systems run AP AP AP Virtual machine Virtual machine Virtual machine independently on a single set of hardware OS OS OS AP AP AP Migration ●Multiple virtual machines share OS OS OS and the CPU and memory. integration ●Major advantages of introducVirtualization software ing virtualization (Virtualization infrastructure) ●Life extension of old servers ●Reduction of replacement costs and running costs ●Effective utilization of IT resources, etc. Voice LCM Business Promotion Division, Platform Service Support Department, Assistant Manager, Takuya Kawabe I am currently working at a ward ofﬁce in Tokyo as a resident operation SE and trying hard to improve my skills. The backbone system of the ward ofﬁce is under reconstruction from a mainframe to open architecture, and our project is aimed at designing the system operation and constructing the system. In this multi-vender environment, we must provide smooth operation of the welfare, education, and Juki Net systems. To this end, I am working to achieve standardization of the operation by creating operational procedures that deﬁne the scope of the operation, operational framework, role sharing, operational rules, and so on, to establish stable system operation. I undertook the operation that had been performed by the information department, and contributed to establish a business model that provides services ranging from system construction to operation management.I will learn about local government clouds and continue to increase my skill set so that I can construct proposals in the future. Voice LCM Business Promotion Division, Platform Service Support Department, Hideki Shozawa I am assisting business operations at a branch ofﬁce, especially in the activities of proposing server virtualization technologies and creating device conﬁgurations. In the proposal activities, I am trying to plainly explain the reduction of the number of servers and other advantages that can be obtained by the introduction of virtualization technologies. However, I still feel that my skills are a little lacking. On the other hand, a newspaper article mentioned that server virtualization in my customer's data center contributed to a reduction of more than 60% of the power consumption, which gives me a powerful motivation to continue and increase my skills. In the future, I will accumulate additional experience in system construction and operation, and continue my efforts to be a platform SE who can provide suitable solutions through LCM. 39 Fielding solutions business Market 04 The data center (DC) business Governance/Accountability NEC Fielding is operating two types of community-based data DC Facility/ Cost Added value Security centers that contribute to the development of customer business Provides various services such as service by providing lifecycle management (LCM) services from system Regional DC High Moderate desks and on-site LCM simultaneously installation through operation. Supports smaller markets. iSolution Moderate Low One type of DC is a regional data center, which provides a More closely-related to local regions. robust facility and security environment and also supplies high-value-added services in the era of cloud computing. The Operation Tape replacement and outsourcing of operations other type is an iSolution center, which is operated at lower cost, services Customer engineer dispatch services related more closely to local regions, and also supports smaller Data center An environmentally friendly server room Housing A human monitor presents 24/365 markets. At present, we have two regional data centers being operated, Security IC card and biometric entry control, Market A security portal to prevent piggybacking the Chubu Data Center , launched last year, and the Hokkaido Data Center , launched in April 2012, and also iSolution centers Facility A facility built to withstand urban disasters with two power lines and independent backup generator are being operated at ten locations around the country. Introducing the NEC Hokkaido Data Center Launched in April 2012.NEC and NEC Fielding are collaborating to extend and enhance Regional DCs . We provide comprehensive services based on the total strength of the NEC group as well as highly reliable data center services including disaster recovery. We are also operating eco-friendly community-based data centers such as NEC's Entirely eco-friendly data centers . Employment ● External image ● Server room image Providing high-quality services based on the ISO27001 (ISMS) certification As of August 2012, the Chubu DC and iSolution centers at ten locations around the country are ISMS certiﬁed.(The Hokkaido DC obtained certiﬁcation in October 2012.) Thus, we provide high quality and uniform services throughout data centers around the country, and we are also striving to continuously improve our services according to the ISO certiﬁcation concept. Voice Aiming at obtaining the ISO27001 certification LCM Business Promotion Division, DC Management Promotion Department, Hokkaido Data Center Manager, Mitsuharu Ota We believe that we must provide our services in two steps for better customer satisfaction. Society At the Hokkaido DC, we are aiming to obtain the ISO27001 certiﬁcation in October 2012. Currently, we are receiving comments from internal ISMS audit committee members of our company, and we are trying to improve operational procedures day by day. Of course, we will learn from the successful examples and improvements made by the Chubu DC and each iSolution center that is already certiﬁed. We see them as friendly rivals in the quest for improved quality of services and will competitively continue to improve our services. By treating it in this manner, I believe we will become a leader in quality of service within our company. The goal of LCM services LCM services offer support for customers IT systems means improved safety and security and helps to expand throughout its life cycle from design and installation the business areas based on the LCM. Environment through operation, repair, and replacement. This support Local government Government authorities Finance Information System SI＊ Medical Application Middleware Expanded system operation and maintenance Expanded scope of infrastructure SI Involving other systems DB An account manager responsible for system construction, Virtualization operation, and maintenance drives the transition to LCM Expanded system operation Private demand (moving away from individual servicing) and maintenance Security IT Bringing disengaged infrastructure Network in to the system Infrastructure Facility Installation, deployment, supply Outsourcing, hardware maintenance Life Cycle: Design Construction Operation Maintenance =Current business activities ＊System Integration(SI):integrated approach to information system planning, construction and operation, etc. 40 Proactive Maintenance NEC Fielding worked to expand its maintenance services by expanding the scope of its software support business, increasing FY 2011 Activity maintenance capacity for products from other companies in addition to working to reduce the costs of maintenance parts and topics equipment, and making maintenance work more efﬁcient. Achievements 1.We improved our system disk recovery service by supporting virtual environments, and expanded our software support business by expanding sales channels through creating NEC product packages for PC. 2.We strengthened our network vendor maintenance offerings and integrated maintenance offerings for multi-vendor hardware, and developed support packs for storage products from our competitors to expand our ability to offer maintenance for competitor products. 3.We continued our production innovation efforts, worked to reduce costs related to maintenance components and equipment, and improved the efﬁciency of maintenance tasks. Future Challenges In the area of maintenance, we will expand our focus area and maintain the scale of our operations by expanding the platform maintenance including both hardware and software and also strengthening multi-vendor support in the cloud computing area.To further coordinate with sales offices in line with LCM, we will promote maintenance contracts involving contract support staff and specialist centers as well as accelerating the pursuit of self-contracting promotion activities. Business maintenance services Stable operation Quick response to system failures Through proactive maintenance we could achieve more stable Our customer support formation makes it possible to operation of our customers’ IT systems, monitoring their respond quickly and appropriately as problems arise in systems 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, detecting signs of customer systems, thereby enabling a prompt recovery problems and taking preventative steps before they occur. from the system failure. ●Customer Support Formation -Taking advantage of IT to accumulate and utilize the information of customers and fieldsSales Core system Visit Sales support system i-mode Business negotiation, information gathering, inquiry, order Mobile terminal Business negotiation DB Call center Customers Knowledge database Inquiry and maintenance calls Proposal, disaster recovery, work procedure Various types of DBs Customer support, failure information Number of times 303,000 companies, 2,687 models responding to customers: Information accumulated from 5.12 million systems 3.74 million per year Engineer Service task Maintenance service support system Business negotiation, information gathering, inquiry, order Mobile terminal Various types of DBs CSR performance and maintenance services Recovery from natural disasters ●The disaster response chain of command NEC Fielding works to quickly restore customers’ Customers systems when they are damaged by natural Assessment and response disasters such as earthquakes and ﬂoods.We Frontline Locations Being Restored respond with the full force of the company to bring Reporting Command and support Maintenance equipment support damaged IT systems back online quickly by Front-Line BC Response Engineering Components and Equipment Factory Division Headquarters Support Department Supply Department establishing a disaster headquarters, evaluating Notiﬁcation and Notiﬁcation and coordination coordination the damage, determining how to respond, Reporting Command and support increasing response personnel, and providing Company-wide BC Response Headquarters detailed reports on the damage. 41 Collaboration with Partner Companies Market 05 Governance/Accountability FY 2011 Activity In the next medium-term plan, we will support partner companies so that they can improve the topics quality of management and strengthen their CSR activities, which will improve CS performance. Achievements According to the new supplier evaluation system, we evaluated partner companies for various items including management, compliance, business execution, price, and quality.Based on the results of the comprehensive evaluation, we held review meetings with our partner companies. Through these review meetings, we clearly deﬁned the position of our partner's strengths and weaknesses and supported them to implement the PDCA cycle towards improvement of the quality of their business processes. In addition, we supported partner companies to conduct surveys on the actual situation of employee satisfaction (ES), which is an important factor in service-based operations, and helped them to take measures to improve ES in each company. We will continue to support partner companies through the results of new supplier Market Future Challenges evaluations, review meetings with partner companies held based on the evaluation results, and the results of employee satisfaction (ES) surveys so that each company can establish a system to continuously perform their PDCA cycle. Corporate ethics as a foundation of our business activities Supporting our partners through the new supplier evaluation system Many of the goods and services we supply to our We will support improvements to management and CSR customers rest on the materials and services we activities for our partner companies through supplier procure from partner companies.In accordance with evaluations. our basic policy on material procurement, we intend Improvements made Employment to promote CSR through closer interaction with these New supplier through evaluation partners. evaluations Plan Management evaluation ●Coordination with partner companies in corporate ethics Map structure Compliance Evaluation system Compliance with evaluation Action based Do improvement cycle laws and regulations (CSR, information security) ③Improvement measures Business execution We will comply correctly with laws and regulations concerning contracts such as Maintethe Worker Dispatching Act, the nance Operation Deployment Check Compliance with Subcontracting Act, and the Construction Processes, business ①Evaluation grading laws and Business Act as well as those concerning technology, such as the Radio Act and the execution evaluation ②Review meetings regulations Electrical Appliance and Material Safety Act. Enhancing Enhancing the transparency of Quality evaluation Process improvements using an evaluation system Society the transparency transactions of transactions Price evaluation ①Evaluation and grading through We will conduct comprehensive evaluation the new supplier evaluation system and screening of transactions, ensure fair Strengthening competition among partners companies, information and maintain a fair and honest relationship with partner companies. ＊The compliance evaluation ②Review meetings, security controls is a review of corporate information sharing, checking issues Strengthening information principles, health and safety, security controls human rights and labor related CSR, information ③Updating the transactions policy We will explain and provide tools and security, and information with business process improvements educational support to facilitate our partners' information security management. management Expanded collaboration with partner companies Environment To strengthen collaborative relationships with partner companies, offer human resource development support and educational we create opportunities to explain our management and future events aimed at improving the quality of management at our direction at lectures on business trends and the New Year’s partner companies to improve the quality of services we offer to festivities. We also set up forums for them to exchange our customers. information with our top management. In January 2011, we supported surveys on employee satisfaction We hold regular topic-speciﬁc meetings (ES) at partner companies and received responses from 1,500 and occasional discussion forums for employees at 16 companies.The summarized results were sent partners from each ﬁeld. In addition, we directly from a specialized company to each partner company and have been used to improve ES at each company. We will continue offering support and contributing to activities based on CS and CSR by improving the overall quality of the management at our partner New Year’s festivities companies. Presenting our business during the festivities 42 Employment A company CONTENTS ● Hiring and Employment Initiatives P.45 that offers rewarding work ● Health and Safety Initiatives ●Creating an Easy-to-Work-in Environment P.46 P.47 and develops diverse ●Human Resource Development P.49 Items correspond to the core subjects in ISO26000 human resources ● ● Human Rights ● Labor Practices Community Involvement and Development TOPIC 4 Starting a new initiative to revitalize workplaces, IKI-IKI Fielding CSR Promotion Division, Corporate Ethics Promotion Office, Office Manager, Yoshiharu Kawakatsu Just as many companies have been working to revitalize must be engaged.To this end, we invited all staff members their workplaces in recent years, NEC Fielding also started to suggest ideas for the name of this initiative as a way to the “IKI-IKI Fielding” initiative in the belief that the kick things off and encourage communication right from revitalization of workplaces leads to risk reduction. the start. As a result, the “IKI-IKI Fielding” initiative was We have been taking various measures to reduce risks. created.We started things off with a slogan, Each and However, there have been some cases in which employees every one of us will come together and give this our who made an operational error, or had a problem in the all!”This was put in place in the ﬁrst half of the last ﬁscal course of responding to customers, did not seek advice year. from anyone, including their supervisors, and taking the After each division appointed a leader, “IKI-IKI Fielding” entire problem on themselves, resulting in a worsen activities were conducted in each workplace.Of course, we situation.On the other hand, we can see that in never force staff to participate in the activities or restrict departments where employees are proactive in the scope of the activity, just as long as everyone is communicating with each other, there is a noticeable drop communicating smoothly.By deepening exchanges in serious problems.So, why is it hard for some employees between supervisors, senior associates, and young to ask for advice from or report to their colleagues or employees, as well as increasing the feeling of unity in the supervisors? After reviewing the relationship between workplace and sharing of values, I believe that this employees and departments, we reached to a policy on initiative can reduce risks and enhance our corporate risk reduction through the “revitalization of workplaces, in values.Although this initiative is in its early stages, we have other words, more proactive communication”. received positive reports from the team leaders.We will “Revitalization” is an initiative, in which the whole company make every effort to promote this initiative in the future. 43 TOPICS Employment Starting a new initiative to revitalize workplaces, IKI-IKI Fielding Overview of the “IKI-IKI Fielding” initiative Governance/Accountability In the second half of FY 2011, we made a point to commended “activities that greatly contributed to the revitalization of the workplace and served as a model for others” to ﬁrmly establish the initiative in people’s minds throughout the company. From the various reports on activities that we received, that included a bowling tournament, emergency food tasting event, and one-day bus tour, we commended the following activities involving a number of staff members and other divisions. ●Commendation for outstanding activities (2H of FY 2011) Division commended Leader Details of the activity Distribution Industries Service Division, Tatsuro Hirahara BBQ party System Maintenance and Operations Department at the banks of the Tama River Chugoku Branch Division, MAZDA IT Center Isamu Ito Social contribution activity and BBQ party Repair Division, Repair Engineering Department Shunsuke Chirihama BBQ party at the banks of the Tama River BBQ party Market NEC Fielding System Technology, Ltd. Seiko Kanda BBQ party (NEC Fielding System at the Kasai Rinkai Park Technology, Ltd.) Employee Interview Left: NEC Fielding System BBQ party Technology, Ltd. (Distribution Industries Service Division, Operations Division System Maintenance and Operation Department) Seiko Kanda Right: NEC Fielding ,Ltd. Distribution Industries Service Division System Maintenance and Operation Department Employment Senior Manager Tatsuro Hirahara Hoping to communicate with many people and To further revitalize our workplace through realize a variety of exchanges a wide variety of events I belong to NEC Fielding System Technology, Ltd., in Regarding workplace communications, I would normally only which many employees, including the president, have warn employees against risks or hand out other instructions. been active in conducting activities outside the However, since we didn’t have many opportunities for company, such as BBQ parties.We haven’t really seen face-to-face contact with people on the job, for which I am any dramatic changes through the “IKI-IKI Fielding” responsible, I felt that this initiative would present us with great Society activities at our workplace, but I do feel that our opportunities to further our communications. interpersonal communication has been given a real Just before a scheduled event for “IKI-IKI Fielding”, there were boost.It became clear that as we communicated more, sweeping personnel changes and some employees expressed we began to change our scope and ideas saying “let’s concern that they were not sure how well they would work expand the scale of the activities”, resulting in some alongside these. For this reason, I decided to hold a BBQ other employees of NEC Fielding joining our activities.I party inviting all employees of each department within our think it is wonderful that we have communicated with division.Many employees, including the division manager, employees of NEC Fielding through this initiative.I have participated in this event. Suddenly we had the chance to talk received comments from staff members, mentioning face-to-face with people whom we had only previously spoken that when giving feedback, they now have a person to on the phone, and to see another side of them through talk whom they can ask for advice if they are in trouble and about our personal lives. We thoroughly enjoyed getting to that this has been made it easier for them to carry out know one another at the BBQ party and even at a bingo game Environment their daily tasks. The same goes for me.Perhaps this is held at the event.This event has led to an improvement in our because interpersonal relationships have become workplace environment and we can more easily communicate closer than before. with, and ask for advice from, other employees. I believe that Although our company culture doesn’t have a this will help lead to the prevention of risks. particularly rigid hierarchy, it’s only natural for new Before working on the activity, I felt that everyone was not employees to be tense when communicating with their enthusiastic about communications very much since we had superiors.In this sense, I feel that the “IKI-IKI Fielding” less events, such as company trips and athletic meets, activity serves as an alleviator, making staff members compared to the past. However, in fact, I heard a lot of relaxed in personal relationships, which had previously personal comments such as “I would like to communicate with been built solely on business.Now we are ﬁnding it many people” and “why don’t we have a BBQ party?”. Those easier than before to communicate with employees comments really surprised me. Moving forward, I would like to within the whole NEC Fielding Group, which is truly a further expand and deepen this workplace communication positive step in the right direction. I am hopeful that we cycle by conducting activities on a regular basis, as well as can broaden this initiative in the future. planning and holding new events. 44 Hiring and Employment Initiatives FY 2011 Activity To maintain and promote sustainable hiring in an increasingly uncertain business environment, topics we promoted the hiring of recent college graduates capable of making an immediate contribution as well as improving the ratio of female employees while creating a workplace environment where women can realize their full potential. Achievements 1.We actively sought recent college graduates with the capacity to make an immediate contribution. 2.We actively sought female hires from amongst recent college graduates. 3.As a result of the Positive Action Activities, the number of female executives increased. 4.We maintained the ratio of employees with disabilities at a level of 2%. Future Challenges We will continue to pursue stable employment and work to promote women’s career advancement. Employee diversity Hiring of recent college graduates At NEC Fielding, where each employee is recognized as a valuable ● Recent graduate hires People/FY 100 management resource, we believe that the recruitment and cultivation of 83 67 human resources who share NEC Fielding’s beliefs is vital for the (the ratio of female employees: 33%) sustainable growth of the company, and we actively hire recent graduates every year. 50 The average turnover rate of new graduate employees within three years in ofﬁce was 3.4% between 2007 and 2009, which is signiﬁcantly lower than 9 the national average of 30% (Results relating to new graduate employees in 0 2008: Published by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare). 2009 2010 2011 Creating a workplace environment where women can realize their potential Responsiveness to changes and diversity management are vital for our sustainable growth.With this concept, we support Voice Encouragement for promoting your own career female employees to realize their potential on a company-wide Solutions Business Promotion Division, Supply Business Promotion Department, basis as well as take various measures, including the Manager, Miki Kaida introduction of actual women’s careers in our website and provision of management trainings for executives. I was determined to become an executive and I made it.I believed that I could overcome any obstacles with help from my ● Female executives People/FY supervisors and related divisions, and 70 58 expand the scope of my work and 48 38 responsibilities in such an environment.I hope 35 that other female employees in our company will work to advance their careers with conﬁdence and enjoy a sense of fulﬁllment. 0 2009 2010 2011 Employment of people with disabilities We employ people with disabilities throughout Japan.From the perspective of normalization*, we strive to have Voice A major advantage is the easy-to-work-in environment employees with disabilities work in the same location as Business Planning Division, Planning Department, Masaki Furuya other employees, and when necessary, the company or It has been ﬁve years since I since surrounding people provide support.In recent year, we I have joined the Business Planning hold sessions to study sign language within the company Division.I am mainly responsible for to achieve smoother communications with people with the process and analysis of hearing disabilities. performance data, including data in the sales management ＊Normalization:The idea that persons with and without disabilities should live together in system.Although I have a hearing society without any special distinctions between them, and that this is the most natural state of being. Normalization also includes programs and policies aimed at achieving this goal. disability, staff members at my workplace kindly deal with such ● Employment of people with disabilities %/Month obstacles and understand what I 2.2 need to tell them by 2.0 communicating through writing.The scope of works assigned to 2.03 me is gradually expanding and I enjoy working in cooperation with 1.8 my colleagues with a feeling of responsibility and satisfaction.I National average: 1.65% also serve as an instructor of sign language study sessions held 1.6 within the company.I really feel that one of the great advantages Average in Tokyo: 1.61% offered by NEC Fielding is the easy-to-work-in environment. 1.4 2011.4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 2012.1 2 3 45 Health and Safety Initiatives Employment 01 Governance/Accountability FY 2011 Activity By improving our work environment and health management policies on a continuous basis, we worked on creating topics workplaces that allow employees to carry out their tasks while maintaining both physical and mental health. Achievements 1.We promoted health management efforts at each workplace through coordination between the Central Workplace Safety and Health Committee and the related committees in each block.In this ﬁscal year, we aggressively promoted anti-smoking measures within the company, including the holding of study meetings on quitting smoking as well as setting and expanding of the non-smoking time. 2.As part of the Employee Assistance Program (EAP), we conducted a test for all employees to check their stress and offered an opportunity to raise awareness of their health both at the personal level and at their workplace. 3.To further bolster our mental health policies, we reviewed our reinstatement support program and discussed the introduction of trial working for employees with mental disorders, etc. Market Future Challenges We will make further improvements to our health management policies to maintain and promote a healthy mind and body for our employees.We will also focus on security measures in case of a disaster. Improving health management Our mental health policies Utilization of the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) In response to mental health problems increasingly NEC Fielding uses the Employee Assistance Program becoming an issue in our society, we have (EAP) provided by HOKENDOHJINSHA Inc.This program established our Employee Mental Health Assistance makes it possible for employees and their families to seek Employment Program to prevent disorders as well as to detect assistance on various issues such as mental and physical and respond to them early and prevent their health, child rearing and nursing care 24 hours a day, 365 recurrence if the worst happens.Furthermore, we days a year by telephone or over the Internet.In addition, have strengthened a reinstatement support system employees can evaluate their stress levels using a in this ﬁscal year. web-based stress questionnaire. Creating a framework for workplace safety and health To create a safe and healthy work environment, we ●Framework for workplace safety and health established the Central Workplace Safety and Health Tamachi Safety and Health Committee Committee, promoting zero operational accidents, Society including prevention of overwork and car Nakagawara Safety and Health Committee Central Workplace Safety and accidents.Furthermore, we pursue other safety and Takatsu Safety and Health Committee health initiatives such as disease prevention, Kawasaki Safety and Health Committee adapting to suit regional characteristics. Health Committee Job Type Safety and Health Committee Shutoken Block Area Safety and Health Committee Kita Block Area Safety and Health Committee Chubu & Kansai Block Area Safety and Health Committee Nishi Block Area Safety and Health Committee Employee safety according to the BCP Our employee safety veriﬁcation system, which was Environment adopted for disasters such as earthquakes, helps us with our top priority, the safety of our employees and their families. To that end, we have stockpiled food, drinking water, medical supplies, and other goods according to our emergency response and BCP policy and the BCP＊ (Business Continuity Plan) itself. In preparation for pandemics caused by Employee Safety Veriﬁcation System communicable diseases such as virulent new strains of inﬂuenza, we have also stockpiled masks and disinfectant. Stockpiling food, drinking water, medicine, blankets, and ＊BCP（Business Continuity Plan):See page 8. other supplies in case of a disaster or pandemic outbreak 46 Creating an Easy-to-work-in Environment FY 2011 Activity We worked to nurture a work environment conducive to a greater sense of personal topics achievement where each employee can join in creating a healthy company. Achievements 1．Through company-wide initiatives, including dialogue meetings, we have created opportunities for employees belonging to different divisions and usually having no contact, to communicate each other. In these meetings, employees discussed and mutually deepened understanding for their jobs and opinions, as well as created and bolstered their personal relationships. 2． In this ﬁscal year, we asked employees to submit human rights slogans and released educational material about human rights as well as provided Internet-based training for all employees to promote an accurate understanding and recognition of human rights issues. 3． In this ﬁscal year, to further accelerate our Positive Action Activities, we held new female employee management training sessions for managers and supervisors. Future Challenges We will work to nurture a work environment where all employees can exercise their full potential. Furthermore, we will endeavor to create an easy-to-work-in environment, allowing our employees to balance work and child care through our action plan related to the next-generation development assistance. Employee opinion survey At NEC Fielding, every year we survey the opinions of all of our employees, ●Employee satisfaction reported in the opinion survey creating a channel for regular communication. %/FY 100 Response rate Employee satisfaction FY 2011 saw an increased response rate compared to the last ﬁscal year. 82％ 76％ 80 However, the details of responses to almost all of the questions, including the employee satisfaction in terms of working in the company, did not 60 progress, resulting in the same levels as FY 2011. 40 By analyzing the survey results, identifying issues that saw no progress, and 20 reﬂecting on various measures to meet them, we are working to improve our 0 employees’ mindset regarding various aspects of their working lives. 2009 2010 2011 Actively building awareness of human rights NEC Fielding has been promoting an awareness of human rights rights issues. It was our by positioning various human rights issues as key challenges to be hope that each of our resolved as a step towards fulﬁlling our social responsibilities as a employees could company.In the NEC Fielding Group Charter of Corporate Behavior, understand our intentions we clearly stated our stance on respecting human rights. with regard to human rights, In this ﬁscal year, we asked employees to submit human rights and proactively work to slogans and released educational material about human rights as create a workplace where well as provided Internet-based training for all employees to they do not encounter promote an accurate understanding and recognition of human prejudice. Educational material about human rights Human rights slogans from FY 2011 The NEC Fielding Group Charter of Corporate Behavior Applicants Employees 1055/Family members 8, Respect for human rights Top prize 4 Excellent prize 56 We shall behave with respect for the human rights of Top prize all people that we interact with and shall not engage in prejudice, harassment, child labor, or forced You are a mirror for other people. Are they smiling? labor. (Ms. Yoko Uematsu) Respect for employees Let us nurture our spirit that feels others’ pain. We shall respect the diversity, personalities, and (Mr. Yuji Oyama) individual characteristics of our employees. In Let us be grateful for our colleagues for they are always there for us. addition, we shall provide an employment climate (Ms. Eriko Sato) enabling individuals to work to the full extent of their Let us show our tenderness through the heart in our words and behavior. capabilities and work with a feeling of fulﬁllment. (Mr. Yoshio Yamane) Dialogue meeting In FY 2009, we began holding dialogue meetings for In FY 2011, we held a dialogue meeting for employees to employees to discuss with the president about current discuss with the senior vice president responsible for their challenges and ideal visions as an initiative to accelerate divisions about key challenges in their missions the growth of human resources. formulated in each organization. 47 Employment 02 Promoting work life balance Governance/Accountability A make-your-own-choices career support system Birth and maternity leave At NEC Fielding, we have adopted a make-your-own-choices To support a balance between work and home, NEC Fielding career support system and an extended employment system offers a “maternity leave system”, a “childcare leave to meet the diverse needs of our employees, some of whom system”, and a “reduced-hours employment system”.Our wish to explore a new career outside of the company or are intranet site, “ikuchu.com”, is a forum for employees on approaching retirement age. maternity leave or childcare leave to exchange information. ● Employees on childcare leave People/FY The Second Career System 60 51 For employees that wish to plan and pursue their own career development outside of the company, NEC Fielding offers this system to provide the maximum possible economic and 40 26 30 scheduling accommodations for these employees to achieve their ambitions. Market 20 ●Number of employees on the second career leave People/FY 0 40 2009 2010 2011 29 30 20 21 Fair access to benefits 20 NEC Fielding uses the Beneﬁt Station provided by 10 Beneﬁt One Inc., to ensure the fair administration of 0 2009 2010 2011 beneﬁts to all employees.This lifestyle support service meets a range of needs as well as provides versatile menus and is used by many of our Voice Career change from businessman to farmer! employees. Getting time off for my second career Masami Sato ●System usage in FY 2011 Employment I had been engaged in technical management at the front line while moving 12,815 ＊Excluding some system usage, such as member card services around Japan, including Tokyo, Omiya, Niigata, and Sendai and decided to make Promoting Positive Action Activities a clean start as a farmer using the ﬁeld owned by our family in Akita Prefecture Since FY 2009, NEC Fielding has been promoting Positive Action where my parents’ home is located.I have Activities to encourage female employees to further advance their career already purchased a cultivator as well as and improve our corporate strengths.In FY 2011, we conducted training started to plough the ﬁeld and grow vegetables.I am currently trying to grow sessions on female employee management for managers and rice while helping other farmer’s in their rice supervisors to facilitate “changes in the consciousness of management cultivation work, so that I can be a personnel”. By actively seeking female hires from amongst recent full-ﬂedged producer before the end of college graduates, the ratio of women to the total number of employees capacity development leave for up to two years.I also plan to sell rice “Akita Komachi” rice that I produce over the Internet in the future. is increasing every year. Society ●Ratio of women to the total number of employees %/FY 13.4 The Extended Employment System 13.2 13.3 13.0 NEC Fielding has created a system for employees 12.8 who wish to continue working past the age of 60. 12.6 12.8 They can work at the NEC Fielding 100% subsidiary, 12.4 12.6 NEC Fielding Supportcrew, Ltd., up to age 65. 12.2 2009 2010 2011 NEC Fielding Supportcrew, Ltd. Activities in group companies General Affairs Division, Ryoji Onishi The Extended Employment System NEC Fielding Supportcrew, Ltd. is a human resource services company wholly owned by NEC Fielding and hires employees of NEC Environment Fielding who desire to extend their employment (up to 65 years old) with the concept of offering opportunities for qualiﬁed people to continue to exercise their ability. We send human resources with the capacity to make an immediate contribution and handle a wide range of business categories from the ﬁelds utilizing ever-changing IT technologies to the ﬁelds to support sales and back-ofﬁce operations.Our employees are valuable “human assets”.While putting great importance on every employee and support the development of diverse human resources, we will further strive to create a corporate environment with fulﬁlling works. Employee Consultation Service NEC Fielding has established a centralized location that responds to a variety of such as employee's aspirations, problems, and reports, we are able to improve different employee inquiries.By receiving opinions that do not normally emerge the work environment and make NEC Fielding an easier company to work in. The Fair Treatment Consultation Service The Fielding Helpline NEC Fielding has put in place a Fair Treatment Consultation Service staffed The Fielding Helpline is a system that allows employees to report when they have witnessed a by women to create a work environment where women feel freer to consult violation of the NEC Fielding Group Code of Conduct, dishonest conduct, or a violation of human rights. when they feel they are being discriminated against or harassed.This reﬂects To reduce possible stress on the position of the person calling the helpline, we have outsourced its our commitment to creating a workplace that is more welcoming to women. operation to a third-party institution.It is possible to call the hotline anonymously and every effort is made to maintain anonymity. 48 Human Resource Development FY 2011 Activity We will develop “high-quality” human resources by improving practical skills used at topics work sites through practical evaluation and hands-on training. Achievements ●We provided maintenance technicians central to our business with training over 26 days every year. ●We provided each employee with training over 19 days every year. ●We provided training to improve communication skills for employees such as maintenance technicians and sales engineers who interact with customers on a regular basis. ●We developed a total of 455 platform system engineers (PF-SE) who not only have knowledge of hardware but also the skills and ability to operation/design information systems. ●To facilitate the passing of knowledge to the younger generation and improved CS performance, 41 CS Senior Advisors across Japan provide on-the-job-training. Future Challenges We will continue to develop human resources in areas of Proactive Maintenance (PM) and strengthen human resource development in solution areas to achieve the No. 1 in Customer Satisfaction Second to None Challenge. Human resource development concept By clarifying our “human resource development Human resource development reflecting customer needs principles” in accordance with our corporate principles At NEC Fielding we create and operate educational and clearly deﬁning the image of an ideal employee, we courses that reﬂect our business strategy and the needs are developing the capacity to nurture our employees. of our customers for our approx. 5,500 employees.We also offer education in response to requests from our partner Human resource development philosophy companies, sales ofﬁces, self-employed maintenance partners, and overseas subsidiaries. We will develop human resources who can fulﬁll their unique potential by drawing on their individuality and abilities to offer valuable services and act as ●The HR development planning process responsible and ethical members of society. HR development Customer needs Customer system database database database Characteristics of the ideal employee ●Individual education ●Results of third-party surveys ● System installation histories and skills ●Results of NEC Fielding and operation status ●A person who has a positive mindset toward CS* ●Ofﬁce resources surveys ● Service and skills ●Customer feedback from implementation result and is capable of thinking and acting from a visits data customer’s perspective Input ● A person who is a first-rate professional with a Create annual education plan broad vision and abilities far superior to our Market trends (renewed twice/year) competitors Input Disclose a draft plan Input Mid-term plan ● A person who has a sophisticated sensibility Business strategy to the company and an adventurous spirit Collect feedback from Business plan each department Revise the plan including feedback Management ＊CS (Customer Satisfaction):See page 6. Technology trends from each department reform project Shipment information Notify each department of the final plan ●Concept of human resource development ＊A competency ﬁle: A manual for standards of Customer needs Human resource development philosophy conduct based on actions (processes) distinctive of high achievers created of each job class ＊The two-way system:A one-on-one dialog driven management style where managers talk about Business strategy Job class system goal-setting, evaluations, and careers with (competency file＊) employees Two-way system＊ Development plan/personnel management NEC Fielding’s training system Evaluation/treatment system ●Skill assessment ●Individual skill/capacity development plan Training by Training by Service technical ●Personnel/bonus evaluation system (Ability ●Resource management job class division training and performance considered) ●Skill distribution management ●Certiﬁcation cost reimbursement program 49 Employment 03 NEC Fielding’s capacity development training Employee training to create an ethical member of society Governance/Accountability Our training system is composed of a skill development program Implementation of compulsory training courses for employees divided into three broad categories: “training by division”, At NEC Fielding training, we provide a compulsory course “training by job class”, and “service technical training”. In for our employees to help them become ethical members addition, we actively conduct OJT＊ to promote the improvement of society. Even after completing the course, employees and mastering of practical skills at the work site. undergo occasional refresher courses. ＊OJT (On-the-Job-Training):A method to learn the knowledge and skills required for a job through hands-on experience. ●Compulsory employee training plan Hired ● NEC Fielding group code of ●NEC Fielding training system conduct training ● Conﬁdentiality rules training for Market Management Leads Employees working with customers and One handling corporate secrets month ● Information security training Management Job grade promotion employee Mid-level Education and Training Division training ● Risk management training school candidate training Class A Grade 2 ● Personal information protection training Training by job class Branch office training manager training Management basic training Class B training Middle manager ●Export control (compliance program) development Class A Grade 1 Class C training training training basic training Young employee ●Product safety (PS) training Job grade training for new training ●Environmental training, basics Employment (3 years of education after appointees entering the company) ●Act against Delay in Payment of Basic training for Three Subcontract Proceeds, etc. to new employees month Subcontractors training ●Sexual harassment prevention training ●Mental health in the workplace training Assigned ●Human rights training (in order to eliminate prejudice and stereotypes) Training by division Theory of the company Environmental training CS education, ISO education Training for CE (customer engineer)＊ Business, accounting related training Technological innovation is rapid in the IT industry, and Society CEs working on the front lines of IT must keep up with the latest technologies. At CE training courses at NEC Fielding, we offered training to those who need it to increase their efﬁciency, but we added trainings to Universal employee training improve practical skills in FY 2010 and training over 26 ● Compliance/corporate ethics training days was provided to each CE in FY 2011. ● Coaching/management training ●Performance management/contractual affairs training ＊CE (Customer Engineer):See page 5. ● Other voluntary training ●Training received per CE Service technical training Days/Year Solutions services technical training Environment 30 ● Solutions/packages training 26.4 ● Network facilities and design training ● Internet security training ● Presentation/sales training ● LCM business training ● Platform SE training, other 20 Maintenance services technical training ● New product orientation ● Skill repertoire training ● Skill training, other 10 Basic training for new employees 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 50 Training environment Since our employees are spread over more than 400 sites environment where individuals can work each day to nationwide, we are able to offer various training options, improve their skills and acquire certiﬁcations. including group training, on-site training by visiting ＊Self-directed learning:At NEC Fielding, individual studying is called instructors at local sites, and self-directed learning* over self-directed learning. Our goal is to incentivize individual effort for our the Internet.We have worked to create a learning employees' skill development. ●NEC Fielding’s training facilities Nakagawara Technical Center Sapporo ●Classrooms: 25 ●Total area: 3,769 m2 ●Nakagawara trainee dorm: 80 rooms Regional classrooms (8 locations:15classrooms) Sendai Fukuoka ●Sapporo: 1 classroom ●Nagoya: 1 classroom ●Sendai: 1 classroom ●Osaka: 5 classrooms ●Omiya: 2 classrooms ●Takamatsu: 1 classroom Omiya ●Mita(Tokyo): 1 classroom ●Fukuoka: 3 classrooms Osaka Takamatsu Tokyo Nagoya Nakagawara Technical Center Programs to support human resource development Certification Cost Reimbursement Program NEC Fielding has established the “Certiﬁcation Cost at NEC Fielding endeavors to develop necessary skills Reimbursement Program”, which supports our employees and obtain certiﬁcations in order to meet customer to obtain ofﬁcial/vendor certiﬁcations, and provide grants needs.These certiﬁcations expand the scope of our to employees who successfully obtained ofﬁcial employees’ work and contribute to bolstering their certiﬁcations designated by the company.Every employee conﬁdence to provide better services. ● Certifications obtained by NEC Fielding employees 1certification 10.9% IT vendor certifications 24,718 certifications in FY 2011 10 or more certifications 31.7% Number of 14% 13.6% 27.6% 10.2% 34.6% certifications 2-5 obtained by certifications each employee 32.2% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% ITIL security related, Lonux, etc. Information processing certiﬁcations, etc. 6-9 Oracle, HP, Sun, Ciscii related Construction certiﬁcations, etc. certifications Microsoft 25.2% Voluntary training support system We have established a voluntary training support system, self-improvement and assume part of the expense burden.We recognizing that “the employee’s desire to develop his or her have prepared voluntary training courses in a variety of ﬁelds, capabilities is fundamental to human resource development”. including basic management business skills, accounting, In this spirit, we offer all employees opportunities for languages, and certiﬁcation acquisition. 51 Human Resource Development Employment 04 Training system Governance/Accountability “TRAINS-IV” is a core system that supports human resource employees over the past ﬁfteen years, training effectiveness development.This system provides integrated management of (feedback and availability, etc.) and skills and certiﬁcations obtained training related information, which includes not only course by ofﬁce/employee. It also supports divisions responsible for training explanations and applications but the participation records of all as well as facilitating human resource development in each ofﬁce. Best Fielding Contest NEC Fielding holds a technical contest entitled the “Best the contest, participants are asked questions that reﬂect the Fielding Contest” annually to help improve both technical skills needs of the times and our business strategy. The topic of and customer service skills as well as motivate our questions for the section, “sales proposal” and “design and Market CEs.Approximately 3,400 employees, including CEs in our construction” at the ﬁnal of the 24th contest was the “BCP branch companies as well as high performing sales (Business Continuity Plan)”.The question asked the competitors representatives and SIs* nominated and telephone operators, to make a sales proposal for, or design and construct systems who are all active on the front lines, enter the contest and go into based on, the BCP in response to a rise in customer's the ﬁrst screening (Online testing) and then the second awareness of BCP under the inﬂuence of the earthquake screening (practical examination). In these screenings, the top disaster.The contest winners receive a monetary prize and a 7-9 contest participants are selected in each section and they medal as well as participate in an overseas training trip that compete in the two-day ﬁnal with tasks such as equipment includes visiting a world-famous IT expo, and an IT company. failure repair, proposal writing, and customer service role-play. In ＊SI:An engineer who makes proposals for and constructs IT systems ● The Best Fielding Contest Employment ●Customer service role-play ●Equipment failure repair ●Ofﬁce systems (PC, PR) ●Proposal writing ●Sales proposal ●Preparation of design materials 5 winners (virtualization) in each section ●Express 5800 system (Windows) ●Design and Award ceremony Finalists: 38 construction (virtualization) ●Contact center The second screening (practical examination) Society Participants who passed: 88 First screening (online testing) Participants: Approximately 3,400 All CEs Sales/SI During the contest Voice Opportunities to reconfirm ways of thinking that I lack Voice My mission is to share this experience with people around me Environment Industry Service Division, Manufacturing and Process Industries Solutions Sales Department Hokkaido Branch Division, Higashi-Sapporo Branch Ofﬁce, 1st Section Assistant Manager, Takefumi Ishida Assistant Manager, Junichi Miura Winner of the sales proposal (virtualization) Winner of the Express5800 section at the 24th contest System section at the 24th contest Since I had no chance to review my routine Since the contest details were sales activities in my daily hectic life, I changed this time and all CEs decided to participate in the sales proposal participated, the level of screening section of the contest, hoping that was much higher than before. I participating would be a good way to review won the NX7700 section in the my own work.At the ﬁnal, I was the last 13th contest but this victory has contestant. I was already incredibly nervous boosted my pride and conﬁdence while waiting and I honestly couldn’t think of more than the last.This conﬁdence a worse situation! I am not sure whether that and pride has manifested itself in helped or not, but luckily I won the the form of “willingness” when contest.Not only this result gave me conﬁdence but also it was a meaningful responding to my customers.I opportunity for me to reconﬁrm the way of thinking that I lack.While sharing this would like to make every effort to get the most out of this experience with my colleagues and juniors, I will strive to grow, aiming to experience while making it my mission to share the experience become a person who has a positive effect on people around me. with people around me. 52 Society Working to solve social problems CONTENTS ● Social contribution activities P.55 and contributing to society Items correspond to the core subjects in ISO26000 ● Human Rights through being a good neighbor ● Community Involvement and development TOPIC 5 Sponsoring the “World Heritage Theater” to help conserve heritages and contribute to local communities Corporate Communication Division, General Manager, Satoshi Oshima 16th event at Mt. Koya ©photographed by Mitsushi Takeshita 17th event at the Tomioka Silk Mill ©photographed by Takao Okada 18th event at Daigoji Temple ©photographed by Mitsushi Takeshita The “World Heritage Theater” features performances of traditional and we are never short of employees, at all job levels, volunteering to arts, music, and dance at world heritage and candidate sites participate in the event, demonstrating the ﬁrmly rooted spirit of around Japan. In addition to recognizing the importance of dedication to social contribution in the company. protecting wonderful culture, both tangible and intangible, this NEC Fielding’s own business activities that support IT cultural activity is meant to raise awareness of “how to responsibly infrastructures in society have much in common with the “World utilize” world heritage sites.Visitors to the event can enjoy the Heritage Theater” initiative, in which the importance of unique atmosphere created by integrating historic architecture, “conservation” and “utilization” of world heritage sites is shared nature, and landscape in the theater, which is impossible to with society.Since 2011, we have expanded the scope of our experience at ordinary event halls.The “World Heritage Theater” support for the event as a special sponsor.The event name has also gave many visitors the chance to experience world heritage been changed to the “NEC Fielding World Heritage Theater” and sites for the ﬁrst time, creating an opportunity to encourage people we believe that this will have a profound effect not only on our CSR to understand the signiﬁcance of world heritage sites. activities but also our branding and PR strategies. NEC Fielding has been sponsoring this activity every year since its It is our duty to protect and at the same time, pass on world inauguration and we will hold the seventh “World Heritage Theater” heritage sites to future generations.We also see that there is great this year.We set up our booth near the event site to allow us to worth in continuing corporate cultural activities.Moving forward, we introduce heritage sites in the area, providing an opportunity not will seek to revitalize local communities through the “World only for visitors to the event but also other tourists to learn more Heritage Theater” and create opportunities to make people more about world heritage sites.Our booth is run by in-house volunteers, familiar with the beauty of Japan’s culture. 53 TOPICS Society Sponsoring the “World Heritage Theater” to help conserve heritages sites and contribute to local communities World Heritage Theater (FY 2011) Governance/Accountability ● Achievements Event Schedule Site Special programs Activities at NEC Fielding’s booth 16th Saturday, August 27 and Sunday, August 28 Kongobuji Temple in Mt. Koya (Wakayama Prefecture) Buddhist sutra writing Display of panels and hosting 17th Saturday, September 17 and Sunday (national holiday), September 19 Tomioka Silk Mill (Gunma Prefecture) Cocoon craft of quizzes related to world heritage 18th Friday, March 23 and Sunday, March 25 Daigoji Temple (Kyoto Prefecture) Buddhist memorial service/sermon, walking tour Employee Interview Market Corporate Communication Division encouraging people to understand the Assistant Manager importance and treasure world heritage sites Miyuki Kaneta through actual contact with the cultures. Local residents also visit our booth as well as Introducing the culture and history of world tourists.Even our volunteers, who are from the heritage sites in an easy-to-follow format to same community, do not have many pass them on to future generations opportunities to meet with such local residents, so we are truly grateful for their time. Along with live performance by artists, we set The event at Mt. Koya and Tomioka brought in the NEC Fielding’s booth to display panels and 4,000 and 8,000 visitors respectively. I was host a quiz event related to the world heritage at Employment heartened to learn that local residents were each site.As it’s not only architecture that is welcoming visitors from a wide variety of age listed as a world heritage site, but also various groups. cultures, I am also seeking opportunities for In organizing the “World Heritage Theater”, we people to experience such cultures.For received signiﬁcant cooperation from temples, example, we provided the opportunity to shrines, and local government.To repay their experience Buddhist sutra writing at Mt. Koya kindness, I would like to plan expansive events and cocoon craft at Tomioka Silk Mill, a world that provide visitors with great enjoyment while heritage candidate site, last year. In this way, we further deepening coordination with local get to engage in the activity with the goal of organizations. Partner Society Partner The joy of creating an event together. SAP Corporation Producer Mr. Yujiro Arikawa In October we will hold the 20th “World Heritage Theater” that began with the objective of allowing visitors to experience us.I think this is due to scenes such as the dreamscape scrolls, Japan’s history and culture and conserving it for future that can’t be experienced at event halls or other settings, have generations.I feel a strong connection with NEC Fielding been engraved in people’s heart.As someone responsible for because they are the only company who has sponsored the operating the World Heritage Theater, I take great pleasure from event from the start.Awareness of the event has been raised in creating the event while working together with a wide variety of the past six years and we are glad that local governments and people, such as local governments, temples, shrines, local leading artists are showing their willingness to cooperate with media, and volunteers. Experience as a volunteer staff member Comments from visitors (participants in special programs) Environment Voice Buddhist sutra writing, a special program held at the 16th event in Mt. Koya in Chubu and Kansai Block Planning Division, ACC Management Department 1st Kansai Contact Center, Keiko Ishida August, 2011 ●We don’t get the chance to see this sort of thing in every-day life, so it really is a While working as a volunteer for the “World Heritage valuable experience. Theater” held at Daigoji Temple, we got soaked in a downpour. Later, when we were rounding up Cocoon craft, a special program held at the 17th event in Tomioka in September, participants for our quiz, a visitor came all the way 2011 back to our booth to show another visitor the ●I would like to participate in the next event if it includes a program like this. interesting things they had picked up at our booth. ●IT was great because kids could also join in. They said to me, “even though the weather’s awful, I ●It was very fun. (Comment from a young child) am very happy that I came and glad to have had the Buddhist memorial service/sermon, Gokokuji walking tour, a special program held at opportunity to talk to you.” For me, this made it all the 18th event in Daigoji Temple in March, 2012 worthwhile, and the whole thing is an exciting and ●I heard the detailed sermon from a Buddhist monk. It was great. valuable experience. One of the things that appeals ●I’d love to take part in similar programs in the future. to me about being a volunteer, is that we get the ●This was great as we rarely have the chance to listen to sermons from such chance to communicate with people who otherwise we might never have met. ＊Ms. Ishida is in the upper center. high-ranking Buddhist monks. 54 Social Contribution Activities FY 2011 Activity To become a company that is counted on and trusted by society, we will launch more teams topics belonging to our Fielding Philanthropy Club across Japan and promote social contribution activities in collaboration with local communities at each location. Achievements ●In addition to the existing eight Fielding Philanthropy Club teams, an additional ten teams have been launched, bringing the total to 18 teams in operation. ●The time spent on social contribution activities throughout the company, including those from all blocks and individuals, comes to 58,958 hours, approximately 10.6 hours per person. ●We have started social contribution activities through collaborations with a trifecta of industry-academia-government. Future Challenges By strengthening activities through collaborations between industry, academia, and government and beginning discussions related to CRM (cause-related marketing) initiatives, we will promote social contribution activities as we go about our primary business. Social contribution at NEC Fielding The NEC Fielding Social Contribution Philosophy Based on our corporate principle of “contributing to a more prosperous society”, we will engage broadly in a variety of social contribution activities as a good corporate citizen. Social contribution activities at NEC Fielding ● We will contribute to society through our business activities. ● Inlight of our sincere desire to do something good and be useful for the local community as a corporate citizen in areas outside of our normal business activities, NEC Fielding is engaged in organization wide social responsibility activities that promote “volunteerism amongst individual employees”. ● As a member of the NEC Group, we coordinate and promote our social responsibility activities in line with NEC. ● As a member of the 1% club in the Nippon Keidanren, we spend 1% or more of our recurring proﬁt on social contribution activities. Promotion of social contribution activities at NEC Fielding At NEC Fielding, social contribution activities are pursued provide assistance, as well as operate the Fielding through “company-wide programs” that address NEC Philanthropy Club that supports volunteer activities by our Fielding in its entirety under the supervision of the employees. President who also serves as an overall social contribution We are also participating in the NEC Group-wide MDD supervisor, as well as in “ofﬁce speciﬁc voluntary (Make-a-Difference Drive). programs”, which are carried out at each ofﬁce.“Ofﬁce speciﬁc voluntary programs” are carried out based on ﬁve key words in our social contribution activity tree. In addition, we support individual volunteer activities that allow our employees to interact with communities and ●Social contribution ●Promotion of social contribution activities at NEC Fielding activity tree (Five keywords for Fielding Philanthropy Club Overall social contribution supervisor (Company President) Individual volunteer activities our social contribution) Contributing to local CSR promotion meeting communities Takatsu Area Kawasaki Area Chubu and Kansai Block Shutoken Block Industry Block Nakagawara Area Head Office Area Education Subsidiaries Nishi Block Social Kita Block welfare Volunteer NEC Fielding Social Contribution support Community sports Philosophy Office specific voluntary programs Company-wide programs NEC Fielding Corporate Principles 55 Society 01 Features in FY 2011 Governance/Accountability Topics related to the Great East Japan Earthquake Volunteer activities to provide reconstruction Volunteering for Tohoku Rokkon Festival assistance to areas affected by the Great East Japan We provided assistance at the Tohoku Rokkon Festival held on Saturday, Earthquake (TOMONI Project) July 16 and Sunday, July 17, at which six festivals from the Tohoku region As part of the MDD, the NEC Group has established the “NEC gathered at the same place to hold one giant festival in an attempt to TOMONI Project” that provides reconstruction assistance to the help boost the spirits of the Tohoku people after the 2011 Great East Tohoku area. NEC Fielding is also participating in this project Japan Earthquake.As “Tohoku Rokkon Festival supporters”, we carried on a regular basis through tasks such as the removal of debris out various tasks, including guiding visitors within the venue, cleaning and other activities in the disaster-stricken regions.During FY the site, guiding vehicles and 2011, a total distributing water to dancers. Also, our number of 25 employees who speak multiple Market employees of the languages helped with international NEC Fielding visitors.Furthermore, we sponsored the Group participated operation of shuttle buses connecting in the project. the festival site and disaster-stricken prefectures, such as Aomori, Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima. Voice Participation in a reconstruction assistance volunteer work Tokyo Chuo Branch Ofﬁce, Yoshihiro Nakagawa I participated in an activity to recover ﬁshing equipment at the Kobuchihama Fishing Port for three days between Thursday, September Employment 15 and Saturday September 17. We hauled up ﬁshing nets and moved ﬁshing equipment away with other volunteers.While it gave us some happiness to see the site cleaned up bit by bit, it really hammered home exactly how much devastation had been wrought on the area, when our group of around 100 volunteers from various companies could only make very slow progress in the cleanup efforts. There are also other disaster-stricken areas that cannot be reached by heavy machinery. As a member of the NEC Group, I would like to continue to volunteer for activities such as these to achieve our corporate mission. Activities through trifecta industry-academia-government collaborations Akiruno City, Meisei University, and NEC Fielding entered into an agreement for collaboration between industry, academia, and government with a focus on environmental protection.We are conducting various joint activities, such as conservation and usage of forests, studies and research on local revitalization, and education on the local area in the Sugao district of Akiruno City, Tokyo that is the home to wildlife designated as endangered species, including Hynobius tokyoensis and accipiter gentillis. Signing ceremony Meeting Our signing ceremony was carried out at the municipal Along with neighborhood associations and NPO Society ofﬁce of Akiruno City on Wednesday, July 13. corporations, Akiruno city, Meisei University, and NEC Fielding established the “Meeting for Maintaining Forests in Sugao District of Akiruno City” to plan projects for the revitalization of nearby mountains.In FY 2011, we held ﬁve meetings.We are also engaged in the following activities. Purpose Details Frequency To regenerate bountiful nearby Proactively exchanging opinions Workshops mountains while adopting about the use of land and 3 opinions from various sectors policies for operations Environment Human To promote the development of Learning the basics of resource farmers and revitalize agriculture in classroom lectures 5 development courses local communities and actually growing vegetables Green ship & BBQ event As a kick off for a social contribution activity through industry-academia-government collaborations, we held a “Green ship & BBQ event.” This event also worked as a pre-assignment on-site training for our new employees provided by the NEC Fielding labor union. After grooming nearby mountains and planting trees in groups, we enjoyed a BBQ.This event brought together approximately 100 people, including our employees, Akiruno city ofﬁcials, Meisei University students and personnel from NPOs. It was a perfect opportunity for us to get to know each other as we started on this joint venture. 56 Company-wide programs Guide dog fund-raising activities Collection drives In 2002, we joined the Japan Guide Dog Association as a corporate As part of the “MDD”, an NEC Group-wide social member and placed collection boxes at all of our ofﬁces around the contribution activity, we are engaged in “collection country to raise funds for training guide dogs.Since then, we have drives”.In collection drives, we been able to produce impressive results every year through active collect items such as used efforts from our employees.Furthermore, the company matches the stamps and donate them to donations made by our employees, effectively doubling our donation. other organizations through the NEC Social Contribution Ofﬁce. ●Guide dog training contributions People/FY We have been able to achieve 1,400,000 great results in this activity. Contributions by employees in 1H Matching donation in 1H 1,200,000 Contributions by employees in 2H Matching donation in 2H 1,000,000 800,000 ●Collection drives at NEC Fielding Charitable organizations and FY 2010 FY 2011 600,000 Items main use of collected items results results 1H NPO corporation 400,000 423,830 “Live with Friends on the Earth” 200,000 2H Used Sold to collectors and the 15.3 12.4 NEC Social Contribution Office (Oversight of CSR in the Group) 0 472,913 stamps funds are used to support kg kg activities to improve the Items are collected at around 400 locations around Japan 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 lives of people in India and Indonesia Guide dog training center tour NPO corporation To deepen understanding for the meaning of our fund-raising ShaplaNeer = Citizens' Committee in Japan for Overseas Support NEC Fielding CSR Promotion Division activities, the company sponsors tours of the guide dog training Used 7,553 8,413 Converted into cash through center, and many employees and their families participate in the tour. cards purchase agents and funds are used for activities that aim ●First tour to solve problems in the lives of the needy in South Asia. Location:Fujinomiya NPO corporation Date:Sunday,July 3,2011 Used “Hunger Free World” Participants:37 TDL Sold to collectors and the funds are 117 151 passports used for activities that help eliminate ● Second tour hunger in developing countries. Location:Yokohama UFUAJ Date:Saturday,July 9,2011 Converted to stamps and funds Participants:41 Spoiled are used for the World Terakoya 889 369 postcards Movement that aims to solve illiteracy, a problem facing one out of every six people in the world. Voice Participation in the guide UNICEF Japan dog training center tour Foreign Converted into cash and funds are 3.5 5.5 used for medical treatment and coins education activities for children in kg kg Customer Support Division developing countries. Solutions Support Center Assistant Manager, Hiroyuki Ichikawa NPO corporation Used “Global Sports Alliance” 2,678 997 I participated in the Yokohama tour with my family.This participation made my tennis Funds are used to eliminate noise from daughter, who is a ﬁfth grade elementary student, think about not only guide balls classrooms in elementary and junior dogs but also how we should respond to the visually impaired. She then high schools across the country. decided to choose guide dogs as the theme of her research homework for the Chinese schools summer vacation and checked out a bunch of related books from the library.It Used 239 235 was a great experience since it raised my daughter’s awareness about showing books Funds are used to support Chinese consideration toward others, as well as matters related to welfare. students who study Japanese Office specific voluntary programs Contributing to local communities Clean-up activities Volunteering for a local festival conducted by our offices Nishi Kanto Branch Division, Shonan Branch Ofﬁce nationwide We participated in the “Shonan Hiratsuka Tanabata Festival” Ofﬁces across the country hosted by Hiratsuka City government as volunteer.This was the NEC Fielding has over 400 Participation in Nara Clean-up activity second time we had participated after helping out last year as ofﬁces around Japan and (2nd Kansai Branch Division,Nara Branch Ofﬁce) well, and we helped to set up employees at each of these booths to sell strips of paper to locations work to keep their this year’s visitors.I would like communities clean, cleaning to participate in the festival nearby parks, shorelines, and Clean-up the Lake Shinji every year and contribute to riverbeds. (Chugoku Branch Division, Sanin Branch Ofﬁce) the local community. 57 Social contribution activities Society 02 Social welfare Volunteer support Governance/Accountability Contribution to facilities for people with disabilities Activity to collect “Ecocaps” Kyushu Branch Division, Nagasaki Branch Ofﬁce Ofﬁces across the country We volunteered to participate in cultural festivals, coming-of-age events, and Each ofﬁce of NEC Fielding collects PET bottle caps athletic meets held at facilities for people to deliver needed vaccines to children around the with disabilities.Through working with world through a NPO corporation, “Ecocap personnel at these facilities, we were able to Movement.” deepen our understanding of organizations Blood donation for people with disabilities, with whom we Ofﬁces across the country have little contact in everyday life. Volunteering for an athletic meet We make blood donations Education in cooperation with the Market A training course for dementia care supporter Red Cross Blood Center Kita Kanto Branch Division, Gunma Branch Ofﬁce located in each district. We took a training course for dementia care supporters provided for companies and (Nishi Kanto Branch Division, Yokohama District) organizations in accordance with Maebashi City’s policy, “Supporting patients suffering dementia in Volunteering for a Volunteer Festival local communities.”We have knowledge and information on methods of preventing Nakagawara Technical Center District dementia as well as learned how to respond to patients suffering from dementia. This will We participated in the 20th Volunteer Festival as a surely change the way I interact with people suffering from this disorder in the future. volunteer guide.This festival brings people together Community sports from around the country who are engaged in volunteer work so that they can exchange information.M a n y Volunteering for a marathon H2 FY 2011, p e o p l e , f ro m h i g h s c h o o l s t u d e n t s t o a d u l t s , Employment CSR Management Prize, Ofﬁces across the country Group Award Winner participated in the At NEC Fielding, we support event and it made us marathons held across Japan re a l i z e o n c e a g a i n t h a t through volunteer work, such as t h e re a re a w i d e v a r i e t y distributing water to runners and o f a g e g ro u p s o f a c t i v e cleaning the venue after the event. Volunteering for Tsukuba Marathon (Higashi volunteers. Kanto Branch Division, Ibaraki Branch Ofﬁce) Individual volunteer activities Volunteer works in astronomy-related activities H2 FY 2011, CSR Management Prize, Activities in a fire fighting team H2 FY 2011, CSR Management Prize, Shinjuku Branch Ofﬁce, Solution Section, Assistant Manager, Kenichi Takeuchi Individual Award Winner Repair Division, Parts Repair Department, Assistant Manager, Katsuhiro Hirose Individual Award Winner Society It has been seven years since I started volunteer activities for I have been a member of our local ﬁre ﬁghting team for ﬁve planning and operating events as well years and engaged in various activities, including conducting as providing explanations for exhibits at ﬁre drills, removing snow from ﬁre “Katsushika City Museum”.This activity hydrants in towns and the roofs of the includes stargazing sessions at nearby houses of elderly people who are living elementary schools, thus contributing to alone.I was ofﬁcially commended by the children’s emotional development. Yamagata Fireﬁghters Association for my long-term faithful service. Nurturing the youth through various activities, H1 FY 2011, CSR Management Prize, Assisting nursing care H2 FY 2011, including camping and football games Individual Award Winner NDEC Co., Ltd., Hatsuko Ito CSR Management Prize, Individual Award Winner Sales Governance Division, Examining Division, Manager, Makoto Akikusa As a home helper, I have been helping with nursing care at a With the aim of nurturing the youth, I formed “Oyaji no Kai (Chikuwa no Kai) Environment senior care facility “Sumire-en” for nine years.When my mother (Fathers’ Club)” with ﬁve fathers in our was moved into accommodation at a facility to care for the aged, community to plan and hold various events, I could see that there was a shortage of such as camping.Also, I have been coaching care workers. I decided to obtain a Home a local elementary school children’s football Helper Grade 2 certiﬁcation in 2000 and team for eight years and serving as the chief help to care for the elderly at this facility. umpire in ofﬁcial competitions. NEC Fielding System Technology, Ltd. Activities in group companies Activities in group companies Assistant Manager, Tomoaki Chiba Giving away bicycles to children in Vietnam To start a volunteer activity, I looked for initiatives conducted in Kawasaki City where my ofﬁce is located while focusing on those that promote public beneﬁts. Then a recruitment ad for an “activity to give away bicycles to children in Da Nang City and Quang Province, Vietnam” caught my eyes and I decided to join the activity.In this activity, unclaimed illegally parked bicycles collected by Kawasaki City are repaired and cleaned. After every 650 bicycles are collected, they are sent to Vietnam.This activity is carried out twice a year (September and March) and I will continue to participate in it. 58 Fielding Philanthropy Club At NEC Fielding, we established the “Fielding Philanthropy Club” in March 2008 to “improve the quality” of activities, to nurture a highly socially responsible mindset, and to strengthen our corporate values by supporting self-motivated and voluntary social contribution activities carried out by our employees in various aspects. FY 2011 marked the fourth year since its foundation, and currently the club supports 18 volunteer teams and 258 club members. Structure of the club Support system Development of human resources Teams formed by volunteers at The Fielding Philanthropy Club provides ﬁnancial through social contribution activities each location carry out their and material support for activities and also acts as a Participation in the Fielding Philanthropy Club own social contribution bridge between employees and the relevant external leads to the development of employees who are activities. organizations, including NPOs that cooperate with valuable members of society with better them.Funds for activities are covered by the “social leadership skills and an expanded social contribution fund” consisting of the company's network, as well as knowledge and capabilities contribution and members’ club fee. obtained from various experiences. Our activities ＊Activities are introduced in the order that teams were formed. Teams ⑨ to ⑱ were formed in FY 2011. Indonesia 5 ❶Fielding Grove maintenance H1 FY 2011, CSR Management Prize, 6 Group Award Winner ◎D e t a i l s：Forest Improvement ◎Location：Minato Kumin no Mori in Akiruno City, Tokyo 16 ◎Par tner：NPO corporation ECOPLUS 9 12 14 ［Activities during FY 2011: 8］ 10 15 ❷“Fielding no Hito” Koza 8 1 4 7 11 17 13 18 ◎D e t a i l s：Courses on various social issues provided by outside lecturers ＊❷ and ❸ nationwide efforts. ◎Location：Nationwide (via teleconference) ◎Par tner：NPO corporation ECOPLUS ［Activities during FY 2011: 7］ ❻Planting trees in Forest of FIELDING in Indonesia ◎D e t a i l s：Forest Improvement ❸“My Hashi” ◎Location：Kalimantan (Borneo) Island in Indonesia ◎D e t a i l s：Making nondisposable chopsticks ◎Par tner：The Borneo Orangutan Survival Foundation ◎Location：Nationwide (via teleconference) ◎Date：February 7 to February 12 ［Activities during FY 2011: 3］ ［Participants:14］ ❹Akiruno Taketori Monogatari H1 FY 2011 CSR Management Prize, ◎D e t a i l s：Forest Improvement Group Award Winner ❼Midori no Ongakutai ◎Location：Sugao district of Akiruno City, Tokyo ◎D e t a i l s：Music performance at welfare facilities and elementary schools ◎Partner：NPO corporation ECOPLUS , ◎Location：Tokyo metropolitan area Furusato no Mori dukuri Center ◎Partner：Minato Council of Social Welfare ［Activities during FY 2011: 11］ ［Activities during FY 2011:6］ H1 FY 2011, ❺Wheel chair maintenance CSR Management Prize, Group Award Winner ❽Yarimasse Oyakunitachitai ◎D e t a i l s：Disassembly and cleaning of wheel chairs ◎D e t a i l s：Various social contribution activities (mainly, ◎Location：Sapporo City, Hokkaido cleaning up after the Yodogawa Fireworks Festival ◎Par tner：NPO corporation Tondeke! Kurumaisu no Kai and volunteering for the Yodogawa Marathon) ［Activities during FY 2011: 10］ ◎Location：Osaka Prefecture ◎Partner：JCI Osaka, Osaka/Yodogawa Citizens' Marathon Executive Committee ［Activities during FY 2011: 3］ ollabo ration My Hashi C team Midori no Ongakutai performed at the child × Midori no care support plaza in Minato-ku, “Pokke” while the “My Hashi” team held a course on Ongakutai making nondisposable chopsticks, realizing the ﬁrst collaboration among teams belonging to the Fielding Philanthropy Club. The sessions attracted approximately 60 visitors, resulting in a huge success. 59 Society Social contribution activities 03 ❾Hakata Dontaku 14 AI Field Patrol Governance/Accountability ◎Details：Learning about nature and environment for improving ◎D etai l s：Serving as “Aruku Patrol Volunteers” registered participants’ environmental awareness of through the with the Sendai City government.and contributing to local protection of the biotopes in rice ﬁelds (e.g. rice safety by identifying locations that need to be improved in planting, grass cutting, making of scarecrows, and harvesting) terms of security (e.g. dark streets and parks) and ◎Location：Kasuga Park in Kasuga City, Fukuoka Prefecture reporting each situation to the Sendai City Residents’ ◎Partner：NPO corporation Fureai-tai Department ［Activities during FY 2011: 10］ ◎Location：Sendai City, Miyagi Prefecture ◎Partner：Sendai City government Civic Affairs Bureau, City Residents’ Department Market ［Activities during FY 2011: 5］ 10 Kizuna no Mori Club 15 Kumadon ◎D e t a i l s：Strengthening bonds between people through a forest improvement activity (i.e. tree planting, grass cutting, making ◎D e t a i l s：Facilitating harmony between people and of biotopes, ﬁeld cultivation and improvement of small rivers) nature through forest improvement activities ◎Location：Chuo Shinrin Park in Hiroshima Prefecture (e.g. brush trimming, grass cutting, cultivation (Located in Hiroshima Airport) of ﬁelds) ◎Par tner：Chuo Shinrin Park Association ◎Location：Mt. Kinbo in ［Activities during FY 2011: 8］ Kumamoto City, Kumamoto Prefecture ◎Partner：Minami Nihon Tsushin Co., Ltd. ［Activities during FY 2011: 1］ Employment 11 “Shikoku mo Eco to shiyo kai ” 16 Akita KANTOU Otasuke-tai ◎D e t a i l s：Helping conserve areas at the foot of Mt. Ishizuchi through clean-up activities in an area ◎D e t a i l s：Raising awareness of environmental issues as where preservation of nature is getting difﬁcult well as contributing to local communities by due to an increasingly-aging society cleaning areas near the ofﬁce ◎Location：Nakaoku and Ofuki, Saijo City, Ehime Prefecture ◎Location：San-no, Akita City, ◎Par tner：Ishizuchi Fureai no Sato, Akita Prefecture Ofuki o Yokusuru Kai ［Activities during FY 2011: 30］ ［Activities during FY 2011: 1］ Society 12 Let’s CTS 17 Kaisho no Mori to Ayumu kai ◎D e t a i l s：Re-populating the area with ﬁreﬂies that have ◎D e t a i l s：Promoting the development of “human disappeared through forest improvement resources who practice environmental activities (who play activities (e.g. brush trimming, grass cutting, a major role in creating sustainable society)” by improvement of biotopes) participating in various events (mainly forest improvement ◎Location：Ikari, Tagawa City, Fukuoka Prefecture activities) organized by NPO corporation “Kaisho no Mori ◎Par tner：Kamiikari Environment to Ayumu kai” that was established to develop the principle Protection Association of the Aichi Expo ［Activities during FY 2011: 4］ ◎Location：Kaisho Forest in Environment Seto City, Aichi Prefecture ◎Partner：NPO corporation Kaisho no Mori to Ayumu kai 13 Minato-ku Adopt Katsudotai ［Activities during FY 2011: 1］ ◎Det ails：Promoting participants’ awareness of the 18 MK Syuwa Benkyo Kai responsibilities of a corporate citizen by joining “Minato-ku Adopt Program” under an ◎D e t a i l s：Improving communications among people agreement with the Minato-ku government and learning sign language cleaning nearby communities ◎Location：Mita Kokusai Building in Minato-ku, Tokyo ◎Location：Shibaura Konan district, ［Activities during FY 2011: 2］ Minato-ku, Tokyo ◎Par tner：Tokyo Minato-ku Shibaura Konan District General Branch Ofﬁce ［Activities during FY 2011: 20］ 60 Environment Working toward the creation of CONTENTS ● Environmental management P.63 a sustainable society ● Environmental performance P.67 ●Environmental training P.71 ●Environmental communication P.72 in harmony with the environment Items correspond to the core subjects in ISO26000 ● Environment TOPIC 6 Protecting biodiversity and promoting new initiatives for carbon offset CSR Promotion Division, Assistant General Manager and Environmental Management Promotion Office Manager, Hiroaki Kikuchi Here at NEC Fielding we have been focusing on expanding our Japan, and we are proud to be at the forefront. activities concerning protecting the ecosystem and biodiversity. Movements that seek to “promote the procurement of products These activities have been included in the Fielding Group and services contributing to the reduction of environmental Environmental Management Action Plan 2017/2030”.As part of impact , such as the Law on Promoting Green Purchasing as these activities, we started the “Protecting Orangutan Habitats stipulated by a public agency, are increasingly expanding. Our Project” in April this year, which aims to protect orangutans and private corporate customers are also beginning to realize getting support forestations during the recovery and protection of to face the needs for carbon offset programs. ecosystem organized by the Indonesia-based BOS Foundation＊1. Looking to the future, we will formulate systems that will not only Our goals in undertaking this project are to offer support and address the need to reduce CO2 emissions, but also create strive to accomplish three targets; the “protection of ecosystem environmental values through activities such as this “Protecting and biodiversity”, the “prevention of global warming”, and the Orangutan Habitats Project”, thereby promoting our CSR efforts “development of stable local communities”. These are in-line with while satisfying new business needs. the targets of the BOS Foundation which is located in an area ＊1 BOS Foundation:The ofﬁcial name is the Borneo Orangutan Survival where tropical rainforests have been destroyed. Foundation. The principle of this international NGO is to engage in the protection of orangutans living on Kalimantan (Borneo) Island, preserving and regenerating The project maintains trees in the area that are regenerating, and their habitat, the tropical rainforests, and rehabilitating and returning them to additional trees are also planted. We then calculate the amount of nature. CO2 absorbed by these trees based on our unique standard, and http://orangutan.or.id/home ＊2 Carbon offset:Companies measure the amount of greenhouse gas emissions use this to calculate our carbon offset ＊2 credits.In standard such as CO2 that are generated through daily life and economic activities, and carbon offset systems, CO2 credits are usually purchased. make an effort to reduce these emissions as much as possible. For greenhouse However, we procure CO2 credits through activities that also take gases that are created unavoidably, companies invest in greenhouse gas reduction projects conducted in other locations including developing countries. into account the protection of biodiversity. This is a new initiative in This is known as carbon offset. 61 TOPICS Environment Protecting biodiversity and promoting new initiatives for carbon offset Three points from the “Protecting Orangutan Habitats Project” Governance/Accountability Protecting the ecosystem Stabilizing and and biodiversity Preventing global warming developing local communities Currently the project has 230 rescued With the aim of regenerating the tropical Nearly 100 local residents have been hired for orangutans that are being trained to rainforests, approximately 500,000 trees have been activities such as tree planting, managing return to the wild.The area also includes planted in the project area.These trees are forestation areas, as well as protecting and over 500 types of trees typically found in expected to absorb approximately 2,500 tons of training orangutans in the project tropical rainforests, including endangered CO2 annually. area.Furthermore, local residents are permitted to species, that have been planted in the By procuring credits in exchange for the increase in harvest fruit from trees planted on the border of area. CO2 sinks and stability through maintenance and the project area. Market By accelerating ecosystem recovery management of these trees, as well as planting Through this project, we hope to develop and through this project, we hope to additional trees and using them in our carbon support communities that can live in harmony with contribute to the protection of the offset, we hope to contribute to the prevention of forests, in turn contributing to the development of ecosystem and biodiversity in general. global warming. stable local communities. Malaysia Malaysia Indonesia Kalimantan Island Employment (Borneo Island) Orangutan forest habitats Indonesia Comment by the BOS Foundation Orangutan means “man of the forest” in Indonesian, and they are seen as a valuable “indicator” of a forests’ health.By feeding on the fruits of the forest, they play an important role in spreading seeds across the forest. Furthermore, when they build their nests, they make Society holes in the dense a canopy of leaves that typically covers the rainforests, allowing sunlight to reach the forest ﬂoors helping the seeds to grow. Healthy forests absorb greenhouse gases and release oxygen as well as protect water sources and prevent disasters, such as ﬂoods and landslides. BOS Foundation CEO Humans need healthy forests and healthy forests need Dr.Jamartin Sihite orangutans. In other words, we need orangutans. To protect orangutans, any company can take the （ⅲ） Encourage their customers to take 環Environment 境 following actions. actions through awareness-raising activities （ⅰ）Promote environmentally-friendly corporate （ⅳ）Establish partnerships with NGOs management Let us work together so that orangutans can live （ⅱ）Strive to protect biodiversity through a CSR program safely in forests, not in cages. New initiatives for carbon offset NEC Fielding has established its unique standard for calculating ＊3 Clean Development Mechanism (CDM):A system stipulated in Article 12 of CO2 emissions by referring to such methods as the Clean the United Nations’ Kyoto protocol, in which credits (CER) are issued based on the amount of CO2 reduced in CO2 emission reduction projects conduct by Development Mechanism (CDM) managed by the United Nations＊3 advanced countries in developing nations. and Japan’s J-VER system＊4 .We calculate the amount of CO2 ＊4 J-VER system:A system, in which credits are issued to projects that reduce emissions reduced through the “Protecting Orangutan Habitats CO2 emissions in Japan and certiﬁed as an “Offset Credit (J-VER)” project after their validity and details have been conﬁrmed and examined based on the Offset Project” based on this standard and create credits for CO2 emission Credit (J-VER) system stipulated by the Ministry of the Environment, Japan. reduction and CO2 sinks. Moving forward, we will conduct our carbon offset by utilizing the credits procured from this activity. 62 Environmental Management FY 2011 Activity At NEC Fielding, we work toward legal compliance management, internal environmental topics audits, chemical management, waste management, and support for the development of environmental management frameworks at our partners and afﬁliates, to strengthen our environmental risk management system. Achievements 1.We promoted activities for company-wide environmental risk management under our environmental management system. 2.Through internal auditing and regular testing, we were able to verify that the environmental management system is functioning correctly. 3.We promoted environmental management at partners and afﬁliates by providing the Fielding eco Net Service. Future Challenges 1.We will continue to strengthen environmental management throughout the NEC Fielding Group, inclusive of subsidiaries, partners, and affiliates. 2.We will strive to completely optimize our legal compliance, internal environmental auditing, chemical management, and waste management methods. Approach to environmental management Environmental policy Together with the establishment of the Fielding Group Environmental Management strengthen environmental management and clearly state NEC Fielding's policy of Action Plan 2017/2030, an Environmental Policy was established in April 2011 to further reducing environmental impact and protecting biodiversity. Environmental principles In all of our business activities, NEC Fielding shall contribute to the emergence of a sustainable society based on environmental management. Action guidelines 1.We shall take measures in the course of our primary business to prevent global warming, protect biodiversity, and promote resource recycling. 2.We shall promote products and services that are environmentally friendly and contribute to decreasing the environmental impact of our customers and society. 3.We shall observe the environmental regulations of national and local authorities as well as apply our own voluntary control standards, and work to prevent pollution on an ongoing basis. 4.We shall set forth an explicit program of environmental management activities, and have all divisions and employees practice environmental management creatively in accordance with their respective roles. 5.We shall conﬁrm the status of activities through internal environmental auditing; make efforts towards improvement, correction, and prevention; and strive to maintain and improve our environmental management system. 6.We shall comprehensively implement environmental education for all employees to increase environmental awareness, encourage environmental protection activities undertaken from a global viewpoint and contribute to society. 7.We shall actively disclose information on this Environmental Policy and environmental measures in our business activities, and make a positive contribution to society as a whole. Operating the environmental management system At NEC Fielding, the company's top environmental management supervisor meetings are held to discuss the medium-term plan and in-house rules, and issues environmental management policies and presents them to top-tier promotion meetings also offer an opportunity to communicate about horizontal environmental management supervisors who then design plans and activities deployment and follow up on activities in progress. for their jurisdiction. Each year, an internal environmental auditor who is appointed by the In each jurisdiction, environmental management activities are carried out company's chief environmental management supervisor audits the according to the annual plan, and progress on these activities is checked on environmental activities in all districts to ensure continuous improvement. the district, top-tier, and company-wide level.Accordingly, CSR Committee ●Operation of the environmental management system CSR Committee Chief environmental Appointment Internal environmental auditor management supervisor Environmental Environmental management control supervisor management system manager Top-tier division executive CSR promotion meeting Top-tier environmental Top-tier environmental management supervisor management promoter Top-Tier Environmental Management Meeting Top-tier/district environmental District environmental management supervisor management promoter 63 Environment 01 ●Environmental management system organizational structure Governance/Accountability The structure comprises a T-PDCA system with three layers above the ofﬁce level. ((1) Companywide (2) Branch Division/Division/Department (3) Branch Ofﬁce) ACTION TARGET PLAN ACTION TARGET PLAN Head Office (Company-wide rules) ACTION TARGET PLAN Division, Department Subsidiaries Business group Branch Division Branch ofﬁce Sales ofﬁce Corporate Staff NDEC Co., Ltd. Branch ofﬁce Sales ofﬁce Business promotion group NEC Fielding Supportcrew, Ltd. NEC Fielding System Technology, Ltd. CHECK DO CHECK DO Market CHECK DO ISO 14001 certiﬁed sites: 409 ofﬁces in 121 districts, as of May 2011. NDEC Co., Ltd. Activities in group companies General Affairs Division, Hiroki Tamagawa Our environment management system and its results This is the seventh year since NDEC Co., Ltd. began participating in the NEC Fielding environmental management system that was established in 2005.We carry out our business operations under a framework where eight ofﬁces including the head ofﬁce are divided into eastern and western districts and each ofﬁce manager also serves as a district promotion ofﬁcer.With support from personnel in the CSR Promotion Division, Environmental Management Promotion Ofﬁce of NEC ﬁelding, we promote activities to further enhance our environmental management cycle throughout the company while tackling system-related issues.As part of the Fielding Group, we will contribute to the further enhancement of environmental management while seeking NEC Fielding’s cooperation. Employment Environmental risk management＊ To prevent the contamination of air, water, and soil, NEC Accidents and complaints Fielding has established stricter self-management standards To date, we have not received any environment-related and environmental audit systems while observing all pertinent penalties, ﬁnes, or complaints. laws and regulations. In addition, we have prepared responses for all conceivable environmental incidents. ＊Risk management:See page 25. Environmental auditing Updating our ISO 14001 environmental certification Internal environmental auditing The environmental management system that we operate is a three-tiered NEC Fielding has been conducting internal environmental Society system, which involves company-wide, afﬁliate, and regional ofﬁce levels. auditing annually since FY 1993. We undergo an efﬁcient audit, which incorporates electronic auditing.We Our environmental management system is audited by external are committed to continuous improvement by taking corrective and auditors and cross-audited on the headquarters and branch preventive measures based on the results of these regular audits, aiming level by auditors from other headquarters and branches. The FY at more efﬁcient operation of the environmental management system. 2011 audit covered a total of 149 locations nationwide.While there were no noncompliance items, we took the opportunity to ●ISO 14001 environmental certification renewal results (renewal/regular) improve our rules and operations, and took corrective and Testing and May 2009 May 2010 April 2011 preventive actions in areas of possible improvement. registration (Regular) (Renewal) (Regular) ●Results of internal environmental audit for FY 2011 環Environment 境 November to November to November to Offices 412 ofﬁces 409 ofﬁces 409 offices District audited December, December, December, 2009 2010 2011 Employees 8,747 8,274 7,982 Offices 160 ofﬁces 155 ofﬁces 149 offices Interviews:38districts Interviews:34 districts Interviews:36 districts May 2009 May 2010 April 2011 On-site audits Elect. audits: Elect. audits: Elect. audits: Survey Results (Regular) (Renewal) (Regular) 105 districts 105 districts 96 districts Internal 10 Internal 11 Internal 11 Items for improvement 0 Auditors (Category A) 0 0 External 9 External 8 External 7 November to November to November to Items for improvement 0 0 0 Survey Results December, December, December, (Category B) 2009 2010 2011 Noncompliance 0 Areas to improve 9 7 15 (Category 1) 0 0 Noncompliance 3 0 0 Strong points 1 4 7 (Category 2) 64 Helping our partners and affiliates obtain ISO 14001 certification Since FY 2007, NEC Fielding has offered the “Fielding eco ●The Fielding eco Net Service Net service to help our suppliers build and operate environmental management systems (EMS).This service Electronic auditing NEC Fielding office Environmental system consultant provides EMS related content suitable for different Internet Consulting/education and training/ industries as well as various kinds of support by our auditing environmental management auditing experienced staff, extending from system development Fielding eco Net through operation. This helps our suppliers build a high quality EMS within a short period of time, allowing them to NEC Fielding Standard EMS save a great deal of time in obtaining ISO 14001 Customized EMS Standard EMS e-learning contents (Environmental certiﬁcation.The service also incorporates “electronic training) auditing system＊” for the certiﬁcation process to Company A EMS Company B EMS Company C EMS economize on labor and costs.As of FY 2011, 15 of our suppliers have joined our Fielding eco Net service, and Recording environmental activities Environmental education all of the companies have already obtained certiﬁcation. (On-site environmental records) and testing(Online education) Company A Company B Company C ＊Electronic auditing system:An auditing system using an IT network, developed Partners and affiliates jointly by the Japan Quality Assurance Organization (JQA) and NEC. Relationship between NEC Fielding's business and the environment At NEC Fielding, we have taken our business characteristics products and services”. Our efforts are divided according to and the inﬂuence of our business on society into the NEC Group basic concepts for environmental consideration and identiﬁed areas of environmental action management into “areas directly related to business including “prevention of global warming”, “reduction of activities” and “areas indirectly related to business activities waste”, “green procurement”, and “environmentally-friendly (referred to as the proactive zone by NEC Fielding)”. ●Environmental activities related to our business Customers and society Preventing global warming Sustainable education support Provision of supply products Recovery of components Managing use of Environmentally-responsible Maintenance components Used maintenance components RECYCLE Sales vehicles products and services RECYCLE Collection of used Tree planting Support services supply components See page 35 and 36 Business line group (Service locations) Fielding solutions business See pages 35 and 36 Proactive Maintenance See page 41 NEC Fielding’s business Distribution of materials and See pages 69 and 70 components REUSE Equipment Support Unit Management of maintenance component distribution, repair of equipment and maintenance components See pages 69 and 70 Component repair and conditioning locations REUSE Equipment storage REDUCE Corporate Staff/Business Planning Unit Pre-evaluation of products and facilities Speciﬁcation designs for maintenance and equipment Preparation of technical documents Planning and proposal of technical education and training Chemical management Compliance Social information system RECYCLE REDUCE RECYCLE Used toner Removal of general waste products Used cartridges Removal of industrial waste products Purchasing of components, products, and materials Use of electric power Used ribbon Purchasing of paper Waste power cells RECYCLE Purchasing of OA equipment Waste batteries Purchasing of stationary See pages 35 and 36 Manufacturers RECYCLE Waste processing company 65 Environment Environmental management 02 Fielding Group Environmental Management Action Plan 2017/2030 Governance/Accountability In April 2011, NEC Fielding established our own In this action plan, we set out our targets from three environmental management action plan in line with the viewpoints, low carbon society , society in harmony with Fielding Group Environmental Management Action Plan nature , recycling society to contribute to the creation of 2017/2030. an environmentally sound and sustainable society. Reducing CO2 produced by our customers and society by providing Active Eco-Services＊ Contribute to 1% of the target for the NEC Group Low carbon ●FY 2017/CO2 reduction 150,000 tons ●FY 2030/CO2 reduction 500,000 tons society Reducing CO 2 emitted during business activities Market An annual reduction of 1% (Versus FY 2009) ● FY 2017/CO 2 reduction 12,000 tons ● FY 2030/CO 2 reduction 11,000 tons Expanding ecosystem and biodiversity protection Society in Developing environmental business using ICT ● FY 2017/Development and promotion of services contributing to biodiversity harmony with nature Social contribution focused on protecting biodiversity ● Developing social contribution activities connected to biodiversity on the branch ofﬁce level by FY 2017 Employment RecyclingWorking towards advanced resource recycling oriented Full implementation of the three Rs at NEC Fielding while reducing waste product risk society ●Material recycling in FY 2017＊:100% ＊Active Eco-Services: Environmentally responsible IT solutions for energy-saving ofﬁces and housing. ＊Material recycling: Recycling of waste such as nonferrous metals (copper, zinc, and aluminum) for use as raw materials in future products. Medium-term environmental management targets At NEC Fielding, we have established our medium-term plan in “Fielding Group Environmental Management Action Plan three ﬁelds “strengthening environmental Governance”, 2017/2030”, and we are making every effort to achieve these Society “strengthening and promoting environmental business”, and targets.We also periodically evaluate our progress towards the “adopting sustainable business practices” based on the achievement of these targets to further improve our activities. ●Environmental activities related to our business FY 2011 FY 2012 Medium-term target Activities Target Achieved Evaluation Target Target Year achieved Maintain total legal compliance and Strengthening zero environmental incidents ０ ０ ○ ０ ０ − Zero environmental incidents Environmental Governance Increase the number of companies covered by the 19 15 △ 18+ 21+ FY 2013 環Environment 境 Fielding eco Net Service Reduce CO2 emission Strengthening and 32,000ｔ 7,139ｔ × 54,000ｔ 109,000ｔ FY 2013 from customers and society Promoting Environmentally 1/person 1.6/person ○ 2/person 3/person FY 2013 Eco-appeal proposals＊ Responsible Business Expand sales of ￥5.086bn ￥4.573bn △ ￥4.573bn − − CSR goods＊ Adopting Sustainable Greenhouse gases Reference year 12,254ｔ 10,250t ○ 10.631ｔ − Business Practices produced by business activities 1% Evaluation –○=Achieved,△= 80% or greater,× = 80% or less,− = Not applicable ＊Eco-appeal proposals:As of 2011, the deﬁnition of eco-appeal proposals was changed from proposals that are appealing because of environmentally-responsible products and services to proposals that are appealing because of their ability to reduce CO2 emission and power consumption. ＊Sales of CSR goods:Sales of CSR related products (environmentally-responsible products, risk reduction products, etc.) + broader 3R services. 66 Environmental Performance FY 2011 Activity By setting mediumto long-term targets in an effort to create a low carbon society that exists in harmony with nature, topics and recycling resources, we are contributing to the prevention and solution of various environmental problems and reducing our environmental impact as much as possible by preventing global warming, conserving resources and energy, decreasing waste, and increasing recycling rates. Achievements 1.We signiﬁcantly reduced emission of greenhouse gases by 111% of our target. 2.We reduced emission of CO2 by our customers and society by 126% of our target. 3.We actively proposed environmentally-friendly services (“eco-appeal proposals”). Future Challenges We will endeavor to bolster our activities to save energy, especially reduction in power consumption, and reduce energy related to transportation by further promoting our production innovation efforts. Mass balance business model We use the mass balance (material balance) model to policies.Since FY 2009, we have expanded the scope of clarify the direct environmental impact of our business environmental impact monitoring to comply with the activities, and to measure and improve our environmental amended Energy Conservation Law. ●FY 2011 business activities mass balance CO2 from energy: 9,572t (-14% YoY) OUT-PUT Non-CO2 greenhouse gases: 0.7t (-30% YoY) CO2 from company vehicles: 1,212t (-20% YoY) Resources IN-PUT Greenhouse gases OUT-PUT Power: 23.34m kW (-16% YoY) Nonrecycled NEC Fielding Waste Gas: 266,134 m3 (-17% YoY) waste business General waste:448t (-3% YoY) Fuel (Oil):28.3 kl (+4% YoY) Waste volume: activities Industrial waste:1,028t (+3% YoY) (Gasoline):521 kl (-20% YoY) 15t (±0% YoY) Paper:163t (-6% YoY) Heat: 568GJ (-3% YoY) Recycling Recycling volume:1,461 t (+1% YoY) Recycling rate:99% (±0% YoY) Environmental accounting ●Environmental accounting for FY 2011 Costs (Unit: ¥mn) Type Content FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 Cost within the business area Resource recycling cost, waste/recycling treatment outsourcing cost 103 102 84 Upstream/downstream cost Recovery of maintenance parts, 3Rs (parts maintenance cost＊) 5,626 5,166 5,069 Personnel expenses for environmental activities (wages and attendant costs) 51 55 50 ISO maintenance and environmental auditing (transportation, inspection, and registration costs) 1 2 4 Management activity cost Human resource development (training of auditors and inspectors) 1 1 1 Environmental information system development and operation 31 36 32 Other operating costs (for outsourcing of product refurbishment, environment-related annual dues, etc.) 1 1 1 R&D cost Conservation of resources and energy through IT 1,629 2,620 3,232 Social activity cost Donations (excluding political donations) 1 1 1 Total 7,444 7,984 8,474 ＊Parts maintenance cost:Repair cost for maintenance parts that can be reused by repairing. The amount saved by repairing instead of purchasing new parts was ¥5,740 million in FY 2010, and ¥4,847 million in FY 2011. 67 Environment 03 Preventing global warming Governance/Accountability CO2 emission from business activities Overall CO2 emission in FY 2011 was reduced by approximately reduce CO2 emission in service activities against a backdrop of 4% (9,000 tons) from FY 2010, totaling around to 235,000 tons. a 3% decrease in sales.In terms of CO2 emission base units, we This was achieved by further curving material procurement to achieved a reduction of 1%. ● Scope of CO 2 emission calculations ● CO 2 emission ＊Figures are calculated and evaluated using the “Business Business activities Environmental Burden Evaluation Method” developed by NEC Fundamental and Environmental Research Laboratories. (Scope of evaluations) 10,000 t (left axis)/t per ¥mn (right axis)/FY Market 40 1.45 Service activities Raw materials 2.7 newly acquired CO 2 30 Materials procurement Recycling 1.40 during the 20.8 −0.1 ﬁscal year Total Materials (maintenance Resources 20 23.5 1.35 procurement components, materials), Emissions products, and CO 2 10 basic unit1.30 tangible ﬁxed assets 1.30 0 1.25 Components, 2007 2008 2009 2010 facilities Service Employment activities The amount of CO2 emitted by other ﬁrms during the Professional Fuel costs, manufacturing of materials, such as maintenance parts and active and electricity, CO 2 Materials equipment, purchased by NEC Fielding each year. maintenance gas, and procurement The calculation is based on the purchase amount for each item business water used and industry related tables, applied to the LCA data compiled by fielding solution NEC Fundamental and Environmental Research Laboratories. business Resource The amount of CO2 emissions due to the use of energy, such as recycling Service electric power and gas, by NEC Fielding facilities. activities The calculation is based on the energy consumption and LCA data. Resources The amount of CO2 emitted by the recycling process for materials Recycling recovered, CO 2 minus the hypothetical CO2 emission for the manufacturing of the Recycled Recycling same materials from raw materials. The calculation is based on actual ﬁgures from resource recovery. Society Switchover to low-emission vehicles In FY 2003, NEC Fielding began to make a ●Low-emission vehicles introduced and rate of switchover switchover to low-emission vehicles, starting with Vehicles (Left Axis) / % (Right Axis) / FY the leased vehicles which make up most of our 600 Switchover, 120 company ﬂeet. By FY 2008, the percentage of purchase rate 94 low-emission vehicles rose to 96%. 500 100 In FY 2009, NEC Fielding absorbed NEC Infrontia System Service Corporation, lowering the share of 環Environment 境 400 80 low-emission vehicles in our ﬂeet to 91%. We have since carefully examined the operation of our leased vehicles to reduce the number of vehicles 300 60 Low-emission appropriately, and are currently targeting 100% vehicle share by low-emission vehicles by the end of FY 2014. 200 508 40 100 20 Conventional vehicle 32 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Promoting in-house energy saving In FY 2011, we reduced electricity consumption by 14% power saving settings on PCs and other apparatus in response to compared to the FY 2010 level by making efforts that included power shortages caused by the earthquake disaster.Moving managing the temperature setting for air conditioners, using forward, we will evaluate the status of energy saving carried out at reduced lighting within designated illumination criterion and major locations to further develop measures for energy reduction. 68 Recycling ●FY recycling performance and monetary amount recovered Our FY recycling performance and monetary amount recovered under the Wide-area Certification System Units (left axis) / million yen (right axis) / FY 12,000 1H 800 NEC was certiﬁed under the Wide-area Certiﬁcation 9,232 2H System, and commissioned NEC Fielding to build a 11,901 9,000 600 system for recycling the parts and components of IT Monetary equipment. Through this system, we collect used IT value 561 devices from businesses, and remove, inspect, and repair 6,000 400 their parts for reuse. During FY 2011, more IT equipment found its way into the 3,000 200 used goods market and the volume collected by the company increased, but the overall monetary amount 0 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 recovered decreased. ＊The monetary amount is calculated according to the amount an equivalent new component would cost. Decreased environmental impact through production innovation NEC Fielding began efforts towards production innovation in environmental impact.In FY 2011, we were able to reduce our October 2006, and increased efﬁciency while decreasing environmental impact primarily through the following three means. 1. Consolidation of offices in the Osaka district (June) 3. Using joint delivery networks Our parts storage and repair centers in Osaka City ① Collective delivery of documents and parts were previously located at different places and (August) Previously, we were delivering documents parts were delivered by a 1-ton truck every day. We from the head ofﬁce located in Minato-ku, Tokyo decided to reduce the size of the workspace in and maintenance parts from Aru Parts Kawasaki storage and reviewed the status of its inventory. As separately to service locations across Japan. We a result, we secured consolidated space for a repair reviewed this system and decided to deliver center and closed down the previous center.By documents from the head ofﬁce to Aru Parts eliminating deliveries by truck and reducing power Kawasaki and then to service locations along with consumption in air conditioning and lighting, CO2 parts from the Kawasaki plant by using the existing emissions were reduced by 5 tons. delivery system that was operating in the 2. Expansion of cardboard box recycling (August) metropolitan area.We started this effort at 21 In the past, each ofﬁce recycled its own cardboard service locations in Chubu and Shizuoka, resulting boxes. However, the balance between supply and in a reduction in the frequency of deliveries from demand for cardboard boxes varies from ofﬁce to head ofﬁce to service locations, achieving a ofﬁce leaving some ofﬁces to dispose of excess reduction of 2 tons in CO2 emissions.We plan to boxes, whole others replenished their shortfalls expand this effort to other areas. through purchases.As a solution to this problem, we ② Joint deliveries with partners (January) Previously, delivery decided to recycle cardboard boxes in broader trucks arranged by ourselves and our partners for delivering areas covering multiple ofﬁces by using the existing parts operated on separate itineraries in Tokyo and Kawasaki delivery system; for example, excess at Aru Parts City.We reviewed their routes and consolidated them into Kawasaki were passed to the parts storage in Tokyo more efﬁcient routes so that one truck can cover the both. As where boxes are insufﬁcient. As a result, we curved a result, we reduced CO2 emission by 4 tons. the amount of cardboard boxes purchased, The total reduction in CO 2 emission from these achieving a reduction of 2 tons in CO2 emissions. activities was 13 tons. ●Aggregation of routes between the Tokyo offices (Kawasaki District) Document delivery Goods delivery Previous Routes for joint routes delivery Head office in Tokyo Head office in Tokyo Gifu Branch Office Gifu Branch Office Kawasaki Kawasaki Chubu Branch Division Central Part Chubu Branch Division Central Part Warehouse Warehouse Shizuoka Brach Office Mie Branch Office Shizuoka Brach Office Mie Branch Office 69 Environment Environmental performance 04 Implementing a modal shift＊ strategy and reducing transportation costs for maintenance components Governance/Accountability We use a wide range of maintenance components Encouraging hand-delivery (hereinafter referred to as “components”) to maintain IT We mainly used motorcycle courier services or light systems.In an ideal world we would have all parts stored four-wheeled vehicles to deliver parts swiftly to service on hand where they are needed, but there is a limit to the locations and customers located a comparatively short types and volume of parts that can be stored in different distance away. When there is enough time, however, we locations.When system problems are discovered, it is encourage hand-delivery by using trains or other means particularly important to deliver parts as soon as possible of public transportation, to deliver goods in a fast, safe, so that the system can be restored. By prioritizing speed low-cost, and environmentally-friendly manner. Since this of delivery, costs and energy consumption increase.As a method of hand-delivery uses rail or foot, the resulting solution to this problem, we combined the following costs and CO2 emissions are minimized and we will methods to reduce our costs and CO2 emissions. Market continue to use this method going forward. Use of bullet trains (Rail Go Service) and sea freight Developed joint delivery network for supplying and collecting parts If there is a shortage of parts at a parts center in the Sendai, Morioka, or Niigata region, and parts must be We maintain an expected volume of parts required in rapidly shipped from Tokyo, we use the “Rail Go Service” stock at our parts centers nationwide and when any part for transport via the Tohoku and Joetsu Shinkansen (bullet is consumed, it is restocked the next morning from Aru train) lines for same-day delivery. This service is Parts Kawasaki to maintain the inventory.The transport convenient as it accepts orders and cargo from 7:00 am network that distributes replacement parts and collects to 11:30 pm. We also combine sea freight and “NEC used parts was established as a “mixed-load truck” mixed-load trucks” to recover components from Okinawa network. This network, which is linked to NEC Group’s to Aru parts Kawasaki, allowing us a good balance of Employment production innovation activities, connects all of NEC's environmental preservation, transport speed, and factories and distribution points nationwide to improve transport costs. efﬁciency by delivering parcels sent from each group company collectively.Furthermore, we have made effective use of the existing routes between parts centers Express bus transport and service locations to deliver parts. We also adopted a full-scale modal shift to collect used parts from service We use expressway buses for urgent deliveries of small locations, achieving reduction in both transportation costs components under a standing agreement with the bus and CO2 emissions. companies. These are regularly-operated passenger This program is the ﬂagship of our production innovation transport buses. Although we cannot use this form of campaign, which is being pushed throughout the transport for larger volumes, valuable items, or when company, and is both improving transport efﬁciency and information security is an issue, it is the perfect solution for Society reducing transport costs. shipping small parcels of components to relatively remote locations.We believe that this means of transport is safer, cheaper, more reliable, and environmentally-friendly with a ●A shared nationwide distribution network better cost performance than using motorcycle delivery Mixed-load truck network (Main line) Hokkaido RB for individual long distance deliveries. Mixed-load truck network (Branch line) Parts center Use of special bags for shipping components Parts center branch Route name We have designed special durable bags for shipping RB Relational base (Relay location) components. We previously shipped components with TM Terminal Akita packaging materials in cardboard boxes. Instead, these NEC Group facility Hokuriku route Morioka RB bags can be used over and over, and therefore have greatly reduced the use of cardboard boxes and Environment Kyushu route Yamaguchi Kanazawa RB Niigata RB Sendai RB packaging materials. In FY 2010, we added another size Kyushu RB Sales office of shipping bag. Chugoku route Minami Tohoku route Oita Kansai route Sales office Shiojiri TM Kofu RB Koriyama RB OkayamaRB Kansai RB Kumamoto RB Tokyo metropolitan route Chubu route Takamatsu RB Kagoshima Chubu RB Tokyo RB device headquarters Shijuoka Minami TM Aru parts Shikoku route Kawasaki ＊Modal shift :To switch transportation means for cargos and people. By reviewing component delivers from time-to-time, NEC fielding strives to reduce CO2 emissions associated with transportation. Cloth shipping bags (Large, medium, small) 70 Environmental Training FY 2011 Activity We are carrying out training for all employees as well as pin-pointing speciﬁc employees on an ongoing basis.As a way of measuring the topics effect of these training sessions, we have set our employees a target of a 100% ratio of “Eco Excellence”. Eco Excellence employees are those with a high level of environmental knowledge and action capability, as measured in the NEC Group’s Environmental Management Awareness Survey, and we came close to achieving this target during FY 2010.In FY 2011, our target was to develop employees under the New Eco Excellence” system with a higher evaluation standard, while making every effort to improve the activities. Achievements In preparation for the Environmental Management Awareness Survey, we focused on three points that needed to be strengthened, ① Understanding the amended Energy Conservation Law, ② Understanding the Environmental Management Action Plan 2017/2030, ③ Expanding efforts towards social contribution activities. The results of the survey showed that the percentage of New Eco Excellence” employees stood at 71.5%. The development status of our educational efforts is as follows: ●General education: 7,600 employees (new employees and all employees) ●Special education (for employees newly appointed to certain positions): 85 employees ●Manager education (for employees newly appointed as environmental management managers or promoters): 67 employees Future Challenges We will review opportunities for training and educational materials to achieve our goal of 100% New Eco Excellence employees. Implementation of environmental education At NEC Fielding, we provide environmental education ●Number of employees receiving environmental education People/FY through TRAINS-IV ( see page 25 ) , a web-based, 20,000 Special self-directed leaning system. Our environmental education 15,000 85 information system automatically incorporates all study Manager records managed under TRAINS-IV and then edits and education 10,000 displays the records for each subject and division to 67 further optimize our environmental education. General 5,000 education 7,600 0 2009 2010 2011 ＊The number of people taking the refresher course differs each year since employees only take the course once every three years. ＊Each year, 100% of target employees take the courses. ● Types of Environmental training Target employees Purpose General education All employees Outline of environmental policies and the environmental management system, the role of employees, and the understanding and awareness of workplace rules Waste managers Hazardous substance managers Understanding of roles, responsibilities, and procedures for Special education Advanced environmental assessors persons in charge of special work and their training Green procurement CFC recovery and high-pressure gas handling personnel Top-tier/district environmental management supervisor Understanding and awareness of environmental impact assessment, Manager education Top-tier/district environmental management promoter plan preparation, and operational management in the organization Internal environmental auditor Auditor education Understanding of roles, responsibilities, and work of auditors Environmental patrol ofﬁcers ● Number of employees with environment-related qualifications People People Qualification Qualification FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 Manager of high-pressure Registered energy manager 1 1 0 gas manufacturing safety, sales manager 3 3 2 EMS auditor 11 13 12 Special controlled industrial waste manager 18 20 20 Hazardous materials handler 863 856 837 Organic solvent work manager 26 25 23 Pollution control manager, etc. 2 0 1 Operation chief for speciﬁed chemical substances 9 9 7 71 Environmental Communication Environment 05 Governance/Accountability FY 2011 Activity We have been striving to enhance our communication regarding the environment by offering more information to topics all stakeholders in an easy-to-understand format, to nurture their understanding of our environmental management activities. In FY 2011, we implemented education, popularization, and action initiatives to strengthen our branding. Achievements 1. Preventing global warming ●Maintainingthe “Fielding Forest” ●Signing an agreement with the BOS Foundation to launch the “Protecting Orangutan Habitats Project” ●Conducting the Fielding Environment Month (solicited environmental slogans and posters from employees and their families) 2. Received the “Excellent Prize” at the Environmental Communication Awards Market Future Challenges We will continue to engage in providing more information regarding the environment and our activities to our stakeholders in an easy-to-understand format. Fielding Environment Month Maintaining the “Fielding Forest” At NEC Fielding, we hosted a slogan competition for Since 2006, in accordance with the NEC Fielding employees under the theme “Ways to save energy at Medium-term Plan, we have continued to maintain and home and at work” as part of our efforts to improve replant the “Fielding Forest” on the island of Kalimantan in environmental Indonesia. By restoring and protecting valued tropical rainforests＊, we are able to contribute to the prevention of Employment awareness. FY 2011 saw an impressive global warming and the protection of biodiversity. 9,728 entries. We also We have successfully planted a total of 2,500 trees as of requested FY 2010. We estimate that these trees will absorb a total of environmental posters 82.5 tons of CO2. containing ＊Tropical rainforests:Tropical rainforests are said to supply half of the Earth's prizewinning slogans oxygen, and are home to many species. They are currently under serious threat from our employees from forest ﬁres and commercial development, which results in the release of and their families, and more CO2 into the atmosphere and causes a decrease in the number of indigenous species. received 73 entries. The best poster is hung up at all of our Society facilities for one year, so as to promote our environmental initiatives. FY 2011 Environmental Poster Received the “Excellent Prize” at the Environmental Communication Award NEC Fielding won the “Excellent Prize” in the Environmental Report Section of the 15th 環Environment 境 Environmental Communication Awards hosted by the Ministry of the Environment, Japan and the Global Environmental Forum for compliance with ISO26000 and ISO14001, efforts to protect biodiversity, and provision of easy-to-understand information, such as glossary in its CSR Report and user-friendly website design. 72 Third Party Review Comments on the NEC Fielding CSR Report 2012 Mr. Hiroyuki Yamaguchi , Waseda University, International Affairs Division, Administrative Director for Student Services Once again, the time has come for us to read through universities. ⑥ Upgrading and expanding the the NEC Fielding CSR Report. When I was asked to be FIELDING Philanthropy Club is another example of the a third party reviewer this time, I learned that the company’ s enthusiastic approach towards social company’ s CSR report won The 15th Environmental contribution.⑦ The introduction of environmental Communication Awards Excellence Prize awarded by management and accountability is steadily producing the Ministry of the Environment. I have read the noticeably good results in CO2 reduction, objectively company’ s reports since the FY 2006 edition. Every displayed by the statistics. year I have seen improvements and I personally like the Finally, I would like to express my hopes regarding their high quality of the design and content, and so, I am future CSR activities.In my view, you have succeeded in proud to be asked to take part in this third party review. expanding and strengthening your CSR activities in all This award can looked at as a proof that the company’ s directions.Furthermore, BCP countermeasures could CSR activities are bearing fruit. prove to be the most critical effort in advancing social For this year’ s report, I focused on how the new contributions through the core business, and I expect President Ito valued CSR activities. Following the the company to strengthen this effort.Bearing this in Message from the President in the opening section, his mind, I would expect to see more efforts under the comments in the “CSR meeting by employees” feature themes of eco, green, and universality, including the clearly indicate his attitude toward CSR.They made it introduction of Cause Related Marketing, the diffusion clear that they were seeking their family’ s approval, and of solar power generating devices and EV fast said that “NEC Fielding is a good company.”Not only do chargers.From there, the third-term CSR medium-term they place great value on their customers, but they also plan should be developed. value their employee’ s pride, conﬁdence, and sense of responsibility in their work. This impressed me in par ticular because it expresses the company’ s l o n g l a s t i n g b a s i c a t t i t u d e t o w a rd s t re a s u r i n g personnel.They provide training for engineers, who are accompanied by senior advisors, for more than 26 days annually. This shows the emphasis they place on employee training.The company’ s low employee turnover rate is also impressive.The President shows strong leadership through clear and strong remarks about using their core business, IT support service, to contribute to the stable operation of social infrastructures.The success of CSR is likely to depend largely on the President’s way of thinking. Here are a few points that really caught my eye in this year’ s report. ① The work environment improvement effort known as “IKI-IKI Fielding” has contributed to a higher level of job satisfaction among employees. This could be a long-lasting, useful approach to continue to Waseda University, International Affairs Division, Administrative Director for improve poor communication among employees.② The Student Services Born in Tokyo, 1962.Graduated from the Waseda University School of Education. introduction of the CSR Management Prize is an While working as an employee of the university, Mr. Yamaguchi organized the excellent incentive that will contribute towards reducing Japan Volunteers in Parks Association (J-VIPA), which since 1994 has been the difference in enthusiasm between the company and sending Japanese volunteers (including Mr. Yamaguchi himself) to national parks group companies, and it seems to be working well.③ in the United States, United Kingdom, and Australia.Drawing on this experience, Mr. Yamaguchi opened the Hirayama Ikuo Volunteer Center (WAVOC) in 2002, Their ISO26000-based self-check indicates how and set about promoting social contribution activities in the ﬁeld of education on seriously they take the global standard for CSR.④ The the university level.After serving as chief administrator of the School of newly launched “Protecting Orangutan Habitats International Liberal Studies and as chief administrator of Waseda University Project” is interesting way to tackle the problem of Graduate School of Asia-Paciﬁc Studies, he was appointed to his current carbon-offset.⑤ The “Akiruno-Sugo Forest cultivation” position in 2011, and is currently engaged in environmental protection activities focusing on Mount Rainier National Park in the United States, and Mount Fuji and conference was launched as a result of collaboration Mount Hotaka in Japan.This year, Mr. Yamaguchi focused his activities on between industry, academia, and government. We can supporting the recovery effort in areas affected by the Great East Japan expect to see this continue and expand through Earthquake, and has visited the area over twenty times. 73 Fielding s Journey 1957-1959 1998-2011 Nichiden Fudosan New era as NEC Fielding 1957 March Founded as Nichiden Fudosan, Ltd. 1998 October Established the Environmental Policy 1958 February Began designing and drafting electrical and 2000 April Merged with NEC Customer Service, Ltd. communications devices Changed name to NEC Fielding, Ltd. May Sold all shares of NEC Engineering, Ltd. and ATC System Service, LTD. 1960-1965 Nippon Electric Engineering Cooperation Company 2001 April Sold part of shares of Nippon Oncology Systems, 1960 November Changed name to Nippon Electric Engineering Cooperation Company, Ltd. Ltd. 1961 April Began adjustment and inspections of wireless transmission 2002 January Acquired all shares of NDEC Co., Ltd. equipment, and maintenance of microwave equipment September Listed on the First Section of Tokyo Stock Exchange (stock code:2322) 1962 March Began maintenance of electronic calculators 2003 May Established the CSR Committee July Sold shares in Nippon Oncology Systems, Ltd. October Opened ofﬁces in Beijing and Shanghai, China 1966-1972 Nippon Electric Engineering Company December Instituted the CSR Activity Policy 1966 December Changed name to Nippon Electric Engineering Company, Ltd. 2004 June Joined the UN Global Compact advocated by the United Nations Spun off Nichiden Kosan K.K. August Revised the Management Philosophy Transferred its insurance agent and real-estate operations December Conducted activities to improve corporate branding 1970 2005 February Instituted the Medium-term CSR Plan 1971 November Began overseas operations March Founded NEC Fielding Information Technology 1972 February Began system operations business Services (Beijing) Co., Ltd.in Beijing as a joint venture Founded NEC Fielding Supportcrew, Ltd. as a wholly owned subsidiary April Reorganized the CSR Committee, and created the CSR Promotion Division 1973-1997 NEC Field Service 2006 April Merged ex-Internal Auditing Division and ex-CSR Promotion 1973 January Changed name to NEC Field Service, Ltd. Division to create the CSR and Internal Auditing Division December Began sales of computer parts and accessories December Made NEC Fielding Information Technology Services (Beijing) Co., Ltd. into a wholly owned subsidiary 1974 October Transferred maintenance operations of post ofﬁce automation equipment to NEC Postal Automation Engineering, Ltd. 2007 June Founded NEC Fielding System Technology, Ltd. as a wholly owned subsidiary 1975 June Spun off NEC Engineering, Ltd. Transferred July Acquired 67% of shares in NEC Infrontia System Service operations of designing, inspection, and adjustment Corporation, making it a consolidated subsidiary of communications and electronic devices October Made major revisions to the Corporate Governance Framework November Began software maintenance 2008 March Founded the Fielding Philanthropy Club 1980 September Founded ATC Systems Service, LTD. June Established the NEC Fielding vision & values, and 1982 April Began network business linking with reviewed the Corporate Philosophy individual IT systems. 2009 April Absorbed NEC Infrontia System Service 1990 Corporation 1991 October Began Solution Service business 2010 February Instituted the Second-term Medium-term CSR Plan 1996 March Founded Nippon Oncology Systems, Ltd. November Re-established the CSR Committee 1997 February Launched a website for customers 2011 April Fielding Group Environmental Management Action May Opened NEC Harima Techno-center as a new Plan 2017/2030 established training center Revision of the NEC Fielding Group Charter of Corporate Behavior September Amendment of the NEC Fielding Group Code of Conduct A word from the Editor Thank you for taking the time to read through this report. Since the Great East Japan Earthquake, there has been an overall increase in people’s awareness of safety and security, which has led to an increase in their interest in a company’s social responsibility. This ﬁscal year, we held the Employee’s CSR round-table-talks. We planned this project to give our readers a better understanding of the “Safety”, “Security”, and “Stability” we provide. By sharing some perceptions about CSR activities between the President and employees during these round-table talks, our intention was to demonstrate to those readers how importantly we take our position on social security and on what feelings and notions we base our actions when working as an ICT support company striving to maintain today’s information society. We appreciate it if you could take time for reading this report. Our aim is to continue to produce reports that can easily communicate our CSR activities to our stakeholders.We appreciate your honest opinions and input. NEC Fielding CSR Report 2012 Editorial Staff 74 The printing speciﬁcations for the NEC Fielding CSR Report 2012 are environmentally responsible. ● Paper: FSC certiﬁed ● Ink: Vegetable oil ink ● Printing: Filmless CTP (CTP: Computer to Plate, a direct plate creation method)
