Building values Worldwide Sustainability Report 2012 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Contents CEO introduction 02 Environmental protection 48 About Salini 5.1 Progress against commitments 50 Salini at a glance 04 5.2 Climate change 50 About Salini 06 5.3 Biodiversity 52 1.1 2012 at a glance 08 5.4 Efficient use of natural resources 54 1.2 Strategy for business and sustainability 1.3 Governance structure 09 5.5 Environmental protection 10 5.6 Future commitments 57 00 1.4 Business Model 11 5.7 Performance data sheet 59 60 01 00 1.5 Creating and distributing stakeholders value 12 Appendix 64 Managing sustainability 14 6.1 Membership Managing 64 2.1 Progress against commitments 16 6.2 Sustainability risks and opportunities sustainability 2.2 Managing sustainability risks to enhance at Salini’s operating sites 64 business opportunities 16 6.3 Methodological Note 68 2.3 Integrating sustainability into Salini’s business 17 6.4 Glossary 71 2.4 Future commitments 19 GRI data and assurance report Local development 20 GRI Application Level Check Statement 72 Local 3.1 Progress against commitments 22 3.2 Job creation 24 GRI and UN Global Compact Tables 74 3.3 Supporting local supply chains 25 development Third-party Assurance Report 84 3.4 Enhancing local wealth 26 3.5 Business integrity worldwide 28 Information and contacts 87 3.6 Future commitments 29 3.7 Performance data sheet 30 Care for our people 32 4.1 Progress against commitments 34 Care for 4.2 Focusing on people 35 our people 4.3 Development of human resources 35 4.4 Occupational health and safety 38 4.5 Human rights 41 4.6 Security at operating sites 42 4.7 Local personnel management 42 4.8 Future commitments 43 4.9 Performance data sheet 44 Environmental protection Appendix GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Chief Executive Officer’s introduction Pietro Salini Dear Stakeholders, Sustainability: at the heart of our Group Sustainability is at the centre of everything we do. It is an important This has been a truly momentous agenda item at every Board meeting, a key component in every year for the Salini Costruttori Group. strategic decision and a major consideration in how we approach and implement each project. As Salini Impregilo, we are better From huge hydroelectric projects in remote parts of Africa to metro placed than ever before to ensure that systems in Europe and South America, and roads in Eastern Europe, sustainability continues to inform every we are proud to be the natural partner of choice for clients looking decision we make and lies at the heart for innovative solutions, excellent project management and a can-do approach to business. In our view, meeting client needs and creating of every project in which we are involved. value for our shareholders is inseparable from building value for our employees and the communities in which we operate. I am delighted to present our fourth Many of our projects address some of the key issues facing the world sustainability report, prepared in today: climate change and energy security, resource scarcity and compliance with the GRI G3.1 guidelines poverty, efficient and inexpensive transport, and economic growth. to level A+ and assured by KPMG. With our help, governments and other clients are building physical infrastructures that will improve the ways in which the world manages natural resources and ecosystems. At the same time, these projects are helping countries increase their prosperity by providing urban mobility solutions and infrastructures to improve access. Our role is to provide solutions to a range of critical sustainability challenges – and when we do this successfully, it leads directly to an improved financial performance. The dam and hydroelectric power sector is a clear example of how our expertise and experience is bringing opportunities, health and prosperity to communities whilst also generating significant revenue for the Salini Costruttori Group. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 About Salini 00 02 00 03 Managing sustainability Excellent progress Looking ahead The following pages contain many examples of the progress we have As the Salini Impregilo integration process continues, I look forward to Local development made on a wide range of key sustainability issues. These are just some not only maintaining but increasing our focus on sustainability. We are of the highlights: a major force in the global construction sector and we will use our strength, skills and influence to build projects that make a real difference –– Continued to deliver positive economic impact on the countries where to communities everywhere. we operate, with local personnel representing 88% of Salini Costruttori Group staff – the equivalent of 17,258 full-time employees. We also Of course, none of this will be possible without our people. Through spent €1,060 million on locally-based providers of goods and services; the merger, our numbers nearly doubled to around 32,000 employees. I thank each and every one of them for the vital role they continue to play –– Delivered 106 infrastructure development and community support in making sure that Salini Impregilo becomes an even more sustainable projects, primarily in Africa; Care for business, year-on-year. –– Improved our sustainability reporting system, including updating our people our reporting tools to the GRI’s latest standard protocol; –– Continued our commitment to the UN Global Compact’s principles, making further progress in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption; –– Improved the injury rate at our operating sites of 25% in comparison with 2011; –– Improved our focus on Health and Safety increasing H&S Environmental protection investments over the last three years from €3,236 million to Pietro Salini CEO €4,762 million (+47%); Salini Costruttori S.p.A. –– Increased the recycling rate of total waste generated to 36%; –– Reclaimed 333,500m2 of former quarries and landfill areas, carried out over 78,000m2 of reforestation and 3,879,773m2 of topsoil restoration. Appendix GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Salini at a glance presenting ...and the our strategic salini... governance objectives... structure Salini Group Our values National Champion Salini is a private industrial Group of Excellence Project p. 09 international dimensions, specialising in Respect The project, launched in 2012, allowed the construction of major works Innovation Salini to become a shareholder of throughout the world Integrity Impregilo and join its management with Transparency the aim of integrating the two main Italian Co-prosperity construction companies to create the Four areas of expertise p. 06 more competitive group with the – Dams and hydroelectric plants creditworthiness to compete in the world – Roads and motorways Governance p. 10 construction markets, giving rise to – Railways Salini voluntarily adopts a corporate material key benefits: – Public building construction governance model consistent with the – global footprint main Italian governance principles, – scale to compete with the major Ranked as one of the foremost players in including the Code of Conduct for Listed global players the construction of hydro-electric power Companies stated by the Italian Stock – solid financial structure plants Exchange and the recommendations – concrete commercial and operating issued by the Italian Commission for Stock cost synergies Market and Companies (CONSOB). Global presence p. 07 – sustainable, long-term value creation for all stakeholders Over 50 countries across four continents, Board of Directors composition: employing people representing over 80 – 9 members different nationalities – 6 non-executive Directors Sustainability strategy p. 09 – 4 independent Directors We focus our effort to maximise benefits Operates primarily in Africa where works for local stakeholders, working on six in portfolio represent 58.1% in 2012 priority areas: UN Global Compact p. 17 – job creation Salini is among the signatories of the Main 2012 KPIs p. 08 UN Global Compact, the world’s largest – people care Revenue €1,850 million – local procurement strategic policy initiative for businesses – capacity building Backlog €9.6 billion committed to aligning their operations and – environmental protection Workforce no. 19,531 strategies with ten universally accepted – communities investments principles relating to: – human rights – labour – the environment – anti-corruption Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 About Salini ...are at the base of ...in order to our performance... deliver value to our stakeholders Financial performance p. 12 Four main groups 00 04 Revenue €1,850 million of stakeholders p. 13 05 00 EBTDA €187 million Core Business activities: Managing EBIT €92 million – Clients Net profit attributable to the Group €316 million – Employees and staff Net profit/Revenue 17.1% – Shareholders sustainability Workforce productivity (turnover/workforce) €94,695 Supply Chain: – Business partners Local development p. 20 – Suppliers, contractors and Job creation (workforce variation) no. 4,023 subcontractors Local workforce 88% – Investors Local Local supply 72% Community interactions: Community expenditure €1.7 million development – Local communities – Public Administrations Care for our people p. 32 – NGOs Training provided 101,893 hours Public Policy and Advocacy: Workforce operating in OHSAS 18001 certified sites 76% – Trade associations Injury rate IR 2.22 – Governments Lost Day rate LDR 19.83 – Media Care for Health & Safety expenditure €4.8 million Economic value our people Environmental protection p. 48 distributed p. 12 Workforce operating in ISO 14001 certified sites 90% To supply chain €1,460 million Environmental expenditure €6.1 million To personnel €197.2 million Greenhouse gas intensity (emissions/turnover) t CO2/M€150 To shareholders €12.9 million Rocks and soil reused 32% To lenders €150.2 million Waste recycled/reused 36% To government €36.6 million Environmental To local community €1.7 million protection Appendix GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Chapter 1 ABOUT SALINI FOUR Areas of expertise Dams and hydroelectric plants Salini is a global leader in the construction of dams and hydroelectric power plants, with projects of significant scale and complexity completed over three continents, Africa, Asia and Europe. New works are currently underway which will provide almost 8,282 MW2 of clean, affordable energy on completion. Salini currently operates dams and hydroelectric plants in Sub-Saharan Africa The Salini Costruttori Group1 is a and in Southeast Asia. leading Italian General Contractor, specialising in the construction of major works. It is ranked as one of the foremost players in the construction of Roads and motorways hydroelectric power plants. The expansion of road networks is essential for economic growth and social development. Sustainable development is an A range of studies3 show a positive relationship between investment in infrastructure and good inherent feature of the Company’s economic outcomes. Salini operates in many business given that our key areas of difficult environments across the world that makes construction of roads and motorways expertise – such as helping source extremely challenging. Salini’s main road renewable energy, providing efficient and motorway construction operations are mobility solutions to decongest in Central Asia, Europe and Africa. metropolitan areas, creating territorial infrastructures to access and enhance strategic areas – create long‑term sustainable value for Railways communities that provide grounding Whilst it is inconceivable to imagine a future in which motor vehicles play no part in the global for further economic development. transport mix, it is also undeniable that as road usage increases dramatically, rail transport offers a more sustainable alternative, mostly because of the growing need for people to commute into cities as they become increasingly more populated. Salini is playing an active role in developing urban transport infrastructures across Europe, such as the B1 Metro line in Rome, the Cityringen Metro for Copenhagen and the Köseköy-Gebze section of the Ankara Istanbul High Speed Railway Project. Public building construction Salini continues to play a significant role in the creation of innovative, iconic civil buildings In this section… around the world by working in partnership 1.1 2012 at a glance 08 with many renowned architecture and design 1.2 Strategy for business and sustainability 09 practices. Our significant undertakings include the construction of hospital complexes, 1.3 Governance structure 10 university campuses, government buildings and 1.4 Business Model 11 other structures, which meet a practical social 1.5 Creating and distributing need or that provide a key cultural focus within a community. Main projects are now in progress stakeholders value 12 in Sub-Saharan Africa, including the Millennium Tower Cultural Centre in Nigeria. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 About Salini Global presence We operate in over 50 countries across four continents, employing about 20,000 people representing over 06 00 80 different nationalities. 07 00 Managing sustainability Local development We have a presence in the following countries around the world: Albania Algeria Argentina Australia Azerbaijan Belarus Brazil Bulgaria Canada Chile China Czech Republic Denmark Ethiopia Gabon Georgia Ghana Greece Guinea Hungary India Iraq Ireland Italy Jordan Care for Kazakhstan Liberia Libya Malawi Malaysia Morocco Namibia Nigeria Panama Poland Portugal our people Qatar Romania Russia Saudi Arabia Sierra Leone Singapore Somalia Sudan Tanzania Tunisia Turkey Uganda Ukraine United Arab Emirates USA Zimbabwe Revenue* Operating revenue 2012 by main sectors euro/000 % 1. Dams and hydroelectric plants Environmental 4 1 33.0% protection 1,849,577 1,423,877 2. Roads and motorways 1,120,365 3 43.8% 3. Railways 2 19.1% 4. Public building construction 2010 2011 2012 4.1% Appendix * Data includes operating revenue and other income. +30% The increase of revenues in 2012 GRI data and assurance report compared to 2011 1 The Group is composed by Salini Costruttori S.p.A. and the companies that it controls directly or indirectly. Salini S.p.A., Impregilo S.p.A. and Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. are the main subsidiaries with operational activities. The term ‘Salini’ and ‘the Company’ is used in the report to indicate the entire Group, the term ‘Todini’ indicates only Todini’s activities. 2 At the end of 2012 the hydroelectric projects underway were Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (6,000 MW) and Gibe III (1,870 MW) in Ethiopia, Ulu Jelai (382 MW) in Malaysia and Gurara Dam (30 MW) in Nigeria. 3 i.e. ‘Towards a Green Economy – Pathways to Sustainable Development and Poverty Eradication’, UNEP, 2011. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 About Salini continued 1.1 2012 at a glance The construction sector’s contribution to sustainable development 2012 represented a turning point for the Salini Costruttori Group in its The construction sector plays an important role in addressing critical long story of success, in fact the Salini Costruttori Group achieved its challenges facing today’s society. By providing the physical strongest financial results to date and consolidated its strategic position infrastructure to manage natural resources and ecosystems, as well as thanks to the launch of the National Champion Project (see below). contributing to economic development through urban mobility solutions, we believe that Salini can help provide solutions to a range of In 2012, the Group posted a pre-tax profit of €357.9 million (€74.7 million sustainability challenges, including: in 2011) and a net profit of €324.4 million (€40.1 million in 2011), with a production revenue of €1,849.6 million (€1,423.9 million in 2011). Transition to a low carbon economy – Investment in the energy, The Salini Costruttori Group’s five year projected revenue reached water, transport and building sectors has been highlighted by the United €9.6 billion . These results confirm the strength of Salini’s Business 4 Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) as fundamental to achieving Model as well as its capacity to seize opportunities in international a low-carbon and resource-efficient future. Salini is contributing to this markets and carry out complex infrastructure projects. transition by building hydroelectric plants in Africa and Asia, as well as roads, railways and underground projects in Africa, Asia and Europe. Despite the continuing instability of the global economy, the Salini Costruttori Group has performed in line with its subsidiaries’ business Demonstrating compatibility of economic growth and sustainability plans. As a result of the growth in operations and activity, Salini reached – Under the ‘green economy’ paradigm, economic growth and socioits highest workforce numbers in 2012 of 19,531 employees (15,508 environmental sustainability are viewed not as incompatible, but as in 2011). mutually reinforcing. Commentators suggest that the path towards a green economy can create jobs and sustainable growth, while avoiding Over the course of the year the Salini Costruttori Group has continued risks such as the effects of climate change, water scarcity and the loss to expand its presence in high potential markets, establishing new of ecosystem services5. subsidiaries and branches in Australia, Canada, France, India, Kurdistan, Panama, Qatar, Russia, Singapore, Turkey and USA. Poverty alleviation – There is growing awareness of the inextricable Furthermore, in the first few months of 2013, Salini was awarded new link between poverty alleviation and infrastructure improvement. This is projects in Ukraine, Georgia and Poland (relating to road and motorway particularly true of in low income countries, where ecosystem goods construction), Namibia (which will include dam and hydroelectric plant and services (such as water and biodiversity) are a vital resource for construction) and Chile (relating to railway construction). This confirms rural communities. Improved infrastructure can also provide a safety-net the strength of the Group’s strategy and Business Model going forward. against natural disasters and economic shocks. For example, hydroelectric plants, while producing clean energy at affordable costs, allow for river flow control which can help avoid floods. Energy security – Access to energy (or ‘energy poverty’) represents one of the major pillars for the development of society. Yet, the current fossil fuel based energy system leaves about 1.4 billion people without access to electricity around the world. Thanks to its vision, approach and track record of delivery, Salini has a major role to play in addressing these challenges at an international level – supported by the hard work, dedication and goodwill of clients, workers, business partners, public administrations and communities. 2012 Work in hand % 1 1. Dams and hydroelectric plants 1 1. Africa 4 50.8% 58.1% 2. Roads and motorways 2. Asia Portfolio of Portfolio of work in hand by area of 6.8% work in hand by 7.5% 3. Railways geographical area 3. Europe expertise 31.7% 3 34.4% 3 4. Public building construction 2 2 10.7% Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 1.2 Strategy for business and sustainability the dimension of companies has become a major determinant of About Salini competitiveness, the scope of the agreement was to realise the National Champion Project significant potential synergies that would arise, including increased Beyond the internal growth fuelled by the Salini Costruttori Group’s commercial coverage, broader technical expertise, increased operating competencies and strong commercial capabilities, Salini has established efficiencies and improved competitiveness for large mega-projects; a development strategy focusing on acquisition. In order to reach a dimension comparable to the other international big players in the construction sector and to better compete in global infrastructure –– between February and May 2013, Salini launched and completed a voluntary public tender offer for all outstanding ordinary shares of 08 00 market, Salini focuses on obtaining new subsidiaries for its portfolio. Impregilo. After the final settlement of the tender offer Salini gained the majority of Impregilo ordinary shares. 09 00 With this vision in mind, Salini, in September 2011, began investing in The resounding success of this transaction, conducted in a difficult Managing Impregilo S.p.A., a leading player in the design and construction of large-scale infrastructures in Italy and internationally and, in 2012, economic context, has opened the way for the merger between the two launched the National Champion Project, which enabled the Salini groups. This will create one of the most important European groups in sustainability Costruttori Group to become a relevant shareholder of Impregilo and the construction sector. join its Board of Directors. The overall aim of the project was to merge the two companies to build a bigger, more competitive company which Sustainability strategy has the creditworthiness to compete on mega projects characterised Operating in a wide variety of contexts and geographical areas means by technological complexity and higher added value. the Salini Costruttori Group is required to meet the expectations of host countries, clients, local communities, and consumers as well as The project represents a unique growth opportunity for both groups technical-operational counterparts – each of whom have different Local (Salini and Impregilo) due to their complementary capabilities and the histories, cultures and backgrounds. Salini is addressing this challenge markets in which they operate. The National Champion Project will help by working towards a united vision that focuses on the value of our to create: people, care for the environment, and principles of social responsibility development 1. A  global footprint, due to a widespread presence of both groups in and ‘good citizenship’. their respective areas of operation; In brief, our sustainability strategy aims to creating shared value for our 2. Scale to compete with the major global players, achieving more stakeholders. Our priorities are: opportunities in terms of dimension and complexity of the awarded 1. M  aximising employment opportunities for people living in the projects; projects’ areas; 3. Solid financial structure, distinguished by a solid credit rating; 2. Nurturing human resources, attracting and developing talented Care for 4. Concrete commercial and operating cost synergies, bringing together people, because of their importance for our future growth; our people competencies and capabilities to increase efficiency in resource 3. Improving the professional skills and competencies of people hired management; in our project areas; 5. Sustainable, long-term value creation for all stakeholders through a 4. Providing opportunities for economic development for the goods significant growth in revenue and net profits. and services providers based in our host countries; In particular: 5. Ensuring strict adherence to environmental standards that are in line –– with effect from 1 January 2012, Salini Costruttori contributed in kind with legislation and ISO 14001; to Salini S.p.A. the infrastructure construction business unit of Salini 6. M  eeting the needs of local communities through a wide range of Environmental protection Costruttori, including all associated contracts entered into directly or social programmes and activities. indirectly by the Group in Italy and abroad, as well as Salini Costruttori’s stake in Impregilo; –– in the course of 2012, Salini increased its strategic investment in SALINI WINS THE ITALIAN M&A AWARD Impregilo to approximately 29.8% of Impregilo’s ordinary share capital; –– in April 2012, Salini requested and obtained the calling of a In April 2013, Salini was awarded for its acqisition of Impregilo at the IX edition of the M&A Award, organised each year by KPMG Italy shareholders meeting of Impregilo in order to resolve upon the Appendix and Fineurop Soditic. revocation of the board of directors in office. In such context, the Issuer undertook proxy solicitation to garner support of other shareholders; Impregilo is a global player in the construction of large-scale infrastructures, operating in over 30 countries on five continents, –– on the meeting held on 12 and 17 July 2012, Impregilo’s shareholders with 11,890 employees, 2012 revenue of €2,281 million and an order resolved upon the approval of Salini’s motion and by a majority of the backlog of €10.6 billion. votes elected the Salini slate of 14 directors, while the fifteenth board The National Champion Project was considered by the jury panel member was elected from the voting minority shareholders’ slate; as ‘an operation that makes Salini Group the first Italian General Contractor specialised in the construction of major works and one –– in September 2012, Salini Costruttori and Impregilo entered into a of the foremost worldwide players in the construction of hydroelectric strategic agreement to collaborate in marketing and operations. power plants’. GRI data and As the board of directors of the two companies acknowledged that, in the infrastructure construction business, which is a global business, assurance report 4 Considering a constant level of revenue equal to those registered in the 2012 Income statement. 5 ‘Towards a Green Economy – Pathways to Sustainable Development and Poverty Eradication’, UNEP, 2011. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 About Salini continued 1.3 Governance structure Salini voluntarily adopts a corporate governance model which is consistent with the main Italian governance principles. This includes the Code of Conduct for Listed Companies stated by the Italian Stock Exchange (Borsa Italiana S.p.A., July 2002) and the recommendations issued by the Italian Commission for Stock Market and Companies (CONSOB). We are also guided by other recognised best practice frameworks, such as the Public Company Accounting Reform and Investor Protection Act US of 2002 (also known as ‘Sarbanes-Oxley Act’, July 2002) and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance (UK, July 2003). Adhering to international best practice requires a strong commitment to continuous improvement of governance systems, which is embraced throughout Salini. The governance structure is shown below. In 2012 the Board of Directors has been renewed with the appointment of two new members. As a result the Board of Directors is now composed of nine members, wherein six are non-executive and four are independent members. Moreover, the Statutory Auditors’ mandate expired in the period so their members were reappointed. The Company’s Investor Relations Office maintains an ongoing dialogue with shareholders and the market to ensure comprehensive distribution of information on our activities. In 2012 all the operating Group companies have been transferred from the parent company Salini Costruttori S.p.A. to Salini S.p.A., a new company totally owned by Salini Costruttori S.p.A. established in late 2011. The investment of Impregilo is also owned by Salini S.p.A. Shareholders’ meeting Composition: all shareholders with voting rights or their representatives Approves the financial statements Elects the Board of Directors and the Appoints the Independent Auditors Approves amendments to the by-laws Statutory Auditors Integrity Board Board of Directors Statutory Auditors Independent Auditors Composition: one non‑executive Composition: Chairman, CEO, Composition: Chairman, Provider: Reconta Ernst & Young Director and two external one Director with particular rules two standing Statutory Auditors, S.p.A. independent advisers and six non‑executive Directors two alternate Statutory Auditors Verifies the adequacy of the 231 Defines the Company’s strategic Monitor the compliance with the law On the base of the Audit engagement, Model and supervises, develops and organisational policies and the by-laws and supervise the they perform the audit of the and promotes its continuous update; Company’s operating performance Company’s financial statements supervises the functioning and Ensures the implementation and and perform quarterly reviews of observance of the Code of Ethics achievement of the Company purposes its accounting records Supervises the Company’s overall management performances Executive Committee Remuneration Committee Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee Composition: Chairman, CEO Composition: three independent Composition: three independent and one Director with particular rules non‑executive Directors non‑executive Directors Decides about the participation Proposes to the BoD schemes for Evaluates the adequacy of the internal to tenders and the out-of-Court management incentive pay systems control system and supervises the settlements and the annual remuneration of the observance and the periodic update Chairman and the CEO, as well as of the corporate governance rules reviews the remuneration criteria of the top management Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 1.4 Business Model Value chain in three phases: About Salini Seventy years of experience in the construction of roads, motorways, –– Project acquisition: we work to maintain a high degree of flexibility railways, dams, hydroelectric plants, tunnel, aqueducts, civil and to enhance the Group’s presence in emerging markets. This involves industrial buildings worldwide have enabled Salini to develop a strong operating within different contractual models – from performing a Business Model, in which sustainable development plays a key role. single service (e.g. construction) to providing a full service for the execution of complex projects (e.g. EPC – engineering, procurement Business Model components and construction). 00 10 We operate across the entire construction value chain, from designing and planning to building and delivery. We use the best resources –– Project design: we develop projects based on close partnerships with the world’s most renowned professionals and engineering 00 11 available to ensure our clients are satisfied and to create value for all companies to produce bespoke project proposals, in line with our Managing our stakeholders. clients’ expectations. sustainability Strategic resources –– Project fulfilment: we adopt advanced technologies and –– Skilled workforce: we consider human resources as the foundation construction methods we ensure high quality, safety and sustainability for future growth and recognise the skills of our workforce as playing performance. We also pay great attention to projects schedules a significant role in the achievement of the Salini Costruttori Group’s and fulfilling our clients’ needs. This attitude has allowed us to earn objectives. and maintain a strong reputation as a client-centric business. –– Operational assets and technologies: we are committed to deploy Sustainable development the latest and most efficient plant, machinery and equipment and Although we adopt sustainability principles across our value chain, adopt processes and technologies to ensure the best results in each Local our ability to deliver sustainability is most evident during the ‘project of our areas of expertise. fulfilment’ phase. This report shows our complex approach towards –– Financial strength: we ensure that all cash flows, assets, sustainable business, strictly based on a specific risk management development investments and expenses are controlled to retain a competitive model as explained at section 2.2. position in the global marketplace. One of our main strengths is a solid financial structure and low debt load (the amount of debt or leverage that a company is carrying on its books). –– Strategic relationships: we maintain strategic relationships with our clients by sharing experience, knowledge and identifying business opportunities that go beyond the execution of a single project. Care for our people Environmental protection Project fulfilment Project design Project acquisition Appendix Value chain Operational Financial Strategic assets and strength relationships technologies Skilled workforce GRI data and assurance report Strategic resources Sustainable development Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 About Salini continued 1.5 Creating and distributing stakeholders value The value we create for stakeholders can be divided into tangible and As described above, our business model allows us to create value for intangible benefits. The first category is related to the remuneration paid a wide range of stakeholders and gives us the opportunity to operate to the various stakeholder groups and can be reported by deducting and grow on the markets where we operate, which we refer to as our the economic value generated and the distribution method (see table ‘social license to operate’. The following diagram shows how the Group below). creates value for stakeholders and obtains advantages from them. Value Job creation Quality, Capital gains Payments Job creation Integrity, Transparency, Wages efficiency, Dividends for goods Infrastructures tax revenue dialogue and benefits continuity and services and social Professional Support for programmes development local economy Quality of life Suppliers, Contractors Governments, Trade Employees Shareholders Communities, Salini Group Clients and sub., Public associations, and staff and investors NGOs business administrations media partners Commitment Flexibility Capital Reliability Trust Concessions Cooperation Productivity Timely payments Quality Access Permits Respect Technical Respect Trust support Stakeholder support Economic value generated and distributed (euro/000) 2010 2011 2012 Operating revenue 1,084,849 1,389,703 1,779,494 Other income 35,516 34,174 70,082 Financial income 97,983 72,968 416,294 Total economic value generated 1,218,348 1,496,845 2,265,870 Operating expenses 798,617 1,084,260 1,460,015 Personnel expense 158,899 163,001 197,161 Payments to shareholders 10,829 12,995 12,995 Bank interest expense 91,353 89,648 150,253 Taxes 25,102 37,021 36,580 Community investments 2,885 793 1,712 Total economic distributed value 1,087,685 1,387,718 1,858,716 Amortisation, depreciation and adjustments 76,772 82,048 95,708 Self-financing and reserves 53,891 27,079 311,446 Total economic value withheld 130,663 109,127 407,154 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 20126 saw sustained growth in the economic value generated and Stakeholder dialogue and engagement About Salini distributed to the various stakeholders of the Group. Dialogue and transparency are key elements of our sustainability strategy. We encourage relationships and engagement with various The majority of economic value distributed to stakeholders is stakeholders, both at a corporate and local level with the aim of represented within our operating expenses of €1,460 million and is understanding their views, integrating them into the Group’s activities composed mainly of payment to contractors and subcontractors and create long-term value for them. Thanks to this approach, Salini (for services), as well as other providers of goods and services, and payment to suppliers (for materials). After this, personnel expense holds excellent relationships with clients, institutions, employees, 00 12 represented an expenditure of €197.2 million and included wages, social suppliers, communities and other third parties. security contribution, leaving entitlement and additional expenses such Our engagement practices are flexible, diversified and vary according to 13 00 as staff training. differing interests and needs. At a corporate level, our key stakeholders Bank interest expenses were equal to €150.2 million in 2012. Payments include investors, clients, governments and media. At an operating level, Managing engagement practices relate to a project’s features and key stakeholders to government through taxes7 represented €36.6 million. Dividends include employees, local communities, suppliers, contractors and sustainability proposed to be distributed to shareholders were approximately subcontractors, clients, local authorities, and other organisations, €13 million. such as NGOs. Our community investment expenditure amounted to €1.78 million. The following table summarises the communication channels This figure includes direct donations and voluntary services made established by Salini and related issues of interest for each stakeholder available to local communities in the period, such as the direct category. More extensive descriptions of engagement activities carried construction of social infrastructures (such as schools and hospitals) out during the reporting period are provided in the following chapters. Local and the direct support of social initiatives. There are many other social activities that do not entail direct expenses for Salini but positively impact local communities. These include the free use of the Salini development Costruttori Group’s medical clinics, wells and access roads and facilities. These initiatives clearly display the Group philosophy of sharing its assets with our host communities. Further details on this can be found in section 4.4. Care for our people Stakeholders Employees Clients Shareholders and Suppliers, Local communities Public Governments, and Staff Investors Contractors, and NGOs Administrations Trade associations Subcontractors and and Media Environmental Business partners Communication channels Regular meetings, Stable and continuing Shareholders’ Selection processes, Meetings with Stable relations with Participation in trade protection internal training relationships with meetings, reports and regular meetings, community host countries’ associations activities, activities, trade union clients, in all accounts, investor training activities, representatives and authorities and systematic press meetings, intranet project’s phases relations, stable feedback systems, NGOs, sponsorships, local institutions review activities, relations with financial stable relationships social contributions (often clients) press releases, institutions and with partner firms, activities, website, organisation insurance companies in all project’s phases communications’ of events carried activities out by the External Relations Office Issues of interest Working environment, Quality performance, Corporate Governance Quality performance, Project-related Projects management, Project awareness, Appendix health and safety, technical support system, financial technical concerns, transfer anti-corruption, infrastructures security, skills in planning and performance, future enhancement, shared of know-how, social auxiliary services development, development, fair implementation of development plans, management of HSE services and renewable energy, evaluations and projects, capacity investments in facilities, local job creation, compensations building’s activities listed companies development supports safe workplaces GRI data and assurance report 6 Economic value generated and distributed has been calculated based on the 2012 Consolidated Financial Statements, prepared in compliance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). 2010 and 2011 data has been restated with the same criteria. 7 The taxes paid by the Branches in their respective countries in which they operate are considered, coherently with current Italian tax legislation, tax credits for business incomes generated abroad, through a permanent establishment. 8 The increase of 2012 data with respect to 2011 is due to assets donation in Algiers Inter-city collector for the completion of the project and to various donations from the Ethiopian branch. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Chapter 2 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Managing About Salini sustainability For Salini combining business values Managing with the principles of ethics and sustainability represents the best way sustainability to strengthen its risk management and identify and develop new opportunities. 14 The Salini Costruttori Group is 15 committed to maintaining the highest sustainability standards, in accordance Local with major international guidelines development and best practice frameworks. Care for our people In this section… 2.1 Progress against commitments 16 Environmental 2.2 Managing sustainability risks to enhance protection business opportunities  16 2.3 Integrating sustainability into Salini’s business17 2.4 Future commitments 19 Appendix GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Managing sustainability continued 2.1 Progress against commitments 2011 COMMITMENTS ACTIONS IN 2012 PROGRESS Carry out specific audits about sustainability issues. In 2012, the Company conducted sustainability specific audits at five operating sites (two in Italy, two in Ethiopia and one in Ukraine), aimed at verifying sustainability data provided for the Report, as well as checking the implementation levels ◊ of the Global Compact’s principles. Combine sustainability reporting from operating sites with the HSE periodic reporting, also defining a set of Sustainability KPIs in order to better measure In 2012, the Sustainability Office has collaborated with the HSE Department in developing a common reporting procedure to cover to all the Group’s operating sites. , performance achieved. The project is still ongoing. Establish an internal Sustainability Committee which supervises the implementation of the Sustainability Strategy and defines plans and specific activities. In 2012, the main Company Divisions held several meetings to discuss the Group’s sustainability priorities and future activities. However, it was agreed that activities aimed , at establishing the Sustainability Committee would be postponed until the completion of the National Champion Project. Introduce specific sustainability issues in the induction In the year, we have continued to train new employees on training courses for newly hired employees. ethics, business integrity and health and safety issues, and we have introduced a mandatory e-learning course focusing on the environment protection. ◊ Implement an audit plan at every operating site in order During the year, all sites have included specific checks on to carry out HSE audits on subcontractors. subcontractors’ activities in their HSE monitoring plans (audits and inspections). ◊ ◊ Achieved , In progress x Not met/rescheduled 2.2 Managing sustainability risks to enhance business opportunities SOUTHEAST EUROPE BUSINESS FORUM Salini believes that effective sustainability management should In November 2012, Salini was invited to participate in the Southeast mitigate operational, financial and reputational risks, while presenting Europe Business Forum in Istanbul, the conference on the opportunities capable of sustaining the business’ objectives into development perspectives in the Balkans for infrastructure and opportunities capable of supporting the achievement of business’ transport projects. objectives. At the event, Salini presented its long-term experience in carrying out We have conducted a deep analysis of our sustainability risks important projects in the Balkans, financed by international institutions and opportunities identifying the major positive and negative impacts such as the World Bank and European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Many representatives from prominent institutions in on our business. For the identified topics we have defined proper Albania, Bosnia-Herzegivina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Montenegro, control and mitigation measures (for risks) or enhancement activities Romania, Serbia and Turkey were in attendance. (for opportunities), as well as we have identified the benefits for us and for our stakeholders deriving from the proper management of such risks Salini is proud to play a role in realising new important transport projects in this area, which promote mobility and contribute to and opportunities. economic development and trade. A comprehensive table of our sustainability risks and opportunities is available at section 6. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Corporate Code Code of Ethics External Principles UN Global Compact About Salini embraced Human Rights Labour Environment Anti-corruption Corporate Sustainability Policy Policies Human Resources Occupational Health Quality Environmental Management Policy and Safety Policy Assurance Policy Protection Policy Management and Internal Control System Control Systems Health and Safety Environmental Quality Organisational Managing sustainability Management System Management System Management System Management and (OHSAS 18001) (ISO 14001) (ISO 9001) Control Model Reporting system Sustainability Report 16 2.3 Integrating sustainability into Salini’s An overarching Sustainability Policy describes the Group’s position 17 business in contributing towards sustainable development by operating with Local To ensure a effective management of sustainability risks and integrity and fairness, ensuring human resources protection and opportunities, Salini has revised its policies and procedures over the development, guaranteeing environmental protection, building strong past few years, establishing an integrated sustainability framework, in and lasting relationships with institutions and communities, and development line with major international standards and guidelines. contributing to economic growth and social progress. This framework, shown in the diagram above, is periodically reviewed in Management systems and certifications order to incorporate emerging practices and new standards. To meet needs and expectations of all stakeholders, Salini conducts its business in line with the highest international standards of management The key elements of the framework are briefly described below, with the certification. The Quality and HSE Division (DQS) is in charge of defining exception of the Code of Ethics, the Internal Control System and the and updating management systems, in accordance with ISO 9001, ISO Care for Organisational Management and Control Model, which are described 14001, BS OHSAS 18001 standards. It also supports the CEO in in the section 3.5. defining policies and targets for these issues. our people UN Global Compact The Salini Costruttori Group is involved in extending its certifications to all major operating companies. In 2012, ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and BS OHSAS 18001 certifications were renewed by Salini S.p.A. and Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A.10, to cover 90% of the workforce for Quality and Environmental certifications, and 76% for Health and Safety. However, it should also be noted that the procedures of these WE SUPPORT Since 2010, Salini has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact, the management systems apply to all our Group Companies and sites, world’s largest strategic policy initiative for businesses committed to even if they are not yet covered by certification. Environmental protection aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles relating to human rights, labour, the environment and anticorruption. Salini recognises the need to collaborate with governments, Workforce operating in certified workplaces civil society, employees, suppliers and the United Nations to help advance UN Global Compact priorities. Todini joined the UN Global 90% Compact in 2004 and continues to be committed in implementing the 81% 83% 76% principles in its day-to-day operations. 61% 62% Appendix This Sustainability Report shows the progress achieved by Salini and Todini against the Global Compact Principles. A cross reference table – available at the end of this Report – links the Global Compact principles with the Salini Costruttori Group’s performance in each category9. Corporate policies The Group adopts corporate policies that define principles and priorities 2010 2011 2012 in key areas such as Occupational Health and Safety, Quality, the OHSAS 18001 ISO 9001/14001 Environment, Human Resources management and Sustainable Development. GRI data and assurance report 9 In accordance with ‘Making The Connection – Using GRI’s G3 Guidelines for the COP’, United Nations Global Compact Office, May 2007. 10 Salini S.p.A. is certified against ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 standards, Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. is certified in accordance with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 standards. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Managing sustainability continued Sustainability reporting system In 2012, the Group aligned its sustainability reporting system with GRI’s In order to track progress made on sustainability targets and to set new ‘Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement’. As a result, further goals, Salini has implemented a dedicated reporting system all the relevant material KPIs are now provided in this report. for collecting and processing data from operating sites and corporate During the year, we have made additional progress in obtaining the divisions. Gathered data include performance on HSE, human full coverage of some performance indicators, such as training hours resources, suppliers, finance, production, legal, corporate governance at Todini’s operating sites, absenteeism of local workers and and relationships with stakeholders. The Sustainability office at subcontractors screened on human rights. These achievements headquarters provides for maintaining the reporting system aligned demonstrate our commitment towards sustainability as a key element with the highest international standards, elaborating analyses and KPIs of our risk management system. for the management, proposing future objectives and producing the annual Sustainability Report. Moreover, in 2012, we developed a set of KPIs for each of our sustainability area (available in local development, people and To identify and prioritise which issues we include in the Sustainability environment sections) and in this report we have focused our analysis Report, we carry out an annual materiality analysis, in accordance with on sectorial performance, reaching a fuller representation of our the GRI guidelines. This process allows Salini to identify and address activities based on a sounder materiality process. issues of greatest concern to our stakeholders. It is important to note that the most relevant issues (highlighted in red on the graph) coincide with the sustainability risks and opportunities described above. More detail on the materiality analysis process can be found in the Methodological Note. Materiality matrix Sen Jcr Cbu Hsa Fpe Cin Ibu High Rhu Importance for Salini’s stakeholders Cgo Lpr Epr Cch Qco Inn Aco Sop Csa Dhu Bio Medium Ama Iau Sch Medium High Relevance on Salini’s activities Aco Anti-corruption Dhu Development of human resources Jcr Job creation Ama Assurance of management systems Epr Environmental protection Qco Quality control Bio Biodiversity Fpe Financial performance Rhu Respect of human rights Cbu Capacity building Hsa Health and Safety Sop Security at operating sites Cch Climate change Inn Innovation Sen Stakeholder engagement Cgo Corporate Governance Ibu Integrity in business management Sch Supply chain monitoring Cin Community investments Iau Internal audit Csa Clients’ satisfaction Lpr Local procurement Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 2.4 Future commitments About Salini Salini has set the following sustainability targets for completion by 31 December 2013. We will report on our progress with respect to these targets in our 2013 Sustainability Report. WHAT Sustainability management Why Maintaining the highest standards of ethical responsibility and good Managing sustainability citizenship enhances our reputation and helps to build trust amongst our stakeholders – especially in project affected communities. How 18 –– Complete the integration of periodic sustainability and HSE reporting systems to adopt at operating sites 19 –– Improve sustainability reporting data accuracy through appropriate training activities at main operating sites Local –– Start to integrate Impregilo operations into Salini’s sustainability development practices Care for our people FOCUS ON: Environmental protection Salini wins the Uganda Responsible Investment (URI) Award again For the second consecutive year Salini was named the best Hydropower construction company of the year at the 2013 URI Awards. In addition in 2013 Salini was also awarded as the Best Responsible Investor of the Appendix year for its commitment to promoting and upholding International best practices and standards, productive Corporate Social Responsibility, environmental protection, employment of Ugandans, quality of services offered and anti-corruption mechanism which enabled Salini to complete the construction of Bujagali Hydropower project with no cases of corruption or human right abuses. GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Chapter 3 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Local About Salini development Building infrastructure and major works Managing means deploying ideas, people, knowledge and investments that aim to sustainability enhance a given territory’s capabilities. The delivery of a Salini project benefits a number of stakeholder groups, through job creation, local skills enhancement, local supplier growth, Local increased revenues for governments development and voluntary contributions for local communities. 20 For these reasons, Salini Costruttori Group plays a key role in the 21 development of countries where Care for the Group operates, in line with the our people Group’s mission. In this section… 3.1 Progress against commitments 22 3.2 Job creation 24 Environmental 3.3 Supporting local supply chains 25 protection 3.4 Enhancing local wealth 26 3.5 Business integrity worldwide 28 3.6 Future commitments 29 3.7 Performance data sheet 30 Appendix GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Local development continued 3.1 Progress against commitments COMMITMENTS MADE IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 ACTIONS IN 2012 Progress Adopt organisational models and establish Integrity In 2012, CMT (Denmark) has adopted the organisational Boards for the most relevant Group companies. model. Salini Costruttori, Salini S.p.A . and Zeis (real estate) have updated their own Organisational Models while Todini has updated its Code of Ethics. ◊ Continue implementation of a model to calculate the social benefits of Salini projects in local communities. During the year we have carried on with developing a calculation model aimed at quantifying economic impacts deriving from our activities in terms of total economic output , and job creation. The project is ongoing and it will be tested on a representative country. Finalise human rights assessment tool in cooperation with Global Compact Network Italy members. In 2012, Salini proposed the creation of a human rights assessment tool tailored on its own activities and processes. In early 2013 we have started to discuss the tool among a , restricted number of Global Compact Network Italy members, in order to agree a common assessment tool. Start a pilot project at an operating site to identify an underrepresented group within the local community and assess its specific needs, with the aim of At Gibe III in Ethiopia we hired a local specialist to arrange sustainability activities in coordination with the HSE site department. During the period a new HIV/AIDS prevention , developing initiatives to support this group. programme has been developed, while an analysis of the local communities’ needs has just started. ◊ Achieved , In progress x Not met/rescheduled Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Below are the main KPIs related to our contribution to local development, in terms of involvement of local resources and distribution of economic About Salini value to local stakeholders.  Input Construction Output activities Job creation (no.) Economic value distributed to workforce (€M) 6.0 200 197.2 4.0 Managing 4,023 sustainability 2.0 2,680 2,635 162.9 0 150 158.8 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Use of local workforce (%) Economic value distributed to supply chain (€M) Dams and Local 1460.0 92 90 hydroelectric development 88 plants 1084.3 22 798.6 Road and motorways 23 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Railways Use of local suppliers (%) Economic value distributed to governments (€M) Care for Public our people 78 building 73 72 construction 37.0 36.6 25.1 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Environmental Community investment projects (no.) protection 110 106 85 70 60 65 Appendix 2010 2011 2012 Local Community Sector contribution to the major local development impacts in 2012 Job creation workforce Local supply investments Dams and hydroelectric plants +55% 70% 20% 47% GRI data and Road and motorways –8% 27% 56% 47% Railways +16% 1% 23% 6% assurance report Public building construction – 2% 1% – As shown in the table above, two-thirds of our local workforce are employed in hydroelectric projects, just over a quarter of local employees working on road and motorway projects. The hydroelectric sector is also the main sector in terms of job creation in 2012, while the roads sector is the major user of local suppliers. Most community investments concerned the hydroelectric and roads sectors. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Local development continued 3.2 Job creation Although management roles in operational sites are primarily covered The first measure of Salini’s contribution to local growth is the number by expatriate Italian employees, the Group is involved in training local of jobs created in host countries. The Salini Costruttori Group adopts talented people, in order to create an international management class a strategy focused on using local workforce in areas where projects who are able to move our projects on around the world. are located. In 2012, we reached the record level of a direct workforce Indirect job creation consisting of 19,531 employees. This is an increase of 4,023 employees In addition to the direct workforce, the construction industry makes compared to 2011 (+26%). Moreover, indirect workforce (subcontractors) regular use of subcontractors for certain activities, which contributes amounted to 9,227 employees, bringing total employment to 28,758. significantly to the amount of job created at a local level. In 2012, the Direct hiring of local personnel amount of works subcontracted was equal to 12% of total backlog, that In the year, 88% of Group staff consisted of local employees – the as said before represented in terms of employment further 9,227 jobs. equivalent of 17,258 full-time employees (14,197 in 2011). Within our As shown in the chart, roads projects employ most of our indirect African continent operations, local personnel make up some 13,803 workforce, followed by the hydroelectric and railway sectors. In terms employees, followed by our Asian operations (2,638 employees) and of their distribution, 51% of these individuals were employed in our European ones (785 employees).11 The chart shows the percentage Asian continent operations, 32% in Africa and 17% in Europe. of local workforce by our areas of expertise. Developing local skills and expertise Only in Ethiopia, thanks to Salini projects like Gilgel Gibe II, Gibe III, Beyond the salaries paid and the contribution we make to local Beles Multipurpose project and GERDP (Grand Ethiopian Renaissance economies, job creation plays an important role in enhancing the Dam Project), in the last years have been created 20,000 jobs mostly capabilities of developing countries, thanks to the provision of skills comprising of individuals from local communities. All these projects training, health surveillance and the high employment standards. established an important relationship with the local administrations, For these issues please refer to section 4 Care for our people. supporting them through several social programmes like construction of new roads, water supply, schools, hospital, bridges, administrative offices, HIV & Malaria prevention programmes and health assistance; strongly contributing in the development of social and economic aspects of the areas involved in our projects. Local workforce by sector % 100 95 88 75 68 Global Public building Railways Roads and motorways Dams and hydroelectric plants Indirect workforce by sector in 2012 % 41 1. Dams and hydroelectric plants 3 30.8% 2. Roads and motorways 56.9% 3. Railways 2 11.4% 4. Public building 0.9% 11 One local person is employed in America. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 3.3 Supporting local supply chains Salini’s procurement procedures About Salini In addition to creating jobs, Salini provides opportunities for economic The purchasing process is governed by corporate procedures, development to the providers of goods and services based in host including qualification (before a contract is signed) and performance countries. The Salini Costruttori Group’s supply strategy aims to satisfy evaluations (during and after the execution of contract). In selecting its project requirements as much as possible within the territories in which suppliers, contractors and subcontractors, the Salini Costruttori Group projects are located, according to local availability of required goods is committed to transparency and fairness, firmly prohibiting any form and services. of inequitable business transaction and bribery. To deliver on this commitment, Group companies require that their partners comply with Local supply chain spend specific rules and standards, including Salini’s ethics, HSE and human In 2012, Salini’s links with local providers of goods and services – i.e. rights-related principles. The Group has a duty to ensure the reliability, integrity and professionalism of third parties (suppliers, contractors Managing suppliers, contractors and subcontractors in the countries where our projects are based – remained strong. Indeed, in 2012 the percentage and subcontractors) before establishing relationships with or of spending on local-based providers of goods and services averaged contracting them. sustainability 72%. In monetary terms, the total amount of Salini’s spend on locallyThere are specific clauses in the contracts for the supply of goods and based providers was €1,060 million12, of which €524 million was spent in services which specify that third parties are committed to complying Europe, €313 million in Asia and €223 million in Africa. with Salini’s Code of Ethics principles. Furthermore, in Italy suppliers are The potential to procure goods and services from local businesses bound to refrain from behaviours that may lead to the risk of committing depends primarily on the capacity of local providers to ensure supply in crimes as defined by the Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/2001. The the quantities and qualities necessary for the implementation of each violation of this obligation, including the undertaking of or attempting Local project. This explains the variation in local spend in dams and to undertake acts that contravene the Italian Legislative Decree no. hydroelectric plants sector, operating mostly in Africa, in comparison 231/2001, is a serious breach of contract and may be penalized with with the others, as shown in the graph on local spending by sector. cancellation of the contract. development In terms of subcontractors, in 2012 we used 317 firms, 292 of which were based in the home country of operation. 24 25 Care for Proportion of spending on locally-based providers of goods and services by sector our people % 84 85 72 67 Environmental 46 protection Global Public building Railways Roads and motorways Dams and hydroelectric plants Appendix GRI data and assurance report 12 Data include only the supplies for operational sites, excluding headquarters and other offices. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Local development continued During and after the execution of contracts, Salini supports and Salini pays great attention to the socio-environmental context of the monitors its subcontractors in order to improve their performance territories in which it works, preparing detailed plans for managing and regarding quality, health, safety and the environment. Specific training monitoring its most significant impacts – including community issues. activities are regularly delivered on these issues. The Group also These activities are carried out in the design phase of projects, periodically checks the compliance of subcontractors and service in accordance with legislative and contractual requirements. providers in legal obligations related to wages, social security and Every operating site establishes a public relations manager in charge of insurance for all their workers employed within our sites. In 2012 these maintaining relations with local communities and authorities, giving them activities were conducted on 75% of total subcontractors’ workforce. information about the progress of the project and managing complaints. This effort demonstrates our commitment to sharing our knowledge The requests received by the public relations manager are reported to and skills with local suppliers and subcontractors in order to develop site management, who seek to identify appropriate solutions to meet strong partnerships and promote their growth and technical local needs. improvement. Community investment 3.4 Enhancing local wealth Salini’s attention to the needs of local communities is achieved through The Salini Costruttori Group aims to create opportunities for the a wide range of programmes and activities. In short, Salini evaluates countries in which it operates, respecting local cultures, needs, local communities’ needs and provides them with the means to expectations and, moreover, creating and strengthening development address sanitation, housing and recreational requirements. In the last drivers of the socio-economic system of each host country. few years, the Group has allocated significant resources to developing buildings, schools, hospitals and roads, and has also secured the Managing community relationships distribution of energy, water and healthcare to host communities. Salini’s approach to local communities varies depending on the type Globally, during 2012, Salini carried out 106 projects of this kind (70 in of contract and the client’s requirements. Salini directly interacts with 2011), 16 of which were related to infrastructure investments and 90 to communities when it operates as a general contractor in EPC social programmes. (Engineering, Procurement and Construction) contracts. In instances when Salini performs only some phases of the project, we engage with Community the community under the client’s supervision. investments Unit Africa Asia Europe Total Infrastructure The main characteristics of the Group’s local approach are as follows: development projects no. 13 2 1 16 –– Dialogue and engagement with local communities and authorities Social support before, during and after the execution of projects; programmes no. 38 26 26 90 Total no. 51 28 27 106 –– Adaptation of the work to diverse local contexts, in consideration of local or client requirements; –– Initiatives for socio-economic development, carried out directly or in collaboration with the client. Community expenditure by sector in 2012 PROMPT CONTACT REASSURES % NEIGHBOURS IN COPENHAGEN 4 1 1. Dams and hydroelectric plants Salini is the leading company of the joint venture CMT – 2 3 74.5% 2. Roads and motorways Copenhagen Metro Team – which is constructing 15km of dual tunnel and 17 underground metro stations in the city centre 10.8% of Copenhagen. 3. Railways Constructing in densely populated urban areas is challenging, not only for technical reasons, but also in attempting to avoid 3.4% 4. Corporate disrupting neighbours near our construction sites with unexpected noise or traffic. 11.3% As a responsible contractor, we stay in close contact with the neighbours throughout the construction process and inform them as soon as we know about extraordinary activities. To better manage these situations, we have implemented a web‑based messaging system able to reach and reassure thousands of neighbours within seconds. This helps us to prevent misunderstandings and insecurity in the local community. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Our expenditure totalled € 1.7 million during the year (€5.4 million in the Resettlement of local community About Salini last three years). The majority of community expenditure made by Salini In all its operations, Salini obtains project areas directly from clients, who in 2012 went to Africa, followed by Europe and Asia. In the reporting are responsible for any resettlement activities. Generally, the main projects period, data on these community operations shows that most that lead to resettlement are the hydroelectric ones, due to the reservoirs’ expenditure related to the Group’s work is in the dams and hydroelectric size. Minor concerns come from roads and railways projects where plant sector, followed by roads and by initiatives carried out at corporate displacement, if needed, involve limited areas. level. In recent years in Ethiopia and Zimbabwe Salini has participated in Because of the high rate of poverty and corruption in many countries projects where the clients had to carry out relocation activities. in which Salini operates, the Group prefers to provide direct support to At Gibe III (Ethiopia) impacts on the local community were fairly limited. local communities, instead of giving money through charitable On the basis of the client’s information13, 47 houses and 355 land donations. The only monetary donations made are granted to wellproperties were involved in resettlement activities. These were mainly Managing recognised associations, foundations and religious bodies primarily involved in social welfare. We also offer sponsorships to support cultural located at the client’s camp area, in the reservoir’s area and near the sustainability new Chida-Sodo road. No houses were present in the reservoir’s area, and sport initiatives. because it is located in a narrow valley with steep slopes. In this Besides donations and contractual requirements, infrastructure instance, all displaced agricultural plots were relocated by the client investments may also result from the reuse or reallocation of Group near the new basin area. Houses were moved a few hundred metres facilities, such as access roads to sites, offices and worker from their original position without having a radical impact on local accommodation. These are made available for the community once people’s lives. the project has been completed. On the GERD project (Ethiopia), for Local At Mukorsi Dam (Zimbabwe), relocation activities will involve 508 example, we have rehabilitated a local road. Whilst this will permit our families. Also in this case, the whole process is managed by the client, development vehicles to safety reach the site during the raining season, the €199,000 through the Ministry of Housing, who assigned new agricultural plots activity (not considered in the above total expenditure) will also enable downstream of the dam to 191 families in 2012. Additional relocations local communities to use the completely renewed road all year round. will be made over the next few years. As compensation, affected people During the delivery of projects, local communities can also access receive money, agricultural plots and, where possible, new houses. some of our sites’ facilities, such as on-site clinics, training rooms, wells, Because among affected people there were two families with disabled 26 roads and bridges. These facilities have the ability to improve the quality women, we have decided to help them offering the construction of two 27 of life for many local people – especially for those living in rural areas not new houses (80 square metres each) with also some minor monetary served by hospitals. In 2012 GERD’s site clinics have provided 2,520 contributions. The project has been successfully executed and the free healthcare interventions to people from the local communities families of the two disabled women have presently occupied the Care for surrounding our project affected areas. new houses. our people Environmental protection COMMUNITY INITIATIVES AT GIBE III Gibe III in Ethiopia is a strong example of Salini’s positive approach towards generating value for local communities. The project, besides the creation of jobs and contribution to the local economy, marks an important opportunity for social development of the area as a result of our work. In recent years Salini has constructed new roads and Appendix bridges that have improved accessibility in the region, and have helped to facilitate trade and exchanges. Moreover, we have reclaimed lands now cultivated by local people and have built groundwater wells and water distribution facilities in areas previously without access. We also improved the quality of life in the community through the construction of schools, churches, clinics and other public GRI data and buildings. We have also installed a TLC tower to connect the entire area to the national mobile network. Our approach is fully supported by local people. Our strong assurance report relations with them demonstrate the success of our CSR and community strategy. 13 In particular, the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment, the Environmental and Social Management Plan and the Resettlement Action Plan of the project. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Local development continued 3.5 Business integrity worldwide Following the reorganisation process carried out in 2012, a new Integrity Salini conducts its business in accordance with the principles laid out in Board has been appointed for Salini S.p.A., and a Code of Ethics and its corporate Code of Ethics. This include principles relating to legitimacy, an Organisational Model have been adopted. Due to the Group’s fairness, transparency and verifiability. investment in Impregilo (listed company), the Organisational Models of Salini Costruttori S.p.A. and Salini S.p.A. has been updated to include Salini’s Code of Ethics market abuse crimes. The Code of Ethics was drawn up to account for the cultural, social and In late 2012, a new project was launched, aimed at implementing economic diversity of the different countries in which Salini operates. an Anti-Corruption Model to extend protection for the Group and its All Group companies require that anyone entering into a direct or personnel from potential corruption conducts beyond the compliance indirect relationship act in line with these principles. The Code of Ethics with the Decree 231. The model will be developed in 2013. is binding, without exception, for corporate bodies, top management, employees, consultants and associates. Internal Control System Compliance with the provisions contained in the Code of Ethics is In order to identify, minimise and manage business risks our Internal considered an essential component of Salini employees’ contractual Control System plays a key role. It is the central element of the obligations. Breaches of the Code are addressed through legal Corporate Governance System14. Every year, the Internal Audit Division procedures, as described in the contracts in force, with penalties draws up an audit and monitoring plan based on potential risks and proportionate to the gravity of the violation and extent of the breach. gaps detected through the risk assessment and compliance analysis process concerning the Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/2001. In 2012 With regard to trading partners and external consultants who are bound the Internal Audit Division carried out 40 audits at headquarters and to the Group by a non-subordinated employment relationship, breaches across operating sites (compared to 29 audits conducted in 2011). of the Code of Ethics may cause termination of or withdrawal from, the agreed contract, according to any specific contractual clauses. The Salini Costruttori Group pays close attention to the business processes exposed to corruption risks and the Internal Audit Division Managing business integrity focuses its activities on targeting these areas. In 2012, 31 of the The Code of Ethics, the Integrity Board and the Organisational 40 audits conducted focused on corruption risks, covering all Management and Control Model represent the three elements listed operating sites and branches outside Italy. It has to be underlined in the Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/2001, which has introduced into the absence of cases of corruption identified through internal audits the Italian legal system a corporate administrative liability deriving from and checks by judicial authorities. crimes committed by employees. Salini has been committed to compliance with this law since its adoption and now ensures its application and continuous updating not only for the operations carried out in Italy, but also for branches and companies worldwide. THE INTEGRITY BOARD INTERNAL AUDIT ACTIVITIES In accordance with the Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/2001, In recent years the Internal Audit Division has increased its efforts an Integrity Board was established to reflect evolving social to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of Internal Control norms and relevant regulations in 2003. The Board ensures System, through the following activities: compliance with the Code of Ethics through inspections which –– Financial audits on treasury management aimed at mitigating are carried out by the Internal Audit Division. All recipients of the fraud risks; Code can use a direct mailbox to inform to the Integrity Board of any possible breaches. The Board manages this process –– Operational audits on subcontractors management; to ensure the anonymity and protection of those involved. –– Supporting the Finance Department in aligning their first and second level controls over financial resource management; –– Analysing the economic impacts of corporate processes on financial accounts. In 2012 the Internal Audit Division launched a special project to develop an Accounting Manual to be used at headquarters and at operating sites. The Manual will be released in 2013. 14 The Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee, consisting of three non-executive and independent Directors, evaluates the adequacy of the Internal Control System through the activities carried out by the Internal Audit Division (in charge of internal control). Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 3.6 Future commitments About Salini Salini has set the following sustainability targets for completion by 31 December 2013. We will report on our progress with respect to these targets in our 2013 Sustainability Report. WHAT WHAT Local communities and human rights Business integrity Why Why Maintaining constructive relationships with local communities and Ensuring the highest ethical standards in business conduct. Managing sustainability ensuring direct support and protection of human rights grants us a license to operate. How How –– Test the human rights assessment tool on some representative –– Launch the new Anti-Corruption Model to protect company and operating sites personnel from potential corruption conduct –– Develop a new workplace HIV/AIDS prevention & control plan at –– Adopt the Accounting Manual both at headquarters and at Gibe III (in Ethiopia) based on a strict collaboration between Salini, operating sites Local development the client and the representatives of the local communities –– Update the risk analysis of Salini Costruttori S.p.A., Salini S.p.A., –– Create a water supply line for a village and an health centre near Todini and Zeis and consequently update their Organisational the Gibe III site that will offer healthcare to nearly 200,000 people Models from the surrounding villages –– Continue to implement Organisational Models for other main 28 –– Build a soccer field for villages surrounding the Ulu Jelai worksite (in Malaysia) and involve local schools in an educational project on Group companies (Salini Nigeria, Salini Malaysia, Salini Hydro) 29 renewable energy Care for our people ENGAGEMENT WITH INDIGENOUS GROUPS IN MALAYSIA In Malaysia, Salini is constructing the Ulu Jelai Environmental protection Hydroelectric Plant. The 372 MW plant is located in the District of Cameron Highlands, Pahang State and is surrounded by 12 Orang Asli’s villages housing an indigenous community. Salini has established good relations with these particular communities, engaging them regularly on several issues – from keeping them up to date on Appendix potential impacting activities (such as the use of local water sources), to offering them job opportunities at the worksite. In addition, we have established a formal mechanism to collect any concerns from Orang Asli and have implemented a development programme which consists of local road improvements, electricity supply and sport facilities construction. Further activities will be carried out over the coming years. GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Local development continued 3.7 Performance data sheet Performance indicator Unit 2010 2011 2012 GRI Reference Proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers by category EC6 Africa1 Materials % 56% 44% 52% Subcontracts, consultings and shipments % 58% 67% 46% Leasing and rentals % 23% 23% 23% Assets used in operations % 37% 43% 50% Total local supplies in Africa % 53% 53% 47% Asia1 Materials % 84% 91% 89% Subcontracts, consultings and shipments % 87% 85% 84% Leasing and rentals % 36% 64% 83% Assets used in operations % 92% 78% 50% Total local supplies in Asia % 84% 84% 84% Europe1 Materials % 100% 99% 100% Subcontracts, consultings and shipments % 99% 80% 100% Leasing and rentals % 83% 85% 100% Assets used in operations % 100% 99% 100% Total local supplies in Europe % 99% 86% 100% Total1 Materials % 76% 67% 76% Subcontracts, consultings and shipments % 85% 78% 71% Leasing and rentals % 45% 57% 64% Assets used in operations % 76% 69% 59% Total local supplies % 78% 73% 72% Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Performance indicator Unit 2010 2011 2012 GRI Reference About Salini Workforce from local communities EC7 Employees hired from the local communities Africa no. 9,031 11,676 13,803 % 95% 96% 96% Asia 2 no. 1,285 1,259 2,638 % 63% 69% 65% Europe no. 1,242 1,262 816 % 95% 85% 80% Total employees from local community no. 11,558 14,197 17,258 % 90% 92% 88% Managing sustainability Subcontractors hired from the local communities Africa no. n/a n/a 2,808 % n/a n/a 94% Asia no. n/a n/a 4,506 % n/a n/a 96% Europe no. n/a n/a 1,405 Local % n/a n/a 90% Total subcontractors from local communities no. n/a n/a 8,719 % n/a n/a 94% development Total workforce hired from the local communities Africa no. n/a n/a 16,611 30 Asia % no. n/a n/a n/a n/a 95% 7,144 31 % n/a n/a 82% Europe no. n/a n/a 2,221 Care for our people % n/a n/a 86% Total workforce from local communities no. n/a n/a 25,977 % n/a n/a 90% Community expenditure by region EC8 Africa 3 euro/000 2,105 599 1,324 Asia euro/000 51 53 158 Europe euro/000 729 141 230 Total euro/000 2,885 793 1,712 Environmental Fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations PR9 Fines received4 no. – – 27 protection Amount of fines4 euro/000 – – 83 n/a: not availlable 1 Data includes only the supplies for operational sites, excluding headquarters and other offices. 2 The low rate in comparison with other regions is due to the Group’s activities carried out in UAE (Dubai), where there is an insufficient availability of local workers. For this reason, the Group has to hire non-local workers. 3 2010 data was affected by a non-recurrent event, related to the celebration for the 50th anniversary of the Nigeria’s independence, promoted and organised by Salini Nigeria Ltd. Appendix 4 The majority of the fines (20 on 27, equal to €59,206) were received by the Dubai’s authorities for non-compliance with local regulations related to the activities carried out at a road project, i.e. protections from the operations and signals of road deviations. GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Chapter 4 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Care for About Salini our people Salini believes that its human resources Managing are fundamentally important to future growth, as they make a significant sustainability contribution to achieving Salini Costruttori Group objectives. Local development Care for our people In this section… 4.1 Progress against commitments 34 32 4.2 Focusing on people 35 33 4.3 Development of human resources 35 4.4 Occupational health and safety 38 Environmental 4.5 Human rights 41 protection 4.6 Security at operating sites 42 4.7 Local personnel management 42 4.8 Future commitments 43 4.9 Performance data sheet 44 Appendix GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Care for our people continued 4.1 Progress against commitments COMMITMENTS MADE IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 ACTIONS IN 2012 Progress Extend the e-learning tools to the operating sites During the year e-learning has been extended to safety not covered yet, with the progressive addition of other topics. issues for executives at headquarters and at all operating sites. Moreover training on Ethics and Organisational Model has been provided for all newly hired staff. ◊ Finalise the mapping of employee competencies and the Human Resources management system, with the adoption of an MbO system. The project is ongoing. However the adoption of an MbO system has been postponed until the completion of the National Champion Project. , Establish the new centralised security management In 2012 a corporate service entirely dedicated to security was system for the entire Group, in order to guarantee sites and personnel’s protection, ensuring respect for human rights. established within the Human Resources Division in order to manage security issues across the Group. ◊ Strengthen the OHS organisational structure, increasing In 2012 the HSE Department at the headquarters has the number of dedicated staff at headquarters and at operating sites and monitoring OHS resources adequacy. been strengthened by the addition of two new HSE engineers, while all the projects have reached an adequate HSE organisation. ◊ Reduce the Injury Rate of 10% in comparison with The IR in 2012 was 2.22, with a reduction of 25% 2011 rate. in comparison with 2011 rate. ◊ Develop, plan and arrange specific training sessions on management responsibilities and safety matters as per Italian law. A training programme has been established relying on a Third Party Training Company. In 2012 the first sessions were performed to the Gibe III personnel (over a period , of four weeks). In 2013 the project will continue on other projects already identified. Increase number of audits carried out at project level. Although the numbers of audits have increased, at a project level, inspections are still preferred to the audit. ◊ Improve safety standards when working at height through the development of a corporate guideline. In 2012 the HSE Department drafted two safety procedures about confined spaces and working at height. These will be issued in 2013. , Define a professional development plan for OHS personnel, both in terms of personal development and career advancement. Although the process is not regulated by a procedure, the activity is carried out in an informal manner. The formalisation of this process has been postponed for other priorities. , ◊ Achieved , In progress x Not met/rescheduled Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 4.2 Focusing on people 4.3 Development of human resources About Salini Salini Group employee profile Salini is deeply committed to the professional growth and enhanced At the end of 2012 the Salini Costruttori Group employed 19,531 people knowledge and awareness of its employees, particularly regarding worldwide, 43% of which were under 30 years old and 48% were health, safety, human rights and anti-corruption policies and between 30 and 50. In comparison with 2011 levels, our workforce procedures). The well-balanced mix of young people and qualified staff increased by 4,023 employees (+26%). The majority of our workforce ensures that our pool of know-how and expertise is steadily transferred is based in Africa, at 74% of our total workforce. to the next generation of leaders. Site workers represent the greatest percentage of employees (16,648). Staff training and development Worker numbers fluctuate according to the stage of projects and the The Group staff management policy, both in Italy and abroad, makes Managing duration of contracts, which are mostly fixed-term contracts. provision for employees to receive adequate training for assigned duties Headquarter personnel are almost fully permanent contracts15. in order to strengthen core competencies and develop individual skills. In doing this, Salini creates a working environment that promotes the sustainability Human resource management policy exchange of knowledge between all cultures. The Group is committed Equal opportunities, non-discrimination, physical and moral integrity, to the development of local resources through dedicated training fairness, honesty and professional enhancement guide the Group in its courses that provide theoretical and practical training, which helps human resources management approach. To manage the complex to create a sense of identity and Group belonging. processes of personnel recruitment, management and development in an organised and structured manner, the Group implemented a An office dedicated to organisational development issues was dedicated Human Resource Management policy in 2007 which was established in 2009 to define a structured system for tailoring training Local updated again in 2011. and development activities. Training needs are identified through a gap analysis of employees’ current competencies and those required Attracting and retaining talent for each organisational position. However, to support personal development To safeguard its competitive market positioning, Salini aims to development on specific issues of general importance, we launched attract and hire the best candidates and individuals with the highest our e-learning programme in 2010. The programme aims to reach out professional standards during the recruitment and selection process. to the developmental needs of employees around the world in a more The Group identifies candidates in a number of ways, for instance targeted efficient manner. through annual career days at key Italian and foreign universities to In 2012, we improved our reporting system, collecting training data from attract graduates. all sites and reaching a complete coverage of our workers – included Personnel management Todini employees. During the year, we provided 101,893 training hours Care for our people Personnel management is undertaken at the Group’s headquarters (compared to 32,085 hours in 201117). This data shows our significant in Rome, which manages all employees operating in EU, as well as commitment towards HSE and specialised training, respectively European management and technical-administrative staff or TCN16 representing 52.5% and 37.9% of total global training hours. 34 operating outside of Europe. In non-EU sites, administrative As well as covering these areas, training is also delivered on languages, management of local personnel is undertaken directly by site administration, the Code of Ethics and Organisational Model (Legislative management and is mainly focused on recruitment, administration, theoretical and field training, evaluation, and compensation. Decree no. 231/2001), and privacy. 35 Most training hours were delivered at road projects (47% of the total) and hydropower ones (40% of the total). The hydroelectric and roads sectors represent 98% of total worked man-hours in 2012. Environmental Beyond training of direct personnel employed in construction activities protection in 2012, we also conducted a specialised training programme for 11 local engineers at our Bumbuna project in Sierra Leone. The six month programme was aimed at teaching the engineers issues about the functioning of an hydroelectric plant. At the end of the course all 11 engineers were employed in the power house – the heart of the hydroelectric plant where water is converted into energy. Appendix Group personnel by category in 2012 Training in 2012 by topic % % 12 3 1. Executives 3 1 1. Health, Safety and Environment 0.6% 52.5% 2 4 2. Middle managers 2. Specialised 0.6% 37.9% GRI data and 3. Employees 3. Others 13.6% 9.6% 4. Workers assurance report 85.2% 15 The number of fixed-term contracts at headquarters is irrelevant in respect to the total workforce and is reported in the Content Index (LA1 Indicator). 16 TCN (Third-Country National) is considered an employee of non-EU nationality working in a non-EU country that is not his country of origin (e.g. a worker of Indian nationality working in the UAE). 17 2011 data included training hours provided at headquarters and at the main Salini’s operating sites. Todini sites were not included. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Care for our people continued Shown next are a series of KPIs which provide an indication of how we measure care of our people. Data is represented as trends over the last three years and also shows the breakdown of performance by sector. Input Construction Output activities Training provided* (hours) Workforce productivity* (€’000) 72,945 94.7 91.8 87.0 32,542 32,085 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 * Data does not include Todini operating sites *Turnover (€’000)/Workforce (no.) Health & Safety expenditure (€’000) Employees’ Injury rate (IR) Dams and hydroelectric 4,762 plants 3.44 3,236 3,046 Road and 2.95 motorways 2.22 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Railways Workforce operating in certified workplaces (%) Public building Employees’ Lost Day rate (LDR) construction 57.2 76 61 62 34.2 19.8 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 OHSAS 18001 Workforce operating in Sector contribution to the major impacts Training H&S certified Lost Day Worked on people care in 2012 provided expenditure workplaces Injury rate rate hours Dams and hydroelectric plants 40% 39% 99% 1.37 18.27 68% Road and motorways 48% 47% 30% 4.04 20.11 30% Railways 12% 13% 100% 4.49 177.41 1% Public building construction – 1% – 2.42 6.66 1% In 2012, our key indicators registered strong performance, reaching even higher outcomes for hours of training provided, Health & Safety expenditure, workforce productivity and OHSAS 18001 certified workplaces, while the Injury and Lost day rates have registered a sharp decrease. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Performance management system Equal opportunities About Salini Another key pillar of the HR Development System is Salini’s Salini is committed to addressing issues of gender discrimination by Performance management system, which measures and evaluates ensuring that women are entitled to the same opportunities as their competencies, performance objectives, behaviours and potential for male counterparts concerning employment, compensation and further development of Group employees according to their role in a career progression. defined period. The system is in place for all personnel managed by the The issue of equal opportunities is being tackled at our headquarters in Group’s headquarters and aims to: Rome, where women currently represent 33.5% of the total workforce. –– Link an individual’s achievements and performance to an appropriate In contrast, at our operating site level, the vast majority of workers are role profile and benefits; men, due to the characteristic of the construction sector. –– Monitor and update records on employee’s professional development; For what concerns the issue of equal compensation, in 2012 the ratio Managing between actual remuneration paid to women and men employed by –– Differentiate performance levels to inform salaries; Salini was equal to 99.9%18. This represents a 17% decrease in wage sustainability disparity compared with 201119. As is shown in the chart the gaps are –– Provide information that feeds into action plans for individual training generally accounted for by the higher seniority of men compared to and development; and women. It should be underlined that management posts, which –– Plan room for improvement, job rotation and career growth paths. account for the highest level of Group management tasks, are made up predominantly of men, because of their often long-term experience The evaluation process is closely linked to the remuneration system. within the construction sector. For each organisational division, the Division Manager is in charge of monitoring performance and competencies of employees. Welfare at operating sites Local development The evaluation process is formalised by an evaluation form and Salini is aware that operating in remote areas and in challenging sociofilled out by the Division Manager for each individual. environmental contexts represents a huge challenge for its personnel, especially for expatriates. In order to offer to our employees adequate Compensation and benefits living conditions and reduce the inconveniences of working far from Salini’s compensation policy ensures that – in addition to an individual’s home, we pay great attention to designing and building suitable merits – high and robust competitive standards are maintained accommodation. externally. Salini’s policies comply with statutory and regulatory requirements for the payment of wages and benefits. The remuneration Our commitment focuses predominantly on our operating sites located system is composed of a fixed salary, supported by a variable bonus in rural areas, far away from towns, such as our projects in Ethiopia. Care for (una tantum) which relates to the individual and/or corporate In these locations our sites include one or more camps for workers performance. and their families, equipped with canteens, hospitals, fitness centres our people and athletics fields, markets, bars, internet connections, etc. In addition, Salini offers various benefits to employees, depending on their role and level. These benefits include additional insurance Our aim is to make these villages as comfortable as much as possible, and healthcare, a complementary pension system, accommodation, in order to accommodate personnel and their families. Our dedicated 36 a company car, economic support for child education, a contribution to relocation expenditure and company loans. Village Chiefs are in charge of managing camps and arranging social activities for residents and guests as well. 37 The Salini Costruttori Group is 100% compliant in the payment of minimum wages required by relevant authorities around the world. Environmental protection Female/Male salary ratio in 2012 % 125.4 99.9 Appendix 91.9 78.0 Employees Middle managers Executives Average GRI data and assurance report 18 Calculation is made on the basis of the gross wages paid, rather than minimum wages required by law for each category. As Salini applies national or site-specific collective agreements, ratio of basic salary of women compared with men’s salaries is equal to 1. 19 2011 data was restated in 83%. All the employee categories have been included in the calculation. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Care for our people continued 4.4 Occupational health and safety HSE audits Salini recognises the utmost importance of occupational health and At site level, the Quality and HSE Division (DQS) supports organisational safety and the protection of employees and third parties across all units in the management of quality, health and safety and environment activities within its offices or operating sites. issues, and ensures the appropriate flow of information. DQS performs regular audits at sites to assess the compliance of systems in relation to Health and safety policy corporate procedures. The Company’s top management reviews the The Salini Costruttori Group’s main health and safety objectives are suitability, adequacy and effectiveness of the management systems eliminating or reducing to a minimum the risk of accidents by adopting annually, evaluating their strengths and weaknesses and taking all a prevention and protection system applicable to all operating activities, necessary corrective actions to ensure the continuous improvement following the principle that all accidents can be prevented. We also of performance. apply the strictest health and safety standards wherever possible. In the last three years we have conducted 182 HSE audit21. In 2012, Salini’s commitment to health and safety is shown through the 72 HSE audits took place. This included 50 audits and 22 missions adoption of a dedicated corporate policy. The policy clearly for technical support. The majority of audits were carried out in our emphasises that ‘the health and safety of personnel and third parties hydropower and road projects, at 34% and 46% respectively. always comes first’ when delivering projects. It also states a The percentage of the organisation, in terms of employees, verified to commitment to actively promote initiatives for employees, clients, be operating in compliance with the health and safety management suppliers, authorities and interested parties to help Salini attain the system (OHSAS 18001 standard) has been 41% in internally conducted highest health and safety standards. audits and 32% for externally conducted audits performed by The Group’s commitment to health and safety was firstly recognised in certification bodies. In terms of subcontractors’ employees the 2009 by OHSAS 18001 certification and successfully renewed in percentages have been respectively equals to 11% and 8%. 201220. To gain accreditation, the Group implemented a Health and For what concerns the environmental management system, the Safety Management System designed to minimise the risk of accidents percentage of employees internally and externally verified to be in all workplaces (offices and operating sites). Appropriate procedures compliant with the ISO 14001 standard has been respectively equal ensure the effective management of safety including risk assessments, to 40% and 23% (25% and 11% in terms of subcontractor employees). planning and implementation of training, employee engagement activity and performance monitoring. Injuries rates22 In 2012 the Injury Rate (IR23) was equal to 2.22 and the Lost Day Rate Health & Safety expenditure (LDR24) was equal to 19.83. Both the rates saw a decrease in respect In order to achieve the mentioned objectives during 2012 the Salini to 2011, as a consequence of more worked hours (+39%) and less lost Costruttori Group has continued to emphasise the importance of health days due to injuries with temporary disability (−19%) in the period. and safety by increasing the health and safety investments. In the last three years H&S investments grew from €3,236 million to € 4,762 million The charts showing our Injury rate and the Lost Day rate show the trend (+47%). The chart shows mix of investment across the two sectors with for all the sectors in which we operate. In analysing safety performance, the highest investments. The majority of Personal Protective Equipment it is important to note that the hydroelectric and roads sectors represent (PPE) and other safety equipment expenditure in dams and hydroelectric 98% of employees’ total worked man-hours, so the higher rates in the plants sector were made in Ethiopia while H&S management expenditure railways sector are to be considered as less material (representing only in roads projects were carried out in Italy and United Arab Emirates. 1% of total worked hours). Employees’ Injury rate (IR) by sector* Employees’ Lost Day rate (LDR) by sector* 587.82 566.34 12.90 8.64 4.49 4.04 3.92 2.42 2.44 3.27 177.41 3.20 1.37 2.04 58.18 2.61 33.93 46.02 28.88 20.11 22.41 11.39 18.27 6.66 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Dams and hydroelectric plants Roads and motorways Dams and hydroelectric plants Roads and motorways Railways Public building Railways Public building * Total number of injuries (fatalities included)/total hours worked * 200,000 * Total number of lost days (only injuries with temporary disability/total hours worked * 200,000 20 The certification is obtained by Salini S.p.A. 21 2011 data was restated in order to add 20 missions aimed to provide technical support performed during the year. 22 2010 and 2011 rates were restated in respect to those published in the 2011 Sustainability Report to reflect the methodology provided for by the ‘ILO Code of Practice on Recording and Notification of Occupational Accidents and Diseases’, in accordance with the GRI Guidelines, LA7 Indicator Protocol. See the Methodological Note for further information. 23 IR represents the number of injuries occurred each 100 employees and it is calculated as a rate between the total number of injuries occurred in the period (fatalities included) and the total hours worked, then multiplied by 200,000. The complete formula is indicated in the Glossary (6.3). 24 LDR represents the number of lost days lost each 100 employees and it is calculated as a rate between the total number of lost days (only injuries with temporary disability) and total hours worked, then multiplied by 200,000. The complete formula is indicated in the Glossary (6.3). Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 FOCUS ON: About Salini A new primary school at Gibe III In 2012 we inaugurated a site school at our Gibe III project, in Ethiopia. The primary school, which serves children living at the site camp, is composed of a classroom, a laboratory and a recreation ground. The school is currently attended by nine children of Managing different nationalities and lessons are taught in Italian and English by an experienced teacher. sustainability The educational programme is agreed with the National Italian School of Addis Ababa and in the near future we will expand our collaboration with this school, cooperating on collaborative projects, such as lessons of Salini engineers at Addis Ababa school and site visits by teachers and students at the Gibe III project. Local All the rates decreased in the year, except the IR for the roads and In 2012 we standardised the flow of information on the subcontractors’ motorways sector which registered an increase in injuries, due to the safety performance between our operating sites and the headquarters, development increased number of ongoing projects. and now receive all accident and process data for our subcontractors. This process enables us to assess and analyse complete performance In our operations, injuries occur mainly at concrete working areas, statistics. followed by workshops, plants, earthmoving and carpentry. Complications with moving parts and machinery represents the main In 2012 our global subcontractors IR was 0.97 while the LDR was equal cause of injuries, followed by slipping, crashing, falling from heights, to 8.46. Rates broken down by regions are available at section 4.9. road accidents and general injuries. It should be noted that in the public building sector no accidents involving subcontractors’ workers occurred during the year. Care for We are committed to providing safe working conditions across all our people our operations and we are firmly dedicated to reducing health and Representation and agreements on HSE safety risks. In addition to general agreements on certain issues including selected HSE issues, there are specific agreements with trade unions on Subcontractor training and monitoring In order to ensure compliance with Salini’s procedures, the Group operating sites such as Copenhagen, Gibe III and Bujagali. 38 adopts a collaborative approach in working with subcontractors. At operating sites, subcontractors are required to respect the Group’s Salini applies current Italian legislation in all its worldwide operations, electing worker safety representatives (RWS) at all our operating sites 39 policies and procedures, to attend induction training on HSE issues and for both European and local workers. These representatives also play Environmental to participate to tool boxes and weekly/monthly HSE meetings. an advisory role on the Group’s policy for managing workers’ health and safety risks. The RWS are often trade union representatives. protection In addition, Salini HSE departments perform regular inspections and Salini recognises the continuing importance of engaging with trade audits on subcontractor’s activities at site level, monitoring safety unions on HSE issues. conditions, HSE performance and carrying out investigations on incidents occurred. In the reporting period no subcontractor accidents were attributable to Salini. FIRST VOCATIONAL TRAINING COURSE IN THAILAND Appendix H&S expenditure categories by sector in 2012 (€’000) Salini has developed a broad training programme aimed at 1,879 creating a breeding ground for specialising human resources to be employed at Salini’s operating sites outside Italy. 2,214 In 2012 the first dedicated course was conducted in Thailand for mechanics and diagnostic technicians. After careful selection, 15 young apprentices participated in the course held by longterm professionals, alternating theoretical and applied lessons. Thailand was chosen for this first programme due to the high professionalism of local people in the specific field, as proven GRI data and by the positive experience in employing Thais in many assurance report Roads and motorways Dams and hydroelectric plants Salini’s projects. PPE and other safety equipment Safety installations Collective protective equipments and services H&S management Other Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Care for our people continued Workforce health and wellbeing DRIVERS’ TRAINING IN GIBE III In our Italian operations, a company health service carries out regular health surveillance campaigns, based on specific labour-related risks affecting its people – both for headquarters and for operating sites. The Group also provides an additional level of medical care by offering employees and their families’ access to public and private health facilities. In our operating sites outside of Italy, medical facilities are in place to provide 24-hour medical advice and ambulance service and a guarantee that each work shift has access to medical staff. Moreover, all operating sites have a pharmacy to provide access to urgently required medicines and those needed for the treatment of chronic diseases that may affect workers. The Company health service runs inspections on operating sites at least once a year, to ensure that all health surveillance protocols are respected. In addition to this, the service regularly visits local hospitals to assess their quality and accessibility. At the Gibe III site, a structured training programme has been established for local drivers. The training is carried out by both At non-EU operating sites all personnel receive prophylaxis information. internal HSE and Transport Divisions and external specialised They are also informed about disease prevention and control companies. Internal training is conducted in line with the procedures. In countries where malaria is endemic, special attention operating site’s training plan. The external training, which has is paid to the prevention protocols proposed by the World Health received the support of the Ethiopian Transport Authority (ETA), Organization. provides for theory (in class with audio-visual support) and driving Activities carried out by Salini do not expose personnel to high risk of modules. After each course, in order to test the learning, specific specific diseases and any occupational disease has occurred in the questionnaires are submitted to each attendant. reporting period, both to our employees and to the subcontractors’ In 2012, drivers have been involved in theory courses for workforce. In consideration of the particularly serious environmental 1,712 hours and driving lessons for 640 hours. In addition to pollution present in Kazakhstan the existing legislation provides for an this programme, in the near future a specialised external trainer increase in pay to local employees working in the concerned areas. will work with the Transport Division in order to strengthen the The Group’s activity fully respects and adheres to this legislation. entire programme. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 FOCUS ON: About Salini Taking care of employees and their families’ health Salini believes that health is a fundamental right for all people, not just our employees, and has put in place a service to support the daily needs of employees and their families, worldwide. In Italy, besides the health company service mentioned above, Salini provides health insurance to each employee, and their partners and children. Outside of Italy, medical facilities are in place Managing sustainability in each operating site in order to provide 24-hour medical advice. Salini makes these health facilities available to employees’ family members at operating sites, as well as to local people for any acute and serious medical matters. Beyond this, doctors responsible for the operating sites regularly offer local personnel training courses and provide information to local communities on improving environmental sanitation and preventing the spread of endemic diseases (like malaria) and sexually transmitted diseases (HIV and hepatitis). Local development 4.5 Human rights Rights of employees In some geographical areas in which Salini operates – especially outside Salini’s legal and economic relationship with employees aims to of Europe – there is a risk of human rights violation. guarantee the respect for individuals and their rights under the provisions of national and international law, in all the sites. All Group Policy commitments and compliance employees have contractual recourse to a form of collective Care for agreement25, which ensures equal rights and treatment. Regulatory our people Salini has implemented specific policies and procedures aimed at promoting the respect and protection of employees’ human rights, conditions for non-EU personnel are based on, and therefore, similar ensuring no discrimination of any sort (including that based on political to those for EU personnel, with the key differences being that leaving or religious belief, race, gender, language reasons, or for trade union indemnity is not provided in all countries, and taxes and contributions affiliations), in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Ethics. are linked to the region in which employment is carried out. Communication, negotiation and consultation policies cover all 40 The Salini Costruttori Group rigorously applies legislation concerning employment contracts, thus guaranteeing the respect of human rights our employees. 41 set out by the ‘Universal Declaration of Human Rights’ wherever we The minimum notice period for communicating significant changes Environmental operate, and in particular in relation to the exercise of freedom of in Salini’s activities is a legally fixed period, recognised in the collective association and collective bargaining, and the elimination of forced, and local negotiation contracts of reference26. compulsory and child labour. Additionally, in 2012 Salini created a human rights assessment tool protection In order to identify potential risk situations relating to human rights at all tailored to its own activities and processes. As of early 2013 we have the Group operating sites, Salini analyses local employment regulations, started to discuss the tool among a number of UN Global Compact working hours, contractual conditions and facilities (accommodation, Network Italy members, in order to agree a common assessment tool. health structure, canteens, etc.) during the tender process. Incidents of discrimination During the reporting period, no cases of discrimination or human rights Appendix violation of workers and local communities within the Group’s activities were recorded. GRI data and assurance report 25 If local legislation does not provide for national collective agreements, bargaining is undertaken at the operating site between the Company and the unions. 26 In Italy, the minimum notice period ranges from one week (for workers with seniority of less than three years) to 16 weeks (for executives with families), as required by the National Collective Labour Agreement of reference. In some cases, both in Italy and abroad, the notice period is directly paid to the workers. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Care for our people continued 4.6 Security at operating sites 4.7 Local personnel management Salini is committed to ensuring the security of its workplaces and The management and administration of local personnel varies operating sites, in order to protect the integrity of the Group’s tangible according to the legislation of the host Country – although there are and intangible resources. some Groupwide similarities. To ensure the equal treatment of all personnel, Salini formalised an operating procedure in July 2011 to Security risk assessments standardise local personnel management worldwide. Salini always assesses potential risks faced in countries with security problems and, if necessary, implements dedicated plans to properly Recruitment of local personnel protect sites. Security managers, in collaboration with the client, hold Local personnel at our operating site level can be employed as either periodic meetings with local communities to create a climate of mutual permanent or temporary workers. The latter status is only permitted trust at our operating sites. They also help sites to adopt the most for a limited period, according to local legislation, and only for certain appropriate protection measures by setting up specific mitigation needs and circumstances (such as loading and unloading trucks, programmes based on prevention, protection and information. bush clearing or other site-specific jobs). Salini ensures adequate information and training regarding Health and Safety site-specific risks Many of our projects are considered as sensitive assets by to temporary workers. governments and local authorities and are therefore protected by them. Worksites are sometimes monitored and protected by the local military For permanent workers, recruitment is carried out with the support of and police, as well as our own caretaker and internal security. Security local agencies (for medium to low vacancies), advertisements in local managers at our operating sites are committed to training security newspapers and at local universities (for medium to high vacancies). personnel in respect of both employees’ and local communities’ We also refer to company records for people who have already worked human rights. for Salini in a particular region. In 2012 a Corporate Security service was established within the Preventing underage or illegal employment Human Resources Division with the aim of developing, implementing To avoid any irregularities or violations of employment laws, local Human and managing the Group’s corporate security vision, strategy and Resources offices check applicant documents with the help of local programmes. Rather than being purely defensive and reactive, the new lawyers. This enables us to prevent and detect possible fraud mainly corporate security service is intended to be proactive and work on a related to the age of applicants. Salini does not hire young workers27, co‑operative cross function basis with the Company’s core business. even in countries where it is allowed by local legislation. At an operation level the Corporate Security service will provide To reduce the potential of being implicated in human rights abuses, the guidance and advice to site management on security related matters, Group seeks to avoid using labour from agencies wherever possible and assist our security staff at our operating sites in identifying, and to pay all wages directly to the employees. developing, implementing and maintaining security processes to reduce security risks, respond to security incidents and limit exposure to liability Employee representation in all areas of physical and personal risk. Local workers’ representatives are in place across all site in order to ensure adequate information sharing and good relations with the In order to establish appropriate standard and risk controls, the Human management team. Resources Division has launched a project to develop a Security Management Procedure to be used and complied with at operating sites. The procedure will be published in 2013. 27 People younger than 18 years of age. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 4.8 Future commitments About Salini Salini has set the following sustainability targets for completion by 31 December 2013. We will report on our progress against these targets in our 2013 Sustainability Report. WHAT WHAT Human Resources management Occupational Health and Safety Why Why Managing Creating a working environment in which knowledge, motivation Improving safety conditions in the workplace and protecting and teamwork spirit are recognised helps to attract and retain the subcontractors and local communities is a moral and legal best talent. obligation. sustainability How How –– Implement a training programme on anti-corruption aimed at –– Reduce Injury Rates by 10% compared to 2012 levels. covering all Group staff. –– Develop, plan and arrange dedicated training sessions relating –– Develop a Security Management Procedure in order to establish to project management responsibilities, risk assessment appropriate standards and risk controls. processes and determining controls, covering at least 40% of existing projects. Local –– Obtain the official school status at the Gibe III’s site school (in Ethiopia) from the Italian government to allow our personnel’s –– Improve the flow of the incident investigation reports from development children to regularly attend primary school. operating sites to headquarters –– Improve safety standards through the development of a corporate guideline. –– Improve KPI analysis and reporting of Todini projects. –– Increase evidence of management commitment by recording DPO/HSE jointly audits. Care for our people 42 43 Environmental protection Appendix GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Care for our people continued 4.9 Performance data sheet Performance indicator Unit 2010 2011 2012 GRI Reference Total personnel by category LA1 Executives no. 85 101 114 Middle managers no. 88 106 120 Employees no. 1,778 2,268 2,649 Workers no. 10,922 13,033 16,648 Total1 no. 12,873 15,508 19,531 Total personnel by region LA1 Africa no. 9,794 12,210 14,433 America no. 2 3 7 Asia no. 2,036 1,812 4,070 Europe no. 1,041 1,483 1,021 Total1 no. 12,873 15,508 19,531 Total personnel by workplace LA1 Italian headquarters % 2% 2% 1% Italian Operating sites % 5% 3% 1% Foreign Operating sites (personnel managed centrally) % 5% 9% 5% Foreign Operating sites (personnel managed locally) % 88% 87% 93% Total % 100% 100% 100% Total women personnel by category LA1 Executives % n/a 6% 4% Middle managers % n/a 17% 8% Employees % n/a 33% 33% Workers % n/a 4% 4% Total % 8% 8% 8% Total women personnel by workplace LA1 Italian headquarters % 35% 33% 33% Operating sites % n/a 8% 8% Total personnel by age group LA13 Italian headquarters <30 years % 7% 13% 11% 30–50 years % 69% 63% 66% >50 years % 24% 24% 24% African Operating sites <30 years % n/a 41% 47% 30–50 years % n/a 50% 45% >50 years % n/a 9% 8% Asian Operating sites <30 years % n/a 32% 36% 30–50 years % n/a 51% 54% >50 years % n/a 17% 10% European Operating sites <30 years % n/a 27% 21% 30–50 years % n/a 52% 54% >50 years % n/a 21% 25% Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Performance indicator Unit 2010 2011 2012 GRI Reference About Salini Total personnel by educational qualification Italian headquarters Compulsory education % 2% 2% 1% High school % 48% 43% 40% University % 50% 55% 59% Operating sites Compulsory education % n/a 61% 63% High school % n/a 34% 31% University % n/a 5% 6% Managing Employees hired by category LA2 sustainability Executives no. 4 8 2 Middle managers no. 4 8 6 Employees no. 52 38 41 Workers no. 73 – – Total2 no. 133 54 49 Local Hired personnel turnover LA2 By gender Men % n/a 15.1% 6.2% development Women % n/a 7.6% 11.6% By age group <30 years % n/a 8.0% 4.7% 30–50 years % n/a 13.4% 11.3% >50 years % n/a 1.3% 1.8% Total rate of hired personnel turnover2 % 4.9% 22.7% 17.8% Care for our people Employees left by reason LA2 Resignations no. 118 9 6 Retirements no. 4 1 2 Contract expiries no. 5 2 1 Deaths/inabilities to work no. – 2 2 44 Dismissals due to project phases Dismissals due to disciplinary causes no. no. 117 – 8 – – – 45 Relocations no. – 10 – Environmental Resolutions by mutual consent no. 5 2 – Total2 no. 249 34 11 protection Leaving personnel turnover LA2 By gender Men % 3.8% 3.0% 2.2% Women % 0.5% 0.8% 1.8% By age group <30 years % 0.4% – 0.4% Appendix 30–50 years % 3.4% 1.7% 2.2% >50 years % 0.4% 2.1% 1.4% Total rate of leaving personnel turnover2 % 4.3% 3.8% 4.0% GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Care for our people continued Performance indicator Unit 2010 2011 2012 GRI Reference Employees injuries rates LA7 Hours worked (WMH) hours 40,155,891 35,072,813 48,876,905 Fatalities (FTL) 3 no. 5 4 9 Injuries with permanent disability 4 no. – 1.16 0.71 Injuries with temporary disability (LTI) no. 685 513 533 Lost working days (LWD) dd 11,492 6,006 4,847 Near miss5 no. 67 73 40 Injury rate (IR)6 3.44 2.95 2.22 Lost Day rate (LDR)6 57.24 34.25 19.83 Employees Injury rates by region 6 LA7 Africa IR 3.65 3.10 2.40 LDR 49.33 26.13 18.96 Asia IR 0.45 0.27 1.37 LDR 13.78 4.77 10.23 Europe IR 8.13 6.95 2.95 LDR 317.89 226.06 81.12 Subcontractors injuries rates 4 LA7 Hours worked (WMH) hours n/a n/a 18,873,558 Fatalities (FTL) no. n/a n/a 3 Injuries with permanent disability 4 no. n/a n/a – Injuries with temporary disability (LTI) no. n/a n/a 89 Lost working days (LWD) dd n/a n/a 768 Near miss5 no. n/a n/a 11 Injury rate (IR) n/a n/a 0.97 Lost Day rate (LDR)7 n/a n/a 8.46 Subcontractors Injury rates by region LA7 Africa IR n/a n/a 1.40 LDR n/a n/a 11.00 Asia IR n/a n/a 0.13 LDR n/a n/a 0.20 Europe IR n/a n/a 2.23 LDR7 n/a n/a 25.78 Total Injury rates 8 LA7 Injury rate (IR) IR 3.44 2.95 1.87 Lost Day rate (LDR)7 LDR 57.24 34.25 16.75 Absentee Rate (AR) by workplace LA7 Operating sites – Salini employees % n/a 1% 1% Operating sites – Subcontractors9 % n/a n/a 0% Italian headquarters % 8% 5% 2% Global absentee rate % n/a 1% 1% Total training hours by employee category10 LA10 Executives hours 276 655 1,941 Middle managers hours 297 624 21,211 Employees hours 1,464 2,989 27,063 Workers hours 30,505 27,817 51,678 Total number of training hours hours 32,542 32,085 101,893 Average pro-capite hours of training by employee category 10 LA10 Executives pro-capite hours 4.5 7.6 17.0 Middle managers pro-capite hours 4.7 7.0 176.8 Employees pro-capite hours 1.2 1.8 10.2 Workers pro-capite hours 3.4 2.6 3.1 Average number of hours of training per employee pro-capite hours 3.2 2.6 5.2 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Performance indicator Unit 2010 2011 2012 GRI Reference About Salini Total Training hours by topic10 LA10 Corporate Management and Quality hours 196 419 1,385 Health, Safety and Environment hours 31,310 28,639 53,457 Code of Ethics, D. 231, Privacy hours 110 250 2,060 Languages hours 250 2,203 2,381 Administration hours 212 294 3,965 Specialised hours 464 280 38,644 Total hours 32,542 32,085 101,893 Female/Male salary ratio 11 LA14 Managing Average Female/Male Annual Gross Salary ratio % 83.0% 83.0% 99.9% sustainability Subcontractors workforce by region LA1 Africa no. n/a n/a 2,987 Asia no. n/a n/a 4,671 Europe no. n/a n/a 1,569 Total n/a n/a 9,227 Local Total workforce by region 8 LA1 Africa no. n/a n/a 17,420 development America no. n/a n/a 7 Asia no. n/a n/a 8,741 Europe no. n/a n/a 2,590 Total no. n/a n/a 28,758 n/a: not available 1 The increase in 2012 is mainly due to the new hired workers at Gibe III and Grand Ethiopian Renaissance projects in Ethiopia. 2 Data concerns headquarters personnel, except 2010, which includes Todini’s operating sites as well. Care for 3 Fatalities in 2012 refer totally to men. 8 have occurred in Africa and 1 in Azerbaijan. For more details please refer to the paragraph 4.4 ‘Occupational Health and safety’ sub-paragraph ‘Injuries rates’. 4 Data concerns the aggregate percentages of permanent disabilities recognised to the injured workforce. our people 5 Data collection for the near miss is in an experimental phase. 6 Data does not include headquarters personnel because it is considered not material for the calculation of the rates. 7 Data does not include CMT Cityringen operating site. 46 8 Data considers employees and subcontractors. 9 Data does not include sick days of personnel in the calculation of the rates. 10 In 2012 data on training hours include all the operating sites, while 2010 and 2011 data do not cover Todini sites and some Salini ones. 11 Data does not include personnel managed locally. Neverthless, the ratio can be considered indicative of the entire Group because these workers are almost entirely men. Calculation is made on the basis of the gross wages paid, rather than minimum wages required by law. 2011 data has been restated due to a miscalculation occurred in the Sustainability Report 2011. 47 Environmental protection Appendix GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Chapter 5 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Environmental About Salini protection Despite the many economic and Managing societal benefits of construction, the sector is regarded as having a large sustainability environmental impact – particularly relating to resource consumption, habitat loss, waste and greenhouse gas emissions. Salini is committed to mitigating our environmental impacts Local by applying international best practice development in the management of these issues. Care for our people In this section… 5.1 Progress against commitments 50 5.2 Climate change  50 Environmental 5.3 Biodiversity 52 protection 5.4 Efficient use of natural resources 54 5.5 Environmental protection 57 48 5.6 Future commitments 59 5.7 Performance data sheet 60 49 Appendix GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Environmental protection continued 5.1 Progress against commitments COMMITMENTS MADE IN SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2011 ACTIONS IN 2012 Progress Progressively extend the environmental management In 2012 all the main operating sites have established an EMS. system (EMS) to all Group companies. Strengthen the Environmental organisational structure, In 2012 the HSE Department at the headquarters has been ◊ increasing the number of dedicated staff at headquarters and at operating sites. strengthened with new HSE resources, while all the projects have reached an appropriate HSE organisation. ◊ Enhancement of waste and hazardous substances management throughout the development of corporate guidelines. In 2012 the HSE Department drafted two environmental procedures about Hazardous substances management and Waste management, which will be issued in 2013. , These procedures are aimed at standardising the management activities already in place at our operating sites. Increase of number of audits carried out at project level. All sites have increased HSE monitoring activities during the Constant evaluation and monitoring of project period, even though inspections are still preferred to the audits. The monitoring process is ongoing. Resources are presently ◊ environmental resource adequacy. Define a professional development plan for adequate. In the year the HSE department has implemented an internal ◊ Environmental personnel, both in terms of personal development and career advancement. process to ensure professional development of HSE personnel. ◊ ◊ Achieved , In progress x Not met/rescheduled 5.2 Climate change standardisation of reduction objectives. We therefore focus our efforts Climate change is widely recognised as a major global environmental on combatting climate change through our projects, such as providing challenge. High consumption of fossil fuels is believed to be the primary more renewable sources of energy through our hydroelectric plants. cause of global warming, which in turn leads to increased unpredictability Salini strictly monitors climate change risks and opportunities and the of precipitation, rising sea levels, contamination of coastal freshwater environmental management system is set to track and minimise risks reserves, as well as an increase of catastrophic floods, and spread of and maximise opportunities where appropriate. pests and diseases once limited to the tropics. Measuring our carbon footprint To limit the rise of global temperature to 2°C the Intergovernmental Salini was one of the first Italian construction companies to calculate Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and the International Energy Agency and report its greenhouse gas emissions using the international (IEA) estimate that it will be necessary to cut at least 50% of global GHG Protocol standard. GHG emissions by 2050, compared with 2005. As is shown in the graph on page 5128, our main emissions’ sources are Climate change and the construction sector represented by fuels directly used to power plants and machinery at our For the construction sector climate change poses significant challenges. sites (Scope 1), followed by indirect emissions from business travel and The impact of more frequent natural disasters such as flooding, and goods shipments (Scope 3). Hydroelectric and Roads are the sectors new regulations for environmental protection are major risks affecting with the highest GHG emission intensity, mainly due to the large our industry. In particular, in next future natural disasters will pose at consumption of fossil fuels to power machinery and produce risks existing infrastructures. But this aspect poses also new business on‑site electricity. opportunities for our industry, including research and development for new buildings and infrastructures which are resilient to a changing Salini is committed to reducing its direct emissions by periodically climate. Furthermore, the growth in demand for large-scale renewable replacing its plants, machinery and fleets with more efficient models. energy solutions such as hydroelectric dams will contribute to boost However, the main opportunity to reduce our Scope 1 emissions our business’ opportunities. comes from linking the Group’s plants and facilities to power grid and thereby reducing the use of diesel generators. For these reasons, we can play a role in combatting climate change through our projects, more than reducing our own GHG emissions. In 2012, we connected our Gibe III site in Ethiopia to the national power Unlike other industries, activities for reducing emissions are limited grid, with the result that we avoided about 12,189 tonnes of CO2 in the construction industry, often due to the operational contexts in emissions, equivalent to about 20% of total emissions of the site. which we operate (e.g. projects located in remote areas without access The same has been planned at GERDP (Grand Ethiopia Renaissance to electricity and the need to ship huge amount of materials) and Dam project) where the construction of a transmission line connecting dynamism of site structures over time, that pose challenges for the project to the national grid is in progress. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 FOCUS ON: About Salini Breathing a new lease of life into Uganda Managing sustainability Local development In 2012 the Bujagali Hydroelectric dam opened, signifying a impacts on the environment, thanks to a certified reduction in GHG monumental change for Uganda’s power generation. The project emissions equal to 858,173 metric tonnes of CO2 equivalent per represents the largest public-private investment ever undertaken annum (MDG 7), as recognised by the United Nations Framework in Africa, structured as a partnership owned by Sithe Global of the Convention on Climate Change that included the project into USA, Industrial Promotion Services of Kenya (which is owned CDMs’ register (Clean Development Mechanisms). by the Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development) and the In addition to this, the Bujagali project created nearly 2,000 new Care for government of Uganda. The project was financed by the International Finance Corporation (World Bank Group), the jobs during the peak of its construction, mostly comprising of our people individuals from local communities. We have ensured them high European Investment Bank, African Development Bank and working standard conditions (MDG 1) and health control, mainly other lenders. for what concerns the prevention of Hiv/Aids and malaria (MDG 6). The plant has the power capacity of 250 MW. This provides the More we offered free medical assistance to our employees’ family 50% of Uganda’s total energy demand and significantly contributes members and supported the local communities through several to the sustainable development of the Country. social programmes, primarily in the education (MDG 2), health and sport sectors. As a signatory of the UN Global Compact, in developing this important project Salini focuses its effort on maximising returns Finally, as local villagers will continue to benefit from the social Environmental for the community, seeking viable ways to contribute to the facilities built during the project’s implementation, all the Country achievement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs)29 is starting to experiment a new economic era, with raising business protection in the area. opportunities for local and international enterprises made possible First of all, Bujagali resulted in significantly improved community services for nearby villages, including water supply, education and by reliable electricity and lowering energy costs, with direct positive impacts in terms of job creation (MDG 1) and social well-being. 50 health facilities (MDGs 4-5-6). The project has also had positive 51 Appendix GHG emission intensity by sectors* CO2 emissions as per scope 228 208 217 Scope 1 Direct emissions (from direct combustion of fuel) 181 167 287,280 tonnes CO2 147 Scope 2 Indirect emissions (from purchased electricity consumption) 11,994 tonnes CO2 40 32 GRI data and Scope 3 Other indirect 21 13 9 11 emissions assurance report (from business travel and goods 2010 2011 2012 shipment) 61,811 tonnes CO2 Dams and hydroelectric plants Roads and motorways Railways Civil building * GHG emissions (t CO2 eq) / Turnover (€ million) 28 The chart on CO2 emissions as per scope refers to the total Group’s emissions in 2012 (Salini and subcontractors), while the chart on GHG emission intensity by sectors refers only to Salini’s emissions. This is because we started monitoring subcontractors’ emissions in 2012 and to show comparable data we have not inserted them in this chart. 29 Further information about MDGs are available at http://www.undp.org/content/undp/en/home/mdgoverview/ Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Environmental protection continued For Scope 3 emissions, the Group is committed to sourcing as much local goods and materials as possible (in 2012 72% of our total supplier ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL spend was with local businesses) and maintaining the highest rate IMPACT ASSESSMENT possible of sea shipments (98% of our total shipments in 2012 were through sea freight shipment), since this is the method with the lowest The Environmental and Social Impact Assessment (ESIA) is an associated carbon-emissions. in‑depth evaluation of a proposed project. It aims to assess the relationship between the proposed project and the surrounding 5.3 Biodiversity environment to help decision-makers determine whether or The protection of biodiversity and ecosystems is becoming the new under what conditions the project will proceed. frontier of environmental management, due to the deep impacts of ESIAs are developed by proponents who take into account biodiversity degradation on human society. This includes ecosystem the relevant local and international regulations, as well as the pollution, loss of access to clean water and food security. While environmental and social requirements of international financial reclamation is a critical component of environmental management, institutions (such as the World Bank – International Finance conservation programmes represent the least costly option to provide Corporation). ESIAs are usually made available for public effective protection for ecosystems. consultation by proponents, to provide the necessary information Assessing biodiversity impacts to interested parties. The potential impacts our projects are set to have on the environment, On the basis that the impacts identified in the approved ESIA, an ecosystem and local communities are assessed by our clients during Environmental and Social Management Plan (ESMP) is prepared the planning phase, according to ESIA procedures (see box). Salini and submitted to the client for its review and approval. The ESMP takes into account ESIA results to develop detailed Environmental describes the proposed measures that the contractor, the client and Social Management Plans aimed at ensuring impacts’ mitigation and other institutions will have to implement during the during construction activities. The Salini Costruttori Group is strongly construction and operational phases of the project, to ensure committed to preserving and protecting biodiversity in areas compliance with all the socio-environmental requirements surrounding its operating sites. We continually monitor working activity identified in the ESIA. closely with local authorities to achieve legal or regulatory compliance. Local flora and fauna are protected by careful management of water, construction areas, quarries and landfill sites. In recent years, the Gibe III project (in Ethiopia) has been criticised for its potential environmental and social impacts. It should be noted that the ESIA study for this project has been carried out within the framework of local, national and international environmental regulations and all the relevant documentation can be consulted and downloaded at the official project website www.gibe3.com.et. In addition to what said in the section 3.4, the impact from the reservoir relating to population displacement will be negligible, because the impounded water will be confined within the gorge of the river that is extremely unhealthy and virtually uninhabited. To the contrary, the Gibe III project will ensure renewable, clean energy, thereby enabling sustainable economic progress in one of the world’s poorest areas. Albania Azerbaijan Italy Denmark Tunisia Project name Levan-Dames Jenikan-Salyand Cagliari-Capo Boi Cityringen Copenhagen Sfax-Gabes Sector Roads and motorways Roads and motorways Roads and motorways Underground railways Roads and motorways Location South-West Albania, South-East Azerbaijan South Sardinia, in Quartu Copenhagen, city centre East Tunisia – city of Sfax Fier prefecture Sant'Elena area (adjacent to Cagliari) Environmental Agricultural area Agricultural area Coastal area Urban area Desertic area context Main activities Construction of a motorway, Construction of a motorway Construction of a motorway Construction of a circular Construction of a motorway carried out with in situ excavation of and galleries, with use of metro line with about 17 km in the area quarries’ materials existing quarries as landfills of tunnels and 17 stations of rocks and soils Size of 1.2 km2 3.4 km2 0.7 km2 0.4 km2 6 km2 operating site Position in relation Adjacent to Adjacent to Adjacent to Located inside Adjacent to to protected areas protected areas protected areas protected areas protected areas protected areas Name and typology Frakulla, Madhe, Ada, National Park and Mud Settefratelli-Monte Fælledparken, Gammel Réserve naturelle El Gonna of protected areas Varibopi, Cakrani, Gjonca and Volcano Nature Reserve Gesis – regional park (under Strand, Nørrebroparken (areas Hekali – archeological areas (Durovdag Mud Volcano) establishment) identified in local legislation), Copenhagen Inner Lakes (‘Natura 2000’ site) Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Protected areas Reclamation of affected areas About Salini In the reporting period, Salini has carried out just one project (Cityringen, Salini is committed to reclaiming all areas affected by plants, facilities, in Denmark) in protected areas while other four roads projects were quarries and landfills during or after the completion of a project, in order located adjacent to protected areas. These projects cover an area to leave these areas in a condition to facilitate natural re-vegetation, of around 12 km2, representing about the 4% of the total area of the prevent pounding and erosion, improve slope stability and return Group projects. affected areas to their original state. In Denmark, where we are building the new Copenhagen’s circular Reclamation activities are agreed with clients, and are planned by Salini metro line, six of our work sites involve protected areas. Fortunately in partnership with local authorities and communities. Here we aim to in only two of them construction activities have been evaluated as understanding the needs of those stakeholders for the areas future use having potential impacts on habitats (relating to superficial water (e.g. farming, grazing). Where possible, Salini arranges the handover of and groundwater), so there we adopt special mitigation measures. these areas to local farmers after restoration, again in partnership with Managing The involved protected areas are Gammel Strand and Copenhagen local administrations. This good practice, adopted mainly in Ethiopia, Inner Lakes. The Copenhagen Inner Lakes is the most environmentally is appreciated by local communities and authorities. sustainability sensitive area and there we work according to the provisions of a In 2012 the Group reclaimed 333,500m2 of former quarries and landfill special permit issued by the authorities. In this area we have installed areas (77,639m2 in 2011), carried out over 78,000m2 of reforestation silt curtains to mitigate potential dirty/contaminated water to the lakes and 3,879,773m2 of topsoil restoration (146,178m2 in 2011). Reforestation outside our work area and periodically we perform underwater activities has been undertaken mainly in Albania, where we planted inspections to verify silt curtains effectiveness and collect water over 30,000 acacia trees. We are committed to using native plants for samples. Quarterly we report on the lake status to the authorities. reclamation and in some projects have nurseries for growing plants. Local In the period we have also replanted some specific plants in the lake An example is represented by Beles Multipurpose project (Ethiopia), for protecting those species and other living organisms. development where before the handing over of the project areas to the client we With respect to the roads projects located near protected areas, the reclaimed some temporary exploited areas by planting 75,000 different environmental impact assessments carried out have not identified any native trees cultivated at our sites. In 2012 our restoration activities significant impacts on the environment or biodiversity. have concerned protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value. Care for our people SOIL EROSION PROTECTION ACTIVITIES In Malaysia Salini is constructing a 372 MW hydropower plant (the Ulu Jelai project) that intends to meet the increasing Malaysian peak electricity demand, improve energy security and reduce Environmental protection carbon emissions. The project is located in a rainforest area with about 4,000 mm of rainwater per year. In those conditions earthmoving activities are exposed to great soil stability risks, that Salini minimise thanks to the development of a proper plan aimed at protecting soil from erosion 52 and controlling sediments, based on site specific drainage and soil 53 consolidation systems. Appendix First of all, these systems are applied to the site roads, which are paved with draining materials for safe access in all weather. Great attention is also paid to slope cutting activities. Slopes are installed with a net of drain channels that convey the rainwater in silt fences and check dams, which allow to retain sediments avoiding their dispersion in the river basin. These drainage systems are regularly maintained and sediments collected are removed until the slope is completely stabilised. Another example of innovative technique used at Ulu Jelai is the use GRI data and of ‘fibromat’, a biodegradable coconut sheet placed on the slope immediately after cutting and seeding activities. This technique assurance report immediately protects the slope and safeguards the seed from the water runoff, offering permanent protection and a faster environment reclamation. We calculate that using this method, the autochthon flora (bamboos, bananas, mangos, etc.) is able to grow spontaneously on the restored slopes in only 3–5 years after the completion of the work. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Environmental protection continued 5.4 Efficient use of natural resources In line with the new commitment of the Salini Costruttori Group in focusing its sustainability reporting on sound materiality analysis, in this section we describe our environmental impacts in relation to total and sectorial turnover. We also focus our disclosure on our most significant sectors of operation. Salini’s key efficiency indicators30 Input Construction Output activities Materials intensity* GHG emission intensity* 160 160 152 1,562 1,355 900 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 * Raw materials and semi-manufactured external goods * GHG emissions (t CO2 eq)/Turnover from construction (t – excepted aggregates)/Turnover from construction activities (€ million) activities (€ million) Energy intensity* Waste intensity* Dams and hydroelectric 157 2,094 plants 126 1,987 93 1,938 Road and motorways 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 * Energy consumption (GJ)/Turnover from construction * Waste produced (t – except rocks and soil)/Turnover activities (€ million) Railways from construction activities (€ million) Water intensity* Public building construction 13,534 5,034 4,058 2010 2011 2012 * Water supplied (m3)/Turnover from construction activities (€ million) Sector contribution to the major environmental Materials Energy Water GHG Waste impacts in 2012 used consumption supply emissions generated Dams and hydroelectric plants 16.4% 46.9% 67.1% 48.2% 12.1% Road and motorways 64.8% 51.2% 31.7% 49.7% 71.3% Railways 18.2% 1.1% 0.9% 1.2% 16.4% Public building construction 0.6% 0.8% 0.3% 0.9% 0.2% In 2012 our key efficiency indicators registered good performance, maintaining past levels for energy and emissions and reaching higher efficiency for the others (materials, water and waste). We focus our narrative reporting on these efficiency on the areas of our business with the greatest environmental impact – namely dams and hydroelectric plants, roads and motorways and railways. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Use of materials We achieved these reductions through recycling materials such as About Salini Materials is an essential component of the construction industry. asphalt in road rehabilitation projects. For instance Todini has completed Considering all materials used at our sites, hydropower and road the rehabilitation of part of the highway which links the capital city Kiev projects represent the sectors with the highest consumption of with the western city of Chop (Ukraine), recycling the 26% of the prematerials, while if we do not consider aggregates, most use is seen in existing asphalt (equal to about 600,000 tonnes) through special plants, roads and railways. Cement, aggregates and metal materials are the allowing us also to reduce the amount of waste. main resources used in our hydroelectric projects, while bitumen, Besides the raw materials used, rocks and soil represent the primary cement and aggregates are the main ones used in our road projects. material handled at construction sites and for this reason we consider These materials are used mainly to produce in-house asphalt (2.1 million as crucial to manage them properly. Salini classifies and stores rocks tonnes in 2012) and concrete (2.9 million tonnes in 2012), in addition to and soil excavated during its activities, in order to reuse them in the ready-made concrete and asphalt31. construction processes depending on the projects’ needs and their Managing Salini is committed to reducing the material intensity of its projects and qualitative features. In 2012, we reused the 32% (by volume) of the to increasing the efficiency of the resources used. To achieve this goal whole rocks and soil handled. sustainability we act in two different stages: during the tender process our technical department prepares the best proposal for reducing the use and the Energy use and GHG emissions handling of materials, obtaining minor costs and less environmental The Group’s energy use consists primarily of the direct consumption of impacts. During the project implementation our Cost Control offices at diesel and gasoline fuels used to power machinery, and diesel fuel to operating sites constantly undertake analysis of resource consumption generate electricity at operating site level. Other fuels used by the Group as the work advances, in order to ensure the budget’s respect and are natural gas, coal oil and aviation gasoline. Local prevent unnecessary use of materials, and to maximise the efficiency of Hydropower projects, located mainly in remote areas of Africa, use material warehousing and operational functions. In the last three years primarily diesel fuel to power plants and vehicles, due to the lack of the Group has achieved a continuous improvement in material intensity, electric grids and gas pipelines. Road projects have a more balanced development with a total decrease of 34%. energy mix, using diesel and gasoline mainly for vehicles, while electricity and natural gas is generally used to power plants. The latter has registered a strong increase in 2012, due to the asphalt plants consumption in Ukraine. Care for Materials intensity by sectors* Energy intensity by sectors* our people 3,113 2,110 2,850 2,835 2,364 2,367 2,415 2,319 1,400 2,039 1,331 856 447 539 Environmental 191 300 448 408 189 280 161 109 132 131 protection 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Dams and hydroelectric plants Roads and motorways Dams and hydroelectric plants Roads and motorways Railways Public building * Raw materials and semi-manufactured external goods Railways * Energy consumption (GJ)/Turnover (€ million) Public building 54 (t–excepted aggregates)/Turnover (€ million) 55 Materials used by sector in 2012* Rocks and soil excavated and reused in 2012* Appendix (t) (m3) 7,816,101 10,608,922 4,949,436 2,971,617 1,103,672 1,339,781 2,409,088 378,045 95,438 77,241 GRI data and 1,205,161 276,658 Railways Roads and motorways Dams and hydroelectric Railways Roads and motorways Dams and hydroelectric assurance report plants plants Raw materials and semi-manufactured external goods Aggregates Reused Excavated * Data include also subcontractors’ activities * Data include also subcontractors’ activities 30 Environmental data reported in this Report relates to the major Group’s operating sites active at the end of 2012. Specifically, ratios relate to 28 operating sites covering the 96% of total 2012 revenue on the total operating construction revenue. In accordance with the CRE Sector Supplement, in 2012 data also includes subcontractors’ performance. To avoid the misrepresentation of trends, in describing trends, data relates only to Salini (5.4), while charts for 2012 only and data reported in section 5.7 also include subcontractors. 31 These ready-mix products are used primarily at road and railways projects in Europe, due to their market availability. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Environmental protection continued Water use ENERGY-SAVING SOLUTIONS Salini uses a significant amount of water for its activities. Water is withdrawn primarily from rivers and wells according to local availability, At the Gibe III project in Ethiopia, as well as connecting the site to and in 2012 about 80% of total supply was consumed in production the electric grid, Salini has also developed an energy-saving processes (crushing plants, concrete batching plants, washing of plants system associated to the conveyor of the RCC (roller-compacted and machinery, wetting of tracks and site areas to reduce dust). concrete) plant. The system consists in special devices which The remaining water consumption can be attributed to non-production can produce electricity when the conveyor moves concrete from uses (offices, canteens, houses and irrigation). the batching plant to the dam. In 2012 the system produced In 2012, about two-thirds of our water consumption was in hydropower 2,616,333 kWh of electricity, allowing us to avoid about 1,830 projects, mainly in Africa. When setting up an operating site, the Group tonnes of CO2 emissions from diesel generators with a net saving analyses local water availability in order to achieve a well-balanced mix of about €118,000. of sources and to avoid significant stress on a single source. In Sierra Leone, Salini has connected the workers camp to In order to reduce water consumption, special water treatment plants our hydroelectric plant that is rehabilitating, replacing diesel are active at our operating sites to recycle and reuse industrial water. generators and obtaining a 70% of CO2 emissions, passing These plants create a closed-loop system, capable of saving thousands from 250 tonnes in 2011 to just 75 tonnes in 2012. of cubic metres of water every year. In addition, to strictly monitor water In our Nigerian operating sites, the Group has unified all the supply trends and avoid unnecessary consumption, in 2012 we have power units with a parallel-machine system. The power units, started to install water meters at all our main operating sites32. before dislocated in various areas of the operating site, are now more efficient allowing to generate the same amount of electricity Disposal and recycling of waste with less fuel consumption. Large-scale construction works produce huge amounts of waste, primarily excavated material, construction and demolition waste, muds from wastewater treatment, used tyres, waste oil, filters, lubricants and hydraulic fluids. Energy supply represents a significant consumption of natural resources and it is the main source of our GHG emissions. We are The greatest quantity of excavated material (mainly rocks and soil not therefore committed to finding viable solutions to save energy at our reusable at the site) are generated and disposed of at our hydroelectric sites. The main opportunity to reduce our emissions comes from linking projects. Railways represent the second largest source of excavated the plants and facilities to power grids, like Gibe III (completed in 2012) material waste. These materials are disposed in specific areas selected and GERDP (in progress) in Ethiopia. by the clients and reclaimed for new purposes. A good example of this activity is represented by the Beles Multipurpose project (Ethiopia), Moreover, energy-saving initiatives adopted at our sites include where in the 2011/2012 period we disposed the mucking material not replacing equipment with more efficient models; implementing reusable in the project in two disposal areas. These areas have been energy saving lighting systems, switching technologies used at plants reclaimed covering them with black cotton soil, installing draining systems (for example from diesel to natural gas) and installing energy recovery to collect rainwater and planting native plants to avoid erosion. These systems (see case study). areas have been donated to local communities that now cultivate them. GHG emission intensity is linked directly with energy intensity, so the Developing waste management plans is one of the most important trends are very similar. The emissions mix for our highest impact sector elements of our environmental management system. The plans are set shows that 30% of total emissions for our hydroelectric projects come up to manage waste in a proper manner, complying with all applicable from business travel and goods shipment (Scope 3 emissions). regulations and best practices. According to these plans, construction To reduce emissions and shipping costs, we are committed to using waste must be segregated and collected in specific areas and recycled sea shipment as much as possible since it is the lowest carbon wherever possible, while the remainder is sent via authorised transport intensive method available. In 2012 we shipped around 192,000 tonnes companies to approved waste disposal facilities. In Africa, and to a of goods, 98% of which were shipped by sea mainly in Africa. lesser extent in other regions, some scrap materials such as steel and wood are donated to local communities. Energy mix by sector in 2012* GHG emissions by scope and sector in 2012* (000’GJ) (tonnes) 192,779 2,011 1,768 147,892 Dams and hydroelectric Roads and motorways Dams and hydroelectric Roads and motorways plants plants Diesel Gasoline Natural gas Electricity Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 * Data include also subcontractors' activities * Data include also subcontractors’ activities 32 Data provided about water supply are estimated as described in the Methodological note. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Hazardous waste mainly consists of oil and used batteries, and come We invest significant resources at corporate and operating site level About Salini from our mechanical workshops. These materials are sent to waste to protect the environment. In 2012 Salini spent about €6.1 million in contractors to recycle and/or dispose appropriately. environmental protection activities, mainly for waste treatment and disposal, environmental management systems, monitoring activities and Waste recycling rate represents the best indicator of the effectiveness of environmental protection plants (e.g. wastewater treatments systems). our actions in regards to waste management. Since 2008 when we first started to monitor waste, the rate of waste reused and recycled has Our site environmental departments, also supported by external improved steadily. Excluding excavated materials, in 2012 we have agencies and HSE Department at headquarters, conduct regular audits reached a recycling rate equal to 36% of whole waste generated (32% on construction sites and subcontractors to check compliance with in 2011). The most recycled materials, both on-site and off-site, are the applicable environmental policies and procedures. scraps of concrete and cement, followed by metal materials, muds, Environmental performance is periodically reviewed by Salini’s top used tyres, exhausted oils and plastic. management, who assign targets to ensure ongoing performance Managing 5.5 Environmental protection improvements. sustainability In line with the requirements of ISO 14001, our operating sites have specific arrangements in place to ensure the compliance with legal, INVOLVING LOCAL COMMUNITY contractual and corporate requirements for environmental protection. IN WATER USAGE Salini is aware that in some areas water represents a basic asset Recycled waste by sector in 2012* for sustaining the life of local communities. For this reason, the % Local 1 1. Dams and hydroelectric plants Group pays a great attention when assessing and selecting 20.9% water sources for its sites. development 2. Roads and motorways We involve community representatives to understand about the respective needs and to find solutions that allow us to withdraw 3 2 52.0% adequate water quantities without detrimentally affecting local 3. Railways inhabitants and the surrounding environment. 27.1% In addition, we collaborate with our clients to improve communities’ water facilities, building or rehabilitating groundwater wells, water pipelines and irrigation grids. Care for * Data include also subcontractors’ activities our people Water intensity by sectors* Waste intensity by sectors* 37,384 675 515 Environmental 8,517 151 4,622 8,260 80 protection 756 2,939 93 34 3,913 275 248 104 4 987 24 11 10 207 191 8 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 56 Dams and hydroelectric plants Railways Roads and motorways Public building Dams and hydroelectric plants Railways Roads and motorways Public building 57 * Water supplied (m3)/Turnover (€ million) * Waste produced (t – except rocks and soil)/Turnover (€ million) High water intensity in hydroelectric sector in 2010 was due to Beles project Appendix in Ethiopia, completed in late 2010. Water supply by use and sector in 2012* Waste by sector in 2012* (m3) (t) 4,917,379 117,898 2,355,827 52,552 GRI data and 20,014 assurance report Roads and motorways Dams and hydroelectric Railways Roads and motorways Dams and hydroelectric plants plants Production Civil Non-hazardous Hazardous * Data include also subcontractors’ activities * Data include also subcontractors’ activities Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Environmental protection continued Water management Water that is intended for domestic use is filtered and purified in special Salini carefully controls and treats its wastewater to minimise negative treatment facilities available at all operating sites. After use, domestic impacts on the environment and local communities. Plants, mechanical wastewater is collected in septic tanks, and then discharged as waste workshops and machinery washing stations are the main sources of by authorised agencies. When the site is located in an urban area, the wastewater. Wastewater is collected in settling tanks and treatment domestic wastewater is discharged to public sewers, in compliance facilities, where sediments and oils are filtered out. Our HSE with the qualitative and quantitative limits set by the sewer companies. departments, in collaboration with site laboratories and external agencies perform regular analyses before release of wastewater to Noise and vibration management the environment, to ensure the compliance with ISO and contractual Noise and vibration can be significant aspects for the environment and standards. In particular, we check Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD), local communities. As part of our environmental management systems, Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) and Total Suspended Solids (TSS) to prior to starting activities we carry out an assessment of the potential ensure that statutory limits are complied with. We also check that our impacts deriving from the planned activities. With this information we wastewater does not contain any contaminant that could be harmful determine preventive and protective measures so that impacts can be to the environment or local communities. reduced to acceptable levels (for example by consolidating structures and using acoustic barriers). The main noise and vibration impacts come from excavation and ENVIRONMENTAL TRAINING blasting activities. Other noise sources include fixed plants (crushing, batching and asphalt) as well as diesel generators. Beyond acoustic At the Gibe III project, the HSE Department constantly performs barriers installation and the use of new models of generators, we pay training sessions aimed at instructing all personnel employed on close attention to the management practices adopted at worksites. environmental issues, such as soil pollution control, waste For example we perform noisy activities only in daytime hours, avoiding segregation, air emissions and dust control plan, hazardous using explosive charges in sensitive areas, ensure regular maintenance material handling and storage. of plants and machinery, educate drivers awareness about appropriate use of vehicle engines. During all our activities, noise and vibration measurements are continuously undertaken to verify the effectiveness of mitigation measures. Where required, further improvements are carried out. FOCUS ON: Eco-friendly materials use at Cityringen project At Cityringen project in Copenhagen (Denmark) the use of chemicals and products which may come into contact with soil and/or groundwater if not managed properly, is a significant issue. We have developed a special procedure aimed at substituting hazardous materials with more eco-friendly ones. During the Preliminary Design Phase all chemicals which will be used in the project are screened against legal and contractual requirements. For non-compliant products substitutes must be identified. Among products resulted as compliant a second screening is conducted, in order to select the least dangerous materials and chemical products from an environmental point of view, with respect to technical and economical aspects. The Final List of Products is included in the package to be submitted for the approval to the authorities. The same process is undertaken for all oils, lubrificants, greases and other materials to be used in all activities at site. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Traffic and commuting management 5.6 Future commitments About Salini The 28 operating sites included in this report cover an area of about Salini has set the following sustainability targets for completion by 260 km2 and include about 4,700 vehicles and a workforce of about 31 December 2013. We will report on our progress against these 19,000 employees as well as about 9,000 subcontractors workers. targets in our 2013 Sustainability Report. Organising this many people and vehicles require a significant coordination effort, especially to ensure the safety of our people and reduced environmental impacts. WHAT Environmental protection For this reason we have in place specific traffic management plans at each site, that specify general rules of circulation, road sign installation and delimited pedestrian passages. Traffic control is ensured by Why Managing flagmen teams and local police, drivers receive regular training on safety Ensuring protection of natural resources and biodiversity, enhancing rules and are periodically subject to alcohol and drug tests. Moreover, employees’ awareness about environmental issues which in turn in some sites speed is monitored through GPS systems installed improves our risk management. sustainability on our vehicles. Besides air emissions from vehicles, that we mitigate through regular How maintenance, on-site traffic cause also great dust emissions, due to –– Enhancement of waste and hazardous substances management unpaved tracks. To mitigate this impact special water tanks continuously throughout the development of corporate guidelines. wet site areas during all work shifts. In addition, to reduce traffic and –– Constant evaluation and monitoring of project environmental environmental pollution our operating sites have commuting resources availability. programmes in place aimed to optimise people transfer between Local –– Improve KPI analysis and reporting by Todini projects. development accommodations, work areas and canteens. Commuting is carried out through company buses (for workers) and car-pooling (for employees –– Increase management commitment by performing Production working at sites’ offices). Division/HSE Department jointly audits. Environmental pollution Salini carefully manages liquid materials to prevent environmental accidents, by implementing effective spill control measures which eliminate or contain any spills of chemicals, oils, fuels and hazardous material. Environmental emergency plans are in place at our sites to Care for manage both environmental accidents and cases of polluted soil. Procedures require an immediate stop of works so that we can evaluate our people the impact, decide on appropriate mitigation measures and notify the authorities. Contaminated soil, subsoil, water or groundwater are sampled before and after mitigation activities to ensure complete remediation. Environmental protection 58 59 Appendix GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Environmental protection continued 5.7 Performance data sheet Performance indicator Unit 2010 2011 2012 2012 GRI Ref. Only Salini data (subcontractors excluded) Total data Materials used by category EN1 Non-renewable raw materials Cement1 t 183,078 199,099 289,760 297,623 Additives2 t – 34 3,537 3,889 Bitumen2 t 52,711 50,576 112,011 118,702 Aggregates3 t 915,391 6,861,690 8,391,508 9,034,023 Metallic material t 69,206 64,550 47,726 55,358 Total non-renewable raw materials t 1,220,818 7,175,949 8,844,542 9,509,594 Renewable raw materials Woody material t 10,575 7,317 11,217 11,425 Total renewable raw materials t 10,575 7,317 11,217 11,425 Semi-manufactured goods produced internally Concrete1 t n/a 478,242 2,906,237 2,950,803 Asphalt2 t n/a 1,000,071 2,117,115 2,127,419 Total semi-manufactured goods produced internally t n/a 1,478,313 5,023,352 5,078,222 Semi-manufactured goods or parts from external suppliers Prefabricated elements of reinforced concrete t 70,865 54,408 51,582 91,529 Ready-made concrete4 t 1,196,313 1,265,387 640,936 714,441 Ready-made asphalt5 t 106,126 241,743 445,154 576,533 Others t 5,094 550 – – Total semi-manufactured goods or parts from external suppliers t 1,378,399 1,562,088 1,137,673 1,382,503 Associated process materials Lubrificant – Motor oil l 569,476 523,979 689,681 – Lubrificant – Hydraulic oil l 492,159 426,599 625,859 – Lubrificant – Grease Kg 62,774 77,247 95,278 – Tyres no. 17,217 19,171 24,191 – Accumulators no. n/a 5,554 3,663 – Explosives6 t 1,277 1,000 2,401 – Waste materials reused EN2 Rocks and soils from excavation % 47% 49% 40% 32% Direct energy consumption by primary energy source EN3 Non-renewable energy sources Diesel for electricity generation GJ 649,123 613,363 688,853 692,614 Diesel for vehicles and machineries7 GJ 1,415,804 1,700,833 2,119,642 2,542,093 Gasoline for vehicles and machineries GJ 99,784 132,226 144,345 150,691 Kerosene GJ 731 2,136 2,729 10,066 Natural gas 8 GJ 77 153,536 424,251 439,102 Aviation gasoline GJ 5,172 5,392 8,360 8,360 Total non-renewable energy sources GJ 2,170,692 2,607,486 3,388,180 3,842,926 kWh 602,969,954 724,301,737 941,161,116 1,067,479,422 Renewable energy sources Total renewable energy sources GJ/kWh – – – Total direct energy consumption GJ 2,170,692 2,607,486 3,388,180 3,842,926 kWh 602,969,954 724,301,737 941,161,116 1,067,479,422 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Performance indicator Unit 2010 2011 2012 2012 GRI Ref. About Salini Only Salini data (subcontractors excluded) Total data Direct energy consumption by sector EN3 Dams and hydroelectric plants GJ 1,042,350 1,213,416 1,583,981 1,691,610 Roads and motorways GJ 1,087,685 1,335,288 1,754,107 1,951,928 Railways GJ 12,992 24,799 20,743 170,040 Civil building construction GJ 27,665 33,982 29,348 29,348 Total direct energy consumption GJ 2,170,692 2,607,486 3,388,180 3,842,926 kWh 602,969,954 724,301,737 941,161,116 1,067,479,422 Indirect energy consumption from external suppliers EN4 Managing Electricity purchased from non-renewables sources GJ 83,470 73,782 72,843 77,927 sustainability Electricity purchased from renewables sources9 GJ 17,491 11,850 80,744 82,483 Total purchased electricity GJ 100,961 85,632 153,587 160,410 kWh 28,044,637 23,786,694 42,663,122 44,558,349 Indirect energy consumption by sector EN4 Dams and hydroelectric plants GJ 7,378 4,975 79,322 79,327 Local Roads and motorways GJ 81,859 67,280 54,683 59,533 Railways GJ 7,973 8,930 16,149 18,118 Civil building construction GJ 1,277 1,387 423 423 development headquarters 2,473 3,060 3,010 3,010 Total purchased electricity GJ 100,961 85,632 153,587 160,410 kWh 28,044,637 23,786,694 42,663,122 44,558,349 Total water withdrawal by source EN8 Groundwater well 10 m3 476,719 725,666 1,160,578 1,184,016 River m3 11,030,636 5,448,735 5,916,064 5,986,064 Care for our people Lake m3 2,462,424 4,501 – – Sea11 m3 – – 9,065 12,301 Municipal supply12 m3 712,447 816,276 135,869 262,383 Total m3 14,682,227 6,995,178 7,221,576 7,444,764 Total water withdrawal by use EN8 Production use m3 13,058,776 5,561,308 6,020,091 6,238,038 Civil use m3 1,623,451 1,433,870 1,201,485 1,206,726 Environmental Total m3 14,682,227 6,995,178 7,221,576 7,444,764 Total water withdrawal by region EN8 protection Africa13 m3 13,060,071 5,415,446 6,485,029 6,556,679 Asia14 Europe15 m3 m3 446,308 1,175,849 611,982 967,750 333,500 403,047 388,736 499,349 60 Total m3 14,682,227 6,995,178 7,221,576 7,444,764 61 Position of operating sites in relation to protected areas16 EN11 Appendix In the area % – – 0.03% – Adjacent to the area % 1.14% 4.12% 4.17% – Containing portions of the area % – – – – Not involved in the area (neither adjacent to) % 98.86% 95.88% 95.80% – Total % 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% – Direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scope 2) greenhouse gas emissions by primary energy source EN16 Gasoline for traction t CO2 47,059 44,467 54,109 54,405 Diesel for traction7 t CO2 102,641 123,304 166,498 199,681 Diesel for electricity generation t CO2 6,926 9,178 10,030 10,471 GRI data and assurance report Kerosene t CO2 53 155 198 732 Natural gas8 t CO2 4 7,664 20,663 21,387 Aviation gasoline t CO2 375 391 606 606 Indirect purchased electricity t CO2 11,830 10,621 11,407 11,994 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions t CO2 168,887 195,780 263,511 299,274 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Environmental protection continued Performance indicator Unit 2010 2011 2012 2012 GRI Ref. Only Salini data (subcontractors excluded) Total data Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions by source (Scope 3) EN17 Business travels t CO2 4,177 2,049 2,369 – Shipping of goods at working sites17 t CO2 10,277 23,753 59,442 – Total other indirect greenhouse gas emissions t CO2 14,453 25,802 61,811 – Total wastewater by use EN21 Production use m3 12,784,158 5,375,411 5,585,451 5,791,604 Civil use m3 1,623,451 1,433,870 1,201,485 1,206,726 Total m3 14,407,610 6,809,281 6,786,936 6,998,330 Total wastewater by destination EN21 Sewers m3 331,532 533,784 189,597 267,347 Lands/surface waters m3 14,076,077 6,275,497 6,597,339 6,730,983 Total m3 14,407,610 6,809,281 6,786,936 6,998,330 Total weight of waste by type EN22 Non-hazardous waste Mixture of cement, concrete, bricks18 t 115,240 182,582 115,135 126,166 Metallic materials t 4,057 2,876 2,246 2,331 Wood t 1,728 1,056 507 517 Subtotal – Non-hazardous construction and demolition waste t 121,025 186,514 117,888 129,014 Rocks, soils and cutting materials19 t 1,233,509 1,159,949 6,130,659 6,730,604 Other waste from excavation activity t – 1,076 – – Subtotal – Non-hazardous excavation waste t 1,233,509 1,161,025 6,130,659 6,730,604 Frazzled tyres20 t 1,205 1,216 1,960 1,960 Urban mixed waste21 t 545 537 22,702 22,842 Non hazardous muds resulting from the treatment of wastewater22 t 2,185 2,856 4,851 9,936 Others non-hazardous waste t 5,397 5,750 7,951 8,241 Subtotal – Non-hazardous general waste t 9,331 10,359 37,465 42,980 Subtotal – Non-hazardous waste t 1,361,681 1,355,042 6,286,012 6,902,597 Hazardous waste Asphalt, tar and bituminous products23 t 4,045 14,586 1,204 1,207 Mixed waste containing hazardous materials t n/a n/a 6,340 6,340 Subtotal – Hazardous construction waste t 4,045 14,586 7,544 7,547 Soil and other contaminated waste24 t 51 4,051 22 8,842 Subtotal – Hazardous excavation waste t 51 4,051 22 8,842 Oil’s scraps20 t 875 856 1,161 1,180 Batteries and accumulators20 t 322 259 169 169 Hazardous muds resulting from the treatment of wastewater22 t 67 88 305 305 Paint, additives and solvents t 493 8 136 136 Others hazardous waste t 309 76 594 600 Subtotal – Hazardous general waste t 2,067 1,286 2,366 2,391 Subtotal – Hazardous waste t 8,347 22,780 9,932 18,779 Total weight of waste t 1,370,028 1,377,822 6,295,944 6,921,376 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Performance indicator Unit 2010 2011 2012 2012 GRI Ref. About Salini Only Salini data (subcontractors excluded) Total data Total weight of waste by disposal method EN22 Non-hazardous waste Incineration t 65 16 50 147 Reuse and recycling t 77,981 170,415 51,548 67,985 Landfills/Dump sites t 811,180 1,085,401 6,234,358 6,834,409 Temporary on-site storage25 t 472,454 99,211 57 57 Total t 1,361,681 1,355,043 6,286,012 6,902,597 Hazardous waste Managing Incineration t 2 – 98 100 sustainability Reuse and recycling t 1,137 15,481 1,106 1,123 Landfills/Dump sites t 6,682 7,078 8,526 17,353 Temporary on-site storage25 t 528 220 202 202 Total t 8,348 22,780 9,932 18,779 Significant spills of chemicals and oils EN23 Local Significant spills of chemicals and oils no. 77 81 26 73 Total spilled quantity l n/a n/a 1,615 2,695 development Land involved in remediation activity CRE5 Land remediated26 m2 – 80,639 – – Land in need of remediation m2 – 10,513 – – Land potentially contaminated but not yet analysed m2 – – – – Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations EN28 Significant fines no. 3 19 9 – Care for our people euro/000 387 73 44 – Non-monetary sanctions no. – 1 1 – Total HSE protection expenditures and investments by type EN30 Health and Safety protection costs euro/000 1,546 1,591 2,060 – Waste management, emission treatment and remediation costs27 euro/000 7,708 8,828 4,440 – Prevention and HSE management costs28 euro/000 2,581 2,569 4,404 – Environmental Total HSE expenditures and investments euro/000 11,835 12,988 10,903 – protection 1 The increase in 2012 is mainly due to the consumption at the Gibe III project in Ethiopia, where in the period the building of the main dam has started. 2 The increase in 2012 is mainly due to the consumption at the SWRP project in Kazakhstan and at the M06 Road project in Ukraine, where works have been hastened for the 2012 European Football Championship. 3 The increase in 2012 is mainly due to the consumption at the Jenikan-Salyand project in Azerbaijan and at the M06 Road project in Ukraine. 62 4 The decrease in 2012 is mainly due to the completion of works at the Variante di Valico project in Italy. 5 The increase in 2012 is mainly due to the consumption at the M06 Road project in Ukraine. 6 The increase in 2012 is mainly due to the consumption at the GERD project in Ethiopia, that in the period has reached the operating speed for the excavation of the main dam. 7 The increase in 2012 is mainly due to the consumptions at the GERD (Ethiopia), the M06 Road (Ukraine) and the Ulu Jelai (Malaysia) projects. 8 The increase in 2012 is mainly due to the consumption at the M06 Road project in Ukraine, where works have been hastened for the 2012 European Football Championship. 63 9 The increase in 2012 is mainly due to the consumptions at the Gibe III in Ethiopia, that in the period has been connected to the national electric grid (Ethiopia’s energy system consists in about 90% of electricity coming from hydropower source). Appendix 10 The increase in 2012 is mainly due to the consumptions at the Gibe III (Ethiopia) and the M06 Road (Ukraine) projects. 11 The consumption of sea water in 2012 is due to the supply of desalinated water at our projects in Dubai (UAE). 12 The decrease in 2012 is mainly due to the completion of works at the Levan Dames (Albania) and the Metro B1 (Italy) projects, as well as to minor consumption at SWRP (Kazakhstan) project. 13 The increase in 2012 is mainly due to the consumptions at the Gibe III and the GERD projects in Ethiopia. In particular, in the year the Gibe III project started the full production of RCC (Rolled‑Compacted Concrete) for the main dam, with huge use of water from wells and river. 14 The decrease in 2012 is mainly due to minor consumption at the SWRP (Kazakhstan) project. 15 The decrease in 2012 is mainly due to the completion of works at the Levan Dames project in Albania. 16 Reported data have been calculated as the ratio of areas’ size affected by protected areas in comparison with the total managed area. 2010 and 2011 data have been restated according to this calculation method. 17 2011 data has been restated due to a miscalculation in the 2011 Sustainability Report. 2010 data has been presented for the first time in this report (not reported in the previous ones). The increase in 2012 is mainly due to the goods shipped at Ethiopian projects (Gibe III and GERD). 18 This category is presented in this report for the first time. 2010 and 2011 data consider ‘cement’ and ‘construction mixed waste’ reported in the 2011 Sustainability Report. 19 The huge increase in 2012 is mainly due to the excavation activities carried out at the Ulu Jelai project (Malaysia) both to prepare the dam’s foundations and to open a quarry to be used for the aggregate’s production. GRI data and 20 Data has been estimated based on the consumptions of virgin materials, as explained in the Methodological Note. 21 The significant increase in 2012 is mainly due to the waste produced at Dubai projects (UAE), that have started again activities in the period after some years of stop. 22 2010 and 2011 data have been restated to better show the subdivision between hazardous and non-hazardous waste (in previous Sustainability reports these data were included solely assurance report in hazardous waste). 23 2011 data relates to an activity of asphalt filing carried out at the Bouira Motorway (Algeria), due to pavement imperfections. The project was finished in 2011. 24 The increase in 2012 is mainly related to the excavation activities at the Copenhagen Cityringen project (Denmark), where contaminated soils was found and subsequently reclaimed. 25 2011 data has been restated to include waste classified as ‘unknown destination’ in the 2011 Sustainability Report. Change is due to a new classification in the reporting system. 26 2011 data was related to soil affected by potentially contaminant activities (jet grouting), spills of chemicals and plants with spills eventuality (e.g. water purification systems, asphalt plants) produced at the Bujagali (Uganda) and the Bouira (Algeria) projects, both completed in 2011. 27 The decrease in 2012 is mainly due to the completion of works at the Metro B1 project in Italy, where the excavated soil was treated as waste with consequent higher disposal costs. 28 2012 data is not comparable with the previous years because it includes also the remuneration of the HSE staff (not included in previous years). Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Chapter 6 6.1 Membership Appendix –– Comitato Leonardo – (Italian Quality Committee) (chairman) –– Istituto Grandi Infrastrutture (Large Infrastructure Institute) (Steering Committee member) –– Associazione Grandi Imprese (Large company Association) (member) –– Chamber of Commerce Tunisia-Italy (member) –– Global Compact Network Italia (member) –– Italian Committee on Large Dams (member) –– National Industrial Safety Council of Nigeria (member) 6.2 Sustainability risks and opportunities at Salini’s operating sites At our operating sites, risks and opportunities related to sustainability issues can be divided in the following categories: –– pure risks; –– risks that can be turned into opportunities; –– pure opportunities. The tables below show how the Group manages each risk and opportunity and how the company and local communities benefit from our activities. In this representation we focus on to our operating sites located in developing countries. In our view, this approach represents the best way to adopt the precautionary principle in the management of issues related to economic, social and environmental sustainability. The first category includes pure risks, that are mitigated through proper activities aimed at reducing potential extra costs and ensuring our ‘social license to operate’. In this section… 6.1 Membership 64 6.2 Sustainability risks and opportunities at Salini’s operating sites 64 6.3 Methodological Note 68 6.4 Glossary 71 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Category Activities Objectives About Salini Pure risks Type33 Control and mitigation activities Company benefits Benefits for society Natural resources O, F, R – Adoption of international standards for – Reduced – Lowered impacts on scarcity, more stringent environmental management (ISO 14001), consumption and local communities environmental with particular attention to the local related costs during deriving from regulation and more constraints due to natural resources project natural resources’ frequent extreme availability (water, rocks and soil, etc.); implementation; usage and from Environmental concerns weather phenomena – Adoption of local environmental legislation – Better planning of extreme weather (e.g. emission trading systems, taxes on compliance costs phenomena’s effects. water consumption, fossil fuels, etc.) and due to environmental Managing climate conditions. regulations; – Lower costs deriving from damages to sustainability assets. Ineffective O, F, R – Adoption of international standards for – Reduced risks of – Reduced risk of environmental and local environmental and social impact project delay, fines, adverse impacts social assessment management (World Bank/IFC, litigation and damage on communities. studies and related UN Global Compact); to reputation. management plans – Supporting clients in the preparation of the Local prepared by client management documentation. Lack of transparency F, R – Ensuring a binding Code of Ethics for – Enhanced – Increased chance of in public procurement all parties; relationship with successful delivery development Business contracts and – Adoption of a specific management and government, of public projects. widespread corruption control system aimed at monitoring regulatory bodies transparency practices compliance with the Code; and third-party – Ensuring an Internal audit system in place; organisations. – Providing training for staff involved in sensitive tasks. Design modifications O, F, R – Arrangement of meetings with local – Reduced risks of – Creating a climate required during project communities to explain the project, collect project delay and of mutual trust; Care for Community concerns implementation caused concerns and understand local needs extra costs due to – Meeting the basic our people by community activism and expectations; design modifications; needs of local against siting or routing – Alignment of temporary civil works (e.g. – Greater local communities. access roads, bridges, water abstraction) community with infrastructure priorities of affected acceptance. communities; – Continuous community liaison to monitor and resolve possible problems. Environmental protection Appendix 64 65 GRI data and assurance report 33 O: operational F: financial R: reputational Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Appendix continued The second category includes risks that can be turned into opportunities. These are managed through activities which aim to enhance opportunities that support our social licence to grow in host countries. Category Activities Benefits Risks that can be turned into opportunities Type Key management activities Company benefits Benefits for society Unskilled local labour O, F, R – Adoption of labour-based methods for all – Reduced costs (ILO studies – Job creation for local suitable works; show that labour-based people (ILO studies – Prioritising local recruitment; methods achieve cost have shown that – Offering vocational and on-the-job savings of between labour-based competency development programmes 10%–30% over equipment approaches create for all workers; intensive methods of between three and – Close collaboration with local universities, construction); five times more governmental labour institutions, etc. – Ensuring the availability employment over Use of local workers of a skilled local workforce equipment intensive for future projects with methods of advantages over competitors; construction); – Enhanced relationships with – Additional income local communities and and skills capacity for governments. the local economy. Accidents and injuries O, F, R – Adoption of international standards for – Reduced regulatory risks; – Reduced accidents due to low capability of health and safety (OHSAS 18001) to – Reduced insurance and legal and injuries involving local labour prevent injuries in both the directlycosts; local workers; employed and subcontractor workforce; – Enhanced reputation among – Reduced risk of – Provision of HSE training courses and of institutions, investors and lost income safety equipment for all workers. media. – Enhanced livelihoods for workers and their families. Wage levels in excess R – Preference for sourcing either from – Greater local community – Additional income to of market norms suppliers resident in the area of acceptance; support local leading to labour drain operations, or who themselves source – Advantage over competitors. economies and from staple local from land owned by residents living sustain staple industries (agriculture, in the project area; industries; livestock, etc.) – Collaborate with NGO and/or local – Contribution to authorities to develop community sourcing increase the skills opportunities into viable micro-enterprises. base of the local economy. Low capacity of local O, F Preference for local enterprises linked to – Better control over the local – Additional income to Local suppliers business system strong supporting activities aimed at spread supply chain; local economy; (suppliers of materials good practices and improve quality and – Advantages over competitors;– Further employment and services, HSE performances of suppliers and – Access to suitable suppliers, generation due to the subcontractors and subcontractors; assist local financial also for future projects; use of local suppliers financial institutions) institutions in building their capacity to – More reliable local financial and subcontractors; manage more complex clients; building services provider; – Improved capacity of employed enterprises to improve – Enhanced relationship with competitiveness of their competitiveness in the marketplace. government, regulatory local enterprises in bodies and third-party the marketplace; organisations. – Increased capacity of local financial institutions to manage big clients more efficiently. Local community O, F, R – Adoption of international standards – Create a climate of mutual – Minimisation adverse concerns over for quality (ISO 9001), environment trust and greater local impacts on local construction activities (ISO 14001) and social impact stakeholders acceptance; communities; Relationships with local depleting local management (UN Global Compact); – Reduced risks of project – Meeting basic needs infrastructures – Evaluation of local community needs delay; of local communities (e.g. deterioration of through stakeholders engagement – Reputational advantages through public utility roads) or bulk use activities; implementation of local over competitors. infrastructures and communities of natural resources infrastructure projects of community-wide services; (e.g. water usage) benefit linked to the presence of site – Tangible benefits (e.g. schools, hospitals, sport facilities, from the presence road improvements, etc.) of the Company. – Implementation of social educational, health and recreational initiatives. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 The last table describes how sustainability generates new opportunities in the construction sector and how we act to develop them. About Salini Category Activities Benefits Opportunities Type Enhancement activities Company benefits Benefits for society Greater demand of O, F, R – New investments in renewable energy – Greater revenues – Availability of renewable energy and solutions; from dams and cheaper, clean and infrastructures capable – Entering new markets thanks to know-how hydroelectric plants renewable energy Climate change to resist to a harsher and expertise built on hydropower; and road sources; climate – R&D investments to develop new solutions rehabilitation; – Safer public for adapting the infrastructures’ features to – Reputational infrastructures the new climate context. advantages over (bridges, roads, competitors relating etc.) capable to Managing sustainability to track record and resist to extreme capabilities. weather conditions. Increased likelihood of F, R – Maintaining the leadership in sustainability – Increased contracts – Reduced risk of awarding new contracts management through adoption of the awarded in markets adverse impacts in tenders with high most recent international standards and with high on communities; sustainability criteria best practices. sustainability – Increased income standards, resulting and skill base of the Sustainability in incremented local economy; backlog and greater – Better relationships Local revenues; through increased – Advantages over transparency. development competitors not focused on sustainability; – Enhanced reputation among stakeholders. Care for our people Environmental protection Appendix 66 67 GRI data and assurance report Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Appendix continued 6.3 Methodological Note Scope of the Report The Sustainability Report as of 31 December 2012 (hereinafter also The 2012 Sustainability Report contains an overview of the initiatives referred to as the ‘2012 Sustainability Report’ or the ‘Report’) aims to and activities carried out by the Group in 2012, as well as the provide reliable, complete, well-balanced, accurate and comparable performance data from the period 2010–2012. The information information regarding Salini’s values, strategies and performances provided in the Report refers to Salini Costruttori S.p.A. and the during the reporting period. consolidated companies. Unless otherwise specified in the Report and/or in the GRI Content Reporting cycle Index, the scope of the report has been established as follows: The Sustainability Report is published annually on the responsibility of the Board of Directors of Salini Costruttori S.p.A. –– Financial data (except spending on local suppliers) and social data (except injury rates and training hours) relates to the scope of the Adherence to best practice standards 2012 Consolidated Financial Statements; The Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 of the Salini Costruttori Group has been prepared in accordance with the –– Corporate governance data and information relates to the holding ‘Sustainability Reporting Guidelines & Construction and Real Estate company Salini Costruttori S.p.A.; Sector Supplement’ issued in 2011 by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) –– Environmental data (plus spending on local suppliers, injury rates and and based on the G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. On the training hours) refers to a scope established based on the materiality basis of the information reported in the GRI Content Index, we are of the operating sites in 2012. Specifically, operating sites included compliant with the A+ requirements of these guidelines. In addition to in the report have been identified on the basis of their revenues at this, the Report contains references to the 10 principles of the Global 30 June 2011 and their workforce at 30 September 2011. The 28 Compact, showing the actions and the systems implemented by the operating sites selected have met both the two following criteria: site’s Group in order to integrate these principles in the corporate strategy revenues greater than 0.1% of total revenues and site’s workforce and day-to-day activities of the Company. greater than 0.1% of total workforce. In this way, 2012 environmental data (plus spending on local suppliers, injury rates and training hours) Materiality analysis achieves a coverage of 96% of 2012 total revenue. In order to define the content of the Sustainability Report, the Group conducts a materiality analysis. Sustainability topics have been Comparative data (2010 and 2011) corresponds to the data reported in analysed according to two main factors – the relevance of issues in the 2011 Sustainability Report, with the exception of the following which the construction industry and their importance for Salini and for its have been re-stated due to miscalculations or to reflect new stakeholders. The analysis has been carried out taking into account classifications: both internal and external context: –– 2010 and 2011 economic value generated and distributed (EC1); –– Internal context: Salini’s corporate values, strategy and management –– 2011 female/male salary ratio (LA14); systems adopted by the Group (such as the Code of Ethics, Corporate Policies, Organisational Management and Control Model, –– 2010 and 2011 injury rates and lost day rates (LA7); HSE and Quality management systems); –– 2010 and 2011 proportion of sites affected by protected areas (EN11); –– External context: main sustainability frameworks of reference (such as –– 2011 indirect GHG emissions from shipping activities (EN17); the GRI-G3.1, Global Compact, ISO 26000, Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes) and requirements of the major international institutions for –– 2010 and 2011 mixture of cement, concrete, bricks waste (EN22); the construction industry (such as the UN, World Bank, NGOs, etc.). –– 2010 and 2011 muds resulting from the treatment of wastewater The importance of issues for Salini and for its stakeholders has been (EN22); defined by management through an analysis based on a three-level –– 2011 temporary on-site storage waste (EN22); scale of assessment: low, medium and high. The materiality matrix is shown in section 2.3. –– 2010 and 2011 waste by disposal method (EN22). More detailed explanations about changes are provided in the text. Third-party assurance To assure the reliability of the information provided in the Report and In setting the scope of environmental data, starting from the 36 to improve the reporting process, KPMG S.p.A. has been engaged to operating sites reported in the 2011 Sustainability Report, 12 sites have review this document. The limited assurance report is available at the been excluded34 because the work was completed or because their end of the document. 2012 revenue was not material, while four new projects have been included. Shown right is the list of operating sites included in the scope of the environmental data for the 2012 report. 34 B ouira (Algeria), Algiers Inter-city collector (Algeria), Baku-Samachi (Azerbaijan), Baku-Samur (Azerbaijan), Kurdamir-Ujar (Azerbaijan), Liavkhvi Bridge Luisi Road section (Georgia), Fiume Sarno (Italy), Metrocampania – Secondigliano Alifana (Italy), Terni – Corso del Popolo (Italy), La Marsa (Tunisia), Dubai Ras al Khor (UAE), Kiev-Chop (Ukraine). Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Number Country Company Project Name About Salini 1 Albania Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways Levan-Dames* 2 Azerbaijan Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways Jenikan-Salyand* 3 Belarus Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways M5 Minsk-Gomel road upgrading 4 Denmark Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Railways CMT Copenhagen (Cityringen)* 5 Ethiopia Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Dams and hydroelectric plants Gibe III* 6 Ethiopia Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Dams and hydroelectric plants Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD)* 7 Georgia Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways Kutaisi bypass 8 Italy Metro B1 S.c.a.r.l. / RI.MA.TI. S.c.a.r.l. Railways Metro B1* 9 Italy Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways Variante di Valico (lots 9–11)* Managing sustainability 10 Italy Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways Cagliari-Capo Boi* 11 Kazakhstan Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Roads and motorways South-West Roads projects (lots 1–5)* 12 Kazakhstan Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways South-West Roads projects (lots 9–14)* 13 Malaysia Salini Malaysia SDN Dams and hydroelectric plants Ulu Jelai Hydroelectric project* 14 Nigeria Salini Nigeria Ltd. Roads and motorways District 1* 15 Nigeria Salini Nigeria Ltd. Dams and hydroelectric plants Gurara Dam* 16 Nigeria Salini Nigeria Ltd. Roads and motorways Idu Industrial Area* 17 Nigeria Salini Nigeria Ltd. Roads and motorways Inner Southern Expressway (ISEX)* 18 Nigeria Salini Nigeria Ltd. Civil building construction Millennium Tower – Cultural Centre* Local 19 Nigeria Salini Nigeria Ltd. Roads and motorways Suleja* development 20 Sierra Leone Bumbuna Power Gen. Co. Ltd. Dams and hydroelectric plants Bumbuna (O&M)* 21 Sierra Leone Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Roads and motorways Rehabilitation of urban roads* 22 Tunisia Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways Sfax-Gabes (lots 1–2)* 23 Turkey Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Railways Köseköy-Gebze section of high speed rail project 24 UAE Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Roads and motorways Dubai parallel roads 881 2C* Care for 25 UAE Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways Dubai 881 3A 26 Uganda Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Dams and hydroelectric plants Bujagali Hydro Power* our people 27 Ukraine Todini Costruzioni Generali S.p.A. Roads and motorways M06 Road Contract 1–2* 28 Zimbabwe Salini Costruttori S.p.A. Dams and hydroelectric plants Mukorsi Dam* (in JV with Impregilo) * Projects already reported in the Sustainability Report 2011. Other exceptions to the scope are specified directly in the Report, Safety indicators particularly in the Performance data sheets’ footnotes and in the GRI In Sustainability Report 2012 safety indicators are calculated in Content Index. accordance with the ‘ILO Code of Practice on Recording and Notification of Occupational Accidents and Diseases’ using the formulas Environmental Calculation methods protection provided for by the GRI Guidelines’ LA7 Indicator Protocol, while in Data and information included in the Report are taken from the Sustainability Report 2011 they were calculated in accordance with an information systems used for the general management and accounting internal procedure35. Comparative data (2010 and 2011), as reported in of the Group’s operations, as well as from a specific sustainability the 2011 Sustainability Report, has been restated in this Sustainability reporting system established in accordance with the GRI requirements. Report according to the methodology stated above36 and further Some data and information comes from public sources made available explained below. by recognised institutions. Using this new calculation method, the rates reported in the present Reported data is calculated in an accurate manner and, where report are expressed as the number of injuries occurred (IR) and the Appendix specified, by means of estimations. The methodologies applied related lost days (LDR) for each 100 employees, while the rates reported to determine the main indicators are shown below. in the 2011 Sustainability Report reflected the number of injuries occurred (IR) and the related lost days (LDR37) for each 1 million worked hours. In particular, the Injury rate (IR) reported in this report takes into account all the work-related injuries (and fatalities) that may have affected 68 employees temporarily or permanently, such that they are unfit to carry out their regular job for any day/shift following the occurrence of an 69 injury. Minor injuries are not included. GRI data and assurance report 35 See the 2011 Sustainability Report, Glossary, for the formulas used. 36 The rates calculated according to the methodology used in the 2011 Sustainability Report are: Employees’ IR – 17.18 (in 2010), 14.74 (in 2011), 11.09 (in 2012); Employees’ LDR – 1,220.05 (in 2010), 1,274.23 (in 2011), 1,589.14 (in 2012). 37 The LDR included, for each fatality, a conventional number of lost days (7,500) and, for permanent disabilities, a number of lost days calculated as the percentage of disability multiplied by 7,500 (100% of disability is equal to 7,500 lost days). Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Appendix continued Lost Day rate (LDR) reported in this report takes into account the total Greenhouse gas emissions number of the days that could not be worked as a consequence of Calculation of the Group’s greenhouse gas emissions is based on: injuries with temporary disability (fatalities and permanent disability not –– The emission factors provided by the Italian Ministry of Environment included). Lost days are calculated from the day after the occurrence (DEC/RAS/854/2005 – 2009 update) for the consumption of of an accident and include the number of calendar days until the injured direct energy; person can return to work. –– The emission factors provided by the International Energy Agency For specific calculation formulas, see the glossary. (2010) for the consumption of indirect energy; Commuting injuries are not included in the calculation of the safety –– The emission factors provided by the UK Department for indicators. Any accidents occurring to independent contractors Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (2011 Guidelines to Defra/ (e.g. consultants) are included in employee injury rates. DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting) for the Injuries occurring at the Company headquarters and at other offices shipment of goods. are considered as not material because they do not relate to Waste construction activities; for this reason these injuries are not included Where local legislation does not provide guidance on measuring waste in the safety indicators. production and reliable data is not available, data is estimated based Ratio of salary of men to women on the annual consumption of the original source of the waste. Data on the relationship between women’s and men’s salaries is With regards to operating sites outside of Italy, data regarding ‘used calculated as the ratio between the average annual gross salary tyres’, ‘batteries and accumulators’ and ‘oil scraps’ were estimated. of women and the men, by each employment category. In turn, For the first two categories, calculations were made by multiplying the average annual gross salary of each employment category is the number of tyres/batteries replaced during the year by the calculated as the ratio between the total annual gross salaries paid average weight of a used tyre/battery. A specific average weight and the number of employees placed in that category. Data does was assigned to each tyre/battery category (for passengers, not include local workers. transport and work vehicles). Materials used The calculation for oil scraps was performed by multiplying the tonnes Where warehouse data systems cannot measure materials of oil used in each year by a standard factor (i.e. for 1 tonne of oil used, consumption by weight, estimates based on weight have 900 Kg was waste), adhering to the precautionary principle. been performed. In Italy disposal methods have been determined according to the Direct energy used classification provided by law of each waste category. Outside of Italy, Calculations on consumption of direct energy are based on: methods have been determined according to the specific contracts –– Factors provided by GRI-G3.1 to convert weight of gasoline, stipulated with the external waste contractors. diesel and natural gas to gigajoules; For more information –– Factors provided by the Italian Ministry of Environment (DEC/ To speak to us about our approach to sustainability or for suggestions RAS/854/2005 – 2009 update) to convert weight of kerosene on how we can improve our sustainability reporting, please email: to gigajoules. sustainability@salini.it Direct energy used comes totally from non-renewable sources. Indirect energy used Calculations on consumption of indirect energy are based on the factors provided by GRI-G3.1 to convert kWh of electricity to gigajoules. The breakdown of electricity purchased by renewable and non-renewable sources is calculated on the basis of the specific production mix of each country, as recorded by the International Energy Agency (2009 statistics). Water withdrawal and discharge Water that is not withdrawn from aqueducts nor bought via tanks is estimated on the working hours of the draining pumps used and the capacity of these pumps. In 2012 our main sites have been equipped with water meters in order to start measuring water supply more accurately. Wastewater is estimated as a percentage of the total water withdrawn, depending on the specific use of the water (production or domestic). Rainwater, although collected and stored, is not reported because it is considered as not material. The Salini Costruttori Group does not use wastewater from other organisations. Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 6.4 Glossary LOST DAY RATE (LDR) About Salini Index to assess the severity of accidents in terms of days lost as AGGREGATE consequence of injuries with temporary incapacity of workers. Category of raw granular mineral particles used in construction; It is calculated as follows: they may be natural, artificial or recycled materials previously used in construction. Construction aggregates are used primarily as gT x 200,000 LDR = components of composite materials such as cement, bituminous Total worked man-hours mix, coating, etc. gT = total days of temporary incapacity (LWD) GOVERNANCE 200,000 = 50 working weeks @ 40 hours per 100 employees Set of rules, at any level (such as laws and regulations) that govern Managing the management of the Company. Corporate governance also OHSAS 18001 STANDARD includes the relationships among the various actors involved International voluntary standard, which sets out the principles and (the stakeholders, who hold interests in the Company) and the criteria for implementing a system for managing health and safety at sustainability objectives for which the Company is managed. The main actors work, to demonstrate the organisation’s commitment to the analysis, are shareholders, the management and the Board of Directors. evaluation, management and control of risks faced by workers, in order to improve the safety of their workplaces. GRI (GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE) International initiative established in 1997 under a UNEP (United QUALITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Nations Programme for the Environment) project with the common Component of the management system of an organisation that aims, goal of achieving greater transparency, corporate responsibility in relation to quality objectives, to achieve those results that can properly and sustainable development. meet the needs, expectations and requirements of all stakeholders. Local HSE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM RISK ASSESSMENT development Component of the management system of an organisation, Overall documented assessment of all the risks to which the Group is including the organisational structure, planning of activities, exposed in conducting its business. This assessment aims to identify responsibilities, practices, procedures, processes and resources the most appropriate measures of prevention and protection and to used to develop and implement its environmental, health and develop the Group organisation, management and control systems. safety policy and manage its related aspects. ROLLER-COMPACTED CONCRETE (RCC) INJURY RATE (IR) Technology adopted for the construction of dams, combining high Care for Index to assess the frequency of occurrence of accidents that rate of concreting production with significant economic benefits. result in casualties with loss of workdays or death of an employee. This technology takes advantage of the low cement content typical our people It is calculated using the formula: of the RCC method, which provides effective optimisation in terms (no. LTI + no. FTL) x 200,000 of transportation, placing and compaction. IR = Total worked man-hours STAKEHOLDER where: The term of stakeholder identifies those ‘actors having an interest’ in relation to an economic initiative, be it a company or project. LTI = total number of accidents with temporary incapacity Relevant stakeholders include: customers, suppliers, lenders Environmental FTL = total number of fatalities (banks and shareholders), employees, but also external interest groups such as residents of neighbouring areas or local interest groups. protection 200,000 = 50 working weeks @ 40 hours per 100 employees SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT ISO 14001 STANDARD Development that meets present needs without compromising the Voluntary international standard that allows organisations to implement needs of future generations. The term ‘sustainable development’ an effective Environmental Management System, providing a framework appeared for the first time in 1987 in a UN document, known as the for the analysis of significant environmental risks, and for managing and Brundtland Report, named by the then Norwegian Prime Minister mitigating its impacts. The system ensures compliance with applicable Gro Harlem Brundtland and President of the UN Commission on environmental legislation and continuous improvement of performance. Environment and Development. ISO 9001 STANDARD TUNNEL BORING MACHINE (TBM) Appendix Voluntary international standard that sets out the principles and criteria Technology used for the excavation of tunnels, which enables the for deployment and implementation of effective Quality Management complete mechanisation of the excavation process, including finishing Systems, which demonstrate the organisations ability to provide of tunnels and installation of safety structures. The use of TBMs enables products and services that meet the requirements of the law, of clients a large increase in excavation speed, compared with the speed 70 and the organisation itself. achieved by using the traditional Drilling and Blasting (D&B) method (excavation with the use of explosives). 71 LOCAL The term is used in the Report with the following meanings: –– Communities living near project locations and the surrounding GRI data and assurance report environment; –– Employees and suppliers, contractors and subcontractors based in the same country of the project; –– Legislation applicable to the specific context of the project (e.g. national, regional). Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Chapter 7 GRI APPLICATION LEVEL CHECK STATEMENT Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 72 GRI data and Appendix Environmental Care for Local Managing About Salini assurance report protection our people development sustainability 73 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Chapter 8 GRI and UN Global Compact tables In this section… GRI G3.1 Content Index 75 Global Compact principles – GRI indicators cross reference table 83 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 GRI G3.1 Content Index About Salini Profile Disclosure* Status Cross-reference/Direct answer STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 ● p. 2-3 (strategic priorities), p. 8-9 (main challenges and targets), p. 16, 22, 34 and 50 (main achievements), p. 19, 29, 43 and 59 (future commitments). 1.2 ● p. 16 (general description), p. 64-67 (specific risks and opportunities). Salini has not formalised mid-term objectives and goals related to key risks and opportunities. 2. Organisational profile 2.1 ● p. 7 Managing sustainability 2.2 ● p. 6 (main sectors of activity), p. 25 (use of outsourcing). 2.3 ● For the Group’s organisation chart see http://www.salini.it/en/gruppo/organigramma/. For the Group’s structure see p. 146-147 of the Consolidated Financial Statement 2012 http://www.salini.it/en/investor-relations/bilanci-e-relazioni/2012/ 2.4 ● Rome, Italy. 2.5 ● p. 7 (countries where Salini operates), p. 69 (countries covered in the report). 2.6 ● Salini Costruttori S.p.A. is the holding company of the Group and is an unlisted stock company. For the other subsidiary companies see p. 146-147 of the Consolidated Financial Statement 2012 http://www.salini.it/en/investor-relations/bilanci-e-relazioni/2012/ 2.7 ● p. 6-7. The Group’s clients are Public Administrations, Companies controlled or participated by the State and private Local development companies. The beneficiaries of the Group’s works are mainly the residents living in the areas affected by projects and in neighbouring ones. 2.8 ● p. 4-5 (main KPIs and economic results), p. 59 (size of managed areas). See also p. 10-11 of the Consolidated Financial Statement 2012 (main capital ratios) http://www.salini.it/en/investor-relations/bilanci-e-relazioni/2012/. At 31 December 2012 the Group had a capital stock equal to €62.4 million. 2.9 ● p. 8-9 2.10 ● p. 9, 19 3. Report parameters 3.1 ● 2012 calendar year. Care for 3.2 ● The Sustainability Report 2011 was published in June 2012. our people 3.3 ● Annual. 3.4 ● sustainability@salini.it 3.5 ● p. 18, 68 3.6 ● p. 68-69 3.7 ● p. 68-69. Other exceptions to the scope are specified directly in the Report, particularly in the Performance data sheet notes. Environmental 3.8 ● p. 68-69 3.9 ● p. 69-70 protection 3.10 ● p. 68 3.11 ● p. 68-69 3.12 ● p. 74-83 3.13 ● p. 68 Appendix GRI data and assurance report 74 ● Fully Reported ◗ Partially reported Not reported 75 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 GRI data and assurance report continued Profile Disclosure* Status Cross-reference/Direct answer 4. Governance, commitments, and engagement 4.1 ● p. 10. The Board of Directors of Salini Costruttori S.p.A. is composed of nine members, of which one woman (11%). 33% of the members are between 30 and 50 years old, 67% are over 50 years old. No member belongs to minority groups. Currently there is not a committee directly in charge of the social and environmental issues. 4.2 ● The Chair is the legal representative of the Company, act on behalf of the Company in engaging with Public Authorities and participates in the Executive Committee. 4.3 ● Six members of the BoD are non-executives (five men and one woman) and four of them are also independents (all men). Directors are considered as independents if they don’t have, directly or indirectly: – any business relationships with the Company, its Executive Directors and its main shareholders; – any share in the Company or in its controlled companies; – any strict family connection with the Executive Directors. Directors can be considered as independent also if they have economic relations with the Company, provided that their professional activities are useful for the Company. 4.4 ● p. 10 (Mechanisms for shareholders and the financial community). Moreover, Italian law and the Group’s Shareholders meetings regulation provide for proper mechanism for enabling minority shareholders to express opinions to the BoD. Direct communication systems between employees and BoD are not in place. 4.5 ● p. 37. Currently there is no mechanism to connect the remuneration system to environmental and social performance. 4.6 ● Before each BoD’s decision, their members have to declare if they have conflicts of interest. If so, the decision is taken without their vote and with the positive advises of the Statutory Auditors and of the Internal Control and Corporate Governance Committee. 4.7 ● Processes in place for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the BoD do not take into consideration environmental and social topics. 4.8 ● p. 4 (Mission), p. 17 (corporate policies), p. 28 (Code of Ethics). 4.9 ● p. 17-18 (HSE management and sustainability reporting), p. 28 (Internal control system). HSE performance and risk assessment are reviewed annually. 4.10 ● Currently the systems in place for evaluating performance of the members of the BoD do not take into consideration environmental and social topics. 4.11 ● p. 64 4.12 ● p. 10 (codes related to the corporate governance), p. 17 (Global Compact). 4.13 ● p. 64 4.14 ● p. 12 (list of stakeholders), p. 13 (engagement practices). 4.15 ● p. 12-13 4.16 ● p. 12-13 (general approach and engagement activities), p. 10 (financial community engagement), p. 25 (subcontractors’ engagement), p. 26-27 (community engagement), p. 52 (engagement regarding impact assessments). 4.17 ● p. 13 (summary of general topics), p. 29 (community concerns). ● Fully Reported ◗ Partially reported Not reported Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Profile Disclosure* Status Cross-reference/Direct answer About Salini STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on management approach (DMAs) DMA EC Economic performance ● p. 7 (main results), p. 9 (strategies and challenges), p. 67 (new opportunities). Market presence ● p. 6-7 Indirect economic impacts ● p. 24-25 (job creation and local supply), p. 26-27 (investments for communities). DMA EN Materials ● p. 55 (general information), p. 25 (procurement practices), p. 58 (eco-friendly Managing materials use). Energy ● p. 55-56 Water p. 56 sustainability ● Biodiversity ● p. 52-53 Emissions, effluents and waste ● p. 50-51 (emissions), p. 56-57 (waste and effluents). Land degradation, contamination and remediation ● p. 53 (reclamation activities), p. 59 (environmental accidents). Products and services ● p. 52 Compliance ● p. 52 Transport ● p. 52 Local development Overall p. 57 DMA LA Employment ● p. 35 (general information), p. 42 (temporary workers). Labour/management relations ● p. 42 Occupational health and safety ● p. 38-39 (Group’s employees), p. 39 (subcontractors). Training and education ● p. 35 (general information), p. 24 (developing local skills). Care for Diversity and equal opportunity ● p. 37 our people Equal remuneration for women and men ● p. 37 DMA HR Investment and procurement practices ● p. 25 (procurement practices), p. 41 (investments). Non-discrimination ● p. 41 Freedom of association and collective bargaining ● p. 41 Child labour ● p. 41 Prevention of forced and compulsory labour ● p. 42 Security practices ● p. 42 Environmental protection Indigenous rights ● p. 29 (engagement activities), p. 41 (incidents of discrimination). Assessment ● p. 41 Remediation ● p. 41 DMA SO Local communities ● p. 26-27 Corruption ● p. 28 Appendix Public policy ● See p. 17-18 of the Code of Ethics, http://www.salini.it/en/corporate-governance/codice-etico/ Anti-competitive behaviour ● See p. 16-17 of the Code of Ethics, http://www.salini.it/en/corporate-governance/codice-etico/ Compliance ● See p. 8-9 of the Code of Ethics, http://www.salini.it/en/corporate-governance/codice-etico/ DMA PR Customer health and safety ● p. 52 GRI data and Product and service labelling This aspect is not applicable because Salini does not produce goods and services that require labelling. assurance report Marketing communications ● In the field of marketing communications, Salini ensures accuracy, clarity and integrity of the communications released to the stakeholders. Customer privacy Salini guarantees the confidentiality of the information in its possession managing 76 ● them in compliance with strict standards. A Programmatic Document on Security Compliance ● is drafted every year to regulate the matter. See Quality assurance policy, http://www.salini.it/en/sostenibilita/politiche-aziendali/ 77 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 GRI data and assurance report continued Performance Indicator* Status Cross-reference/Direct answer Other information STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance indicators Economic Economic performance EC1 ● p. 12 EC2 ● p. 64-67 (risks and opportunities for the business). Currently management has not performed quantitative estimates of the financial implications due to sustainability issues. EC3 ● See p. 89-90 of the Consolidated Financial Statement 2012 http://www.salini.it/en/investor-relations/bilanci-e-relazioni/2012/ EC4 ● In 2012 Salini has received a tax deduction of about €400,000 (estimated) related to a measure named ‘Economic Growth Aid’ granted by the Italian Tax Authority to companies which have increased their assets. In 2010 financial assistance from governments was equal to €4,649,000 while in 2011, it amounted to €573,293. Market presence EC5 EC6 ◗ p. 25 (total data), p. 30 (detailed data). Data reported does not include purchases of goods and services not related to operating sites, because Salini business is focused on projects. Therefore purchases not related to the projects made by the Group are considered as not material. EC7 ● p. 24 (total data), p. 31 (detailed data). Indirect economic impacts EC8 ● p. 26-27 EC9 Environmental Materials EN1 ● p. 55 (total data), p. 60 (detailed data). EN2 ● p. 55 Energy EN3 ● p. 55-56 (total data), p. 60-61 (detailed data). EN4 ● p. 55-56 (total data), p. 60-61 (detailed data). CRE1 ● Building energy intensity is material for the headquarters in Rome (Italy) as well. In 2012 it was equal to 3,040 kWh/person/ year (3,571 kWh/person/year in 2011 and 3,151 kWh/person/ year in 2010). EN5 ● p. 56 EN6 ● p. 56 EN7 Water EN8 ● p. 56 (total data), p. 61 (detailed data). EN9 EN10 CRE2 ● Building water intensity is material also for the headquarters in Rome (Italy). 2012 data is equal to 80 litres/person/year. Biodiversity EN11 ● p. 52 (description and specific data), p. 61 (general data). EN12 ● p. 53 EN13 ● p. 53 EN14 ● p. 52-53 EN15 ● Fully Reported ◗ Partially reported Not reported Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Performance About Salini Indicator* Status Cross-reference/Direct answer Other information Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 ● p. 51 (total data), p. 61 (detailed data). EN17 ● p. 51 (total data), p. 62 (detailed data). CRE3 ● Building GHG emission intensity is material for the headquarters in Rome (Italy) as well. In 2012 it was equal to 1,211 kg CO2/ person/year (1,423 kg CO2/person/year in 2011 and 1,256 kg CO2/person/year in 2010). CRE4 ● p. 51 EN18 ◗ p. 50 (reduction of direct GHG emissions), p. 56 (reduction from Managing sustainability renewable energy generation). EN19 These data are not reported because, on the basis of the monitoring activities carried out in 2010 about the cooling gases’ use, ozone-depleting gases have been considered as not material for Salini. EN20 These data are not reported because NOx, SOx, and other air emissions generated by the Group are mainly widespread emissions. During 2011 an analysis carried out on sites’ diesel generators proved the Local non‑significance of these emissions, so the issue is considered not material. development EN21 ● p. 62 (detailed data). All the withdrawal waters are treated according to methods described in the text (p. 70), except water used for wetting site areas and tracks. EN22 ● p. 57 (total data), p. 62-63 (detailed data), p. 70 (calculation method). EN23 ● p. 63 EN24 Care for EN25 our people Land degradation, contamination and remediation CRE5 ● p. 63 Products and services EN26 ◗ p. 53 (environmental reclamations), Data reported does not include the quantification p. 58 (environmental training), of achieved mitigations, because this aspect is p. 58 (eco-friendly materials, mitigations considered as not applicable to Salini. In fact, of noise and vibrations impacts). the nature of products carried out by the Group Environmental (e.g. dams, roads, etc.) does not allow to estimate quantitatively the mitigation of impacts achieved. EN27 This indicator is not applicable because Salini does protection not sell goods that require packaging. Compliance EN28 ● p. 63 Transport EN29 ● p. 50-51 Overall Appendix EN30 ● p. 57 (total data), p. 63 (detailed data). GRI data and assurance report 78 79 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 GRI data and assurance report continued Performance Indicator* Status Cross-reference/Direct answer Other information Social: Labour practices and decent work Employment LA1 ◗ p. 34 (total data), p. 44, 47 (detailed data). In 2012, total Reported data on workforce by region is not broken workforce was equal to 19,531 employees (1,574 women and down by gender because at operating sites personnel 17,957 men). With respect to the employment contracts, at are almost entirely men. For this reason, this data is headquarters 89% of employees had permanent contracts considered as not material. (245 people, of which 79 women and 166 men), while the remaining 11% (30 people, of which 13 women and 17 men) had temporary ones. At operating sites 100% of employees had temporary contracts (19,256 people, of which 1,482 women and 17,774 men). Only two people (two women at headquarters) had part-time contracts and they were permanent. At operating sites all workforce (employees and subcontractors) has full-time contracts. Self-employed workers do not perform a substantial portion of the Salini’s work. LA2 ◗ p. 45 Reported data does not include personnel working at the operating sites and rate of employee turnover by region, because this data is managed at the operating site level and was not yet possible extract them directly from the central information system. We are improving our reporting system in order to collect this data, not available at the moment, starting from 2014. LA3 LA15 ◗ All employees are entitled to parental leave (1,574 women and Reported data does not include personnel managed 17,957 men), even if this mainly applies to women. In 2012 four locally, because they are almost entirely men. For this female employees at headquarters took parental leave and in reason this aspect is considered as not material. the same year three of them returned to work after parental leave ended. With respect to the four female employees returned to work after parental leave in 2011, all of them were still employed 12 months after their return to work. Labour/management relations LA4 ● p. 41 LA5 ● p. 41 Occupational health and safety LA6 ◗ p. 38-39 Reported data does not include the percentage of workers represented. LA7 ◗ p. 38 (general injuries rates), p. 46 (occupational diseases), Reported data does not include rates by gender, p. 46 (detailed data). Injuries and absenteeism rates are because personnel are almost entirely men. For this calculated as indicated at p. 69-70 (Methodological note). reason this aspect is considered as not material. In 2012, there were 580 commuting injuries at operating sites. CRE6 ● p. 38 LA8 ● p. 41 LA9 ● p. 39 Training and education LA10 ◗ p. 35 (Salini data), p. 46-47 (detailed total data). Reported data does not include training hours by gender, because personnel are almost entirely men. For this reason this aspect is considered as not material. LA11 ● p. 35 (skills management). Concerning the management of career endings and the support of continued employability, the Group – in addition to the instruments provided by law – develops individual exit plans with the employees which are leaving the Company. These plans take into account personal needs and company ones. In 2012 no sabbatical periods were requested by personnel. LA12 ● Fully Reported ◗ Partially reported Not reported Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Performance About Salini Indicator* Status Cross-reference/Direct answer Other information Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 ● p. 44 (detailed data). For the composition of BoD by age group see 4.1. People belonging to minority groups are immaterial within the workforce. Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 ◗ p. 37 (detailed data), p. 47 (total data). Reported data does not include personnel managed locally, because they are almost entirely men. For this reason this aspect is considered as not material. Social: Human rights Managing sustainability Investment and procurement practices HR1 ● p. 41/For 100% of construction projects launched by the Group, evaluations including human rights aspects of personnel and local communities have been carried out. HR2 ● p. 25/All supply contracts include the acceptance of the Code of Ethics and, consequently, also of human rights clauses. In the year, no contracts with significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners were either declined or imposed Local performance conditions, or were subject to other actions as a result of human rights screening. HR3 ● p. 47 (training hours on Ethics). In 2012 13% of total workforce development was involved in training. Non-discrimination HR4 ● p. 41 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 ● p. 41 Child labour HR6 ● p. 41 Care for Forced and compulsory labour our people HR7 ● p. 41 Security practices HR8 ● p. 42. All security personnel operating at our sites is trained by us or by their employers (if external personnel) on our Ethics rules. Indigenous rights HR9 ● p. 41 Assessment Environmental protection HR10 ● p. 41/All operations have been subject to impact assessments at the start of the project. Furthermore, we are implementing a specific human rights assessment tool to apply periodically to our sites. Remediation HR11 ● No grievances related to human rights were received in the reporting period. Appendix GRI data and assurance report 80 81 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 GRI data and assurance report continued Performance Indicator* Status Cross-reference/Direct answer Other information Social: Society Local communities SO1 ● In 2012 54% of operations were covered by impact assessments, 54% by development programmes and 71% had activated communication channels with local communities. 57% of operations have organised meetings with local communities. Salini ensures continuative engagement with local communities during all the constructions’ stages, while engagement in pre‑construction stages (e.g. planning) and post-construction ones (e.g. management) are ensured by clients. SO9 ● p. 26-27 SO10 ● p. 27 (communications with communities). CRE7 ● p. 27 Corruption SO2 ● p. 28 SO3 ● The percentage of workforce who received anti-corruption training in 2010 was equal to 13% (management) and 0.1% (non‑management); in 2011 11.6% (management) and 0.5% (non-management); in 2012 11.1% (management) and 0.4% (non-management). Management includes executives and middle managers, non-management includes employees and workers. SO4 ● There were no cases of corruption reported in the year. Public policy SO5 ● In the reporting period, the Group has not directly participated in public policy development and lobbying activities. These activities are governed by the Code of Ethics. (p. 18), http://www.salini.it/en/corporate-governance/codice-etico/ SO6 ● In the reporting period, the Group’s Board of Directors has not approved any contributions to political parties, politicians or related institutions. Anti-competitive behaviour SO7 Compliance SO8 ● Besides the information reported in the EN28 and PR9 indicators, the Group has not received others administrative or judicial fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations. ● Fully Reported ◗ Partially reported Not reported Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Performance About Salini Indicator* Status Cross-reference/Direct answer Other information Social: Product responsibility Customer health and safety PR1 ● p. 52 PR2 Product and service labelling PR3 Because the products and services sold by the Group (major works) do not require the release of information, this indicator is considered as not applicable. CRE8 ● Any sustainability certification, rating and labelling schemes for Managing sustainability new construction, management, occupation and redevelopment have been achieved in the reporting period. PR4 PR5 Marketing communications PR6 ● The Group does not adopt codes and/or standards related to marketing activities. PR7 ● Salini has never received claims for the violation of laws or regulations related to marketing or communications. Local development Customer privacy PR8 ● In the reporting period there were no claims relating to breaches of privacy or loss of customers’ data. Compliance PR9 ● p. 31 * For the complete description of indicators please refer to http://www.globalreporting.org/resourcelibrary/G3-1-Index-and-Checklist.xls Care for our people Global Compact principles – GRI indicators cross reference table Issue areas GC principles Relevant GRI indicators Human rights Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally EC5, LA4, LA6–9, LA13–14, Environmental protection proclaimed human rights. HR1–9, SO5, PR1–2, PR8 Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HR1–9, SO5 Labour Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition LA4–5, HR1–3, HR5, SO5 of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and HR1–3, HR7, SO5 compulsory labour. Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. HR1–3, HR6, SO5 Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect EC7, LA2, LA13–14, Appendix of employment and occupation. HR1–4, SO5 Environment Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach EC2, EN18, EN26, to environmental challenges. EN30, SO5 Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater EN1–30, SO5, PR3–4 environmental responsibility. Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion EN2, EN5–7, EN10, EN18, of environmentally friendly technologies. EN26–27, EN30, SO5 Anti-corruption Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, SO2–6 including extortion and bribery. Source: ‘Making the Connection – Using GRI’s G3 Guidelines for the COP’, United Nations Global Compact Office, May 2007 GRI data and assurance report 82 83 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Chapter 9 Third-party assurance report In this section… Third-party Assurance Report 85 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 GRI data and Appendix Environmental Care for Local Managing About Salini 84 assurance report protection our people development sustainability 85 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Salini Costruttori Sustainability Report 2012 Information and contacts About Salini Italy Salini Costruttori 3 via del Lauro 20121 Milan Italy T: +39 02 7262601 F: +39 02 726260205 Salini S.p.A. 22, via della Dataria, 00187 Rome Managing sustainability T: +39 06 67761 F: +39 06 6776288 info@salini.it Africa NORTH America Australia Algeria USA Australia algeria.info@salini.it usa.info@salini.it australia.info@salini.it Ethiopia Canada Local Europe development ethiopia.info@salini.it canada.info@salini.it Gabon Albania gabon.info@salini.it South America albania.info@salini.it Ghana Argentina Azerbaijan ghana.info@salini.it argentina.info@salini.it azerbaijan.info@salini.it Guinea Brazil Belarus guinea.info@salini.it brazil.info@salini.it belarus.info@salini.it Chile Bulgaria Care for Liberia liberia.info@salini.it chile.info@salini.it bulgaria.info@salini.it our people Libya Panama Czech Republic libya.info@salini.it panama.info@salini.it czechrep.info@salini.it Denmark Malawi Asia denmark.info@salini.it malawi.info@salini.it China Morocco china.info@salini.it Georgia georgia.info@salini.it Environmental morocco.info@salini.it India Namibia india.info@salini.it Greece namibia.info@salini.it greece.info@salini.it protection Iraq Nigeria iraq.info@salini.it Hungary nigeria.info@salini.it hungary.info@salini.it Jordan Sierra Leone jordan.info@salini.it Ireland sierraleone.info@salini.it ireland.info@salini.it Kazakhstan Somalia kazakhstan.info@salini.it Poland Appendix somalia.info@salini.it poland.info@salini.it Malaysia Sudan malaysia.info@salini.it Portugal sudan.info@salini.it portugal.info@salini.it Qatar Tanzania qatar.info@salini.it Romania tanzania.info@salini.it romania.info@salini.it Saudi Arabia Tunisia saudiarabia.info@salini.it Russia tunisia.info@salini.it russia.info@salini.it Singapore GRI data and Uganda singapore.info@salini.it Ukraine uganda.info@salini.it ukraine.info@salini.it Turkey assurance report Zimbabwe turkey.info@salini.it Edited by: zimbabwe.info@salini.it United Arab Emirates Salini Costruttori abudhabi.info@salini.it dubai.info@salini.it Design and production: 86 Radley Yeldar w  ww.ry.com 87 Salini Costruttori 3 via del Lauro 20121 Milan Italy T: +39 02 7262601 F: +39 02 726260205 Salini S.p.A 22 via della Dataria 00187 Rome Italy T: +39 06 67761 F: +39 06 6776288 info@salini.it www.salini.it
