Elemental Chlorine Free paper(ECF) This Report was printed with soy ink on FSC certified paper, produced with eco-friendly method. 2011 Hana Financial Group Sustainability Report 2011 Hana Financial Group Sustainability Report 4 About this Report 5 2011 Highlights 6 CEO Message 8 Overview Employment 38 Win-win Cooperation 46 60 Environment 10 Overview of Hana Financial Group Employment and Career Development 40 Structure of Social Contribution Activities 48 62 Eco-friendly Management 20 Stakeholder Engagement Activities to Raise Employees’ Satisfaction 42 Current Status of Social Contribution Activities 50 64 Performance of Eco-friendly Management 22 Corporate Governance Labor-Management Relationship 44 Win-Win Growth Through Finance 54 26 Risk Management Fair Trade 56 Appendix 68 Customers 28 Key Performance Data 69 Safety and Wellness of Customers 30 Awards 72 Protection of Customers’ Personal Informations 32 GRI G3.1 Guideline Index 73 Communiction with Customers 34 Third Party’s Assurance Report 76 4 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 1 This report is the first sustainability report to be released by Hana Financial Group Hana Financial Group Inc. “Deeper within the customers” to ensure drive for future growth CSR & Culture Management Team (HFG, the Group). Since 2007, Hana Bank has been releasing its sustainability reports, Euljiro 2-ga 9-10, Jung-gu, Seoul, Hana Bank, keeping in mind that being “deeper within the customers’ is significant South Korea and from this year, all the ten affiliate companies* will document their activities and Postal Code: 100-719 part of securing drive for future growth, has set up its policy to continue its series of performance in sustainable management activities to issue across-the-group report, Tel: 82-2-2002-1760 business activities to raise the level of satisfaction on its service products and expand Fax: 82-2-2002-1409 titled 2011 Hana Financial Group Sustainbility Report. The report intends to share Hana its customer base by for example increasing active customers and blue chip business Financial Group’s sustainable management activities and performance with stakeholders customers and enhancing online channels. In parallel, to achieve sound growth, the and further, provide grounds for interaction to carefully listen to voices of the * Hana Financial Group Inc., Hana Bank, company plans to increase its assets centering on assets in good standing, and place Hana SK Card, Hana INS, Hana Institute stakeholders. of Finance, Hana Daetoo Securities, Hana its focus on balanced growth in loan and deposit to ensure loan-deposit ratio of below Capital, Hana HSBC Life Insurance, Hana Daol Trust, Hana Daol Asset Management) 100% in the process of asset growth. As IT-based smart business market in expanding, The reporting period dates from January 1, 2011 to December 31 of the same year, and Hana Bank will place more of its resources to online business including smart phone in case of quantitative performance, the data of recent three years have been provided financing as well. for understanding of recent trends. For any data that is subject to annual changes, the record date is set to be December 31st of the year and in case additional information is “1111 Modu Hana Day (The Day All Employees Become One)” needed upon the period of data collected, such has been indicated as well. The scope On November 11, 2011 – the day when six of a Roman numeral “1” are aligned. HFG of reporting is set upon Korean headquarter of each affiliate, and all the sources of data leads its “1111 Modu Hana Day (a catch phrase in Korea meaning the day everyone are indicated by footnotes for clarification. becomes one) “campaign to fulfill its social responsibility as “one” of responsible corporate members of the society and create “one” happy community by spreading This report has been prepared in accordance with GRI G3.1 Guidelines and pursued its the idea of sharing. With the motto “sharing and care,” the event was held with utmost transparency in performance and plans for each of indicators. For more details three of its keywords, “become one with neighbors,” “become one with customers” on categories set by GRI Guideline and reports, see GRI Guideline Index on page 71 of and “become one with colleagues.” Organizers of the event invited thirty married this report. To ensure reliability of this report, a third party has conducted the process immigrants from eleven different countries and employees from across HFG to of assurance upon all the contents and data. The result is available on page 76. emphasize symbolic aspect of the event. The print version of this report is complemented by the relevant contents on the Bank Growing Trees Hana Financial Group website. The report revolves around major issues to ensure HFG has carried out its idea of eco-friendliness and relevant action plans by opening its readability and for more detailed information and data, readers can refer to Hana Bank brand flagship store in Myungdong, the downtown of Seoul. A series of explanations Sustainability Management Website (www.hanafn.com > CSR > Sustainability Reort). on mangrove forests has been put up on one of the walls, thereby raising awareness for environmental issues on planet earth and value of saving and growing a tree. The For more information or questions, please contact as following. Hana Financial Group store offers its visitors exciting opportunities to grow tree characters, similar to keeping looks forward to hear from all its stakeholders. a pet on virtual world, and thus get to know more about environment-related issues. A separate set of booths are installed to have such awareness translated into donations as well. As such, HFG’s brand flagship store is deemed a space that is designed not only to call attention of its visitors on environmental issues but also encourage them to carry out proactive actions. 2 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 3 First and foremost, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to all customers, stakeholders and members of local communities for supporting Hana Financial Group. In 2011, despite financial instability around the globe and European financial crisis, HFG has made its solid financial performance by for example, making net profit of KRW 1.3 trillion, which is a 30% increase from 2010. Further, 2011 marked a year of setting direction for HFG to fulfill its responsibility as a responsible corporate member of society. Since the start of the business, a wide variety of social contribution activities have been continued. The focus of the activities are now placed not on reputation management, but rather on creation of shared-values with foundations laid upon enhancement of qualification as responsible members of society and adequate fulfillment of responsibilities. To such extent, HFG has made its utmost efforts to conduct interactive communications with an extensive variety of stakeholders. Each of affiliates manage its own communication channels by for example, keeping its account in social networking sites to listen to the voice of customers and further reflect them in products and service provision. In parallel, as an active user of social networking sites, each affiliate company continues to provide useful information and continues to be involved in various social activities. Further, HFG has designated the day of November 11th as “Modu Hana Day (the day everyone becomes one)” to mark 2011 as the first year to engage all employees and customers in sharing. Relevant programs have been inaugurated to seek ways to make social contributions through cohesive cooperation with local community members to meet the needs of local communities, which has been a step further from conventional donations or charities undertaken by employees. The program opens the ground for the HFG, as more proactive member of society, to seek ways for social contributions that would be continued further. HFG has recently come up with its new business slogan, “Healthy Hana, Happy Together.” The slogan implies the group’s aspiration to have “healthy members of HFG” to make “healthy HFG” and further work together to make “healthy society.” As part of the efforts, “Save Food, Save Energy” campaign has been inaugurated to encourage employees take part in creation of eco-friendly values by participating in various activities such as the fifth-day-no-driving system, campaigns to encourage employees to wear lighter clothes during summer time, campaigns to generate no food wastes and disposable items-free campaign to make healthier environment. With these activities continued, HFG pledges to fulfill its corporate citizenship that would increase shared values with various stakeholders including shareholders and customers to begin with. HFG would like to seek enthusiastic participation and support from all local community members. May 2012 CEO of Hana Financial Group Jung-Tai Kim 4 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 5 HFG Global Top 50 HFG aspires to be a “premier comprehensive financial service network” with profound commitment to its customers, shareholders, employees and local communities. Overview Overview of Hana Financial Group Stakeholder Engagement Corporate Governance Risk Management Overview of Hana Financial Group Inc. Hana Financial Group Hana Hana Hana Hana Institute Hana Daetoo Hana Hana HSBC Hana Bank SK Card INS of Finance Securities Capital Life Insurance Daol Trust 100.00% 51.00% 100.00% 100.00% 100.00% 50.13% 50% + 1 share 65.00% HFG creates its greatest synergy with its superb financial About Hana Financial Group service network that is designed with groundbreaking Hana Bank started with two branch offices and three Hana Bank PT Bank Hana Taesan Hana Jaeil Hana Asia KoFC Hana Hana Global Hana ideas for provision of differentiated services. With hundred fifty employees in 1991 and not only saw its (China) Co., Hana Funding Ltd. LCD Private Ltd. Dongbu Frontier Investment Daol Asset Ltd. 75.10% 100.00% 61.26% Equity Fund 100% Champ Consulting: Management management activities compliant with fundamental growth internally but also externally by succeeding in 100.00% 48.90% 29.17% 100% 100% principles, HFG is leading South Korean financial market merger and acquisition of Chungcheong Bank P&A, by converting countless crises into opportunities of Boram Bank and Seoul Bank to expand in scope and size. growth, and at the same time, making ceaseless efforts In December 1, 2005, HFG has been launched to include TAESAN LCD Opto TAESAN Genesis Teasan (SUZHOU) CO., Vision TECHNOLOGIES Vacuum Sigapore Pte to transform itself into one of the global top 50 financial Hana Bank, Hana Daetoo Securities (formerly Daehan LTD 88.58% (SUZHOU) CO., Tec. inc 100% 100% LTD 60.67% As of Dec. 31, 2011 groups. Investment Trust Securities), Hana INS and Hana Institute 100% of Finance. The launch of HFG signaled a grandiose start for the leap forward to become a global financial group. Having Hana Capital, Hana HSBC Life Insurance, Hana SK Card, and Hana Daol Trust joining in, HFG is transforming itself into South Korea’s best financial group with comprehensive services in both name and reality. Official launch of Hana Global Investment Launch of Consulting Hana Smile Microcredit Launch of Launch of Foundation Merger with 12 Seoul Bank Hana Financial PT Bank Hana Group Indonesia Inauguration Launch of of 1111 Modu 11 Hana Card Hana Day Campaign Establishment 10 of Hana Welfare Public Foundation Establishment 09 of Hana Hope Foundation 08 Establishment of 07 Hana Bank Establishment of Acquirement of 06 Korea Investment Choongcheong & Finance Corporation Bank Acquirement of Daehan 05 Investment & Daol Trust and Daol Asset Securities Management Joining HFG 04 Launch of Hana Introduction Opening Opening Savings Bank 03 of BU in of Hana of Hana organization Care Center High School Establishment Korea Exchange 02 zof Hana Life Bank Co. Ltd., Insurance Joining HFG Merger with 01 Boram Bank 1971 1991 1998 1999 2002 2003 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Major History 8 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 9 HFG’s Business Network Global Network Equipped with with professional and comprehensive asset management systemFinancial market currently sees boundaries being blurred HFG has attempts to realize its vision of top-of-thewithin itself and era of unlimited competition with line comprehensive financial service network with acceleration of globalization. Against such backdrop, professional and comprehensive asset management the focus should be placed on eventually enhancing system. Relevant actions are carried out by managing ● ● global competitive edge of financial industry in overall the group with activities revolving around three major ▲ ▲ by improving efficiency of financial management pillars of “management strategy,” “distribution channel” ▲● and increasing profitability of financial institutions. and “product development” to bolster each of affiliates For the purpose of strengthening core competence, in creating the best synergy. ▲ ● Management Strategies Product Development & Provision Engine of Group-wide Support Hana SK Card Hana Financial Group Inc. Credit card services combining Financial Management finance and distribution Strategies Distribution Channel Hana Daetoo Securities (IB) Hana Institute of Finance ● Corporation ▲Branch Office Investment banking services Financial Think Tank, Share Knowledge Cente Hana Capital Global ● Hana Development of specialty Bank China Hana INS Network products suitable to customers’ ● Hana Global Investment Consulting Provision of IT-related Support specific needs for the Financial Group ● Hana Asia Limited Hana Bank ● Hana Bank (China) Co., Ltd. Hana HSBC Life Insurance ● PT Bank Hana Main distribution ● PT Bank Hana Provision of an optimal portfolio channel for the suitable to customers’ specific ▲ Hana Bank New York Agency financial group needs ▲ Hana Bank Tokyo Branch Hana Daetoo ● Hana AisaLimited Hana Daol Trust ▲ Hana Bank Hong Kong Branch Securities (AM) ● H  ana Global Investment Comprehensive real-estate trust ▲ Hana Bank Singapore Branch Fund sales Consulting Co. Ltd. services department with an open Hana Daetoo Securities Beijing Representative Office architecture Hana Bank New Delhi Representative Office KEB Ho Chi Minh Representative Office 10 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 11 Major Performance HFG, the financial group that continues to make its growth every year based on sound management. HFG continues to thrive in economic uncertainty both HFG’s sustainable management starts from making at home and overseas and make further growth this sustainable profits that would make contribution to year. It has seen increase in assets by 11.49% thanks to customers, stakeholders, local communities and further the growth of credit loan business of Hana Bank, credit national economy. The group shared the benefit that card business of Hana SK Card and Hana Daol Trust came from the net operating profit, standing at KRW and real estate financing business. Operating profit 4.118 trillion in 2011 with its employees, shareholders and consolidated net income have made year-onand local communities. year growth of 27.08% and 22.78% respectively. (Data according to consolidated profit and loss statement) In parallel with quantitative growth, HFG has placed itself on the top of the industry in asset and capital soundness by carrying out relevant actions to sound management with faithfulness to core principles. NPL marked the lowest of the four major financial group (1.46% on the average), 1.12% and thus deemed to have the lowest risk of loss due to non performing loans. In addition, BIS ratio, an indicator of capital soundness of a financial institution, is shown to be the highest among the four major financial groups (12.51% on the average), 13.22% and thus demonstrates sound financial structure. (For more details, please refer to page 72 (Key Performance Data).) (Based on the data provided by holding companies) (Unit: KRW million) Consolidated Net *Return BIS Nonperforming Net Operation Profit Consolidated Stakeholders(*) 1,044,787 Income (2011) on Equity (ROE) Capital Requirement** Loan (NPL)*** Comprehensive Income KRW Personnel Expenses and 1,029,600 KRW 1,303 billion 9.12% 13.22% 1.12% Retirement Allowance Employees Other Employee Benefits 165,716 billion Service Expense 178,547 Return on Equity (ROE): The amount of net income that measures a corporation's profitability by revealing how much profit a company generates with the money shareholders have invested in a year. Income Tax Expense 412,724 BIS Capital Requirement: A set of international banking regulations put forth by the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision, Government Taxes and Dues 90,021 which set out the minimum capital requirements of financial institutions with the goal of minimizing credit risk Nonperforming Loan (NPL): A sum of borrowed money upon which the debtor has not made his or her scheduled Local Donation 59,957 payments for at least 90 days. Communities 12 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 13 Vision “Premier Financial Network Service” HFG aspires to establish a premier financial network service. As part of its efforts, the group aims to become an Asia-based global financial group by 2015 by ensuring soundness of structure in profit creation and localization of overseas business in mid and long term perspective. Community Contributing to society as a leading financial institution Customer Satisfying Employee customers as a Empowering financial partner employees as a rewarding workplace Premier Financial Service Network Shareholders Maximazing shareholder value as a business partner HFG’S Target 2010~2014 2015 ● Leading Financial Group in East Asia ● Asia-based Global Financial Group ● Expansion and localization of global network ● Joining the ranks of the world’s top 50 financial ● Quality Excellence groups ● Global Competitiveness 14 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 15 In order realize such vision, HFG believes it should first turn its eyes to its stakeholders. The group continues its ceaseless efforts to formulate strategies and carry out relevant actions to promote happiness of customers, employees, shareholders and further, local communities. To place itself on rank of top fifty global financial groups, HFG first begins with its small efforts. The group’ s core principle of management is that it should have all employees in happiness and the employees in turn should look for ways to make their customers happy. With such pursuit, HFG believes that it should make the best outcome to lead the market and eventually be able to share the happiness with local communities. 01 01 03 Respect Hana Financial Group Employees should constantly endeavor to enhance their value, balance their To satisfy customers as a financial partner To maximize shareholder value as a for People interests with the company’s, and work for the excitement and rewards of the job rather than an ● Helps customers succeed in both business and life; business partner obligation toward the company. views the customer as an end, not the means of ● Enhances shareholder value by maintaining ● Value-creating organization business. high stock prices and transparent management ● Comprehensive one-stop services to customers ● Communicates with investors and realizes solid ● Structure that encourages employee participation through active communication ● Helps customers manage their assets and attain corporate governance ● Pursuit of work-life balance financial security 02 Customer HFG’s emphasis on customer satisfaction is a natural outgrowth of its people-oriented corporate Focus 02 04 culture. The Goup’s approach across its various businesses can be summed up as “We are here to please the customer.” Industry watchers say our efforts have spurred competitors into starting To empower employees as a rewarding To contribute to society as a leading financial their own campaigns to innovate and improve competitive strength. workplace institution ● Develops educational programs for training ● Constantly gives back to the community through ● Customer-first mindset globally-minded financial experts socially responsible management ● Provides comprehensive financial services to satisfy client needs ● Guarantees equal opportunity and rewarding ● Promotes sharing, togetherness and environmental ● Gives customers an optimal financial experience compensation awareness. ● Builds a performance-oriented culture based on trust 03 Market HFG will continue to lead the industry by constantly looking to improve its governance and Leadership corporate value. ● Field-oriented management ● System for facilitating timely responses to market conditions. ● Thorough risk-management system 04 PerformanceHFG will promote responsible management by fostering an environment in which employees can oriented work creatively and proactively within moral boundaries. To make rational personnel decisions, Culture HFG uses an advanced system that guarantees fair evaluation and proper compensation for all employees. 16 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 17 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement Process of Identifying Materiality Issues Sustainability report serves as a communication channel HFG continuously makes its efforts to identify issues with its focus on providing information that stakeholders related to sustainable management by assessing level of both within and outside of the organization are keen of interest of stakeholders and business impact, and to know. To such extent, HFG has defined employees, in a foreseeable future, as part of efforts for further Outcome of Materiality Test customers, shareholders, local communities, partner improvement, more stakeholders research activities are Much anticipated issues are identified through the companies as important pillars of stakeholders that to be conducted. process of identifying materiality issues, and based on influence the group’s business activities both directly Stakeholders of HFG such process, this sustainability report has been written. and indirectly. Under such definition, a vast range of The result implies that due to dramatic changes in feedback and requirements are taken into consideration financial industry throughout 2011, the group’s vision to be reflected in the process of analyzing issues relevant Customers and strategy, soundness of corporate governance to the group’s sustainable management activities and and preemptive measures against crisis (i.e. risk the priorities are being identified. Employees Shareholders management) are considered critical. Hana Financial Group Local Government Communities Partner Companies Social Concern Assessment Criteria Ⅰ. Media Analysis Issues that are related Ⅱ. Competitors Analysis Analysis of major Ⅲ. Stakeholder Research Identification of Identification of critical 1. Vision and Strategy Ⅰ to groups and have sustainability-related issues via surveys issues related to sustainable 2. Governance of the Group appeared on media issues of competitors and interviews with management outlets during reporting in financial service stakeholders from 3. Risk Management Ⅱ period. industry. outside of organization. Business Impact ● C  ritical issues to be identified based on level of interest of stakeholders and business impact. Business Impact Assessment ● Provision of information 1. Customers relevant to the critical issues Ⅲ Ⅱ. Assessment by employees within identified. 2. Employees Ⅰ. Analysis on Cohesiveness to Strategy the organization 3. Partner Companies -A  nalysis of internal strategy of sustainable Assessment of level of interest of stakeholders 4. Social Contribution management and KPI. from both in and outside of the organization Environment Review of HFG’s business vision and strategy. through series of interviews. Analysis of GRI Guideline(GRI3.1) and inquiries Interviews with executives in responsibility. made by external evaluation agencies (i.e. SAM, Interview with personnel in charge. Corporate Governance Service) Stakeholders 18 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 19 Corporate Governance Members of BOD HFG’s BOD plays its critical role in decision making As of March 2012, BOD is composed of twelve members process that touch on management activities that are including four from the management board and eight conducted across the entire group. In 2011, spanning non-executive directors, making up two thirds of the To ensure soundness and transparency in corporate management of BOD with professional qualifications from reporting business performance to approval of membership of BOD. With attendance rate of board governance structure, HFG has established its Hana and independence, stable succession of management management planning of the entire group for 2012, meeting reaching 90%, the group of non-executive Financial Group Corporate Governance Guideline and it rights, interactive communication with stakeholders and various decisions have been made by BOD. directors makes an important pillar of the group’s has been taken into effect since February 2011. It is part shareholders. business activities. of the group’s effort to turn its vision into action with Executive Hana Financial Group Directors Steering Committee of BOD Jung-Tai Kim Heung-Sik Choe Jong-Jun Kim Yong-Ro Yun Board of Directors Risk Management Committee Non-executive Outside Director Nomination Committee Directors Management Development and Affiliated Companies Compensation Chairman & Chief Executive Officer Management Committee Committee Byung-Taek Yoo Ku-Taek Lee Kyung-Sup Kim Noh-Choong Huh Chief Director, Advisor, POSCO CEO, POSCO Member, Board of Audit and Inspection Chairman & CEO, Koscom Audit Committee Management Management Korea Foundation for Quality -President, POSCO of Korea (bygone) Corporation (bygone) Support Office Strategy Committee -Vice Chairman of Korea Employers -Executive Vice President, POSCO -Administrator, Public Procurement Service -Director, Foreign Economy Bureau, Federation -Deputy Minister for Government Ministry of Finance and Economics -Vice Chairman & CEO, Doosan Group Reformation, Ministry of Planning and -Member of Public Policy Organization, Audit & ●Management Support Team ●Personal & Commercial Banking Talent Management -President & CEO, Doosan Corp. Budget National Committee Examination Team -Outside Director of Hana Bank -Inspector General of Budget, the Ministry Unite Support Team Committee of Planning and Budget ●Corporate & Investment Banking Auditor Nomination Unit Support Team Committee ●Asset Management Business Unit Support Team Personal & Corporate Asset Management Head of Corporate Commercial Banking Investment Banking Business Unit Center Unit Gyoung-Gyu Choi Sang-Bin Lee Bong-Soo Park Deog-Nam Hwang Unit Professor of Business Administration in Professor of Business Administration in Chairman of the Board, Kibo Standing Member of Mediation Committee, Dong-Guk University Hanyang University Technology Fund (bygone) Seoul Court Mediation center -Integration evaluation member of -Professor of Business Administration in -Former Chairman of the Board, Kibo -Standing Member of Mediation Committee, International Affairs Committee in Hanyang University Technology Fund Seoul Court Mediation Center Prime Minister’s Office -Non Standing Commissioner, Securities -Certified Public Accountants -Judge, Seoul High Court CGSO CSO CFO CHRO CRO CIO CCO -Members of Fiscal Policy Advisory and Futures Commission -Chief of Customs Bureau, Ministry of -Non Standing Commissioner, The National Council in Ministry of Strategy and Chairman, Korea Securities Association Finance and Economy Human Rights Commission Finance -The Presidential Secretariat, Policy & -Lawyer, Se Kye Law Firm -Manager of Industry Business Evaluation Planning Secretary Team in National Assembly Budget * Please visit http://www.hanafn.com/info/governance/criterion.do for more detail. Office 20 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 21 Subcommittees within BOD Audit Committee HFG that Satisfies Minority Shareholders In 2011, the BOD has been convened fourteen times. Within HFG’s BOD, Steering Committee of BOD, In compliance to Trade Act, Financial Holdings Company HFG makes its utmost efforts to satisfy minority The BOD is formed and the meetings are held under the Management Development and Compensation Act and other relevant legal sets, HFG has established shareholders as well. The Group has laid its foundation Group’s Articles of Incorporation. As of 2012, the position Committee and Risk Management Committee take an independent audit committee, which is entirely for best practices in business activities by establishing of chief director is being held by Byung-Taek Yoo, one their part in establishing good corporate governance, composed of non-executive directors as of March 2012. Corporate Governance Charter to assure transparency in of the non-executive members of the board. The term evaluation and compensation to the Group’s executives The committee is mandated to hold its regular meeting corporate governance and Code of Conduct to define of a director is defined to be no longer than three and formulation of countermeasures against risk factors on a quarterly basis, and the total of six audit committee basic principles that are essential for everyday business years, and when a serving consecutive term, the term that can be anticipated in management activities. Major have been held to discuss major issues related to activities. In addition, Articles of Incorporation does not will be one year. In case of non-executive directors, the activities of the year are posted on the Group’s webpage auditing activities including reports on result of quarterly impose restriction on concentrated voting system, and term will be no longer than two years and one year for and the webpage of Financial Supervisory Service as well. external audit, reports on establishment of rules and shareholders can exercise their voting rights in written the consecutive term. Altogether, the total number of All activities and procedures are taken under the rules assessment of external auditors. (Training programs forms. years of term will be no longer than five years to assure of BOD and subcommittees and Corporate Governance within and outside of the organization for members independence of both the group and BOD. Guidelines. of Audit Committee are part of training and education Hana Financial Group Inc. is thus far the major holding programs provided for BOD.) company of HFG. As of December 2011, National In addition, by confirming method and intervals of Group Non-executive Nomination Committee serves Pension Service of Korea takes the position of the major evaluation, the Group defines responsibility of nonits purpose of assuring autonomy in nominating nonshareholder and no individual shareholder is reported executive directors and at the same time, cohesion and executive directors and the establishment is stipulated to hold shares of over 1.5%. In addition, as of March transparency in the process remuneration. Absolute under the rules of BOD and subcommittees. The 2012, executives appointed to their positions are evaluation is used as method of evaluation for each committee selects final nominees from those that have known to hold shares no more than 0.1% of the entire category, and self-evaluation and mutual evaluation are undergone the first rounds of reviews after discussions. shares. Thus the corporate governance of HFG has been both included in the process. Attendance rate is included The procedure of verification involves verification of established to secure the best practice in management in the list of evaluation categories as well. It is evaluated professional qualifications under current legal conditions, activities for minority shareholders. once, in the beginning of every year. discussions and final verification at Group Non-executive Concerning compensation for board members, the Nomination Committee. Moreover, related transaction made by Hana Financial general meeting in 2011 resolved to cap the level Further, major activities of Management Development Group Inc. account for no more than 1% of equity of remuneration for executive directors and nonand Compensation Committee included decision on capital and amount of guarantee and security make up executive directors at KRW 5 billion and KRW 800 million grant and redemption of stock grants for 2011. only 4.55% of equity capital. These imply that HFG’s respectively. The meeting approved the total amount of corporate governance is well established. (As of the end KRW 2.5 billion for compensation to board members. A variety of training and educational programs is of 2011) provided to ensure efficiency of board members as well. Throughout 2011, nine programs including “Governance and Leadership in the Time of Crisis” have been offered for total of one hundred nine hours long in accumulation. Steering Management Development Risk Management Auditor Nomination committee and Compensation Audit Committee Committee Committee of BOD Committee Byung-Taek Yoo ● ● ● Ku-Taek Lee ● ● ● Kyung-Sup Kim ● ● ● ● Outside Noh-Choong Huh ● ● ● Directors Gyong-Gyu Choi ● ● Sang-Bin Lee ● ● ● Bong-Soo Park ● ● Deog-Nam Hwang ● ● Jung-Tai Kim ● ● ● Heung-Sik Choe ● Managers Jong-Jun Kim ● Yong-Ro Yun ● (As of March 2012) 22 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 23 Risk Management Preemptive Measures against Crisis Performance in 2011 and Outlook for 2012 HFG has formulated and operates its comprehensive risk 2011 marked the year of spread of European financial management system to adequately respond to volatility crisis, increase of volatility caused by downgrade of the in economic environment and crisis, and enhance values United State’s credit ratings, slowdown of recovery of for stakeholders through relevant activities. real economy in Korea, emergency of household debt issues caused by for example increase of mortgages despite downturn of real estate market. To such extent, Organization and System for Risk Management risk management has emerged as the pivotal axis of All function of risk management of HFG is integrated into business activities. Against such backdrop, HFG has Corporate Center to enable preemptive identification categorized risks management as following – analysis and formulate measures against diverse risk factors in the and response to risk factors caused by changes in BOD Group, BUs and affiliates. BOD appoints HFG’s CRO (Chief external environment, response to potential of spread Risk Officer) to take the leadership in management. of instability of global financial market and respond to reform of system. Adequate measures are taken after Risk Management Committee is the top decision detailed analysis upon individual risk factors and as Group risk Management Holding company BU Head Committee CEO making body of the entire HFG that is under BOD. a result, the Group has achieved incomparable asset The committee is responsible for establishment, soundness in the financial industry. Subsidiary decision-making body approval and management of group-wide policy and basic management plan for crisis that can be faced in As the potential for economic recovery is still low in Group risk Management Group CRO management activities. Group Risk Management Sub2012, HFG will continue its efforts to maintain its asset Sub-Committee Committee, on the other hand, takes its responsibility in soundness through rigorous risk management. discussing, moderating and approving details of projects holding company risk management Team for group-wide risk management and execution items Internal Control System for affiliates. HFG has become the first Korean financial institution to appoint CCO (Chief Compliance Officer) that plays the role of supervising legal compliance of affiliates. BU Risk Management Subsidiary CRO Office Adequacy of internal control system of individual affiliates are assessed and further, various other activities holding company supervision of the employees’ compliance to Code of risk management Department Ethics are conducted. 24 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 25 HFG Consumer Satisfaction To bring utmost satisfaction to customers, HGS seeks to be with its customers all the time. Customers Safety and Wellness of Customers Protection of Customers’ Personal Informations Communiction with Customers 26 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 27 Safety and Wellness of Customers Safe e-Banking Service Protection of Financial Customers For secure provision of internet banking service, the In the face of sophistication of financial products and ● A Variety of Protective Measures for Financial Consumers HFG runs its Complaint Review Committee that plays its part Group offers its customers with security programs such services, HFG is conducting a wide variety of activities to in facilitating measures to provide remedies for customers via as plug-in for logging into internet banking services, to prevent infringement of customers’ rights, and resolve autonomy in mediation and defining process of remedy. Hana ensure protection of both customers’ computing devices problems that has taken place in the process of financial SOL, consisting of family members of employees in their thirties and safe internet banking services. To prepare against transactions. and forties, is making its contribution to improvement of quality cyber attacks, a series of response measures, including of products and services by informing inconvenience that system to respond to DDoS, has been established and ● Operation of Designated Organizations to Protect Financial customers face in branches, suggesting items for improvement Consumers and bridging the bank and customers with positive images. has been operated that when 7.7 DDoS attack took place HFG’s affiliates that are responsible for sales channel such as Additionally, the Group runs a system to deliver feedback and in 2009, Hana Bank was known to be the only banking Hana Bank, Hana Daetoo Securities, Hana SK Card, Hana HSBC opinions from financial consumers to employees real time and institution that was capable of protecting itself from the Life Insurance and Hana Capital operates a sub-team responsible a program to share sales agents’ story about their experience in attack. for customer protection within their customer satisfaction enhancing customer satisfaction or mistakes. team to touch on protective measures for their customers Further, security services are provided to prevent by establishing guidelines for protections for customers, banking fraud and for the first time in Korean financial monitoring and responding to customer complaints, collecting opinions from customers and improving systems.. industry, the Group has developed Hana Customer Safe System to take protective measures against financial incidents by creating and managing database (managing blacklists) of information on alleged cyber attacks. 28 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 29 Protection of Customers’ Personal Information Tightened procedure of providing information to ● Action Guide Protection of Customers’ Personal Information ensure integrity in provision of products and services In introducing new products, Hana Bank abides by its internal In accordance with Financial Holdings Company Act regulation so called “Rules on Introduction of New Products,” HFG offers its customers with published materials such and other relevant set of legislations, HFG has defined and has compliance officer conduct preemptive review process as leaflets, posters, booklets and electronic promotional standard of work process concerning provision and as part of internal control and legal compliance. In addition, materials to provide relevant information on financial for evaluation of adequacy to identify risk factors in products usage of personal and credit information of customers products and services it is selling. These materials clearly and services, Commodity Committee takes its responsibility in among affiliates of HFG under the category of “rules on indicate details on financial products, and are made in review and decision making before sales. Terms and conditions protections of personal information.” As such, the Group accordance with the Group’s rules on publication of for new products and services are established in accordance is conducting systematic and rigorous management of promotional materials. For protection of customers and with “Rules on Establishment and Management of Terms and its customers’ credit information. Further, in the face Conditions,” and are used after acquiring approval from the legal compliance, every piece of material goes through of widespread of e-Banking, technical measures for Financial Supervisory Service. deliberations by compliance officers. When posting protection are strengthened as well. Personal information information on financial instruments, Hana Bank has ● Training Programs on computing devices is protected by mandating all detailed information on its products and a financial Relevant introductory and training programs are offered to employees install personal information protection system service posted on the page named “Product Listing” ensure complete sales of products and services. Outcome of on their devices. Further, the protective system which in its website, and makes its best efforts in providing telephone monitoring (Happy Call) on customers and mystery is linked with e-mail system, has been installed and shopping in branches are reflected in the process of assessment relevant information on financial instrument for operated so that any e-mails for sending outside of the as well. Compliance Team is encouraging complete sales as customers through a variety of channels. As a result, no organization that contain personal information can be well by conducting monitoring activities and assessment of violation of regulation on promotion and marketing has outcomes. sent only after approval of team leaders. Each affiliate been reported during reporting period has set up its own process to respond to feedbacks ● Outcomes or complaints on usage of personal information from Evaluation is made by the Financial Supervisory Service its customers and thus provides quick responses. In concerning sales of financial investment products, and Hana addition, HFG has established and operates its system Bank is chosen to be one of outstanding financial institution in certified by ISO20000 and ISO27001 for group-wide sales. management and protection of customers’ personal information. Number of Cases of Deliberations on Financial Instruments Prior to New Financial Instrument Listing 2009 2010 2011 486 604 1,148 30 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 31 Efforts to Provide Differentiated Customer Services Diversification of e-Banking Service The leading financial group in Korea, HFG is capable For the first time in the Korean banking industry, Hana Communication with of providing differentiated financial services. With such competence, group-wide customer relationship Bank started to offer banking services customized for smartphones operated by Bada OS. As such, Hana Customers management activities are conducted. The Group seeks to maximize by providing customized financial services Bank has now become the first banking institution in the industry to offer a full line up of mobile banking based on analysis made on customer data, which is services that are available in iPhones to begins with, enabled by establishment of foundation for customer Window Mobile, Android and recently added Bada OS. data sharing. In addition, to ensure accessibility for Further, as part of the bank’s efforts to ensure diversity customers to banking services any time, the Group is in mobile banking services and accessibility for minority implementing relevant systems or equipments. Further, users, it has heralded in introducing banking application HFG continues its efforts to establish its system to for blackberry users as well. Hana N Money, an asset CS (Customer Satisfaction) Management Activities ensure accessibility to convenient banking services for management and housekeeping book application, HFG shares a common value for improvement of service makes a standard to derive adequate attitudes and work expatriates residing in Korea. is well-received that it is pre-embedded in Korea’s with all its employees and is making its various efforts to process that employees should have at the forefront of best-selling smartphone, Galaxy series and it is seeing maintain and develop it. service by indicating what the Group should pursue in its ● Interaction with Customers via Social Networking Sites constant increase in the number of users. In the face The Service Standard for the purpose of systematically service, including common and individual indicators. As part of the effort for open communication with customers, of rapid changes of mobile banking industry, HFG will realizing it is becoming a norm. The Service Standard Hana Bank has opened its official Twitter account for the secure its competitive edge as a leading bank in smart first time in baking industry in 2009. Other major affiliates of mobile financial service industry by making improvement HFG including Hana Financial Group Inc., Hana Bank, Hana SK Card and Hana INS followed to open their accounts in social in conventional services and introducing new services. Five SQ Core Value 1. Pro-customer Management networking sites such as Twitter, Facebook and Me2Day 2.Customer-centered Leadership and are actively engaged in interactive communication with In addition, HFG has incorporated its own idea of 3.Prioritizing Core Competence customers. Further, Hana Bank continues its pursuit of providing running an app store in internet banking service for the 4.Creation of Synergy differentiated service product in the new era of smart devices first time in Korea. Paring with SK Telecom, Hana SK 5.Real-time Communication by having its first attempt in offering internet services that are Card has introduced a wide variety of mobile card for linked to Facebook, Work Attitude SQ Leadership the use by smartphones only. In parallel, for vitalization ⑤ ① Swiftness (ICSI) -SQ leadership of team ● Services Customized for Expatriate Customers of markets, the Group is practicing its leadership in Training Activities by Teams Kindness (ICSI) leaders and branch managers -Strategic management of SQ Language services are provided in ATM to enhance accessibility creating market ecosystem for mobile card industry by 1. HSQI set up by individual goals to banking services for expatriates from countries such as China, for example, establishing transaction system for major team/branch Mongolia, Vietnam, Indonesia and Sri Lanka. Overseas money member stores in areas such as Myeongdong and COEX, 2. Prioritizing NCSI activities transfer service that offer various benefits, Pay-Easy, is well3. Targeting to ensure and designating some of them as so called “Touch Zone” cohesiveness of work process received by customers as well. to offer discounts for customers. 4. Assessment of performance HANA SQI ● Early Morning Discount For customers visiting off-peak hours between 9 AM and 11 Expertise -System to -Conducting Efforts to Conduct AM, so called “early morning discount” service is offered that ④ enhance expertise -customer-centered Customer-Centered transactions can be made free of charge and favorable interest business activities Business Activities rates are offered. ② Credibitility (ICSI) Cooperatibility (ICSI) Communication (ICSI) Cooperation System ③ Hana Financial Group SQI 32 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 33 Activities to Elevate Customer Satisfaction Level also consulting service with real estate and tax professionals ●Introduction of CS System with CEM (Customer Experience are available on inheritance and gift and thus top-of-the line Management) consulting services are available to customers residing in remote HFG has shifts in focus on CS from performance to procedures areas now. Hana Bank is planning to introduce the Smart PB and emotional aspects, and thus introduced its CS system that Service across all branches after a series of pilot operations. spotlights “customer experience.” To carry out a set of ideas The bank is planning to further introduce new consulting into action, the Group has established a set of CS standard services that overcome space and time limits by offering mobile named HSQI (Hana Service Quality Index) and offers numerous platform based Smart PB Service. programs such as Service Campus, Master Leader, Optimism Camp and Spread of Service Manual are run to raise awareness. ● Opening of Designated Counter for Foreign Customers As part of the efforts to expand financial services for ●Satisfaction Level of IT Service Vietnamese customers residing in Korea, Hana Bank has For enhancement of competence in IT-support, quarterly survey opened a designated counter for Vietnamese customers in is conducted to identify satisfaction level of IT services (SM) its branch located in Wongok-dong, Ansan, Gyeoggi, which that are provided to affiliates, analyze current status and find is known to be a concentration area of Vietnamese citizens. out items for improvement. Based on the result of the survey, Vietnamese personnel have been appointed as the counter relevant measures for improvement and monitoring are taken. clerk so that Vietnamese-speaking customers can easily access to banking and consulting services in their mother tongue. ●Awarding Employees with Excellence in CS Unlike other sales branches, business hours are adjusted as well Every quarter, each affiliate has its customers nominate for Vietnamese customers that the branch is open until 7PM employees who excel in customer service with detailed during weekdays and on Sundays, it is open from 10AM to information on accomplishments awards its employees for their 4PM to provide access to the service for Vietnamese customers outstanding services. The employee in nomination receives a who have difficulties in sparing their time to visit banks on trophy with with an additional prize to promote the award, and weekdays. Hana Bank has also designated counter for Chineseby posting the news on bulletin boards, each affiliate attempts speaking customers in branches located in concentration areas to encourage its employees to provide better services and raise such as Guro-dong, Ansan, Shingil-dong and Daelim-dong and awareness for customer satisfaction. with Chinese-speaking personnel as counter clerks, the policy is being well-received by Chinese customers. With the increase of expatriates residing in Korea every year, the Bank is making its utmost efforts to open counters where foreign customers can access to banking services in their mother tongues and it is Customer Satisfaction Service pledging to continue to offer financial services that would touch ● Hana N Plaza Service the hearts of foreign-born customers. Hana N Plaza is a service designed to enable seamless online purchase of financial products that are customized for customer ● Partnership with the Korean Post Office to Share ATM to suit their purpose of visiting their bookmarked websites. Hana Bank has established a partnership with the Korean Post Hana N Plaza is a groundbreaking method of marketing to Office so that its customers can save as much as KRW 1000 directly sell most-needed financial products to visitors of when using ATM at post offices. Whereas Hana Bank customers major online pages. What has been conventionally been tried previously paid fees as much as KRW 900 ~ 1000 for every cash in the banking industry, direct banking or cyber branch, has withdrawal from ATM at post offices, the partnership enabled its shortcomings in attracting new customers and difficulties customers to withdraw cash free of charge during business in communication, but it is notable that Hana N Plaza deftly hours, and with fees as little as KRW 300~600 after business markets its financial products by overcoming all of these. hours. What used to be charged KRW 700, cash deposit is now available free of charge as well. In addition, money transfer ● Smart PB Service from ATM at post offices to Hana Bank used to charge as much Hana Bank has introduced its first remote video consulting as KRW 500 ~ 900, but the service is available free of charge as system, “Smart PB Service” that is targeting VIP customers well. Following the bank’s decision to lower fees for ATM as part who look for PB services. “Smart PB Service” gives access of subsidizing micro finance, the partnership is anticipated to to VIP customers to private banking service through online take much burden of fees from customers. Further, the bank video consulting system when visiting a branch that have no has now expanded its network of ATM with now as many as private banker designated. Thus customers do not have to 11,446 units of ATM (Hana Bank: 3,621 units, Hana Magic Bank: 2, locate a branch with a designated banker for private banking 154 units, the Korean Post Office: 5,671 units) service they look for. Not only private banking service, but 34 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 35 HFG Smart Workplace HFG aspires to interact and sympathize with its customers with its sincerity. Employees Employment and Career Development Activities to Raise Employees’ Satisfaction Labor-Management Relationship 36 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 37 Employment and Career Development Employment Policy System of Human Resource Development Fair Assessment of Performance Career Development System HFG prohibits discrimination against gender, age, The assessment system of HFG has organizational HFG’s Qualification-based Training System is composed religion, academic background and disability and assessment and individual assessment closely linked of four curriculums Core Competence, Leadership abides by the Labor Standard Act and the ILO Forced together. Competence, Work-related Common Competence Labor Convention. The Group prohibits any form of HRD Vision In establishing business plans for the following year, and Work-related Professional Competence. Core Business partner to discrimination against gender, age, religion, academic rather than being inclined to top-down method, Competence is a core curriculum and focuses on upport continuous growth background and disability in the process of employment. the Group organizes annual business workshop that organizational learning (training aiming at enhancement In addition, the Group bans all forms of child labor and engage employees from work fields to reflect voices of workplace learning) and Leadership Competence forced labor across all work places in accordance with from the sales points. Individual employees will have includes training in leadership for individual team leaders, the Labor Standard Act in Korea, ILO Abolition of Forced individual goals set up under the agreement with their management of changes and vitalization of organization. Labor Convention and ILO Convention on Child Labor. supervisors in charge of performance assessment, and Work-related Common Competence concentrates on Thus far, no case of violation has been reported. fair assessment on performance is made in accordance training in strategic thinking and planning capacity, with KPI. Finalized reward for outstanding performance is creative innovation and Hana INSer and Work-related made after fair procedure of consideration and approval. Professional Competence places the focus on enhancing professional competency by providing training courses in for example, IT planning, quality management, PM Infrastructure Advancement of infrastructure for and application development. human resource development Establishment of learning system to enable management of People qualification-based training system + Training system based on qualifications Development of human resource with Establishment of support system for Items Management Issues competence in IT and expertise Core Work-related Leadership learning to ensure efficient managemtn of training Qualifications Qualifications Qualifications Fostering of leaders and development of programs leadership Basic Course in Shortcuts to output creation, the law of priority + Accounting and Finance Team Team Leadership (Leader that can give vision) Enhancement of core qualifications Leader Performance to ensure competitive edge in IT Training Course in Strategy Establishment and Performance Assessment Dream Society Pursuit of performance-centered business human resource development system + Hana Senior Hana Course in Course of Change to ensure continuous growth Implementation of effective Researcher INS INS Strategic Course in Course in Strengthening Part Vitalization Management Training Strengthening Successful Leadership Communication of Team training methods to enhance Training Thinking Capacity in and Basic Course Course Power of Problem (motivating Clinic Based on Establishment of Qualification-based Deputy Course in and Strategic Vitalization of in Accounting Workplace Learning Organization in Core Planning Execution Solving leader) Trust and Finance/ HRD System for developing human Senior Thinking Organization Values CLOUD Researcher Course in resource according to categories COMPUTING Enhancing + Junior Qualification Researcher in CS Organization Development to pursue Course of Creative Course of Output Creation Self-Motivated Leadership Course (Self Motivated Leader) performance and relationship-based Innovation and Problem Solving Staff organizational culture Pre-entering Learning culture, human resource development process Newly Hana INSer Course Employed and system, expertise of staff members responsible for HRD Group Training Course (Reference made to the structure of Hana INS training programs) 38 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 39 Activities to Raise Employees’ Satisfaction Welfare System for Employees The core principle of HFG’s welfare system is that all ● Post-retirement Subsidies employees of the Group should benefit from the system. For stable post-retirement life, HFG is subsidizing 50% of premium payment for national pension fund. Under Employee Improvement of Work Culture In case of Hana Bank which hires 80% of the Group’ Retirement Benefit Security Act, the Group is managing its HFG has established four major principles of s entire employees, to ensure wellness and safety, all retirement pension system, through which severance is paid communication to promote efficient and optimistic work employees over the age of thirty five and their spouses after accumulating the amount equivalent to average one culture. over the age of thirty six are subject to comprehensive month’s salary every year in financial instruments provided by medical examinations, other than regular medical reliable financial institutions. The retirement pension is managed check-ups. In case of accident and illness, the bank has by defined benefit pension system. 01 subscribed to a group insurance product to financially ●Maternity Protection Activities Principles (1) D esignate personnel in responsibility Designate personnel responsible for response to official document subsidize its employees. In addition, in case of illness of Handling according to the type of documents according according to categories. In response to governmental measures to respond to low-birth (2) Read official documents before and Check arrival of official document before and after work, and make of employees and their family member, it is subsidizing Official rate and for improvement of working conditions for female Documents after work. quick responses. medical fees for certain amount. Rental houses are employees, HFG is conducting a wide variety of maternity (3) Respond to the received document -R  espond to the received document before the following day of before the following day. receipt. provided for some employees who do not own houses protection activities. Childcare facilities are run so that female but have family members to support and dormitory is employees can work with little worries about childcare. During 02 maternity leave, full salary payment is made for up to eighty Principles of (1) Reporting document should be no Reporting document should be short and simple. provided as well for employees who are relocated to Reporting longer than a page long Unless necessary, avoid visual images or graphs, and prefer MS Word business days, and for the maternity leave as long as one distant areas from their hometown. Further, various (2) R eporting document should be over Power Point. year, 30% of basic salary is paid. The maternity leave gives no made in MS Word. -U  nless necessary for effective delivery of contents, avoid printing other employees benefit programs are provided – for disadvantages over employment, salary payment and career (3) R eporting document should be documents in color. example, school expenses are subsidized for employees path. printed in black and white. Unless necessary, avoid attaching additional documents. (4) A void having attachments. Simple reporting should be made swiftly via e-mail and by checking and their school children from kindergarden to (5) Simple reporting to be made via receipt notification, make sure that delivery is completed. universities, and to ensure refreshment, leisure facilities e-mail. are run by the Group as well. 03 Principles of (1) Simple communication to be made Actively use MMS, messengers and email to enable fast-paced Communication via MMS, messengers and e-mail. reporting and feedback of simple items Items Major Programs Outcomes in 2011 (2) Skip titles, greetings, and spacing. To keep messages short and simple, skip or simplify title, greetings Wedding Supporter System Consulted: 31, Contracted: 19 (3) Respond to reporting after receiving. and spacing. Life Care Center Child Love Program Consulted (child): 393 cases, Consulted (employees): (4) For smartphone users, use M Portal. By responding upon reception of messages, minimize time consumed (counseling program with focus on childcare) 90 cases, Psychological exams: 5 cases for checking upon receipt of reporting. -U  se Hana M Portal on smartphones to log in and use Hana Portal. Hana Family Love Program Granted welfare points up to KRW 9.235 billion Family Program Oh, Happy Day Program 04 Allocated KRW 209 million for 8,554 participants (program to celebrate birthdays and anniversaries) Principles of (1) S tart and finish on time. Arrive at the meeting room on time, set the finishing time before the Leisure Program Subsidizing programs for interest groups Subsidized KRW 71 million for ten interest groups Meeting (2) K eep messages simple and deliver in start and finish on time by checking hour glasses. Finding Happiness Program optimistic tones. Opinion should be made short and simple, with optimistic tones. Counseled 21 cases for 115 employees (counseling program) (3) L isten to other attendants carefully. F ocus on more on listening than speaking, and listen to other Wellness Program Allocated on the average of KRW 2.1million for 450 (4) E ngage all participants in the attendants’ opinion carefully. System to subsidize wellness management of employees employees meeting. All participants try their best to make their comments. Anti-smoking program Singed up: 66, Succeeded: 11 (5) D raw a conclusion that can be Try the best to draw “constructive” conclusion. carried out in to action after the Management of regular gathering retirees and Retirees’ Program Management of Hanmaeum Support Center for Retirees meeting. provision of subsidies for family events. 40 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 41 Labor-Management Relationship Establishment of Culture of Win-win Promotion of Labor-Management Communication Labor-Management Relationship HFG not only hosts quarterly labor-management HFG is running its program of brining harmony to council but also temporary labor-management councils labor-management relationship to build trust and when needed to open the floor for discussion. The partnership. Various programs are offered to build Group observes for example, Family Invitation Day for trust and cooperative partnership between labor and interaction among CEO, employees and their family management including training programs that engage members. In addition. monthly discussion events are both management and members of labor union and held to engage CEO and employees of individual teams briefing sessions to update current status of business to listen to the voices and opinions of the employees. activities. Further, as part of promoting interactive Along with popularity of online communication, communication among employees, labor union and the Group is currently running its corporate social management co-host events such as sporting events, networking site named HanaTwitter, Shinmungo and rallies to strengthen unity and various other events to blog. boost morale.. Current Status of Labor Union CEO and leaders of business units including Corporate The labor union has been established in 1960 and all Center, Personal and Commercial Banking and Corporate employees can freely join out and take part. As a result and Investment Banking, Management Support Division of efforts to incorporate autonomy in the culture of and Human Resource Support Team are representing labor-management relationship, the Group has seen no management, and a union representative, three union cases of labor-management conflict for the past fifty two officials and two heads of policy department are years of history since the establishment of the union. representing the labor union. Six members from each of management and labor union comprise a committee for collective bargaining. The committee is making its contribution in establishing the culture of win-win laborCurrent Involvement of Employees to Labor Union management relationship by conducting a vast array of (Unit: KRW) collective bargaining, as well as salary negotiations. Items 2009 2010 2011 Total Number of 9,559 9,224 9,012 Employees Total Number of Employees Subject 7,055 6,989 6,666 to Membership of Labor Union Number of Employees 7,055 6,989 6,666 Involved in Labor Union 42 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 43 HFG Creating Shared Value HFG is taking its part to make a beautiful world where everyone can find happiness. Win-win Cooperation Structure of Social Contribution Activities Current Status of Social Contribution Activities Win-Win Growth Through Finance Fair Trade 44 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 45 Win-win Cooperation Structure of Social Contribution Activities Organization to Drive Initiatives HFG, as a corporate citizen, takes the efforts for HFG’s social contribution activities are conducted under development local communities as its vital responsibility. close cooperation among affiliates of the Group and the As such, since its establishment, various social main agent of Social & Culture Team of HFG. The Group contribution activities are being conducted. Under carries forward its projects such as micro financing the Group’s mission “contribution to community,” and construction of elderly care facilities and childcare the activities are based on three important pillars of facilities via Hana Financial Foundation and Hana Hope “Sharing,” “Culture” and “Green.” The activities under Foundation. To ensure strategic and continuous social “sharing” revolve around HFG’s social contribution contribution activities, the Group is managing groupactivities for local communities and are aimed for wide organization called CSV (Creating Shared Value) resolving social issues such as low-birth rate, aging Committee, Sustainable Management Promotion and multi-cultural households as well as educational Committee. businesses and contribution in sporting events. Strategies to Drive Initiatives ‘Contribution to Community’ makes one of the most important missions of HFG. It is out of the Group’s ● CSV (Creating Shared Value) Committee idea that as a responsible corporate citizen that plays ● Sustainable Management Promotion Committee its vital role in society, it should help members of local communities in difficulties get back on their feet. HFG makes its profits thanks to countless number of customers and local communities where it is conducting its business activities. As such, as a responsible member Hana of society that actively conducts its economic activities, ● Hana Financial Foundation Financial Group ● Hana Hope Foundation it is evident for the Group to make its efforts in making local communities, home to not only current customers ● Hana High School but also potential customers, better places. With its campaign to help underprivileged class in 1980s to begin Hana Love CSRl & Culture Volunteer with, HFG’s social contribution activities are gaining Management Corps its drive with increased support in areas such as social Team welfare, arts and culture and education in 1990s and the launch of Hana Love Volunteer Corps. in 2004. 46 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 47 Current Status of Social Contribution Activities Sharing Hana Kids of Asia HFG runs a program named “Hana Kids of Asia” fully involved in the process spanning from construction to resolve difficulties that children of multi-culture of facility to management. With the first facility opened households often face such as identify diffusion and in Namyangju in March 2009 to begin with, the Group is difficulty in learning. Unlike conventional education planning to complete construction of twenty additional programs that centered in educating Korean language elderly care facilities within a decade of time. The and culture, the Group’s program offers opportunities in facility has ten seniors in a group and care services are learning languages and culture of both of their parents, given by units to ensure relaxed atmosphere like that and further, pays close attention to details such as of their homes. One caregiver is designated for every learning and emotional stability. The program offers a two persons to secure quality care service all the time. wide variety of learning opportunities with for example, The process of administration can be preceded by Saturday School which provides sessions to get to know visiting the website of Hana Care Center (http://www. languages and cultures mothers, after-school program hanacarecenter.or.kr). The care center has partnered run by volunteer groups of university students as the with College of Nursing of Korea University to deliver mentors, comprehensive cultural education program for systematic and professional care services. children of multi-cultural households who face identity diffusion and counseling service program to ensure Hana Puruni Childcare Center emotional stability. On the top, HFG has partnered HFG has set up and operates its own childcare facility with Hanukkah University of Foreign Studies to infuse to resolve issues of lowering birth rates stemming professionalism into its projects and is actively taking from difficulties in childcare. It is the first time in Korea part in the process of making materials for language to have a business group to donate a facility to local education and cultural education. communities to operate a state-funded childcare facility on commission. The first facility which was opened Hana Care Center in Shingil-dong, Yeongdeungpo-gu on September To resolve lack of rehabilitation and care facilities for 2008 offers top-of-the line childcare program for one senior demographics in Korean society, Hana Finance hundred forty children with a group of highly qualified Welfare Foundation has established and runs its elderly experts. The Group is planning to additionally open ten care center. It is the first time for a business group to be childcare facilities within a decade of time. 48 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 49 Culture Hana Children’s Economic Musical Hana Classic Academy Hana Bank is offering opportunities for elementary Live classical music concert with detailed lectures by school children learn economics with its musical experts from various fields of art – Hana Classic Academy programs. Whereas conventional programs targeting hosts its classical music concerts every Thursday from school children were lecture-based, Hana Bank’s 2PM to 4PM at Hanmaeum Hall, on the third floor education program is designed to let children learn of Hana Daetoo Securities in Yeouido, Seoul. Every tricky economic concepts with fun by combining songs, concert has top rated performers in Korea performing dance and economic education into a musical. Witty and is paired with lectures by Eun-Hee Park, the music and thrilling elements are added in every corner of the director of Korea Festival Ensemble. Since its start on performance to excite young audience. By doing so, the October 2000, Hana Classic Academy is well-received program aspires to offer performances that are actively that it resembles much to salon-musical concerts in the interacting with school-aged audience. seventeenth century Europe, and is making the signature cultural event of Hana Bank. Green Poster Contest Hana Green Concert Hana Green Poster Contest has inaugurated in 1993 For the purpose of raising awareness of the importance to promote eco-friendliness among children and of environment protection and providing public with provide grounds for developing artistic talents of young opportunities for enjoying events of cultural events, participants. The contest is officially sponsored by HFG has been hosting a performing arts event called Ministry of Environment and attracts over four hundred “Hana Green Concert.” After the first event in Bundang thousand young nationwide to become a prestigious art Joongang Park in June 1993, Hana Bank’s signature contest for elementary school-aged children. The contest performing arts event has been held 1~4 times has created numerous stories to share such as excursion every year. In 2006, the event was held in Qingdao to Mt. Keumgang and School Forest (이대로 좋습니다.) to commemorate tenth anniversary of Qingdao and participation of Chinese students. For vitalization of International Bank (now Hana Bank China) and contribute school education, Hana Bank designs and remodels art to promote economic cooperation between China room of the const-winning school with its project with and Korea. Hana Green Concert boasts a vast range of eco-friendly concept so called “Dream Art Room.” Hana repertoire from classic, popular music to fusion music. Bank pledges to have more “Dream Art Room” to enable To stir up optimism, the Bank carries on with its efforts school children dream of their future. under the slogan “to become one with environment, to become one with culture, and to become one with Visiting Beautiful Forests neighbors.” HFG hosts an annual event to visit to beautiful forests in Korea. It is an event targeting its customers to tour national forest lodges located near Seoul metropolitan area to raise awareness for importance of nature and forests. After the first event on June 1, 1993, this familyfriendly event has engaged employees with school-aged children and has made a social contribution program as well. 50 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 51 Win-win Growth through Finance Supporting Financially Underprivileged Products with Public Benefits under Consideration Financial Aid to Resolve Social Problems In September 2008, Hana Hope Foundation has been Bankbook/installment savings account called “Sharing by Receivable Collateral) Loan and e-Procurement Loan HFG has long been paying attention to credit counseling established to carry out HFG’s projects in microfiancing Babo (a Korean word for fool)” is a financial instrument into a single package to enable financing payment for and recovery. As such, the Group has actively taken part business. Microfinancing aims to put underpriviledged in introduced by the bank partnering with Catholic social goods received at relatively lower interest rates, based in Credit Counseling and Recovery Service which is under the way of getting their living and help the beneficiaries contribution foundation, “Sharing by Babo.” The financial on credit ratings of main contractors. Win-win Growth Korea Federation of Banks and approved credit recover escape from poverty. Hana Hope Foundation’s project product has been introduced in July 2011, and since then Package Loan is a product that has used a supply chain of 792 people with the amount of KRW 7.3 billion in 2010 does not aim to be one off, but rather, places its focus it has made its success as a financial instrument with the based on relation of win-win cooperation to have more and 1,466 people with the amount of KRW 14.7 billion in on giving substantial aid so that its beneficiaries can purpose of social contribution, seeing over two hundred businesses benefit from settlement products. 2011. In addition, through the Personal Debt Work-out continue to play their part as sound economic agents. thousand subscribers in less than half a year since the As of the end of 2011, KRW 1.1502 trillion has been System, as of 2011, total accumulative amount of KRW The lowest income group and lower income group introduction. funded to resolve financial difficulties of small and 102.1 billion of bond has been approved as personal defined under National Basic Living Security Act will For customers willing to donate their organs and those medium sized enterprises. The achievement has been debt work-out. Further, in order to actively support be subject to the benefit of the project. As part of volunteering to donate their savings at the time of recognized that the Hana Bank was awarded “the Best young demographics that have defaulted on their loans HFG’s group-wide effort to realize its vision, “making maturity, the customers will benefit from additional Company in Win-win Growth” at Korea Win-win Growth that they have made during their school years (formerly contribution to community as a leading financial group,” interest of 1% and access to ATM service free of charge. Awards in July 2011. referred as delinquent borrower), the bank has made its the Group has funded KRW 10 billion to establish Further, Hana Bank has funded KRW 100 won per decision to write off interests, fees and part of principals. the foundation and thus far, it has benefited the account to financially support children from multicultural Also, to raise awareness for envionmental protection, underprivileged class with the amount up to KRW 17.1 households. The financial instrument has created a stir Hana Bank has introduced its new installment savings billion through 1,667 cases. Application is available on the that in 2011, “Sharing by Babo” bankbook attracted account product named after “International Garden foundation’s webpage (http://www.hanahope.or.kr). 112,271 customers with amount up to KRW 81.7 billion Exposition Suncheon Bay Korea 2013.” The financial and “Sharing by Babo” installment savings account, instrument has intended to fund construction of 156,015 customers with KRW 130.2 billion. exposition sites and preservation of Suncheon Bay with 0.1% of bank balance. Thus far the financial product Hana SK Card’s “Master of Everyday Life” card aims for has attracted 95,396 customers with amount up to KRW vitalization of traditional food markets by helping shop 340.2 billion. owners of the markets increase their profits by fully returning surcharge in the case of purchase made with less than the amount of KRW 20,000 in traditional food markets. Hana Bank’s “Win-win Growth Package Loan” is a settlement product to support liquidity of small and medium-sized partnering companies that supply their products for large-sized corporations. The product has Loans on Receivable Collateral electric ARC (Account 52 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 53 Fair Trade Management of CP for Fair Trade For promotion of transparency and fairness in competition, HFG is operating its own CP (CP: Compliance Program) for Fair Trade. Along with monitoring activities to prevent legal violation, compliance check is conducted as well. In particular, being aware that CP has now become a global standard, the Group is emphasizing on compliance to Fair Trade Act in every corner of business activity. Major Programs Training programs for personnel responsible for CP on a regular basis 01 Compliance to Fair Trade Training (twice a year) and field training on a rolling basis. Posting Compliance Act to protect stakeholders Manual on corporate bulletin boards. including customers and foster sound development Preemptive screening system to prevent acts of legal violation, monitoring of financial industry system for early detection and correction and Internal Report and Reporter Monitoring Protection System are run within the organization and relevant measures are imposed on violators. Transparent and Fair 02 Trade Practices Transparent Activities to Prevent Collusion and Unfair Establishment of guidelines for unfair collective actions. and fair All employees of Hana Bank Trade Practices business pledge their commitment to the following to abolish unfair trade practices to practices and further ensure refrain from transparent and fair business unfair benefits practices. 04 CP Programs No reference to unfair 03 terms and conditions in Items Detail 2009 2010 2011 Refraining from unfair contracts, display of false collective actions and information or misleading Legal Violations Number of Legal Actions Taken none none None business trade that advertisements would otherwise infringe Number of training programs 5 9 4 CP offered Fair Trade Act the principles of free (Compliance competition Program) Number of cases of screening 486 604 1,148 * Indicates details of “Clean Contract System” on contracts and annexes. Resolution to Compliance Program * E-bidding system by Doore Corp. is used in the process of purchasing property and facility. 54 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 55 System of Ethical Management President of Bank Consultative Meeting for Ethical Management Compliance Officer Consultative Meeting for Internal Contol Compliance Comprehensive Secretariat Human Resource HR Development Supporting Risk Management (inspection) Support Team Department Department Department System for Implementation of Work Ethics (Reference made to the system of Hana Bank) Training Programs on Work Ethics Ethical Management Programs for Employees In order to raise awareness for work ethics among training for compliance officers and business training. Securities Accounts and Transaction Code of Ethics Promotion System employees and conduct ethical management activities, Concerning business activities that involve active Records Report System The system intends to prevent violation of Code of Ethics HFG is providing a wide variety of training programs interaction with customers, employees are mandated to The system intends to inspect cases of legal violations and its relevant action guidelines and alert violators on on work ethics. In every event of business promotion make their self-diagnosis on compliance and ethics twice and to mandate employees responsible for asset their act of violations. The system places its focus on meeting held by an individual business headquarter, with a year. Ethics series are posted on Groupware so that management and credit assessment report transaction promoting Code of Ethics, not to place violators on a compliance officer in attendance, training programs employees can read them every time they log into it and records of securities account. It is designed to promote disadvantages. targeting branch managers and RM (Retail Manager) thus raise their awareness. In 2011, HFG has conducted soundness in asset and credit management and to encourage them to lead by example and educate its surveys on awareness for compliance and code of compliance to regulations on transaction of securities their teammates. Group training programs provided ethics to reflect the result in ethics policy. management including prohibition of insider trading and in the process of employment, reinstatement, regular actions of conflict of interest. Money Laundering Prevention System In response to efforts for prevention of money Internal Employee Report and laundering both at home and overseas and efforts to Current Status of Training in Work Ethics Reporter Protection System ensure transparency in financial transactions, Hana Bank Name of Programs Contents Regulations on internal employee report and reporter is prohibiting its employees from involving in money 1. Case studies on ethical and unethical cases protection are set up to define obligation of reporting laundering, either directly or indirectly, through its Online Training Program on Case Studies and 2. Internal Employee Report and Reporter Protection System and protection of reporters. internal Code of Ethics. The bank is raising awareness Explanations 3. Prohibition of accepting gifts and bribes among its employees with its training programs through 1. Level of centralization of work Gifts and Bribes Report System company broadcasting programs, group training Explanation on Code of Ethics and Case Studies 2. Prohibition of actions that cause conflict of interest According to Code of Ethics, “all employees shall not programs and on-site programs in branch offices. (targeting reinstated employees and would-be branch 3. Prohibition of feneration for personal purpose managers) request or receive any form of bribe or gifts regardless Further, by establishing and improving database system, of the amount.” The system mandates the employees to Hana Bank is ensuring effective measures against money 1. Prohibition of actions that cause conflict of interest voluntarily report their receipt of gifts. laundering. Ethical Management of Hana Employees 2. Budget payment (Regular course for personnel responsible for compliance) 3. Prohibition of feneration for personal purpose 56 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 57 HFG Green Management HFG is conducting eco-friendly activities that enable everyone benefit from nature. Environment Eco-friendly Management Performance in Eco-friendly Management 58 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 59 Eco-friendly Management Commitment of Top-level Management Environment Organization to Eco-friendly Management ● Structure of Environment Organization HFG is currently running CSV (Creating Shared Value) The Group’s Sustainable Management Committee takes its responsibility for execution of relevant project for eco-friendly Committee composed of the president of the Group and management and CSV Committee, for group-wide decision CEOs affiliates. Under the rules set by the committee, making in eco-friendly management. resolution on “eco-friendly management” is stipulated as part of core set of resolution. Under the rules set by BOD, business plans that include the Group’s eco-friendly management activities are approved and The Group also has Sustainable Management Promotion assessed by BOD. Business contracts that involve eco-friendly Committee chaired by its CHRO (Chief Human Resource business activities are approved by BOD as well. Officer) to have each affiliate set up its own target and ● Environment Education take responsibilities and approve practical issues such as A vast array of programs is offered carry out campaigning budget plan and payment. activities on intranet and the Group’s bulletin boards to arouse interest among employees in environment-related issues and CSV Committee reports the president and CEOs of encourage active interactions. affiliates on performance of eco-friendly management Though not all employees are subject to environment education, and relevant activities for improvement. In accordance personnel responsible for environment issues are adequately with strategies for eco-friendly management formulated offered their opportunities in training that are relevant to their by CSV Committee, Sustainable Management Committee work other environment education programs are offered on a establishes budget plans. regular basis as well. For example, monthly education program on reduction of fuel consumption is provided for employees who drive their automotive vehicles. 60 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 61 ● Consumption of Materials Performance in By the nature of financial service industry, paper is considered as raw material used in business activities. The Group is creating eco-friendly working environment by having recycled paper make up 12-14% of Eco-friendly entire amount of paper consumption. Management Amount of Paper Consumed and Recycling Rate Items 2009 2010 2011 Paper (unit: ton) 1,398 1,238 1,340 Target and Performance of Eco-friendly Management ● Energy Consumption ● Water Consumption Amount of paper 198 174 170 recycled (unit: ton) HFG observes ‘Car Free Day’ every month and takes various For reduction of water consumption, various projects such as Percentage of paper measures such as the fifth-day-no-driving system and installing automatic sensor washbasins are underway. 14.1 14.1 12.7 recycled (unit: %) encouraging employees to wear lighter clothes during summer time to save energy. The Group is also conducting numerous campaigning activities to reduce energy consumption by for example, encouraging employees to walk a close distance when they are out one business. HFG seeks to make its contribution to reduction of energy consumption by replacing lightings in sales branches with LEDs. Thus far eight out of fifteen branches have completed replacement of lighting. As a result of such ceaseless efforts, Hana Bank was awarded the best company in the category of green business in “2011 Korea Green Climate Award” which was hosted by Korean Governance Forum on Climate Change. Amount of Energy Consumption Amount of Water Consumption Item Description Unit 2009 2010 2011 Items Details Unit 2009 2010 2011 Energy Electricity KWh 51,743,792 49,950,404 49,410,270 Water Total m3 133,982 124,823 121,461 Source Amount of Gas m3 558,091 585,705 635,647 Consumption Gasoline l 276,979 256,187 253,377 Data Collection Criteria : 12 Large-sized buildings that are owned by the Group. Both underwater and water included. Diesel l 2,763 2,702 8,428 Data Collection Criteria 1. Electricity : 74 buildings owned by the Group 2. Gas : 12 building which are owned by the group and consume gas energy. 3. Gasoline : Applied for sales branches that tenant for buildings owned by the Group. : Amount of annual consumption and cost per liter are applied 4. Diesel : 12 buildings which are owned by the group and equipped with standby electricity generators. 62 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 63 Eco-friendly Products and Services Amount of Waste Generated ● Eco-friendly Strategy that Take the Nature of Financial Industry into Consideration HFG takes the nature of financial industry into profound Items (unit: ton) 2009 2010 2011 consideration to formulate eco-friendly strategies and carry out General Waste Recycled 12 1.3 5.5 relevant actions. In its business activities, financial products and (All type of solid and liquid waste except services that encourage customers to take part in eco-friendly sewage) Subtotal 12 1.3 5.5 activities are developed and introduced. For example, “-0.3˚C Incinerated 2 0.5 2.5 Loan and Installment Savings Account” has been introduced to Designated Waste (Waste that include provide customers who lead their eco-friendly lifestyle with substance that Recycled 1.3 1.5 2 favorable interest rates and “S Line Installment Savings Account” may contaminate environment or pose Subtotal 3.3 2 4.5 has been launched to provide customers who manage their harm to human body) weight keeping themselves active with favorable interest rates. 15.3 3.3 10 Total Hana Capital makes its contribution to prevention of air pollution by offering discounts on risk premium for hybrid Items (%) 2009 2010 2011 car owners and Hana SK Card plays its part in environmental (Amount of Recycled Waste 87 85 75 conservation through its efforts to reduce waste generation by / Total Amount of Waste Generated) X 100 introducing mobile credit card that is plastic card-free and can be downloaded onto smartphones. Items (ton) 2009 2010 2011 ● Efforts Made by Employees The group-wide campaign called “Green Bank on the Move” is Amount of Waste Disposal 15.3 3.3 10 being conducted to encourage all employees actively take part in environmental protection activities. Various other programs such as ‘Caring Hana Forest,” “Car Free Day” and “Walk to Donate” are run as well. Within the organization, a wide variety of policy is facilitated by for instance pursuing to be “Paperless Company” with active implementation of electronics documents and reducing paper consumption through introduction of office machines that are capable double-sided printing. By conducting various eco-friendly management activities, the Group seeks ways to engage all of customers, employees and affiliates in environmental protection. 64 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 65 Key Performance Data Table1 Condensed Financial Statement (Unit: KRW million) Description 2011 2010 2009 Asset I. Cash & Due from Banks 11,053,196 8,271,576 7,658,850 II. Financial Assets Held-for-Trading 10,376,313 8,881,799 9,427,943 III. Financial asset designated at fair value 60,500 98,416 22,854 through profit or loss IV. Available-for-sales Financial Assets 16,241,698 16,404,763 15,860,105 V. Financial Assets Held to Maturity 2,289,567 2,658,634 4,831,930 VI. Loans 129,182,067 112,986,658 105,095,045 VII. Derivative Assets Used for Hedging Purposes 110,446 84,639 99,852 VIII. Investment in Equity Securities of Affiliates 881,586 701,032 176,671 and Joint Ventures IX. Tangible Assets 1,494,899 1,569,151 1,804,057 X. Investment Property 332,774 326,786 526,893 XI. Intangible Assets 340,095 384,322 314,246 XII. Deferred Tax Assets 11,319 9,648 13,107 XIII. Current Tax Assets 1,026 224 XIV. Other Assets 5,854,422 5,554,241 5,259,923 Total Assets 178,228,882 157,932,691 151,091,700 Liabilities I. Financial Liabilities Held-for-Trading 2,415,225 2,597,298 4,109,533 II. Financial liability at fair value through profit 2,966,907 2,541,231 1,939,898 or loss III. Deposit Loans 104,552,027 95,045,278 91,378,497 IV. Leveraged Liability 15,441,945 13,396,949 14,579,747 V. Debentures 28,481,270 21,544,896 18,569,106 VI. Derivative Liabilities Used for Hedging 2,647 4,140 14,661 Purposes Appendix VII. Post-employment Benefit Obligations 40,737 17,749 2,803 VIII. Liability Provisions 152,257 249,445 452,031 Key Performance Data IX. Deferred Tax Liabilities 92,365 212,720 252,172 X. Current Tax Liabilities 222,725 97,058 207,251 Awards XI. Other Liabilities 9,039,839 9,489,190 8,318,167 GRI G3.1 Guideline Index Total Liabilities 163,407,944 145,195,954 139,823,866 Third Party’s Assurance Report Stockholder’s Equity I. Capital Stock 1,215,249 1,059,258 1,059,258 II. Hybrid Bond 299,121 III. Consolidated Capital Surplus 6,669,072 5,481,960 5,431,952 IV. Consolidated Capital Adjustment (70,712) (72,290) (67,274) V. Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 291,429 550,474 349,216 VI. Consolidated Retained Earnings 5,677,021 4,624,258 3,780,979 Equity attributable to owners of parent 14,081,180 11,643,660 10,554,131 VII. Non-controlling Interests 739,758 1,093,077 713,703 Total Shareholder’s Equity 14,820,938 12,736,737 11,267,834 Total Liabilities and Shareholder’s Equity 178,228,882 157,932,691 151,091,700 Number of Companies Included 52 36 35 Reference made to Consolidated Financial Statement of Hana Financial Group Inc. 66 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 67 Table2 Condensed Consolidated Income Statement Table 4 Current Status of Employees (Unit: KRW million) Description 2011 2010 Items 2009 2010 2011 I. Net Interest Income 3,206,084 2,967,529 Total Number of Employees 12,586 12,690 12,555 Regular 10,251 10,737 10,460 II. Net Fee and Commission Income 978,175 955,342 Type of Employment Permanent Contract 297 381 404 III. Gain (Loss) of Financial Products Held-for-Trading (57,205) 314,730 Non-Regular 2,038 1,572 1,691 IV. Gain (Loss) of Financial asset designated at fair value through 81,900 (271,000) Female 6,980 6,737 6,803 profit or loss Diversity in Employment V. Gain (Loss) of Derivative Products Used for Hedging Purposes (822) (4,521) Handicapped 72 78 71 Executives 5 4 4 VI. Other Gain (Loss) of Financial Instrument 514,894 209,079 Team Leaders 21 23 22 VII.Gain (Loss) on Foreign Currency Transactions 46,043 106,781 Managers, Deputy 153 219 149 VIII. Total Operating Profit 4,769,069 4,277,940 Positions Directors Assistant Managers 116 113 106 IX. Impairment Losses in Financial Asset (650,334) (1,006,595) Staff, Chief 106 100 84 X. Net Operating Profit 4,118,735 3,271,345 Miscellaneous 0 0 0 XI. General Administrative Cost (2,107,616) (1,789,175) XII. Other Operating Income 164,062 307,301 XIII. Other Operating Cost (442,735) (426,188) Table 5 Job Turnover XIV. Operating Income 1,732,446 1,363,283 2009 2010 2011 XV. Operating Income & Loss (16,601) (29,063) 1,596 1,562 1,007 XVI. Income before Income Tax 1,715,845 1,334,220 XVII. Income Tax Expense (412,724) (289,649) XVIII. Consolidated Net Income 1,303,121 1,044,571 Net Income per Share of Substantial Shareholder per Share 1,222,412 995,600 Net Income per Share of Non-Substantial Shareholder 80,709 48,971 Table 6 Work-Related Accident Rate XIX. Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) (258,334) 203,182 Total Items XX. Consolidated Comprehensive Income 1,044,787 1,247,753 2009 2010 2011 Comprehensive Income per Share of Substantial Stakeholders 963,367 1,196,858 Total Number of Employees 12,586 12,690 12,555 Total Number of Employees Affected Comprehensive Income per Share of Non-Substantial Stakeholders 81,420 50,895 0 0 0 by Work-Related Accidents XXI. Earnings per Share (EPS) Accident Rate 0% 0% 0% Primary Earnings per Share KRW 5,097 KRW 4,756 Diluted Earnings per Share KRW 5,090 KRW 4,756 Table 3 Other Financial Data Table 7 Number of Legal Actions Taken for Cases of Unfair Competition and Monopolistic Practices 2009 2010 2011 Profitability (%) Items Descriptions 2009 2010 2011 Return on Assets (ROA) 0.33% 0.66% 0.76% Infringement Number of Legal Actions Taken 0 0 0 Return on Equity (ROE) 3.38% 8.88% 9.12% Number of Cases of Internal Audit 0 0 0 Asset Soundness (%) Programs on Compliance Number of Education Program on Compliance to Fair 2 2 1 Standard and Below Loan Ratio 1.15% 1.60% 1.12% to Fair Trade Law Trade Law Coverage against Standard and Number of Cases of Preliminary Inspection on Fair Trade 486 604 1,148 126.62% 106.58% 148.42% Below Loan BIS Capital Adequacy Ratio (Group) 12.09% 12.17% 13.22% Tier 1 Ratio (Group) 8.38% 8.81% 9.43% Shareholders Table 8 Education on Anti-Corruption and Ethics Earnings per Share (EPS) 1,466 4,756 5,097 Items Descriptions Unit 2009년 2010년 2011년 Bookvalue per Share (BPS) 45,605 55,623 57,180 Total Number of Sessions Provided 건 27 28 32 Price on Bookvalue Ratio (PBR) 0.72 0.78 0.62 Education on Number of Management 명 30 30 30 Dividend (interim dividend Anti-Corruption 83,733 146,532 144,618 Employees included, Unit: KRW million) (Ethical Management, ) Non-Management 명 10,911 12,952 18,576 Participated Dividend Payout Ratio (%) 27.34% 14.72% 11.83% Total Hours hr 1.5 2 2 Dividend Rate (%) 1.22% 1.62% 1.69% 68 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 69 External Awards GRI G3.1 Guideline Index Reporting Indicators Page status Official Notice on January 2011 Hana Bank awarded “Gold Prize” in the category of banking institution at the 20th Dasan Financial Awards Strategy and 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. ● 6 January 2011 Grand Prize at 2010 Aju Economy Financial Awards (Chairperson of Financial Commission Award) Analysis 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. ● 6, 18, 26 2.1 Name of the organization. ● 10 January 2011 Hana Bank awarded the Best Fund-Selling Bank at 2010 Money Today – Morning Star Fund Awards (hosted by MK 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. ● 12 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. ● 10-13 Business News, sponsored by Finance Commission and Korea Financial Investment Association) 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. ● 4, 13 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that January 2011 Hana Bank awarded the Best Fund-Selling Bank at 2011 Korea Fund Awards Organizational 2.5 ● 13 are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Profile 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. ● 10, 22-23 January 2011 Hana Daetoo Securities awarded ‘2010 Best Innovative Bond House’ at 2010 Korea Capital Market The Bell League 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). ● 13 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. ● 13-14 Table Awards 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. ● N/A February 2011 Hana Bank awarded the best green company at 2011 Korea Green Climate Awards (hosted by Korean Governance 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. ● 74 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. ● 4 Forum on Climate Change) 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). ● 4 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) ● 4 February 2011 Hana Bank awarded its seventh “the Best Private Bank” (by Euromoney) 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. ● 4 3.5 Process for defining report content. ● 20-21 March 2011 Hana Daol Asset Management listed “2010 Best Real Estate Fund Management Company “ by Asia Investor Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI 3.6 ● 4 Boundary Protocol for further guidance. March 2011 Hana Bank’s Win-win Growth Package Loan awarded Gold Prize at MK Financial Products Awards 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). ● 4 Report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can March 2011 Hana Bank’s Hana N Money awarded the Best Application at Korea Mobile Awards Parameters 3.8 significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. ● N/A Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations April 2011 Hana Daetoo Securities awarded the Best e-Service at 2011 Herald Economics Capital Market Awards 3.9 applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to ● Note substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. June 2011 Hana HSBC Life Insurance awarded its fifth “Best Call Center” by KMA (Korea Management Association) Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re3.10 ● Note statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). June 2011 PT Bank Hana awarded “2010 Best Bank” at Indonesia Best Bank Award 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. ● Note 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. ● 77 July 2011 Hana Bank’s Win-win Growth Package Loan awarded “The Best Company in Win-win Growth” by Korea Win-win 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. ● 76 Growth Awards Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for 4.1 ● 22-25 specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. August 2011 Hana Bank’s quarterly magazine Hana Bank awarded “the Creative Team of the Year” at 2011 IBA (International 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. ● 24 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest 4.3 ● 23 Business Awards) governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. ● 25, 44 September 2011 Hana Bank selected “Best Bank in Korea“ by Finance Asia Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives 4.5 (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental ● 24 October 2011 Hana Bank’s Win-win Growth Package Loan awarded in the category of innovation in banking service at 2011 performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. ● 24 Korea Finance Innovation Awards Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance 4.7 ● 24 body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. October 2011 Hana Bank selected “Best Private Bank in Korea” by The Banker Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 4.8 ◐ 24 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. October 2011 Hana Daetoo Securities awarded “the Advertisement of the Year” at Joonang Daily Advertisement Awards Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of Governance, 4.9 economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or ● 24 November 2011 Hana Financial Group awarded the prize in the category of “Cultural Contribution” at 12th Mecenat Conference Commitments compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. and Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, and Awards (by the Minister of Culture, Sports and Tourism) hosted by Korea Business Council for the Arts Engagement 4.10 ● 24 environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. ● 26-27 November 2011 Hana Bank awarded in the category of “Financial Service” at the 10th Global GWP Conference hosted by GWP GRI, DJSI, Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the Corporate Korea 4.12 ● organization subscribes or endorses. Governance Services, etc. December 2011 Hana Financial Group Inc. awarded awarded the prize in the category of “Cultural Contribution” at 12th Mecenat Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in Hana Bank joins Conference and Awards 4.13 which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides ● UNGC, UNEP FI, substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. and etc. December 2011 Hana Daetoo Securities awarded by Prime Minister on “Money Laundering Prevention Day” 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. ● 20-21 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. ● 20-21 Jan. 27, 2012 Hana Daetoo Securities awarded “Best Asset Backed Securities House” at 2011 The Bell League Table Awards 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. ◐ 20-21 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 4.17 ● 20-21 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 70 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 71 Reporting Reporting Indicators Page Indicators Page status status Economic Labor Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. ● 72 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating EC1 costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, ● 14-15 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. ● 73 Economic retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Employment Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by Performance LA3 ● 42 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's major operations. EC2 ◐ 62 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. ◐ 42 activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. ● 42 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. ● 44 Labor/management EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. ● N/A Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in relations LA5 ◐ 44 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local Entry level wage is more than legal collective agreements. EC5 ◐ Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees minimum wage at significant locations of operation. minimum wage. LA6 ● 44 Market that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at Presence EC6 O significant locations of operation. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by Occupational health LA7 ● 73 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from region and by gender. EC7 O and safety the local community at significant locations of operation. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, LA8 ● 48-50 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided 15, 48their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. EC8 ● LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. ● 44 Indirect primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. 55 Economic Supporting financially LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. ● 73 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, Impacts EC9 ◐ 54-55 underprivileged, products with public Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees including the extent of impacts. Training and education LA11 ● 42 benefits under consideration, etc. and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. ● 44 Environmental Diversity and equal Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, LA13 ● 23 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. ● 65 opportunity age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Materials EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. ● 65 Equal remuneration Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of No LA14 ● EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. ● 64 for women and men operation. discrimination EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. ● 64 Human Rights EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. ◐ 64 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses Energy HR1 O Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. EN6 ● 67 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Investment and Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone human rights HR2 O EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. O procurement practices screening, and actions taken. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. ● 64 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are HR3 ● 73 relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Water EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. ● 64 Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. ● zero EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. O Freedom of association Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, HR5 O EN11 N/A and collective bargaining collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Child labor HR6 ● measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside N/A zero Operations where are no Prevention of forced Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, Biodiversity protected areas. HR7 ● conservation list species and compulsory labor and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. N/A Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. N/A Security practices HR8 ◐ 73 human rights that are relevant to operations. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. ● zero EN15 N/A habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. O Assessment HR10 O assessments. EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. O Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal Remediation HR11 ● zero EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. O grievance mechanisms. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. ● No emissions Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and SO1 ● 48 EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. ● development programs. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. ● Local communities SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. ◐ 50-52 Emissions, EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. ● 67 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative effluents SO10 ◐ 50-52 impacts on local communities. and waste EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. ● zero SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. ● zero Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed EN24 hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, N/A N/A Corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. ● 73 and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. ● zero Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies We do not report on this issue as the SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. ● zero EN25 and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's N/A disclosure of impact is not material to Public policy SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. ● zero discharges of water and runoff. our business. Anti-competitive Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and SO7 ● zero EN26 ◐ 67 behavior outcomes. Products extent of impact mitigation. Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with and service Compliance SO8 ● zero Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed laws and regulations. EN27 N/A by category. Product responsibility Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, Compliance EN28 ● zero PR1 ◐ 30-33 sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Customer health and and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and Transport EN29 and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting ◐ 67 PR2 ● zero safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. members of the workforce. Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and PR3 ◐ 32-33 Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. ◐ 67 services subject to such information requirements. Product and service Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and labeling PR4 ● zero service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. ● 34-35 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, PR6 ● 32-33 Marketing including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing PR7 ● zero communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. ● zero Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision Compliance PR9 ● zero and use of products and services. 72 Hana Financial Group Sustainablity Report 2011 73 Third Party’s Assurance Report To the Readers of Hana Financial Group 2011 Sustainability Report: Foreword│Korea Management Association Registration inc (KMAR) has been requested by Conclusion│Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews, relevant department Hana Financial Group to verify the contents of its 2011 Sustainability Report (the Report). Hana visits, and interviews, we had several discussions with Hana Financial Group on the revision of the Financial Group is responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations the Report. Our responsibility is to carry out assurance activities on specific information in the for improvement and our revisions have been reflected. The assurance result of the reliability of assurance scope stipulated below. sustainability performance information is as follows: Our independence│With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMAR is not ■ Economic performance involved in any other Hana Financial Group business operations that are aimed at making profit We compared the Report with Hana Financial Group’s 2011 Financial Statements and found in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. that the financial data presented in the Report has been appropriately derived from 2011 Financial Statements. Assurance scope│With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMAR is not ■ Environmental and social performance involved in any other Hana Financial Group business operations that are aimed at making profit We observed that the information found in the environmental and social sections has been in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. appropriately presented. We did not discover any significant errors. Hana Financial Group describes its efforts and achievements of the sustainability activities in the Recommendation for improvement│We hope Hana Financial Group’s publication of the Report Report. The assurance process is designed to provide readers with the following information: is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and recommend the following for ■ Assurance of the economic section: improvements. Reviews whether the financial performance data has been extracted appropriately from Hana Financial Group’s audit reports and public notification data for the 2011 financial statements ■ It seems very desirable that Hana Financial Group published the Group-level sustainability as defined in the Report’s performances and conclusion sectors report. This report will help stakeholders more comprehensively understand sustainable ■Assurance of the environmental and social section: development performance of Hana Financial Group. For the presentation of performance Reviews whether the environmental and social information included in the Report is presented information, more efforts should be made to review the levels of information integration in appropriately. detail so that stakeholders can better understand sustainable development performance of Hana Financial Group. “Appropriately presented” means that the actual data and original information are appropriately ■ Each affiliated subgroup might have different major issues regarding sustainability. It is reflected in the Report with consistency and reliability. For the economic section, we based our recommended to report key issues in a more specific way by providing individual sustainable evidence-gathering procedures on reasonable assurance. It is a higher level of assurance than development activities and performance according to the characteristics of each subgroup. that of the limited assurance in terms of characteristics and the extent of performed tasks. ■ Keeping the balance between positive and negative information is an important reporting principle that can influence the transparency and reliability in reports. Therefore, it is Assurance standards│KMAR performed the review based on our own assurance methodology. recommended to make an effort to publish more balanced reports in the future. We also used the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board-issued “International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” as additional guidelines. June 11, 2012 Assurance process│In order to form our conclusion, the assurance team visited headquarter  Korea Management Association Registration inc. CEO Ki Ho Park of Hana Financial Group and followed the steps outlined below to assess Hana Financial Group’s internal processes for reviewing the sustainability-reporting practices. ■Reviewed systems and processes used in producing data ■ Assessed internal documents and materials ■ Interviewed people in charge of disclosed activities and performances 74 Hana Financial Group 75 Sustainablity Report 2011 Hana Financial Group Deputy President Young Ho Lim Hana Financial Group CSR and Corporate Culture Management Team Hana Bank Retail Business Department Hana Daetoo Securities Public Relations Department Hana SK Card Strategy Planning Team Hana Capital Planning and Financial Affairs Team Hana HSBC Life Insurance Sales Operations Team Hana Institute of Finance Management and administration Team Hana Daol Trust Corporate Planning Team Hana Daol Fund Managemetn Corporate Planning Team
