Corporate Responsibility Report 2012/13 Company registration (CVR) No. 69 74 99 17 Table of Content Introduction 2012/13 Highlights ………………………………………………………………………………………………... 3 A word from our management …………………………………………………………………………………… 4 Company profile …………………………………………………………………………………………………... 5 Corporate governance ……………………………………………………………………………………………. 6 Governance and organization of corporate responsibility ……………………………………………………. 7 Performance Progress and challenges summary ……………………………………………………………………………... 8 Code of conduct and compliance ……………………………………………………………………………….. 9 Climate and environment ………………………………………………………………………………………… 11 Access to healthcare ……………………………………………………………………………………………... 14 Supply chain responsibility ………………………………………………………………………………………. 16 Health and safety …………………………………………………………………………………………………. 18 Diversity and leadership ………………………………………………………………………………………….. 20 Products you can trust ……………………………………………………………………………………………. 22 Data tables ..……………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 24 Data graphs ……………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 28 About this report UN Global Compact ………………………………………………………………………………………………. 32 Reporting principles ………………………………………………………………………………………………. 32 Materiality ………………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 32 Stakeholder engagement ………………………………………………………………………………………… 32 Scope ………………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 33 Data collection …………………………………………………………………………………………………….. 33 Certifications ………………………………………………………………………………………………………. 33 Global Reporting Initiative ……………………………………………………………………………………….. 34 2 2012/13 Highlights Below is a summary of some highlights specific to our 2012/13 corporate responsibility performance. You will find more information on these topics throughout the chapters of this report. 1 Performance Recognitions awarded  Increased scope of compliance programme towards distributors  Accepted into the new United Nations Global Compact Stock Index (GC 100)  On our way to reaching our overall CO2 reduction target set in 2010/11  Accepted once again into the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and FTSE4Good Index  Approved three new Access to Healthcare projects  Listed as one of 2013 World’s Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere Institute for  Maintained 100% of raw material suppliers second year in a row registered in supply chain responsibility programme  Listed as one of the 2013 Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations by Corporate  Set more ambitious target for reducing overall Knights Inc. Lost Time Injuries (LTI) rate, and reached it  Slightly increased number of women in top management  On our way to reaching phthalate reduction target 1. A comprehensive list of recognitions is available on coloplast.com 3 A word from our management Dear reader, we are also committed to addressing the lack of understanding across society. At Coloplast, we develop products and services that make life easier for people with very How we do business in a sustainable way personal and private medical conditions. We We have been in business for more than fifty produce and distribute our products around the years, and plan on being around for a lot longer. world, employing more than 8,500 people. This To do this, we act with respect and responsibly is an industry where we have established in order to make sure our operations are ourselves as a market leader. In this report you sustainable. will read about how we conduct business in a respectful and responsible way, reflecting our For example, responsibility to us means having values and our commitment to sustainable a zero tolerance approach on bribery and growth. corruption when interacting with external partners such as healthcare professionals. Our Why we do business attention to the Coloplast Code of Conduct Our ostomy, continence, urology and wound & ensures we maintain a good reputation in the skin care products enable consumers to look market and mitigate risks associated with heavy after themselves and increase their mobility, fines. productivity and consequently their quality of life. This empowers our consumers and reduces the Another example is our responsibility toward the burden on the healthcare system and society as environment and our people. Occupational a whole. health and safety, reduction of raw materials and CO2 emissions are highly prioritized in our global We are witnessing a demographical operations. development that sees the world’s population growing, and getting older. This will increase Furthermore, through our Access to Healthcare pressure on healthcare systems and could limit partnership programme we have made a the access to innovative treatment. We are commitment to build sustainable healthcare in committed to developing products that are part emerging markets. of the solution to today’s healthcare challenges. The work reflected in this report makes good Our consumers live with conditions that today business sense for Coloplast, and allows us to are amongst the last remaining medical taboos, continue fulfilling our mission in a sustainable and we are committed to developing products way. that reduce or remove the stigma associated with their condition. We will not accept that our Executive management consumers should be further burdened by Lars Rasmussen President, CEO stigma, embarrassment and social isolation – so Lene Skole Executive Vice President, CFO 4 Company profile Our business includes Ostomy Care, Urology Care, Continence Care and Wound & Skin Care. We market and sell our products globally, and in most markets local healthcare authorities provide reimbursement for our products. Coloplast supplies products to hospitals and institutions as well as wholesalers and retailers. We operate globally with sales subsidiaries in more than thirty countries and production in Denmark, Hungary, the US, China and France. We employ more than 8,500 people. Our four business areas Ostomy Care products are for people whose Continence Care is about helping people manage intestinal outlet has been rerouted through the their bladder and bowel conditions. Examples of abdominal wall. Examples of disease areas are disease areas are spinal cord injuries, Spina Bifida colorectal cancer, bladder cancer and and Multiple Sclerosis. inflammatory bowel disease. Urology Care is the treatment of medical issues Wound & Skin Care is the treatment of difficult-torelated to the urinary system, the male heal wounds, while skin care products are used for reproductive system and the female pelvic health. prevention and treatment of damaged or at-risk Examples of disease areas are urinary skin. Examples of disease areas are leg ulcers, incontinence, pelvic organ prolapse, erectile diabetic foot ulcers, and pressure ulcers. dysfunction and enlarged prostate. In the financial year 2012/13, total sales were DKK 11,635 million 5 Corporate governance Coloplast A/S is a listed Danish company. Our Remuneration shareholders attending our annual general Members of the board receive a fixed annual fee. meetings are the supreme governing body of our The chairman and deputy chairman of the Board company. of Directors receive a supplementary fee, but board members do not receive incentive pay. Both Our two-tier management structure consists of a the fixed fee and the supplementary fee are Board of Directors and an Executive approved by the shareholders and disclosed in Management. The Board of Directors consists of the Annual Report. six members elected by the shareholders and three members elected by our employees. The Executive Management receives both fixed and variable remuneration. The variable Shareholders can attend general meetings and remuneration consists of an annual bonus subject ask questions to board members. Four of the six to achievement of certain targets. The bonus members elected at the Annual General Meeting proportion may vary among the members of held in 2012 are independent of Coloplast. There Executive Management, but is subject to a is no duality of membership between the Board of maximum 25% of the annual remuneration. Directors and the Executive Management and no Another element of the variable pay to the board member is a former member of the Executive Management is made up of share Executive Management. We have an Audit options with a value, at the time of the grant, Committee consisting of three board members. equal to a maximum of 40% of the Executive The Audit Committee monitors financial reporting, Management’s remuneration. The options ensure audits and internal controls. that the incentive of the Executive Management correlates with the creation of shareholder value. Openness and transparency Both the fixed and the variable remuneration of Coloplast communicates openly about corporate the Executive Management, including options, are governance. We provide a wide range of disclosed in the Annual Report. communications, including Annual Reports, quarterly reports, meetings with investors and Our website coloplast.com > corporate equity analysts, capital markets days, conference governance includes more information about calls, etc. Coloplast has two share classes – 18 corporate governance. This report constitutes the million class A shares (ten votes per share) and statutory report cf. Danish Financial Statements 202 million class B shares (one vote per share). Act, section 99a, and is published yearly together Our class B shares are listed on NASDAQ OMX in with the Coloplast Annual Report. Copenhagen, while the class A shares remain non-negotiable instruments. More details about the distribution of shareholders on the two classes can be found in the Coloplast Annual Report. 6 Governance and organization of corporate responsibility Our corporate responsibility governance is anchored within the Executive Management and Board of Directors. The Executive Management make most decisions within the field, typically after consultation with senior management of key line and staff functions. In some cases, the Board of Directors makes the final decision. Our Audit Committee is responsible for overseeing compliance with our Code of Conduct. We prefer that corporate responsibility activities are driven and executed by the relevant business units. The business units with formal responsibility for the content in this report are Corporate Compliance, Corporate Quality and Environment, Our mission Corporate Procurement, Human Resources, and Making life easier for people with intimate Public Affairs. healthcare needs A relatively small Corporate Responsibility unit is Our vision responsible for coordinating this work and for Setting the global standard for listening and communicating with stakeholders. The Corporate responding Responsibility unit is managed by a Corporate Responsibility Manager under the People & Our values Communications department. This allows for Closeness… to better understand efficient dialogue with internal and external Passion… to make a difference stakeholders. Respect and responsibility… to guides us Corporate Responsibility Ambassadors Corporate responsibility reflects our mission, We believe awareness of our Corporate vision and values and supports Coloplast’s Responsibility accomplishments can have a leadership position and the broader responsibility positive impact on our brand reputation in some that comes with it – responsibility to the markets. Therefore, in 2011 we created an environment, to society, to our customers, to our internal engagement programme through a global employees, to our shareholders, and integrity in network of over thirty Corporate Responsibility all we do. It is a key foundation for the corporate Ambassadors. The Ambassadors are Coloplast and business area strategies and the Agenda. employees who help create awareness of Corporate Responsibility initiatives locally, and act as a point of contact with the Danish Headquarters. Corporate Responsibility anchoring in Coloplast strategy The mission, vision and values are the guiding principles of what we do at Coloplast. Our corporate strategy and the related business area strategies set the direction for profitable growth. The Agenda lists the most important projects for Coloplast in the near term. 7 Progress and challenges summary Topic Our ambition How we measure our progress Current status Quantitative target Code of Conduct To ensure all our employees and % of white-collar employees trained in 94% 100% and compliance business partners have significant our Code of Conduct awareness and knowledge of our Number of legal action cases for 0 0 Code of Conduct rules, and to anti-competitive behaviour secure monitoring procedures. Amount of significant fines for noncompliance 0 0 with laws and regulations Climate and To minimise the overall strain % of absolute decrease in CO2 emissions environment on the environment caused by from energy use from our production and our activities by focusing on the 7% 10% by 2013/14 facilities1 (accumulated from baseline entire life cycle of our products. 2009/10) % of absolute increase of production waste2 6% No specific target (accumulated from baseline 2009/10) % of waste reduction per product produced 16% No specific target (accumulated from baseline 2009/10) % of recycling coverage 26% No specific target % of goods transported by air 4.5% 1.5% by 2013/14 Access to To build partnerships that improve Estimated number of end users and healthcare conditions for intimate healthcare healthcare professionals affected by 4,500 No specific target stakeholders in emerging markets. our Access to Healthcare projects (accumulated) Access to Healthcare project funds approved DKK 13.7 DKK 50 million (accumulated) million Supply chain To significantly improve standards % of raw material suppliers covered responsibility with our suppliers or find alternative by supply chain responsibility 100% 100% suppliers. programme Number of suppliers with improved risk profile because of significant 23 No specific target improvements (accumulated) Number of contracts terminated because of 8 No specific target non-compliance (accumulated) Health and safety To offer healthy and safe working Injury and accidents, all employees 4.8 5.0 or less conditions. (LTI frequency 3) Injury and accidents, blue-collar employees 6.4 7.0 or less (LTI frequency) % of workplaces with 'very high' level 0.5% 0% of repetitive work Diversity and To offer equal opportunities in our % of female managers (all positions at or 40% No specific target leadership company to all employees. above Manager level) % of female top managers (Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents 13% 22% by end of 2017 and Executive Management) Products you can To remain compliant with % of phthalate-free alternatives to products 98% 100% trust international and local regulations, containing classified phthalates SO7and set new standards for % of reduction in the consumption (by weight) sustainable product composition. of phthalates compared to the revenue of our 19% 30% by 2013/14 Continence Care business unit % of urine bags we sell that are 42% 50% by 2013/14 phthalate-free 1. Scope 1 & 2 according to Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 2. Based on weighted amounts from the production sites (excluding Salart), distribution centres and corporate headquarters (includes only sales subsidiaries in the UK, US and DK). Data has been revised since last year, as our distribution centre in Hamburg has been added to the report. 3. Lost Time Injuries – measured as the number of injuries resulting in absence from work of more than eight hours per one million working hours from the production sites (excluding Sarlat), distribution centres and corporate headquarters (includes only sales subsidiaries in the UK, US and DK). 8 Code of Conduct and compliance Our ambition To ensure all our employees and business partners have significant awareness and knowledge of our Code of Conduct rules, and to secure monitoring procedures. How we measure progress 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Quantitative target % of white-collar employees 22% 23% 95% 94% 100% trained in our Code of Conduct Number of legal action cases for 0 0 0 0 0 anti-competitive behaviour Amount of significant fines for 0 0 0 0 0 noncompliance with laws and regulations Business cultures vary around the world and in  Began conducting due diligence some countries practices that we consider corrupt investigation of high risk distributors. may be common. In matters of compliance, we Based on the results of the risk assessments have a zero tolerance approach. As a principle, we began conducting due diligence we prefer to say no to business rather than investigations on high risk distributors, with conduct bad business. To support this principle, the help of an external partner. This we use our well-established Code of Conduct and investigation includes for example open compliance setup. We abide by national and source screening, and discrete inquiries in the international laws as well as specific requirements local area. for our industry. Today, these documents and procedures cover most of the major categories of  Took actions based on due diligence corporate conduct, and we are always working to investigation results. We take strict actions extend our coverage. to ensure distributors are compliant with the law. For example, in Emerging Markets, Performance highlights in 2012/13 including China, we saw a general lack of knowledge. Therefore, we extended the scope  Ensured completion of Code of Conduct eof our Code of Conduct e-learning test and learning test by 94% of all white-collar included the Code on all contracts of employees. Since making a mandatory edistributors in these locations. learning test of our Code of Conduct two years ago, we have achieved extensive  Expanded topics covered in Code of coverage globally. We continue working Conduct in Emerging Markets. As a towards our target to reach 100% training precautionary approach, we have now coverage. included in our Code of Conduct fair competition, data protection, human rights  Conducted risk assessments of and labour rights, and environmental distributors within scope. This year we standards. have started expanding our monitoring to include distributors. So far we have assessed 92 distributors in 29 countries for all risk profiles. 9  Strengthened our compliance heightened attention on our global distributors in organizational structure. We have particular. Since then, we have dedicated established a corporate compliance function resources to conducting risk assessments, due within the legal department, and added two diligence and action plans – with distributors additional resources including a compliance considered ‘high risk’ in focus. This is an ongoing officer in China. process and we will focus on the way we recruit and onboard new distributors. About what we do Whistleblower hotline Global training on the Code of Conduct Three years ago we established a global We interact with healthcare professionals in many whistleblower hotline enabling employees and different ways (e.g., product development, training others to report breaches of our Code of Conduct. and education). Interactions also take place on Since then, we have received a total of 36 cases, advisory boards where hundreds of nurses in over 34 of which have been within the scope of the 20 countries give us feedback on performance hotline, i.e. relating to the topics and subjects that and provide new product ideas. During these may be reported via the hotline. All relevant cases interactions, questions may arise on what exactly are investigated and followed up with strict is appropriate conduct on issues like giving gifts, actions. arranging hospitality during congresses, etc. Coloplast employees are required to stick to the Responsible advocacy Code of Conduct. We have placed special focus With development towards an aging global on training and communication of the rules to all population ahead, healthcare systems around the employees, achieving massive coverage in the world will have no choice but to become more last two years. efficient and cost effective. We advocate for this shift to support patient safety and uniform Our mandatory Code of Conduct e-learning regulations. We work in partnership with many course has been made available in 15 languages stakeholders to influence decisions that affect our and rolled out to more than 35 countries. We have industry, healthcare professionals and the rights also placed focus on face-to-face training of users. sessions in selected countries. Today we require that all new white-collar employees take the test We conduct advocacy both directly as a company shortly after entering the company. As a principle, and in coordination with external partners, we believe all policies and codes of conduct including Eucomed, the medical device industry should reflect what our employees face on a daily association in Europe. Our public affairs work is basis, without legal jargon. We ensured this when guided by a Public Affairs Code of Conduct. The developing the Code of Conduct e-learning test by Code emphasizes respect for transparency and conducting interviews with key employees integrity in our stakeholder relations. Our Public globally. The end result was a course consisting Affairs team has been registered with the of real dilemmas our people face, with strong local European Commision’s Register of Interest ownership. Representatives since 2009, and is part of the recently founded Transparency Register. Expanding our reach to distribution channels After conducting a compliance setup evaluation in 2011/12, we were pleased with our overall performance, and highlighted areas of improvement. These included the need for 10 Climate and environment Our ambition To minimise the overall strain on the environment caused by our activities by focusing on the entire life cycle of our products. How we measure progress 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Quantitative target 2 Absolute reduction of CO2 emissions 100 97 94 93 89 by end 2013/14 from energy use from our production 1 and facilities (indexed relative to 2009/10 baseline) 3 Total amount of production waste 100 111 101 106 No specific target (indexed relative to 2009/10 baseline) Waste per product produced (indexed 100 102 90 84 No specific target relative to 2009/10 baseline) % of recycling coverage 18% 24% 24% 26% No specific target 4 % of goods transported by air 2.4% 2.5% 3.7% 4.5% 1.5% by 2013/14 1. Scope 1 & 2 according to Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 2. Corresponds to 10% absolute reduction target with baseline March 2010. 3. Based on weighted amounts from the production sites (excluding Sarlat), distribution centres and corporate headquarters (includes only sales subsidiaries in the UK, US and DK). 4. Not including deliveries of finished goods to costumers from Coloplast distribution centres and wholesalers. Measured as “transport work” in tonkm (weight x distance). Improving environmental performance is important conducting Life Cycle Assessments to reveal in today’s market where resource scarcity and total environmental footprint. climate change are on the rise, global regulations and legislations are increasing, and customers are  On our way to reaching our CO2 reduction requesting more information on actions during target from energy use. In 2011/12 we set a tender processes. We do our part by focusing on target to achieve a 10% absolute reduction of global environmental issues such as reducing CO2 CO2 emissions from energy by 2013/14, with emissions and overall climate impact of our March 2010 as the end of the baseline year. production – and on more sector-specific issues, We are on our way, with a strong pipeline of such as managing our waste and the use of raw projects and a 2012/13 reduction of 1.6%, materials. In Coloplast we take into account that despite a growth in production by 12%. green investments on facilities and equipment are long term commitments with a longer payback  Not on track with our air transport time. ambitions. Despite setting an ambitious target for air transport reduction, we have Performance highlights in 2012/13 seen a further increase this year, currently at 4.5%. The target is to reduce the amount of  New system to approximate carbon products we transport by air down to 1.5% by footprint of raw materials. This year we 2013/14. successfully implemented a new system which allows us to pin point environmental  Reduced amount of waste generated per ‘hot spots’ in our raw material use. We did this product. Even though we have seen an by categorizing 6,000 raw materials into 70 increase in total amount of production waste categories, measuring global usage, and due to growth, we have decreased the 11 amount of waste per product by 16% within Examples of energy efficiency projects the last four years. implemented:  Increased recycling coverage of Denmark, Mørdrup – cooling system optimization; production waste. While focusing on waste estimated savings of 100 tonnes CO2/year, reduction, we also take steps to recycle the payback time is less than six months. waste we generate. We have increased recycling coverage from 18% in 2009/2010 to Hungary, Nyirbator – revolutionary new cooling 26% in 2012/13. system setup, the first of its kind in Europe; estimated savings of 400 tonnes CO2/ year, About what we do payback time is two years. The life cycle of every product tells an US, Minneapolis – gas boiler optimizations; environmental story. This story begins when raw estimated savings of 60 tonnes CO2/ year, materials are first extracted, continuing through payback time is four years. the production and distribution phase, and ending after use, when they are disposed of. Life Cycle We are also committed to reducing waste in our Assessments are like road maps that outline the production. Reducing resource consumption far environmental impact of the product. We conduct outweighs the benefits of any recycling or waste these assessments very early on in the treatment technologies. Therefore, our main focus development process when there’s a lot of room is to optimize our processes in a way that reduces for changes to be made. These changes can help the amount of raw materials used and waste minimise the use of energy required in production, created. We try to put any scrap back into and improve recycling capabilities and waste production wherever possible. management systems later on. We can also adapt the type of raw material, or minimize the amount The amount of waste generated per product has needed. decreased by 16% since 2009/10. We also work together with waste handling companies to Raw materials identify the optimal way of recycling whatever The biggest environmental impact of the products waste we generate. we make comes from the use of raw materials. They include for example crude oil, aluminium, Transportation is another integral part of our silver, and paper which is used for making plastic, operations – and an area where we can make a adhesives, and packaging. Our strategy is to big impact. That is why in 2010/11 we set an avoid raw materials that are particularly strenuous ambitious reduction target for how we transport on the environment, and continuously reduce our our products – going from 2.5% of air transport to overall usage. a maximum of 1.5% by 2013/14. We estimated that by reaching this target we will save a Production and distribution significant amount of money while achieving an In this phase of the life cycle we focus on energy estimated CO2 equivalent reduction of efficiency and reducing production waste. In approximately 4,000 tonnes. 2011/12 we set a target to achieve a 10% absolute reduction of CO2 emissions from energy This year we see we are not there yet, as our (scope 1 & 2) by 2013/14, with March 2010 as the average annual air transport has actually end of the baseline year. To achieve this target increased. We still believe we will be able to make we have implemented more than 50 projects to positive reductions in the coming years through optimise our processes so they’re more energy improvements on our overall supply chain and efficient, and we have a strong pipeline for the distribution management. When looking at this next year. We have invested around 2 to 2.5 past year we can already see a positive trend million Euros in these projects with an expected toward the end of the fiscal year. payback time of less than two years. Projects that result in a significant environmental improvement and have a payback time of up to five years will be considered. 12 Disposal Expanding production The product life cycle ends when a user disposes We have been making products for more than fifty of the product. Because our products are usually years, and focusing on environmental contaminated after use, we do not recommend improvements for more than a decade. These recycling them due to the risk of infection. We efforts have evolved and expanded to our nine have designed most of our products’ packaging so production sites globally, as has the demand for that it can be recycled. production expansion. So this year we began an expansion of our production site in Nyírbátor, When certain plastic materials are incinerated, Hungary, with sustainable environmental e.g. PVC and PVdC, they can cause a negative considerations from the start. When first deciding environmental impact. These plastic materials are on a model for where to expand, sustainability commonly used in medical devices. In Coloplast was one of seven decision criteria, equally we recognise the environmental concern, and weighted along with e.g., cost and potential risks. prioritise other substances. Standards We have an official PVC/PVdC policy which states Our environmental management system is based we will not use PVC/PVdC in any new products, on the internationally acknowledged ISO14001 apart from cases where there are no available environmental certification scheme. Today, eight alternative to the unique physical properties of out of nine production sites and our corporate PVC/PVdC. As an example we use a very thin headquarters have been certified to the ISO layer of PVdC in the foil used in our ostomy bags 14001 standard. to block odour. We closely follow developments in polymer research and remain constantly in search of new materials for our products that are technically and medically sound, cost effective and environmentally responsible. 13 Access to Healthcare Our ambition To build partnerships that improve conditions for intimate healthcare stakeholders in emerging markets. How we measure progress 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Quantitative target 1 Estimated number of users and 3,500 4,500 No specific target healthcare professionals affected by our Access to Healthcare projects (accumulated) Access to Healthcare project funds DKK 6.8 DKK 8.4 DKK 12.6 DKK 13.7 DKK 50 million approved (accumulated) million million million million 1. First year this data has been collected. In many developing countries, people with awareness of and care for patients with an intimate healthcare needs lack access to ostomy or chronic wounds. appropriate care and technology. Through Access to Healthcare, Coloplast’s corporate partnership  Began building a new ostomy patient programme, we work together with patients, organization in Mexico. Working closely with health care practitioners and other stakeholders one of our earlier Access to Healthcare on the ground. We do this in selected markets to ostomy and wound care nursing partners, we share our 50+ years of experience in managing are building the first national ostomy patient chronic health conditions. Through Access to association in Mexico. This will help people Healthcare, Coloplast has been sharing resources living with an ostomy build awareness of their and knowledge with our global partners since needs with national healthcare policy makers, 2008 (see examples below). For a full list of our and ensure their voice is heard in decisions partners and projects, please visit coloplast.com. regarding treatment and reimbursement. Performance highlights in 2012/13 About what we do  Began improving care standards for Access to Healthcare projects seek to make a real patients with urological disorders in Brazil. difference on the ground in the communities Access to Healthcare supported the efforts of where they take place. We work with project the Brazilian Society of Urology to update and partners to develop impact measures and improve their national guidelines for urology deliverables that we believe will help users and care. We also partnered with a set of healthcare professionals, as well as educate other experienced and respected nurses to identify stakeholders in the importance of providing quality best practices in helping patients with intimate healthcare in a local setting. We keep a urological disorders navigate their pathway close and sustained dialogue with our partners from hospital to rehabilitation centre to home. throughout the duration of the project, and we seek afterwards to build on deliverables or  Delivered new ostomy and wound care lessons learned that can ensure the project’s training in China. Together with the Chinese lasting impact. Ministry of Health, we have delivered training for both ostomy and wound care to healthcare practitioners in China’s inland provinces, training that we believe will provide improved 14 Through Access to Healthcare, we work with our partners to advance three broad objectives:  Train practitioners and raise standards of care.  Organise end users and provide them with a voice.  Advocate for better care and access to technology with healthcare policy decision makers. Coloplast also benefits from Access to Healthcare through the relationships and frameworks that we build with our partners. So far, the programme has approved 14 projects, amounting to a total of DKK 13.7 million, in South Africa, Mexico, India, China, Argentina and Brazil. We also support global learning platforms, such as an e-learning platform for physicians and educators who work with spinal cord injured persons. For a full list of our Access to Healthcare partnerships refer to coloplast.com. 15 Supply chain responsibility Our ambition To significantly improve standards with our suppliers or find alternative suppliers. How we measure progress 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Quantitative target % of raw material suppliers 98% 99% 100% 100% 100% registered in supply chain responsibility programme Number of suppliers with improved 19 20 22 23 No specific target risk profile because of significant improvements (accumulated) Number of contracts terminated 7 7 8 8 No specific target because of non-compliance (accumulated) External stakeholders are increasingly asking us About what we do to consider how far our control goes regarding human rights issues. Today this control extends Today we have successfully standardized the from our own operations to our suppliers. As we monitoring and compliance programme for our procure from suppliers in many different countries raw material suppliers – reaching 100% coverage with varying risk profiles, dialogue and compliance in 2011/12. This is called the supply chain checks are important elements to risk mitigation. responsibility programme and it includes Any non-compliance to human rights, even in the maintaining sustained dialogue, monitoring for supply chain, creates a risk to our global compliance and helping suppliers improve local operations as well as our reputation, so we conditions when they are willing. actively monitor who we chose to do business with. Sustained dialogue The process of the supply chain responsibility Performance highlights in 2012/13 programme starts by ensuring a supplier is aware of our standards. Through close and sustained  Maintained 100% of raw material suppliers dialogue, we guarantee a known mutual in supply chain responsibility programme. understanding. We use tools to facilitate this Although our concern for human rights dialogue, such as a brochure that informs what is extends throughout our procurement expected and how we check for compliance. activities, a few years ago we began Standards on human rights, labour rights, standardizing a monitoring and compliance environmental impact, occupational health and programme for our raw material suppliers. For safety as well as business ethics are included. the last two years we have maintained 100% This information is also available in the final of these suppliers registered in the contract with the supplier. programme. Monitoring for compliance  No contracts terminated. We have not had We then select a number of suppliers for site visits to terminate any contracts this year due to or social audits where we review their standards. failure to comply with human rights and This part of the process usually takes place with environmental standards. the local Coloplast management team where the 16 supplier operates from. At times the Corporate From the start of the programme until the end of Decision Board is contacted to review a case the 2012/13 fiscal year, we have reclassified a which has a particularly high risk profile. The total of 23 current suppliers to a lower risk Decision Board reviews the case according to category after they made improvements to their local regulations, the United Nations Global social, environmental and business ethical Compact Principles, and considers factors such standards. We have had to stop cooperating with as the nature of the relationship with the supplier a total of 8 suppliers. and history of cooperation. Procuring right from the start Coloplast then agrees on any necessary We are now working on improving our supplier improvements, and an action plan is drafted for assessments during the very early stages of the changes to be undertaken before the next product development, within the Innovation Value visit. Our programme does not include giving out Stream (IVS) when materials are first being financial support to help suppliers implement considered. During the IVS of a new product we changes. We help on a consulting basis where look into several suppliers and then narrow down our local teams share cost efficient best practices our choice according to quality, cost as well as that comply with local regulations. We do this human rights issues. since it is often the case that suppliers are unaware of how to implement improvements. Usually, the suppliers respond positively and implement the action plan discussed. However, in a few cases we may have to terminate the cooperation. 17 Health and safety Our ambition To offer healthy and safe working conditions. How we measure progress 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Quantitative target Injury and accidents, all employees 5.2 7.2 3.7 4.8 5.0 or less 1 (LTI frequency) Injury and accidents, all blue-collar 6.6 9.5 5.3 6.4 7.0 or less employees (LTI frequency) % of workplaces with ‘very high’ 6.5% 2.2% 1.5% 0.5% 0% level of repetitive work 1. Lost Time Injuries – measured as the number of injuries resulting in absence from work of more than eight hours per one million working hours from the production sites (excluding Sarlat), distribution centres and corporate headquarters (includes only sales subsidiaries in the UK, US and DK). Providing a safe and healthy work environment is  Decreased number of ‘very high’ of the utmost importance to us. Our operations Repetitive Work stations. A very small are relatively low hazardous compared to other percentage of our work stations today require industries, and injuries obtained in the workplace a ‘very high’ amount of repetitive work which have never reached fatality. Still, we find it can be strenuous on the body. This year we important to continuously monitor and improve. have once again reduced the number of such work stations from 1.5% in 2011/12 to 0.5% in Performance highlights in 2012/13 2012/13. This decrease stemmed primarily from an improvement in one of our catheter  Set a more ambitious target for Lost Time production lines. Injuries (LTI frequency rate). In the beginning of the year we decided to set a  Two more OHSAS 18001 occupational more ambitious target of 5.0 or less for LTI health and safety certifications. frequency rates in our sites globally for all employees. Our original target had been set  Expanded reach of our Coloplast Life at 7.0 or less. health programme. In 2012/13 Coloplast Life continued to run actively in Denmark with  Reached Lost Time Injuries (LTI frequency initiatives throughout the year. This year we rate) targets. LTI frequency for all employees introduced Coloplast Life to our global in 2012/13 was 4.8, within our target range of production and distribution sites so they can 5.0 or less. LTI frequency for blue-collar take part in the initiatives they find relevant. employees only was 6.4, also within our target range of 7.0 or less. About what we do  Increased enforcement of safety Occupational injuries behaviour. Although we are pleased to have To reduce occupational injuries we measure Lost remained within our new target range for both Time Injuries (LTI frequency) rates. We also put LTI categories, we saw a slight increase from special focus on all minor and ‘near-miss 2011/12. We are now implementing steps to accidents’ which helps us to quickly identify and reverse this trend, such as increasing solve problems early on in order to minimise enforcement of safety behaviour. 18 future risks. In the past, we have seen a Coloplast Life significant drop in our global injury rates. Through a programme started in 2012 called Coloplast Life we provide a variety of initiatives to However, in 2010/11 LTI frequency increased make healthy choices as easy as possible for our mainly due to unsafe behaviour when moving employees. That may involve bringing the typical around at one of our production sites. Since then, office meeting outdoors through our “Walk & Talk” our production site management has increased paths, or joining one of our running/walking clubs their focus on safety and implemented a number after work. Coloplast Life also focuses on of actions to get back on track. This includes for education (e.g., nutrition classes and free health example sharing best practices between sites, exams). We have also made a 24-hour stress putting special focus on specific sites where LTI hotline available. Our activities this year include a frequency is above target, enforcing safety stepcount event, employee health profiles, behaviour, and increasing focus on safety Movement Week, Sporty Friday and elastic band specifications before new machine orders are training during work hours. This programme has finalized. Our special attention to this challenge been active mainly in Denmark. contributed to us exceeding our LTI target in 2011/12, and we are now back on track. Standards We use the international Occupational Health and Repetitive work Safety management system, OHSAS 18001, as a We also focus on providing an ergonomically tool to make sure our sites adhere to the same correct workplace layout whenever manual labour rules globally and continuously improve their is required in production. One way we do this is by performance. Today, this management system reducing repetitive work. This is when employees covers 92% of our employees in our production, spend a lot of time doing the same repetitive distribution centres and headquarters, including movements at work stations – which can be two sales subsidiaries in the UK and US. strenuous on the body. In 2008 we developed our own innovative system for measuring this type of work, which enabled significant improvements and accurate tracking of progress. Since then, we have more than halved the amount of stations considered to require ‘high’ and ‘very high’ repetitive work. When these stations are unavoidable, we make sure employees spend a limited amount of time on them by rotating them to stations with lower repetitive work levels. 19 Diversity and leadership Our ambition To offer equal opportunities in our company to all employees. How we measure progress 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Quantitative target % of female managers (all 38% 37% 40% 40% No specific target positions at or above Manager level) % of female top managers (Vice 16% 12% 11% 13% 22% by end of Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents 2017 and Executive Management) We base our diversity work on the principle that it managers, we have begun assessing the is a pre-requisite for success when competing at a leadership survey results, and will continue to global level, that we treat all our employees with follow up regularly. respect and dignity and that we will not tolerate discrimination or harassment of any kind.  Continued increasing transparency of Coloplast believes in respecting and fostering talent through People Review and PDP. We diversity, and is actively following the external continue to reinforce talent transparency debate. Over the past three years we have taken through detailed employee evaluations and steps to ensure equal opportunities for our development tools including the People employees, irrespective of gender, age, Review and Personal Development plan nationality, etc. As a principle, we want our (PDP). employee’s career development to be performance based, without the hindrance of  Increased transparency of recruitment culturally related obstacles. process. We have placed focus on recruitment for managerial positions with the Performance highlights in 2012/13 ambition that the final pool of candidates for these roles is broad and diverse.  Slight increase in percentage of women in top management. During the 2012/13 fiscal  Close monitoring on the development of year the percentage of women in top women, and non-Danes. We continue to see management increased to 13%. The a limited number of women and non-Danes in percentage of women in our overall management positions. Therefore, today management group remained consistent at when women and non-Dane employees who 40%. report to executive management are categorized as high performers under the  Conducted gender assessment of People Review process, our Human leadership performance. This year we Resources department and top management conducted an internal global leadership keep a close eye on their career development survey, with the purpose of assessing and possible next move. individual leadership quality, followed by relevant and structured development activities. The survey showed a very solid leadership performance in all business units. To get a better understanding of similarities and differences between female and male 20 About what we do President, Senior Vice President and Executive Management. We want to go from a baseline of Increased focus on gender diversity 11% in 2011/12 to 22% by the end of 2017. The underrepresentation of women in top management has been under review in Denmark The initiatives described above under the 2012/13 over the past few years. As a result in 2007, the performance highlights reflect our desire to gain Danish government introduced the voluntary code more knowledge of our own organization’s culture of conduct ‘The Charter for More Women in so we can identify and deal with any culturally Management’. The charter encouraged related obstacles. We continue striving to ensure companies to commit to increasing the number of talent is made fully transparent across the women in managerial positions and allowed the organization and that career development of both companies a choice of method in doing so. In our men and women is based on the employee’s Coloplast we believe this pragmatic approach to professional competencies. gender diversity works well, so our CEO, Lars Rasmussen, signed the Charter. We then identified where the need for more sustained efforts was located. When reviewing our global people data we were pleased with the high percentage of women in our overall management group (40% in 2011/12), and agreed to focus on top management (11% in 2011/12 – a 5% point drop from 2009/10). The next step taken was to formally agree on the target to double the number of women in top management within five years – this includes Vice 21 Products you can trust Our ambition To remain compliant with international and local regulations and set new standards for safe product composition. How we measure progress 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Quantitative target % of phthalate-free alternatives to 80% 90% 98% 98% 100% products containing phthalates % of reduction in the consumption 11% 19% 30% by 2013/14 (by weight) of phthalates compared to the revenue of our Continence Care business units % of urine bags we sell that are 41% 42% 50% by 2013/14 phthalate-free We take great care of our products to ensure they  Continue offering phthalate-free are safe and trustworthy. In general, Coloplast’s alternatives. Today, 98% of our products strict product safety criteria meet the requirements containing phthalates have a phthalate-free of customers and authorities throughout the world. alternative. In any case, we will not use We follow international regulations and standards, phthalates in any new products. A complete as well as local legislation when applicable. list of our products, with and without Product safety and compliance procedures are phthalates, can be found on coloplast.com. linked to our risk management process.  Stayed on track with animal testing. In In addition to this, we see awareness and 2012/13 we conducted 900 animal tests. Of regulations of the types of chemicals which these 832 were rodents and 68 were other 1 companies use in their products continuing to animals . Last year we audited all our increase. In Coloplast we find it important to be suppliers and based on the findings, we extremely attentive to the changes in science and decided to consolidate to one supplier. We did technology, and are actively scouting for better this both because of the observations noted, ingredients all the time. We have been openly and to have a larger influence on animal reporting in this area for more than five years. welfare standards in one organization. Performance highlights in 2012/13 About what we do  On our way to reaching our phthalate On the lookout for new options reduction targets. So far we have reduced We know precisely which chemicals are in our our consumption (by weight) of phthalates by products. By closely monitoring new research and 19% compared to the revenue of our regulations, we stay ahead of changes. As Continence Care business unit. We will alternatives emerge, we consider whether to continue to monitor progress and openly incorporate them into our products. communicate both accomplishments as well as challenges. 1 ‘Rodents’ includes rats, mice and guinea pigs. ‘Other’ includes rabbits and dogs. 22 Three of the ingredients currently under watch are Animal testing phthalates, PVC (discussed in the Climate and Animal testing is a standard method for Environment section) and parabenes. Parabenes documenting the safety of medical devices. In are currently used in a very limited number of some cases it is necessary, so we can not Coloplast Skin Care products. completely avoid it. We do however try to reduce it as much as possible. As stated in our Animal A precautionary approach Testing Policy we will work to replace animal Phthalates are commonly used to make PVC testing with cell cultures and chemical analyses plastics more flexible and durable. In the medical instead whenever possible. Lastly, when animal device industry, phthalates are used to soften testing is required, we will use methods which e.g., catheters and urine bags. Although our minimise potential distress for the animals. Last products are safe, we recognise that there are year we audited our animal test suppliers, and concerns about the use of phthalates. Therefore, found them compliant to our Animal Testing we have adopted a precautionary approach and Policy. are working to limit the use of phthalates in our products. This is an area where Coloplast leads by example. An additional commercial advantage Our efforts to reduce phthalates may also give us an additional commercial advantage when bidding on tenders. Tenders increasingly include phthalate-free alternatives as a qualifying criterion. 23 Data tables Unit 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 Certifications1 Production and distribution sites (total) Number 132 14 15 14 3 ISO 9001 / ISO 13485 Number 13 14 15 14 ISO 140014 Number 8 9 10 10 OHSAS 180015 Number 10 9 10 10 1) Coloplast currently has nine production sites including the corporate headquarters (Thisted, Mørdrup, Humlebæk, Tatabanya, Nyirbator, Zhuhai, Mankato, West River Road, Sarlat) and four distribution sites (Hamburg, Marietta, Champlan and Tata). 2) Since our last CR Report from November 2012, the production site in Espergærde has been closed. 3) Our goal (which we have reached) is that all nine production sites and all four distribution sites are certified to ISO 9001 and ISO 13845.4) None of the distribution sites will be certified due to their low environmental impact. 5)Two more of our productions sites in the USA were certificatied to OHSAS 18001. Product quality and safety Site visits1 Days 102 60 57 82 2 Non-phthalate products % 98 98 90 80 Animal testing3 Number 900 9214 217 919 … of which rodents Number 832 773 202 821 … of which other animals Number 68 148 15 98 1) Total duration in days of quality or environment, health and safety visits by the authorities worldwide for all Coloplast locations. The increase in the days this year is mainly due to re-certification to ISO9001/ISO13485 and new regulations in Brazil, that caused the Brazilian health authorities to make their own inspections. General growth in Coloplast and new regulations for audit in China is also contributing factors.2) Alternatives available to Coloplast products containing phthalates. 3) Number of animals used for testing. ‘Rodents’ are mice, rats and guinea pigs. ‘Other’ animals are rabbits and dogs. 4) This year, we have also included animal tests from research projects amounting to 10 rats and 27 rabbits. Occupational health and safety LA7 LA12 1 Injuries and accidents, all employees LTI freq. 4.8 3.7 7.2 5.2 2 ...of which in European markets LTI freq. 6.0 4.7 ...of which in Other developed markets3 LTI freq. 1.0 0.0 ...of which in the Emerging markets4 LTI freq. 2.9 2.0 Target, all employees LTI freq. 5.0 7.0 7.0 7.0 Injuries and accidents, production workers5 LTI freq. 6.4 5.3 9.5 6.6 ...of which in European markets LTI freq. 7.8 6.9 ...of which in Other developed markets LTI freq. 2.7 0.0 ...of which in the Emerging markets LTI freq. 3.2 2.2 Target, production workers LTI freq. 7.0 7.0 7.0 10.0 Repetitive work6 ...No/low (including US sites) % (%) 38.2 (38.9) 34.3 35.6 36.3 ...Medium (including US sites) % (%) 30.9 (28.0) 33.1 31.2 29.0 ...High (including US sites) % (%) 30.4 (31.0) 31.2 31.0 28.1 ...Very high (including US sites) % (%) 0.5 (2.1) 1.5 2.2 6.5 Employee engagement survey 7 ...Response rate Index 92 92 ...Engagement index Index 72 79 ...Values index Index 81 74 ...Well-being index Index 76 71 Personal Development Plans8 Index 81 80 80 73 1) Measured as the number of injuries resulting in absence from work of more than eight hours per one million working hours from the production sites (excluding Sarlat), distribution centres and corporate headquarters (includes only sales subsidiaries in the UK, US and DK). 2) Corporate headquarters (Humlebæk), production (Nyírbator, Tatabánya, Mørdrup, & Thisted), distribution centres (Tata, Hamburg, Peterbourough), subsidiaries in Denmark and United Kingdom (Humlebæk & Peterborough). 3) Production (West River Road & Mankato), warehouse (Marrieta), subsidiaries in USA (West River Road) 4) Production (Zhuhai). 5) As above, but covers production (blue-collar) workers only. 6) Percentage of workplaces in Coloplast production in Denmark, Hungary and China according to the degree of repetitive work. As an addition to our reporting, this year we began measuring repetitive work at our US sites as well. All figures are annual averages based on quarterly figures. No/low – no or low degree of repetitive work. Medium – repetitive work with 0-2 aggregating factors, High – repetitive work with 3-4 aggregating factors. Very high – repetitive work with 5 or more aggregating factors. 7) Note that we conduct this survey 24 biannually. 8) Calculation is based on white-collars only. Personal development plans for blue-collars are run locally and in local systems. Data tables Unit 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 Labour practices LA1 LA13 Employees (headcount) Number 89251 8,1261 7,519 7,421 ....blue-collar Number 4.094 3,709 3,492 3,376 ....white-collar Number 4.831 4,417 4,027 4,045 Regions2 European markets3 (of which females) Number (%) 5869 (64) 5347 (62) Other developed markets4 (of which females) Number (%) 814 (48) 784 (48) 5 Emerging markets (of which females) Number (%) 2242 (72) 1995 (72) Contract type Total part Total time + part time fixed term contract + permanent (of which term contract female) (of which Number (%) 24 (71) 21 (76) female) Number (%) 335 (79) 309 (79) Total full time + fixed term contract (of which female) Number (%) 229 (60) 136 (57) Total full time + permanent term contract (of which female) Number (%) 8337 (64) 7660 (62) Gender total Female employees % 67 63 65 63 Female managers6 % 40 40 37 38 7 Female top managers % 13 11 12 16 Age distribution8 ...employees aged < 30 (of which females) %(%) 27 (71) 27 (70) ...employees aged 30-50 (of which females) %(%) 60 (66) 58 (64) ...employees aged > 50 (of which females) %(%) 13 (66) 15 (67) ...managers aged < 30 (of which females) %(%) 5 (44) 4 (42) ...managers aged 30-50 (of which females) %(%) 81 (40) 79 (40) ...managers aged > 50 (of which females) %(%) 14 (39) 17 (35) ...top managers aged < 30 (of which females) %(%) 0 (0) 0 (0) ...top managers aged 30-50 (of which females) %(%) 75 (8) 77 (6) ...top managers aged > 50 (of which females) %(%) 25 (25) 23 (27) Age distribution total ...employees aged < 30 % 25 25 30 30 ...employees aged 30-50 % 62 60 57 57 ...employees aged > 50 % 13 16 13 13 1) Reported data is based on 8.925 active employees (includes all full time and part time contracts). The total workforce includes 326 employees who are currently on leave. 2) Global data for all employees was not accessible prior to 2012 (until 2012 we had been covering 84% in our reporting). Hence there is no comparison to previous years on the new splits, which we have started making after we got access to all global data. 3) UK, Germany, France, the Nordics, Benelux, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, Spain plus production in Denmark and Hungary. 4) USA, Canada, Japan and Australia plus production in USA. 5) Including countries not listed in the other categories for all remaining markets in Americas, Asia, Africa, Europe and Oceania plus production in China. 6) Managers include all positions at or above Manager level. 7) Top management includes Executive Management, Senior Vice Presidents, and Vice President positions. 8) Age figures not divided by gender and level before 11/12. Supply chain responsibility HR2 Raw material suppliers covered by supply chain responsibility programme1 % 100 100 99 98 Suppliers with improved risk profile because of significant improvements2 Number 1 2 1 10 ... accumulated Number 23 22 20 19 Contracts terminated3 Number 0 1 0 3 ...accumulated Number 8 8 7 7 1) Percentage of raw materials suppliers fully covered by the Supply Chain Responsibility procedure. Covers the entire Coloplast organisation. 2) Number of suppliers whose risk profile has been downgraded by the internal decision-making body from 'Consult Decision Board' to high, or high to medium, or medium to low following documented improvements in their social, environmental or business ethical standards as a consequence of Coloplast’s involvement. 3) Number of contracts terminated following concerns about the supplier’s social, environmental or business ethical standards. 25 Data tables Unit 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 CO2 emissions1 EN3 EN4 EN5 EN16 EN17 2 Scope 1 / direct energy mWh 45,803 47,300 54,049 51,305 GJ 164,892 170,279 194,576 184,697 Tonnes CO2e 9,161 9,505 10,856 10,332 ...of which natural gas mWh 45,803 47,296 54,045 51,305 GJ 164,892 170,267 194,561 184,697 Tonnes CO2e 9,161 9,459 10,809 10,261 ...of which coal or fuel distilled from crude oil mWh 0 3 4 0 GJ 0 12 15 0 Tonnes CO2e 0 1 1 0 ...of which produced or sold mWh 0 0 0 0 GJ 0 0 0 0 Tonnes CO2e 0 0 0 0 ...of which VOCs3 Tonnes CO2e 40 45 45 71 Scope 2 / indirect energy mWh 81,601 82,419 85,055 89,173 GJ 297,764 296,710 306,197 321,023 Tonnes CO2e 44,835 45,428 45,865 47,961 ...of which electricity mWh 80,602 81,534 84,023 88,182 GJ 290,167 293,524 302,482 317,455 Tonnes CO2e 44,826 45,420 45,856 47,952 ...of which district heating and cooling mWh 999 890 1,032 991 GJ 3,596 3,204 3,715 3,568 Tonnes CO2e 9 8 9 9 ...of which steam mWh 0 0 0 0 GJ 0 0 0 0 Tonnes CO2e 0 0 0 0 Scope 1 + 2 / total emissions, direct and indirect Tonnes CO2e 54,036 54,933 58,293 56,721 4 ...per number of units produced Index 79 90 96 107 ...per EBIT5 Index 25 28 39 49 Scope 36 / other relevant indirect emissions Tonnes CO2e 145,900 129,700 128,900 …of which transportation of goods7 Tonnes CO2e 19,600 17,800 16,600 …of which business air travels8 Tonnes CO2e 12,900 15,200 15,800 14,900 ...of which leased company cars9 Tonnes CO2e 8,300 7,900 7,700 7,800 10 ...of which OEM Manufacturing Tonnes CO2e 5,900 6,400 6,600 7,100 .. of which sales offices and subsidiaries11 Tonnes CO2e 2,800 2,800 2,800 2,800 12 .. of which fluorinated hydrocarbons in products Tonnes CO2e 9,900 6,400 3,400 700 …of which raw materials in products13 Tonnes CO2e 86,500 71,200 76,000 1) We follow the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Scope 1, 2 and 3. Scope 1 and 2 measurements are based on consumption in all production sites (excluding Sarlat), distribution centres and corporate headquarters (includes only sales subsidiaries in the UK, US and DK). 2) Total sum of mWh and GJ includes all except VOC’s. Total sum of CO2e includes VOC’s. 3) Direct evaporation of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) reported as CO 2 equivalents – primarily alcohol used for cleaning processes. 4) Grams CO 2 emitted per produced unit converted to index values (2006/2007=100). This figure has changed since last year, as a proportion of our production was left out. 5) g CO 2 emitted per EBIT converted to index values (2006/2007=100). 6) Empty data fields indicate that data has not been obtained. Since last year the following subjects have been included: raw materials used in production. 7) Based on CO 2 emission reports from transport companies. Not including deliveries from Coloplast distribution centres and wholesalers to customers and users. 8) Based on CO 2 emission reports from airlines and travel agents. 9) Based on consumption data from leasing companies. 10) OEM = sub-suppliers of Coloplast products. The estimate is based on model data (internal model). 11) Estimate based on model data (Danish Energy Management Scheme). 12) HFC134a gases used as propellants in spray cans (GWP20). 13) Based on Life Cycle Assessments of all raw materials, categorised into 70 sub categories. 26 Data tables Unit 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 2009/10 Waste EN22 EN23 1 Waste Tonnes 9,529 9,145 10,018 9,032 2 ...of which oil / chemicals Tonnes 506 485 456 404 ...of which landfill Tonnes 1,433 1,487 1,678 1,450 ...of which incineration Tonnes 5,157 4,941 5,502 5,536 ...of which recycling3 Tonnes 2,433 2,232 2,382 1,661 ...per units produced Tonnes 79 85 96 94 ...recycling coverage4 % 26 24 24 18 1) Based on weighted amounts from the production sites (excluding Sarlat), distribution centres and corporate headquarters (includes only sales subsidiaries in the UK, US and DK). 2) Sent to special waste treatment plants. Includes all hazardous substances. 3) Waste recycled by external waste handling companies. Not including waste reused directly in our production.4) Recycling coverage of total waste generation. Not including waste reused directly in our production. Water EN8 EN9 1 Water use Tonnes 299,378 274,205 277,328 223,038 ...of which municipal water Tonnes 100 100 100 100 Water sources significantly affected Tonnes 0 0 0 0 Spills (significant / insignificant) Tonnes 0/0 0/0 0/0 0/0 1) All water use is delivered and treated by local municipalities. According to the best our knowledge we do not receive water from significantly affected water sources. Based on amounts from the production sites (excluding Sarlat), distribution centres and corporate headquarters (includes only sales subsidiaries in the UK, US and DK). Code of Conduct compliance SO2 SO3 SO7 SO8 White-collar employees trained in Code of Conduct % 94 951 23 22 Legal action for anti-competitive behaviour Number 0 0 0 0 Significant fines for non-compliance with laws and EUR 0 0 0 0 regulations Business units analysed for organisational risks related to corruption ...business units in total3 Number 54 54 ...of which analysed % 0 84 Whistleblower hotline ...number of cases submitted Number 19 12 5 ...of which within scope4 Number 19 11 4 1) This year, the e-learning course was mandatory for all white-collar employees and we have made a big effort to ensure that people complete the course. Outstanding number is due to the fact that the course is sent to a batch of new employees during reporting period. 2) In 2009, Coloplast was fined for violating Italian competition law. An Italian appeals court decided to lower the fine to 364,000 EUR in February 2009. This judgment is final. 3) Includes all subsidiaries and all headquarter departments individually.4) Case is within scope of topics and subjects that may be reported via the hotline. It does not mean that the cases are necessarily substantiated. Society EC1 Project funds approved (accumulated) 1 DKK 13,676,000 12,576,000 8,375,094 6,768,000 1) Accumulated sum of project funds approved by Access to Healthcare. Please note that there is usually a period of at least six months between the approval of a project and the initial payment of funds. 27 Data graphs CO2 emissions Scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions Scope 3 28 Data graphs Production waste Repetitive work 29 Data graphs Safety Gender diversity 30 Data graphs Animal testing Phthalate-free alternatives 31 About this report This Corporate Responsibility Report covers the framework for sustainability reporting across financial year 2012/13, from 1 October 2012 to 30 companies and industries. We provide a G3.1 September 2013. Our Corporate Responsibility index to this report’s contents at the end of the Report goes to press once a year. report. In some cases, we have gathered new data from The aim is to present complex issues in a simple earlier financial years or managed to calculate language, while including the data needed for historical data more fully than in the previous specialist use. For example, we explain most report. This means that in some cases data from issues using graphs, but also include data with previous financial years may have been slightly methodological information in the data summary altered. In order to continue improving our sheet. reporting, there may be times when we restructure our data for a more precise representation. In all Materiality such cases, a note to that effect is provided in the The topics covered by the Corporate text or in footnotes. Responsibility Report include all issues material to Coloplast as well as issues requested by our key UN Global Compact stakeholders. The stakeholder groups and In 2002, we made a formal commitment to make material topics were selected based on input from the ten principles of the UN Global Compact part an internal group of employees working with of our business strategies and day-to-day corporate responsibility issues, from Coloplast operations. These principles cover basic human A/S, our subsidiaries and with input from our rights, labour, environmental and anti-corruption external stakeholders. policies. In 2011, we were recognised as an Advanced Level Reporter for our efforts to be a Only topics relevant to Coloplast were included, top performer, while adopting and reporting on a regardless of whether or not a relevant GRI range of best practices. To continue this tradition, indicator currently exists for the topic in question. this report functions as our annual Communication The report represents a holistic view of corporate on Progress to the UN Global Compact. responsibility at Coloplast, in relation to a more global perspective. Together with our own “As a signatory member, we are committed to the ambitions, targets and challenges, we have also UN Global Compact’s ten principles on human included more general trends on the healthcare and labour rights, environment and antiindustry, changes in key demographic groups corruption. It’s not just the right thing to do – it worldwide, and more. These trends are based on simply makes good business sense.” our internal speculation of external events. Lene Skole, Executive Vice President and CFO Stakeholder engagement Reporting principles Coloplast’s main stakeholders include: Owners / This report is a presentation of our achievements shareholders, users, healthcare professionals, in the field of corporate responsibility, but also of employees, business partners, the environment the challenges we face. We present the most and society in general. This selection was initially important issues – the ones with a positive impact done through discussions with internal on Coloplast’s reputation as well as the more stakeholders and a survey of global employees. challenging issues. In terms of corporate responsibility, we This report constitutes the statutory report cf. communicate closely with healthcare Danish Financial Statements Act, section 99a, professionals, users and our business partners in and is prepared in accordance with the G3.1 many ways. For example, we work with advisory guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative, an boards by engaging in biannual focus group independent institution that provides a standard meetings. We also make it easy for healthcare 32 professionals to submit complaints to us on an oncustomers on topics such as code of conduct, going basis in writing or on our website. product safety and reduction of CO2 emissions. Furthermore, we conduct annual satisfaction surveys which target users in over ten countries. Scope Topics often raised by our stakeholders include Unless otherwise noted, the data and reporting quality and safety concerns or the availability of includes the entire Coloplast organisation, i.e. phthalate-free products. We use our knowledge production sites, distribution centres, and expertise in a way that benefits society as a administration, sales and representative offices. whole; therefore, we communicate with our Third parties such as distributors are not included Access to Healthcare project partners on a in the reporting, except for the Code of Conduct quarterly basis to keep updated on progress and and Compliance chapter where we have started challenges in local communities. expanding our programmes to distribution channels as well. Suppliers are included only with Issues regarding the environment are regard to the specific reporting on our supply communicated in a few different ways. For chain responsibly programme. example, our subsidiaries frequently send us questionnaires about our environmental progress Data collection and policies as requested by customers. Our Quality, environmental and health and safety data annual Corporate Responsibility Report is one of is collected by Corporate Quality and the biggest sources of information regarding our Environment, typically as part of our ISO or environmental performance. We also produce and OHSAS certifications. HR data was collected by distribute marketing material when relevant. HR Operations, Corporate Procurement, Corporate Finance. Another key stakeholder group is our employees – we communicate with them on a daily basis The People & Communications department has through our intranet “Connect”. Furthermore, at also contributed significantly to the content of this our headquarters, employees attend information report. A separate data collection system has meetings four to six times a year which are been established in order to systematise broadcasted globally within the company. comments, indicate data responsibility and store documentation for the report. All data refer to In addition, we have expanded our internal financial years. stakeholder engagement significantly through the Corporate Responsibility Ambassador network. Certifications These internal employees have been carefully Coloplast is certified to a number of international selected, typically from top management standards that require us to monitor our positions, and trained in detail on our corporate performance and continuously improve on responsibility work – they then train local environmental and occupational health and safety employees. The Ambassadors have been standards. These standards cover production and instrumental in global data collection projects, distribution sites, but not our sales subsidiaries. which include both surveys and interviews on For more detailed information on individual various corporate responsibility issues. The certifications, please see the data table in this network is also now increasing engagement with report. external stakeholders by taking up dialogue with 33 Global Reporting Initiative Strategy and analysis Management approach disclosures  1.1 Page 4  Environmental Page 8, 11 13  1.2 Annual report page 14  Human rights Page 8, 16 17  Labour Page 8, 18 23 Organisational profile  Society Page 8, 10, 19  2.1 Page 5  Product Page 8, 24 25  2.2 Page 5, Annual report page  Economic Page 8, 9 – 25 4-6  2.3 Page 5, Coloplast.com > Performance indicators About Coloplast > Company  PR1 Page 11-13 structure  SO2 Page 27  SO3 Page 27  2.4 Back page  SO5 Page 10  2.5 Page 5, Coloplast.com >  SO7 Page 27 Contact  SO8 Page 27  2.6 Page 7-8  LA1 Page 24  2.7 Page 5, Annual report 8-9  LA7 Page 18 – 19, 24  2.8 Page 5, 25; Annual report  LA8 Page 19, 20 21 page 9  LA12 Page 20 – 21, 24  2.9 Annual report page 12  LA13 Page 20 – 21, 24  2.10 Page 3  HR2 Page 16 – 17, 25  EN3 Page 26  EN4 Page 26 Report parameters  EN5 Page 14, 26  3.1 – 3.3 Page 29 30  EN8 Page 27  3.4 Page 7  EN9 Page 27  3.5 – 3.11 Page 29 – 30  EN16 Page 14, 26  3.12 Page 31  EN17 Page 26  3.13 Not applicable  EN18 Page11 13  EN22 Page 14 15, 27  EN23 Page 27 Governance, Commitments, Engagement  EN26 Page 8, 11-13  4.1 – 4.7 Page 6-7, Annual report,  EC1 Page 8, 15, 27 Coloplast.com > Investor relations > Corporate Global Compact governance  Principle 1 Page 9-10, 14-23, 30  4.8 Page 7,10 – 23  Principle 2 Page 9-10, 14-23, 30  4.9 – 4.11 Page 6 8, Annual report 14  Principle 3 Page 9-10, 14-23, 30 18, Coloplast.com > Investor  Principle 4 Page 9-10, 14-23, 30 relations > Corporate  Principle 5 Page 9-10, 14-23, 30 governance  Principle 6 Page 9-10, 14-23, 30  4.12 Page 14  Principle 7 Page 6, 11-13, 16-17, 25-26, 30  4.13 Page 10  Principle 8 Page 6, 11-13, 16-17, 25-26, 30  4.14 – 4.17 Page 7-8, 10  Principle 9 Page 6, 11-13, 16-17, 25-26, 30  Principle 10 Page 6, 9-10, 30 34 35 The Coloplast story begins back in 1954. Elise Sørensen is a nurse. Her sister Thora has just had an ostomy operation and is afraid to go out in public, fearing that her stoma might leak. Listening to her sister’s problems, Elise conceives the idea of the world’s first adhesive ostomy bag. Based on Elise’s idea, Aage Louis-Hansen created the ostomy bag. A bag that does not leak, giving Thora – and thousands of people like her – the chance to return to their normal life. A simple solution with great significance. Today, our business includes ostomy care, urology and continence care and wound and skin care. But our way of doing business still follows Elise’s and Aage’s example: we listen, we learn and we respond with products and services that make life easier for people with intimate healthcare needs. 36
