CSG Lights Up Every Household in Southern China Dear readers, we hope the exquisite cover could illustrate CSG’ s great development to you, as it did in previous editions. The cover is designed to deliver three levels of meaning under the philosophy of “Serve the community, maximize responsibility for better results”. Add: No.6, Huasui Rd, Zhujiang Xincheng, Tianhe District, Guangzhou, Guangdong Elegant leaves and branches refers to CSG’ s appreciation of nature. Postcode: 510623 CSG has remained dedicated to sustainable development of society Te l : 020-38121958 and environment. Fax: 020-38865670 CSG has fully undertaken it social responsibility in four areas: servWebsite: www.csg.cn ing customers, a caring staff, environmental protection and support2012 ing social development. The landmarks of the five provinces and region in CSG’ s service area are designed as tree branches and leaves indicating a “smart, efficient, reliable and green” power grid platform. CSG optimizes resources to support regional economy development, upgrading and transformation. Corporate Social Responsibility Report Scan me for more information Cover photos: Huizhou pumped storage power plant, city night scene, business hall and CSG staff is explaining electricity knowlThis Report is made by recycled paper. edge to ethnic minority customers. Interview with the Board Chairman “We shall continue to pursue the low-carbon development model unswervingly and make greater contribution to regional ecological preservation and a beautiful China.” Board Chairman Zhao Jianguo in many critical events: With the principle of “shouldering responsibility in the face of disasters”, CSG has fulfilled its commitment of CSG celebrated its 10th anniversary at the end of 2012. As the Board Chairman and a witness of the 10 years’ reform “restoring power to affected areas within the shortest time possible” in the event of ice storms, floods, typhoons, droughts and and development of CSG, how do you comment on the company’s development path in the last decade? earthquakes in our service area; in undertaking the power supply task for major events such as the Guangzhou 2010 Asian Games and Shenzhen 2011 Universiade, CSG has ensured power supply from the source to the socket with “zero accident, zero mistake and zero complaint.” At the same time, CSG concentrates on improving power supply service for the general public and has realized “electricity It has been a tough and glorious decade for CSG. We have grown up through integration. In the face of severe natural disasters and to every household” within the service area. The company is committed to building an “intelligent, efficient, green and reliable” in the course of major events, CSG has proactively undertaken its social responsibility. CSG staff’ s spirit has won recognition from modern power grid and has significantly improved power supply reliability and minimized customers’ power outage. As a result, in the central government, relevant ministries, the party committees and governments of the five provinces and region in CSG service the 20 gold medal winner companies of reliable power supply in China last year, six are CSG subsidiaries with three of them among area as well as the whole society. CSG itself has also made tremendous progress through our effort for scientific development of the the top five A-level companies, placing CSG in a leading position in China’s energy sector. All these achievements are made under the region. guidance of our core values. The last 10 years have seen CSG from a start-up, to its integration and great development. Our comprehensive strength has laid a We hope with CSG’s continuous effort, there will be a day when all power problems could be solved rapidly and people would even solid foundation for our long-term development. We have been rated level-A in the assessment of state-owned enterprise executive’ s forget the existence of the power supplier. Only then, can we say we have done a great job and have truly realized our core values business performance by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administrative Commission of the State Council (SASAC) for 7 “CSG Lights Up Every Household in Southern China”. So the cause of fulfilling CSG’s social responsibility is an endless journey and we consecutive years; our place in the Fortune 500 list has moved up remarkably–No.149 in year 2011. The last decade saw CSG overshould not be complacent about our responsibility for a second. came many difficulties, conquered multiple tests and fulfill a series of tasks: The most unforgettable one–conquering one of the worst ice and snow storms in South China’ s history in 2008; the most noticeable one–Finishing the world first ±800kV UHV DC project; the most beneficial one–formulating CSG Mid-to-Long-term Development Strategy. The 18th National Congress of the Communist Party of China calls for the building of a “beautiful China”. What role does CSG want to play in this endeavor? What is equally significant is a fundamental change of mindset across the whole organization, i.e. we have positioned CSG as a service provider. We have completely changed the old tradition of “emphasizing power generation, overlooking supply and totally ignoring power use” and firmly established the customer-centered principle in CSG’ s whole operational process–planning, construcIt is the objective of CSG to be a green force for building a beautiful China. In the power sector’ s supply chain, the energy conservation, operation, management and service, ensuring safe, reliable and uninterrupted power supply, largely reducing customers’ tion and emission reduction potential within the power grid companies is relatively small. However, we can take full advantage of outage time and raising their satisfaction. We have defined the three core CSG technologies. Based on the transient balance our role as the bridge in the supply chain to promote low-carbon development in the upstream and downstream. There is a huge feature of the power grid and CSG’ s business practicalities, our three core technologies are: The technology of safe and stable operapotential to develop low carbon at upstream and downstream. Therefore, CSG has been taking serious measures to implement tion and control of power grid, the technology of power grid’ s economic operation and the technology of integrated application of “Green Action” to increase energy utilization efficiency at the power generation side, the grid side and the consumer side. system and facility. We have also clarified the direction of CSG’ s technological innovation, which is to accelerate the innovation of At the generation side, CSG has been actively promoting energy-saving dispatching to facilitate the development of clean power, traditional power grid and improve our overall grid management capability through advanced computing, communication and especially hydropower, wind power, solar power and other renewable energies. In 2012, the installed capacity of non-fossil energy control technologies. We have identified CSG’ s progress roadmap. Adhering to the guiding principle of “global perspective, pracaccounts for 44% and power generation from non-fossil energy accounts for 38% of CSG grid’ s total, higher than the national avertical path, sustainable effectiveness and continuous development” and management philosophy of “all-round service to customers, age 28% and 21% respectively. At the grid side, the company has been focusing on line loss reduction and efficiency improvement life-cycle management of assets, intensive management of resources”, CSG compared ourselves with internationally advanced peers in both transmission and distribution. At the consumer side, CSG has taken the lead to establish CSG Synthesis Energy Corp. to bring and identified our shortcomings; based on which we encourage bold exploration and pilot projects and inspire all subsidiaries’ our technological advantage to promote energy conservation and emission reduction in the whole society. Presently the fossil fuel enthusiasm and creativity. consumption for each watt electricity supplied by CSG is 198 grams standard coal, 18.5% lower than national average. In the future, we shall continue to pursue the low-carbon development path to make further contribution to regional ecological preservation and We notice that CSG has identified its core value as: CSG Lights Up Every Household in Southern China. Could you a beautiful China. share with us your understanding of this core value? CSG is running the To-Top campaign to be an internationally advanced power grid company. How will this objective The connotation of the core values “CSG Lights Up Every Household in Southern China” is the commitment to serve the customers, influence CSG’s fulfillment of its social responsibility? care about the staff and return the support of the society. CSG shall dedicate ourselves to lighting up thousands of homes and bring brightness and happiness to the society. This is an unyielding pursuit and practice of CSG in our fulfillment of social responsibility. The initial motivation of the To-Top campaign is that we hope through our generation of power sector practitioners, China’s power industry will CSG has always placed safety as the top priority and ensured the safe and stable operation of a complex and large power grid for a accumulate effective experience for its reform and development and there will be several internationally influential power companies in China. long time. Despite the rapid expansion and increasingly complex structure of the power grid, there has been no grid stability accident This goal plays a vital role in improving CSG's management and its capability to fulfil responsibilities. The management of corporate social or blackout by human error. Some of CSG’s achievements include: First, CSG actively met the challenge of acute imbalance between responsibility originated from the west, therefore we pay great attention to the practice of international power companies and have referred to power supply and demand, made full use of the large platform for optimal grid resources allocation to realize fast and flexible power universal standards such as the G3 Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative and the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact to deployment and balance between electric power and electrical voltage; secondly, we coordinate the loads and resources to enable strengthen our CSR management to push forward a series of projects and disclose various indicators. CSG has disclosed 90% of the power supply power dispatching adjustment between provinces; thirdly, CSG has focused on resolving the distribution problem of the power grid, indicators and the completeness of CSG’s delivery information is among the top in the world. On the other hand, CSG has taken into consideration ensuring effective distribution, connection and use of power; fourthly, the company commits itself to safeguarding the society, key China’s practical circumstances and the features of the SOE to actively undertake social responsibility and maintain effective communication areas and key customers and has set a successful example ensuring power supply and supporting productivity, providing strong between stakeholders, winning understanding and support from them. Therefore we can say that the To-Top initiative has driven CSG to better energy support for the rapid GDP growth of 12% average per annum in the five provinces and region. CSG has also played a key role fulfill its social responsibility, and CSG has found a route that both conforms to international practice and has its own characteristics. The Management Guide to Reading This Report This report consists of the Introductory Chapter, the CSR report and the Summary. The Introductory Chapter is composed of the feature report on social responsibility and the update on implementation of Mid-to-Long-Term Development Strategy; the CSR report has systematically disclosed CSG’ s practice of corporate social responsibility from power supply, environment protection, economic performance and social harmony; the Summary gives detailed account of the company’s source of responsibility, responsibility management and outlook 2013. Zhao Jianguo Zhong Jun 01 Feature Report: Responsibility 07 Implementation of Mid-to-Long-Term Development Strategy Board Chairman Board Director President Power Supply Green Energy Responsibility Responsibility To ensure a safe, stable, reliable 09 31 CSG’s responsibilities are to build Xiao Peng Wang Jiuling and quality power supply for a green power grid, to facilitate Board Director Board Director the sustainable development of energy conservation and emisVice President Vice President the economic society is CSG’s sion reduction and to facilitate a core responsibility. To maintain coordinated and sustainable public safety and public interdevelopment of enterprise, comests in confronting serious and munity and environment. unexpected natural disasters is CSG’s political responsibility. A Myraid of Twinkling Lights, Qi Dacai Sun Xiaoyi Great Rapport of CSG Board Director Head of Discipline Vice President and Inspection Social Harmony Economic Performance Responsibility Responsibility CSG is committed to universal 55 45 CSG’s fundamental responsibilipower service. Our special ties are to strictly carry out the responsibility is to facilitate national policy on tariff, pay speWang Liangyou Zhang Xiaodong coordinated development cial attention to management, between urban and the rural ensure security, appreciation, Vice President Vice President areas. To cooperate with stakecost reduction and efficiency holders for a win-win situation enhancement of state-owned is the shared responsibility of assets, and to prioritize social CSG and all sectors of the combenefit. munity. He Xiqiang Li Wenzhong 66 Source of Responsibility Responsibility Management Outlook 2013 72 Report Rating The Third Party Endorsement Global Compact Performance Vice President Chief Accountant 76 About Us About the Report Feedback Form GRI Index 81 2012 Key Performance Index Table Feature Report on Responsibility Responsible Practice in the Past Decade Feature Report on Responsibility Power Grid Development Platform CSG was founded on 29th December, 2002 and was a pilot in power sector reform in China. In the past decade, the company All Round Customer Service Platform 3 Milestone Projects has always adhered to the mission of “Taking initiative to shoulder social responsibility，Ensuring power supply” and its In the past decade, CSG has reinforced scientific planning and In December, 2009, Yunnan-Guangdong 800kV UHV DC In the past ten years, the company has estabSAIDI for Urban Clients SAIDI for Rural Clients core values, namely: “CSG Lights Up Every Household in Southern China”. CSG’s guiding principle is “Global vision, lished a philosophy of “customer first, (unit :hour/household) (unit :hour/household) power grid construction and strived to build a smart, efficient, Power Transmission Project was put into single-pole operation practical pathfinding, perseverance and consistent improvement.” The company has given a full play to its role as grid harmony and win-win” and has identified 11.22 reliable and green grid covering urban and rural areas. CSG In June, 2009, 500kV Hainan Interconnection Project 12 50 10.42 successfully went into operation and put an end to the development platform, grid operation platform, green action platform, all round customer service platform, talent customer service improvement as the key 38.65 has invested 524.1 billion RMB in grid construction and have 10 40 isolated operation of Hainan Power Grid development platform and emergency management platform. CSG has significantly boosted its development potential and development task. CSG’ s every effort is for instituted a “8AC, 5DC” pattern in the “west-to-east” plan. We 8 6.66 30 In December, 2011 Xiluodu and Nuozhadu DC Power Transvalue creation capacity. reducing SAIDI and improving customer satis6 5.20 22.64 put an end to the isolated operation of Hainan Power Grid and mission Project started construction, representing another faction. We have achieved significant reduction 3.21 20 realized “electricity-to-every household”. 4 14.87 12.07 two power transmission “highway” in “west-to-east” plan. of SAIDI both for urban clients and rural 7.99 2 10 Five Key Development Index Power Grid All Round clients. CSG’ s branches and subsidiaries have 0 0 140% Growth Rate Annual Growth Rate :12.5% 7010 Annual Growth Rate :13.9% 289% Growth 156% Growth Development Customer Service always ranked high in surveys made by local 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) 5556 4192 6.89 16.57 Platform Platform government agencies. 2312 2589 1260 1.77 6.48 Identify customer Size of power grid CSG is leveraging lean management to continuously raising 2003 2012 (Year) 2003 2012 (Year) 2003 2012 (Year) 2003 2012 (Year) 2003 2012 (Year) increased 2 times service capacity as Total Assets Power Sales Revenue from Main Business 110 kV-and-above Power Grid Total Length of 110 kV-and-above Power the core capacity the bar of professional customer service quality (unit : 100 million RMB) ( Unit : 0.1TWh) (Unit : 100 million RMB) transformer capacity (Unit : 100GVA) transmission lines (unit : 10,000 KM) Talent Development Platform Our efforts in the past ten years equal to two added CSG capacity In the past decade, the talent–oriented strategy HQ executive has boosted employees’ qualification. 81,853 and deputy Power Operation Platform employees have professional titles, representExecutive, deputy Assistant general and assistant manager ing 9.46% increase than that of 2003. EmployExecutive, deputy general manager In the past ten years, CSG has been dedicated to delivering quality at branches and Technical Completed “West-to-East” Power Transmission (unit:0.1TWh) ees’ productivity reached 378,100RMB/per and assistant general manager subsidiaries expert service to economic performance of the five provinces and region in at prefecture and year from 216,000 per year, municipal level Director South China, has given a full play to its role as a coordination platform 1400 Executive, deputy Highly Total power transmission 1243 CSG Lights Up recording 6.42% and assistant skilled and has vigorously implemented “west-to-east” plan. The “west-to-east” in the past ten years : 828.9TWh 1155 1117 Talent Executive, deputy general manager Head 1200 annual growth rate 20% 1058 Grid Operation Every Household annual growth and assistant at prefecture and labour plan elevated pressing land shortage and pollution problems in the east 969 Development municipal level Deputy head Supervisor 1000 863 Platform in Southern China rate. general manager of China and helped to boost the post industrialization process of the 800 Platform at county/district level Deputy supervisor east region. The “west-to-east” plan created revenue stream for the west 675 No power grid stability Three career developSenior region and contributed to local employment and fiscal revenue. 600 535 disturbance occurred, 418 ment path: manageoperator 400 no large scale power ment, technical specialOperator CSG has established a safe production risk management system with 267 outage occurred ist and skilled labor. 200 Junior independent intellectual property rights. Various controlling measures Newly Trainee operator have been adopted. Our ability to harness and operate the complex DC 0 recruited 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) power grid has been strengthened noticeably. To establish CSG with highest employee’s satisfaction, the company executives The “west-to-east” plan realized optimized resource allocation and coordinated should care about the employees and employees should care about the company regional development in the west and the east for a win-win situation. Green Action Platform Emergency Management Platform In the past decade, CSG has played an active guiding role in the industry Emergency CSG Emergency management platform 180 million tons of standard coal saved in Green Action In the past ten years, CSG’ s service areas were hit by natural disasters chain, and made effective efforts to practice the central government policy on Management Telecommunication Outside LAN Internal LAN energy conservation and emission reduction Platform system energy conservation and emission reduction to facilitate green grid construcPlatform and the sophisticated geological conditions posed stiff challenges for Fossil fuel consumption Equivalent to 480 million tons reduction of Defeated snowstorm, safe production and emergency management. Leveraging modern Public network Power dispatch IDN (Integrated data network) tion and an all-round coordinated development of business, society and envifor unit power generaswitched network carbon dioxide sleet, typhoon, drought, telecommunication system, CSG established a sound and effective ronment. CSG has made concrete measures in Green Action and takes the tion is 198 grams/kWh, Centralized Dedicated earthquake and other telecommunication power lines IDC network emergency management platform covering its service area. Aided by Equivalent to 3.46 million tons reduction of 18.5% lower than the extreme natural disasinitiative to launch energy saving in dispatching in China. The company national average. ters the emergency management platform, the company confronted and sulfur dioxide supported the central government’ s policy on replacing inefficient coal-fired Emergency management 7 Provincial level Emergency defeated a number of extreme natural disasters, including snow and platform under other agencies management platforms units, and has shut down inefficient units with the total capacity of 17830 In total, 653.8 TWh hydropower transmitsleet in 2008, drought in 2010 in Yunnan, Guizhou and Guangxi, MW. CSG has continuously reduced power loss in transmission and distributed in the “west-to-east” plan 91 Prefecture/municipal level Typhoon Fanapi, torrential rainstorm in Hainan, and earthquakes in Emergency management platform tion process and has offered EMC and energy conservation diagnosis service. Assisted clients achieved total power conserYingjiang, and addressed a number of challenges arising from thermal In total, CSG has delivered 28,000 energy conservation diagnosis service for vation of 7.4TWh Mobile Emergency management platform power shortages and rising fuel prices. The emergency management corporate clients. platform has secured power grid’s safe and stable operation. Deliver green service for a beautiful China CSG has delivered its commitment: Shouldering responsibility in the face of disasters Feature Report on Responsibility Lighting Up Thousands of Homes, Feature Report No Matter How Far They are on Responsibility CSG: Lighting Up The Furthest Land Accelerating Power Grid Development in Rural Area to Support the “New Countryside” Project 2012: Critical Battle to Realize “Electricity-to-Every-Household” By 2012, there remained the last 81,800 families who did not have access to electricity. They were all minority ethnicity When most people have been enjoying modern convenience brought by electricity, there was a time when some Clarifying the Management System of Rural Power Grid people in the five provinces and region in South China did not have access to it but relied on kerosene lantern and groups and scattered in remote areas in Zhaotong, Lijiang and other parts of Yunnan Province. CSG was determined to pine tar for light. Modern civilization was far away from them. These people were mostly minority ethnic groups and CSG has been earnestly implementing the state’s favorable policies to rural areas, supporting their rapid economic and social bring electricity to these people. development and steadily advancing the reform of power sector management system in rural areas. By the end of 2012, CSG had their areas were only included in CSG service area since the power system reform in the rural area. For the interest operated 336 county-level power supply companies, among which 254 were transferred to CSG in the 10 years since its founding; Challenge of the project. These minority ethnic groups’ habitations are scattered around perilous mountains and deep gorges where of the country and society, CSG members upheld the corporate spirit of “dedicating themselves to the brightness of natural conditions are tough and landform complicated. There were no roads to these areas, making construction extremely difficult. CSG had also received 130,000 staff and 35.4 billion RMB worth assets from the rural power sector and established capital links Some ethnic groups move their homes from time to time, adding to the challenges to engineering progression. thousands of homes” and conquered great challenges of remote areas, mountainous and gorge geography, scattered with 98% of the rural power companies, establishing an “one grid” structure. CSG Guangdong, Guizhou and Hainan subsidiaries have altogether formally received 430,000 staff members from rural power Project delivery. CSG has altogether invested 1.93 billion RMB , i.e. over 20,000 RMB per household, and conquered various advert villages and difficult transportation to bring reliable electricity supply to every household, contributing to the sector and for the first time changed status-based HR management to post-based management to set up a structured career factors to successfully supply power to the last 81,800 households. harmony between different ethnic groups, different regions and across the society. development path and gradually realize “same post, same job, same salary” within the same organization. Statistics of the “Electricity-to-every-household” Project 2012 Strengthening Management of Rural Power Improving the Service of Rural Power Realizing “electricity-to-every-household” within CSG service area 38 months in advance of the national plan To tackle the prevalent problems of weak foundation of 3,147 power service counters were set up in rural 2011 rural grid, poor management and weak development in areas, covering over 80% of townships and over 1/3 of Realizing “electricity-to-every-village” within CSG service area county-level power companies, CSG has launched multiple administrative villages. projects to standardize the operation and improve the Practically solving the most concerned and most 2009 overall management of these companies. urgent issues of the 160 million rural residents – Most Shanyao ethnic villages did not have A worker from Lijiang Power Supply Bureau of Guangdong, Guangxi, Guizhou and Hainan all realized “electricityIn the last 10 years, the average annual business profit power availability, high power tariff and inconvenient roads; CSG staff had to carry power poles Yunnan Power Grid was repairing cable defects. to-every-household” in grid coverage area respectively across mountains; At his back was the steep Yulong snow mountain; growth of CSG’s county-level power supply companies has bill-paying. reached 17.9%, the companies suffering business loss has 80% of CSG’ s county-level companies were ranked 2006 dropped from 178 in 2003 to 57 in 2011. among top places in local power sector assessments. China formally launched the project of electricity supply to all areas 132.4 2.25 Accumulative investment in rural Total population in the 217 administrative grid retrofit and in electricity supply villages in border areas, mountainous areas Promoting Rural Economic Development construction in areas where had no billion and minority ethnic group regions who had million access to power in the last 10 years RMB access to electricity for the first time people CSG is committed to improving access to power as well as the living and working conditions in rural areas. It has appropriated designated funds to retrofit and upgrade the power supply facilities for the timber processing industry in Guangxi, the cigarette Li Zefu, villager of Lisu ethnic group village Mazhiwu, Electricians returned from Mazhiwu village During the last critical battle of production and vegetable greenhouse in Yunnan, tea processing in Guizhou and mariculture in Hainan, contributing to the Yongsheng County, Lijiang City, smiled happily on in late night. On their one side was crag, on electricity supply, climbing rocks and 7.6 economic growth in the countryside. the news of electricity arriving at his home; the other side was bottomless cliff; encountering danger were common Over Saving on electricity bills for rural populaPercentage of ammeter retrofit to situation for CSG employees. tion by realizing “same grid, same price” 6.29 million rural households 90% for urban and rural residents billion RMB In 10 years, 20 years, these remote areas still won’t bring any economic profit to power companies, The retrofit and upgrade of rural power grid has significantly improved the grid structure, realized a coordinated but such is the political commitment of a state-owned enterprise, such is a real social project. development of the 110kV, 35kV and 10kV grids, and solved the problem of weak connection between 311 county grids and the main grid. Presently there is at least one 110kV power transformer substation in every county, which Yang Zhongyi Deputy Director-General, Standing Committee of People’s Congress, Lijiang has remarkably increased power supply capability in rural areas. “CSG Brothers” Guard the Power Supply in The Journey of a Power Cable Pole Shiwan Mountain for 13 Years Dashui village in Labo, Ninglang County, Lijiang, Yunnan Province is The “CSG brothers” are two brothers working in Guangxi Power the last village to have power access in CSG’s service area. There was Grid. With the dedicated spirit of “devoting myself to the brightness no road here; even horses were not able to go in. In order to move of thousands of households”, they have been guarding the hundred power cable poles into the village, CSG staff first used power supply 2 km mountain forest to ensure power supply for 2,026 families of cart and “canon cart” (a canon-like carriage) to carry poles on over 10,000 Chinese who returned from Vietnam. For 13 years, they narrow dirt trails, then dragged them on the Jingsha River by ride on cragged mountain roads every day and have even scrapped towboat and iron pontoon, then carried them onto mountains by 5 motorbikes. Wang Zhaoguo, the then member of CPC Central ropeway before finally dragging them to the destination by winch. Committee Politbureau, Chairman of All China Federation of Trade The cost of a 1,000 RMB cable pole, after one week’s journey by Unions, has written about them that “Returned overseas Chinese water, land and air, has exceeded 8,000 RMB when arriving at the Before Children studying at night by lamps Now Villagers of Shanyao ethnic group hailed the first brothers Huang Chunqiang and Huang Chunning have contributed destination. Such is an epitome of the hardship in accomplishing electricity bulb being lit in Longsang Village, Guichao “CSG brothers” cross perilous mountains to serve to the country’s development and set up a great example.” CSG members carrying power cable poles across the “electricity-toevery-household” project. Township, Funing County of Yunnan Province. returned overseas Chinese Jinsha River by bamboo raft. Please refer to page 60 of the 2011 CSG Social Responsibility Report http://www.csg.cn/shzr Details of the extraordinary stories of the CSG brothers can be found at: http://www.gx.csg.cn/nwxd Notes: Shanyao is a branch of the Yao ethnic group; most Shanyao people live in Funing County, Wenshan Zhuang and for the distribution of minority ethnic groups in CSG service area. Miao ethinic groups autonomous district, Yunnan Province. 07 Implementation of CSG Mid-to-Long-Term Development Strategy 08 Implementation of CSG Mid-to-Long-Term Development Strategy 2012 was a critical year to implement CSG Mid-to-Long-term Strategy. In this year, CSG integrated its efforts in Building a Unified Institutional Structure building a world-leading company, unification and management improvement, pushed forward the actualization In 2012, based on the design of unified management and the principle of being simple and efficient, CSG systemof the strategy, steadily marched on the route of strategy implementation and preliminarily established a unified atically formulated regulatory documents on management regime and business guidance which facilitate the management framework, realizing the objective of the first step as part of CSG’s 3-step strategy. implementation of management requirements and cover all CSG services, established linkage and adjustment mechanism between institution and business, developed a business standard-based unified system, providing strong support for the implementation of unified management. Developing a Complete Number of CSG Management Documents Corporate mission Strategy System Through thorough review, CSG has cut the number of Proactively shouldering management documents from 10,542 to 1,345, an 87% 12000 10542 social responsibility; CSG has been pushing forward the develreduction; whereas the headquarters has increased the 9000 making every effort to opment of a strategic system to fully operation standard instructions for grass-root unit’ s A reduction of 87% ensure power supply establish a closed-loop management business need from 23 to 401, a 1,743% increase. The 6000 mechanism. In 2012, CSG launched the company has also consolidated the operation model of 3000 formulation and assessment of 11 funchomogeneous services across the whole grid, signifi1345 tional strategies and 14 sub-strategies, cantly reducing the frontline team’s workload. 0 and strengthened connection and coorBefore consolidation After consolidation dination between policies of different Serving levels to establish a complete strategic the Customers execution system. The subsidiaries in Core values Measures to Enhance Management Returning the each province have also mapped out Caring about CSG Lights Up their functional plans respectively. Every Household Support of the Society the Staff in Southern China CSG has organized extensive campaigns for management improvement, actively promoted management innovation and continued to enhance lean management. Commitment Establishing a Unified Guangzhou and Shenzhen Power Supply Bureaus impleof CSG Management Framework mented a scheme to be in line with world-leading power Participation by four levels, seven grid companies, to be the pilots and provide cases in point business areas and 15 departments, and successful examples for the whole organization’ s manCSG has successfully completed the agement innovation; Strategic objective interim assessment of unified management and the first top level design of CSG created an economic value added of 3.05 billion RMB in To be a world-leading power grid corporate business management, 2012, exceeding the target set by SASAC. company which excels in service, established a scientific and systematic management and corporate image CSG has accelerated informationization led by management unified management framework, needs, steadily pushed forward the “6+1” project and further standardized business manlaunched large scale data quality review in marketing, agement model, strengthened management foundation and developed a production, human resources and financial management. CSG held the 3rd management forum to promote structural business prototype and Eight research projects of CSG, such as the “Innovation and management innovation To push forward “two basis, two approaches” management platform with CSG charpractice of the integrated management model of E-capitals” , Strategic route and pursue “two transfers” acteristics. have won first-class award in the 2012 national power Two basis and two approaches: Position CSG as a service-based sector business management innovation contest. company, practice operation-based management and control; This years also saw CSG systematically operate the company as a conglomerate and manage it as a unity categorize 75 level one businesses, Two transfers: Transferring the power grid to a more intelligent, 237 level two businesses, 697 business more efficient, more reliable and greener one and the corporate management to a more refined level items, 830 business procedures and 1,933 inter-business connections, develop an “accountability + guidIn March, 2012, SASAC issued Guidance on Management Improvement Programme of State-Owned EnterKey capabilities ance” management and control stratprises, which announced that the SOEs would all launch management enhancement projects in the next Customer Power grid Power grid Value Development egy and grid-wide unified standards, two years and identified 13 areas, including social responsibility management, as the designated reform service operation development creation support capability capability capability capability capability effectively preventing unification areas. It was also one of the nine key corporate management improvement areas being identified of CSG. from becoming unitarianism, dogmatism or inflexibility. 09 Power Supply 10 Power Supply Number of major and Average SAIDI for urban Investment in power grid From providing power accessibility to ensuring high quality power supply. With economic above major power safety customers construction development, social progress and living standard improvement, people’s dependence and expectation on power supply gets higher and higher. CSG always deems the safety and stability of power grid as the lifeline of the accidents Number of major and 3.21 hrs 67.1 billion RMB 0 company. With a service philosophy of “customer first, achieving win-win in harmony”, CSG continues to enhance above major facility Year-on-year reduction Year-on-year reduction power supply stability, endeavors to provide world-class power services to customers and ensures safe, stable, accidents 38.72% 3.73% reliable and quality power supply for the sustainable economic and social development. Safe Production Reliable Power Supply Quality Service Emergency Management Power Grid Construction Technological Innovation ±800kV Suidong converter station 11 Power Supply 12 Safe Production Sound Operation of Equipment The “west-to-east” plan of CSG is of large scale, long distance and high voltage. The trans-provincial and regional power grid is operating in both AC and DC, resulting in complexity and difficulty to The equipment assets of CSG take up operation. thus difficult to operate. The vast coverage of the main grid, concentrated cable tunnels, over 80% of its total assets. The manharsh geographical environment along the cables, complex climate and high frequency of natural agement of equipment assets directly disasters, such as typhoon, thunderstorm, mountain fire, earthquake, ice damage, drought and relates to safety, stability, operation flood, have posed great threats to the safety of the power grid. performance, and sustainable developWe stick to a safe production guideline-“safety first, prevention orientation” by giving safe proment of the power grid. duction top priority, enhancing management of safe production, and effectively resolving various crises in production. 2012 witnessed no big or serious accidents related to power safety or equipCGS has been enhancing the sound ment. operation of equipment by thoroughly spotting hidden equipment dangers, strengthening closed-loop management Stable Operation of the Power Grid and control of equipment risks, with an investment of 17.651 billion RMB in CSG has been improving the system operation control and management, and the dynamic closed-loop management and overall restoration and technological Staff are examining switches of the second main generator transformer in control of power grid operation risks to ensure stable and ordered operation. 500 kV Maohu transformer substation. upgrading of equipment. The passing rate of 50 0.2Hz frequency and 500 KV voltage of the whole grid were 100% and 99.9999% respectively, ranking top in the country. The passing rate of 50 0.2Hz frequency The passing rate of 500 kV voltage Strengthening Having built a mechanism to convey malfunction and defect information through management and procurement, infrastructure engineering and operation, and standardized 1,666 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% control of project acceptance evaluation standards 99.9997% 99.9999% equipment quality Having finished the grid integration tests of 434 kinds of protection devices ≥ 110 99.9890% 99.9999% 99.9999% kV and 57 sets of automation systems in substations 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) Strengthening operation Having finished special inspection and maintenance of 127 transmission and and maintenance of distribution equipment, switches in 9 transformer stations and 23 substation equipment differentiation Perfecting operation monitoring of four links, namely power generation, Perfecting transmission, distribution and usage, for real-time operation monitoring of the monitoring Launching professional whole grid Having finished compiling the first 128-item brochures about maintenance, equipment operation, maintenance, inspection inspection and restoration of equipment and restoration Formulating nine main measures and 36 key tasks for power grid risk Dynamic tracking prevention, and dynamically tracking and giving feedback on the performance and feedback Having proposed two-dimensional technological standard system framework for all of different units through the information system links of a life cycle, and 3,621 joint points under 213 subcategories and five categories Perfecting technological for the primary equipment, tentatively built equipment technological standard frameStrengthening management of the fixed value of secondary system, safety standard system works are based on life-cycle management processes for all varieties of equipment. Strengthening Having finished compiling 336 standards, such as guidelines on equipment technolprotection and integration, expanding investment, and resolving such risks as management malfunction of protection devices ogy, machine account standards and defect grading Technology Monitoring and Data Analysis Platform of Yunnan Power Grid Left: Staff on duty are testing the temperature Integrated Technology Monitoring and Data Analysis Platform independently of equipment in operation. developed by Yunnan Power Grid won the first Prize of Innovation in the Third China’s Equipment Management in the Power Sector in 2011, which combines basic equipment information with experiment report, and information about the inspection, defects and online monitoring as well as environment, Right: Engineers in charge of operation and geography, extreme climate, and disasters, etc. By analyzing a gigantic amount maintenance are carrying out null detection of data in multi-dimensions, multi-layers and multi-fields, the Platform can on porcelain insulator. monitor and warn of the operation, changes and trends of power equipment timely to exercise ex-ante warning instead of post mortem analysis. 13 Power Supply 14 Standardization of Safe Production Management CSG has been working on production standardization management by establishing three standard CSG has participated in the formulation of the Regulations of Safe Production Standardization and Rating Standards of systems, namely management, technology and operation standards, enhancing the safe production and Power Grid Enterprises . 43 suggestions that proposed by CSG were all accepted. Risk Managing System, leading to the reduction of accidents and malfunction, and the improvement of Having organized business and management of safe production, CSG has established the normative document safe production management. framework composed of 43 corporate rules, 25 rules for branches and subsidiaries, and 211 operation standards. The Safe Production and Risk Management System draws lessons from internationally leading safety CSG has practiced “Two Manual” mode, namely Work Manual for Integration of Production and Management and the management philosophy, with CSG’ s characteristics and independent intellectual property rights, proWork Manual for Integration of Production Team and Group. CSG has promoted the implementation of regulations, viding a whole set of management expertise and methods in this regard. procedures and standards in front-line teams and groups, thus laying a foundation for integrated management. The Safe Production and Risk Management System was awarded the First Prize of Scientific Having established weekly, monthly and yearly monitoring mechanism for closed-loop management and control of and Technological Achievements in Safe Production for the National Power Sector in 2012. risks, CSG has ensured the implementation of various risk control measures. The Safe Production and Risk Management System has been used in 79 units of CSG in prefecture-level Yearly Report on Risks Monthly Monitoring Plan Weekly Dynamic Measures cities, of which 70 have acquired effective three-diamond or above certification. Now this System has been expanded to power supply enterprises and infrastructure construction units at county level, resulting in steady improvement of CSG’s safe production and risk management. 117 control measures were 168 risks were resolved when Management and control are formulated against 40 risks monitoring the power grid, carried out on the basis of layers, 2011 2012 in five categories. equipment, and operation. levels, categories and fields. 5 1 1 -diamond unit at prefecture level unit at prefecture level Having compiled Detailed Regulation on Investigation and Management of Hidden Dangers for Safe Production, CSG has established a long-term and effective mechanism for investigation of hidden dangers, with 9,353 4 1 10 units at prefecture level -diamond hidden dangers investigated in the whole grid, with a unit at prefecture level 92% correction rate. CSG has analyzed the risks and formulated countermea3 sures and contingency plans. Dispatching center issued 48 units at prefecture level 59 units at prefecture level -diamond 3,375 risk warnings at three levels ( power grid-level, province-level and city-level). Having carried out in-depth safety inspection and daily 2 safety inspection, CSG has supervised and handled 29 9 -diamond and others units at the level of prefecture units at prefecture level misconducts against disciplines of command, operation, and labor. 13,761 cases of misconduct were investigated The engineers are carefully examining the grading and penalized on the spot. ring of ultra-high voltage experimental equipment. alarm The Alarm is Striking Being Mindful of Possible Dangers in Times of Peace bell “4 10” Outage in Shenzhen Typical Serious Blackout Around the Globe in 2012 Incident occurrence: At 20:30 on April 10th, there was an outage in Shenzhen due to equipment malfunc20:30 The incident happened. In 2012, blackouts occurred in India, Cuba, Brazil, the U.S.A. and other countries one after another, which had serious impact on local economy and tion. The outage lasted for 180 minutes in Luohu, Futian District, and some areas in Longgang District. society. We always take safety and stability of the power grid as CSG’ s lifeline, thoroughly analyze causes of all accidents, draw experience and 168,100 customers, taking up 6.5% of total customers, were affected.The outage led to a load loss of lessons from the accidents, implement relevant measures to prevent serious blackouts in regions which we are responsible for. 760MW. Some commercial districts were forced to suspend their business; many traffic lights were out; Power supply was restored for traffic in some areas were paralyzed; 56 elevators stopped running with people trapped inside; 19 trains 21:00 43,506 customers, taking up 25.9% th such as D7009 were delayed from 3 to 70 minutes. of total outage-affected customers. th At 06:45 on October 30 At 02:33 on July 30 , in India in the U.S.A. Emergency management: No sooner the outage occurred, CSG then initiated emergency response for power grid accidents, dispatching 41 teams and 348 technicians to the outage-stricken area to repair Load lost: 9,500,000 KW Hurricane Sandy equipments. In cooperation with departments of Shenzhen Municipal Government, CSG informed the Power supply was restored for Affected population: 370 million people, Consequence: blackouts in over 8.2 open line of Shenzhen Municipal Government. The Customer Service Center launched contingency 22:00 148,062 customers, taking up 88.1% taking up 30% of the total population in India million American households in 17 of total outage-affected customers. hot-line to explain the situation to customers. At 23:30, power supply in affected areas was restored, and Loads restored after 19 hours’ blackout eastern states; 5 to 6 days of blackouts the incident lasted for about 180 minutes. in some regions; financial loss of 50 th All emergency power loads were At 13:00 on July 31 in India billion U.S. dollars Cause of incident: Before the incident, there was an inner fault in phase A circuit breaker of Shen-Qing th restored for transmission. Power At 08:00 on September 9 in Cuba Number 1 line in 500 kV Shenzhen transformer substation. To isolate this fault, staff in charge of 22:30 supply was restored for 94.9% of At 00:14 on October 26 th Load lost: 48,000,000 KW in Brazil operation went to switch the busbars. During this process, knife gate insulator was broken due to an total outage-affected customers. Affected population: 670 million people, taking innate quality defect, which led to the pressure loss of the transformer substation and the outage. Load lost: over 1,300,000 KW up 55% of the total population in India Load lost: 9,500,000 KW Affected population: over 6 million people, Follow-up measures: CSG carefully organized investigation and analysis of the outage, and drew lessons Loads restored after over 20 hours’ blackout Affected population: over 53 million Power supply was restored for all taking up half of the national population from it. The company has perfected emergency cooperation system with stakeholders including governmen23:30 outage-affected customers. Consequence: A blackout with the largest people in 417 cities Consequence: Nearly three hours blackout tal departments, power customers and public units, and spared no effort in minimizing the economic and number of affected population in world history Consequence: nearly four hours of in some regions social effects of outages. blackout Note: According to the Regulation on the Emergency Responses to and Investigation and Handling of Electric Power Safety th Accidents, the 599 Decree of the State Council, the outage in Shenzhen shall not be counted as a general accident. 15 Power Supply 16 Reliable Power Supply What Factors Affect SAIDI? Reducing System Average Interruption Duration Index (SAIDI) is the core competency of CSG. Challenges With existing modern technology, CSG considers thoroughly the economy and efficiency of On the basis of our systematic analysis of outages in 2012, conclusions have been drawn : main resources allocation, providing customers with the most secure, reliable, high-quality and Enhancing reliability in power grid renovation, inspection and maintenance of main power grid equipment, power distriefficient power, promptly solving the problems of power utilization and minimizing outages power supply is a systembution grid renovation, inspection and maintenance of power distribution grid equipment, power effects on customers. atic project. There are big adjustment and power supply ration, etc are the main factors leading to outages. Power distribudifferences within the tion, grid renovation, inspection and maintenance of power distribution grid equipment are the five provinces and region two biggest factors. In 2012, CSG’ s annual SAIDI in urban areas was 3.21 hours/household, decreasing by 38.27%. In rural areas, SAIDI in South China in terms was 7.99 hours/household, decreasing by 33.75%. Correspondingly, the reliability on service in urban areas (RS-1) 2012 SAIDI Breakdown of regions, urban and was 99.9635%, while RS-1 in rural areas was 99.909%. rural areas and indus100％ 0.46% 6.14% 2.83% 1.60% 0.57% 0.83% 0.67% power supply 0.23% 0.43% 0.78% 1.07% 12.75% ration tries. It is getting harder 18.12% 28.11% 36.51% 80％ 40.46% power adjustment to enhance power supply CSG’s annual SAIDI in urban areas CSG’s annual SAIDI in rural areas 22.44% 47.72% Inspection and reliability through man(Unit: hours/household) (Unit: hours/household) 60％ maintenance of 67.43% 43.25% 43.26% power distribution agement and technical 38.65 36.76% 73.83% grid 15 40 means. To some degree, 40％ 11.22 32.93% 53.12% Power distribution 10.42 30 13.26% grid renovation higher level of power 10 22.64 20％ 6.19% 11.28% 11.51% 12.80% 2.01% Inspection and supply reliability requires 0.41% 6.66 20 14.48% 13.74% 8.60% 9.13% 10.74% maintenance of 5.20 14.87 0％ 7.57% 5.98% main power grid more resources input. 5 12.07 3.21 10 7.99 Guangdong Guangxi Yunnan Guizhou Hainan Guangzhou Shenzhen main power grid renovation 0 0 Note: Power adjustment refers to the short outage in supplying power with backup transmission lines. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) According to the statistics released by State Electricity Regulatory Commission (SERC) on June, 2012, among Strategies for Enhancing Power Supply Reliability the top 20 2011 National Best Power Reliability Companies, Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau, Foshan Power In light of the reasons for outages, the actual situation of CSG, the difficulty, effect and cost of measuring and Supply Bureau and Zhongshan Power Supply Bureau were listed as Grade A, while Dongguan Power Supply implementation, we have formulated scientifically the strategies for enhancing the power supply reliability. Bureau, Zhuhai Power Supply Bureau and Jiangmen Power Supply Bureau, Grade B. Thanks to such main measures as management of power supply with backup transmission lines, comprehensive outage management, on-load operation and rapid restoration, SAIDI has been reduced effectively. SAIDI of Major Cities Covered by CSG (Unit: hours/household) 10.00 10 8.86 rd st 7.97 easy The 3 priorities The 1 priorities 8 Feeder Line Re-closure 6 5.36 Technology Comprehensive Outage 4.67 4.80 Management 4.48 Enhancement of Outage 4 3.37 3.43 live Works 2.98 Ration Management 1.79 1.79 1.28 1.12 Avoidance of Damage Rapid Restoration 2 by Outside Force 0 Implementation Enhancement of Users’ Guangzhou Shenzhen Nanning Guilin Kunming Guiyang Haikou Difficulty Equipment Management Equipment Inspection Enhancement of Natural Disaster 2011 (Year) 2012 (Year) and Maintenance Resistance of the Power Grid Power Distribution Grid 2011 National Best Power Automation Optimization of the Reliability Companies Power Grid Structure difficult The 4th priorities nd The 2 priorities Grade A (There are five companies nationwide, among which Foshan Power Supply three are of CSG.) Bureau low high GuangZhongzhou Power Supply shan Potential Effect Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau Bureau Power Supply Bureau The greater the higher the cost that the measures Foshan Power Supply Bureau Zhongshan Power Supply Bureau BY analyzing the outage factors and the actual economic and technical conditions , we have identified the Grade B (There are 15 compapriority of measures in enhancing power supply reliability. nies nationwide, among which three are of CSG.) Dongguan Power Supply Bureau Zhuhai Power Supply Bureau 1 Comprehensive Outage Management 2 Live Works 3 Rapid Restoration Jiangmen Power Supply Bureau 4 Construction of a Reliable Power Distribution Grid 5 Protection of Power Supply Equipment 6 Ensuring Power Supply Corporate representatives being awarded on the stage 17 Power Supply 18 Comprehensive Outage Management Quick Power Supply Restoration CSG has transformed itself from Equipment Operation Orientation to Customer-first by adhering to the following In the principle of giving top priority to power supply restoration and quick repair, power supply of principle: In case of a planned outage, CSG will use backup transmission lines; in case of a power outage caused by disfunctional lines will be replaced by backup power transmission lines, at the same time, CSG makes great efforts malfunction, priority in power supply restoration will be using backup transmission lines. The company has to restore power supply with quick repair. Under the circumstances that back up power supply and quick enhanced management of comprehensive outage management, reducing repeated inspection, restoration and restoration are not possible within a short period of time, emergency power vehicles and power generators will be outage, prolonged outage and temporary outage so as to minimize SAIDI. supplied in time to ensure power supply for our customers. With the support from and cooperation with departments, such as distribution, infrastructure construction and marketing departments, CSG has optimized the annual comprehensive outage plan and enhanced its efficiency. CSG has stablished quick response mechanism among the Customer Service Center, distribution teams and restoration teams, and strengthened the inspection and control of such Management key links as spot arrival, fault locating and disconnecting of Power Supply with Backup power supply restoration for normal lines, and restoration Transmission Optimized of faults, for optimal fault restoration process. Time Quota Lines Outage Management CSG has optimized and integrated restoration supplies by enhancing distribution efficiency to ensure fast delivery. Management Inspection and of Major Power Guangdong Power Grid, Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau Restoration of Principle: In case of a planned outage, CSG Outage Equipment and Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau and other organizations Informing the public of outage duration while will use backup transmission lines; in case of a Management have made use of information technology to enhance making great efforts to restore power supply power outage caused by malfunction, priority in restoration greatly. power supply restoration will be using backup transmission lines. Exercise outage quota management. CSG has formulated standards on outage quota for typical inspection and Reliable Distribution Grid Construction restoration of power transmission grid and distribution grid with an aim to minimize outages. CSG has made great efforts in construction of distribution grid, planning to build an urban one featuring Strengthening analysis and control of outages. CSG has optimized operation plans in cases of outage lasting for reasonable structure, reliable, economical, advanced technology and good communication. Emphasis has been over 500 hours/households so as to reduce SAIDI and outage frequencies. laid on replacing and compatibilizing overloaded lines and distribution transformers to ensure steady power supply. Sparing no efforts to publicize information about the outages. CSG has strived to inform 100% of its key customers, major customers in the planned outage areas. CSG has invested 41.93 billion RMB on construction of distribution grid. The company has built and put into operation of 35 KVand-under transmission lines with the total length of 27,663 kilometers and capacity of 2.24 Live Works million KVA. Live works is an important means to enhance power On-load Operation Outage Reduced CSG has enhanced distribution grid inspection and restoraOrganization supply reliability. CSG attaches priority to it and pro(Times) (10,000 hours/household) tion enabled by modern information technology on data motes live works so as to minimize SAIDI. Guangdong Power Grid 10547 91.83 collection. With structure and geology information, the com1330 11.57 pany will be able to reduce the impact of equipment regular Promoting five kinds of live works to expand the Guangxi Power Grid preventive outage trials on the customers. scope of on-load operations. Yunnan Power Grid 4407 33.66 Guangxi Power Grid has publicized and implemented StanCapacity building: We have standardized on-load Guizhou Power Grid 1825 8.28 dards on the Construction of Power Supply and Distribution operation procedures ranging from management, Hainan Power Grid 587 2.12 Equipment in the Residential Areas, solving such problems as technology, equipment to personnel training. Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau 5267 42.94 low power quality, insufficient distribution capacity and Shenzhen Power difficult complaint handling. Staff from Guiping Power Supply Bureau of Supply Bureau 718 5.13 Guangxi Power Grid are renovating the transformer compatibility. Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau Promoting “The faster power supply is restored, the happier our customers are. ” Live Works th said Shen Youqiang, Delegate of the 18 National Congress of CPC and Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau has set up a Power Distribution Grid Director of Power Supply Restoration Center, Urban Power Supply Live Works Center, the management mechanism consisting of three Sub-bureau, Zunyi Power Supply Bureau. tiers, namely management, research & development and implementaOne evening in May, Shen Youqiang was about to go to bed when he got a call tion, so as to promote Live Works. Over the past four years, Live from Zunyi Medical University for quick restoration of a line fault. It was Works on distribution power grid have been growing at over 30% rather urgent then as one patient was undergoing an operation. Shen Youqannually. 2012 witnessed 5,267 times of operation in this regard, iang and his colleagues rushed to the hospital, connected emergency power reducing annual SAIDI by 6.69 hours/household. and repaired the equipment, which had saved the life of the patient. “I felt strongly at the time that our work was very meaningful.” said Shen Youqiang. 19 Power Supply 20 Protection of Power Equipment Ensuring Power Supply for Major Events CSG has carried out a special campaign against the crime of power equipment sabotage. A long-term By summarizing experience of power supply for major events, CSG has improved the Power Supply Manual Challenge cooperation mechanism between police and CSG has been built. Beside, protection of power equipment has in terms of applicability, comprehensiveness and systematization. From the perspective of responsibility, been made known to the public, encouraging more stakeholders to take action. In 2012, there were 8258 brand and customer service, the manual highlighted experiences on ensuring power supply for major The safety of power cases of power equipment larceny and sabotage, down by 36.02% compared with the same period of the events. 2012 witnessed no accidents in power supply equipment, key customer complaint or information equipment has a bearprevious year, resulting in the direct economic loss of 60.68 million RMB, a decrease of 21.34% compared security. ing on tens of thouwith the same period of the previous year. Formulation of work plans in advance of power supply. Leaders team were formed in CSG while institusands of households. tions were built in various units to ensure power supply. Work plans were formulated to ensure that every Power equipment step of power supply is carried out efficiently. larceny happens from Cases of Power Equipment Sabotage Damage of Power Equipment time to time, generatCase Number (Unit: case) Direct Economic Loss (Unit: million RMB) Promotion of power supply standardization. CSG has summarized experience over the years and has ing adverse effects on 49553 enhanced the standardization management of contingency plan and measures on standard working mecha50000 25000 safety and stability of 21743 nism of power supply. the power grid, normal 40000 20000 Enhancing emergency response. Staff in the office of the CSG leaders team and the emergency power production of compa30000 15000 supply vehicles were on duty, while emergency teams were set up to stand by. Supplies departments at pronies and domestic 8379 8120 20000 16256 10000 7714 vincial and municipal levels operate a 24-hour hot-line for emergency calls. power consumption, 14964 12907 6068 8258 and social stability. 10000 5000 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) November Successful Power Supply for the 18th The whole power grid National Congress Power supply for the 18th National In cooperation with the public security departments in Five of the Communist Launching a special Congress of CPC Provinces, we solved 583 cases in this campaign, with 13.62 Party of China (CPC) campaign against the crime million RMB involved. Besides, 78 criminal gangs have been of power equipment sabotage wiped out and 599 suspects were captured. November April Cracking down on crimes related In cooperation with Power, Telecommunications and Zhuhai, Haikou, Hainan to power supply in cooperation Broadcasting Office, CSG has supervised the cases-affected Guangdong with Power, Telecommunications Boao Forum for Asia regions and major cases, thus solving three cases. Air China Expo and Broadcasting Office (11 years in a row) (Zhuhai) 2012 Assurance of Power Supply for Guangdong Power Grid, Guangzhou Power Supply Building a long-term Major Events Bureau and regional public security department joined cooperation mechanism hands in founding a center for preventing and cracking between police and CSG down on crimes related to power supply. October July Guangdong and Nanning, Guangxi 37.9 thousand banners of slogans and pictures have Hong Kong Encouraging stakeholders ASEAN-Expo been hung and posted. Besides, over 80 campaigns were 15th anniversary of the return to join in the protection of launched, and over 650 thousand pamphlets have been (eight years in a row) of Hong Kong to China power equipment distributed to the public. Guangzhou Baiyun District Power Supply Bureau Working with Left: Liuzhou Power Supply Police and Cracking down on Criminal Gangs Stealing Power Cable Bureau of Guangxi Power Grid Baiyun District Power Supply Bureau, together with Baiyun District Public has successfully supplied power Security Department, arrested a gang who stole high voltage cable. A to the International Aquaticspeed competition (IAC) F1 total of 18 suspects were arrested. They involved in five similar cases in Powerboat World Champiothe past and there are over ten cases to be investigated. The cables stolen nship (FIH2O) are worth nearly one million RMB. It was the biggest case in relation to Right: Staff from Guizhou power, telecommunications and broadcasting equipment larceny Power Grid provided 24-hour recorded by Guangzhou Police in 2012. service to the College Entrance Right: Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau, together with Guangzhou Public Security Bureau Exam venues. established a center for preventing and cracking down on crimes related to power supply. 21 Power Supply 22 Quality Service Satisfying Customers Needs Applying the customer service attitude, CSG has been striving to meet customer. An all-around cusCSG insists on the service philosophy of Customer Orientation, Harmony and Win-win Situation by tomer service platform has been built for the growth of both CSG and the customers. clarifying different types of needs from residents and companies so as to provide high quality services through standard system and process. Improving the anti-icing measures Convenience Our Response I hope there will be more chanOpening more channels for paying fees, nels to handle business. Our Response Reliability I hope I can handle business at and promoting self-service terminal. Providing mobile service halls as well as Ensuring power supply by comprehensive I hope power supply will be available at home. door-to-door services. outage management and on-load operation. any time. I hope it will be more convenient Optimizing our business service process, Improving our measurement accuracy，and to handle business. replacing expired ammeters for free. I hope the ammeter in my house won’t go and shortening the time to do business. Rapid malfunction location, and efficiency too fast. improvement for restoration. I hope whenever there is a problem with Friendliness Safety power supply, it can be solved quickly. I hope 95598 hot-line is available Our Response I hope the power supply equipment won’t at all times. Arranging our work shift scientifically so that Our Response do any harm to the health of my family. I hope there will be a response 95598 hot-line can be reached within 20 seconds. I hope to know how to use power to my personal demand. Providing differentiated services to our customers. Checking power supply equipment regusafely, and both the young and old I hope grid enterprise can take Promoting the System of Community Account larly for the safety of our customers. should learn to safely use household part in building harmonious commuCustomers’ Demand Managers to provide caring service. Going to communities and schools appliances. nities. Participating in building harmonious communifor publicity of using power safely. Carrying out a plan to manage our I hope my registered personal information ties by organizing volunteer activities. customers’ personal information and won’t be leaked out. protect their privacy. Our Response The right to know Our Response Integrity Giving information about power I hope to know more information supply in advance and that about Continuing to operate according I hope the grid enterprise can operate about power supply service. malfunction in time through text to the laws and any operations according to laws. I wish to know the time for messages, calls, bulletin boards, that violate laws will not be tolerI hope power supply service can be as power restoration in case of websites and business halls, etc. ated. good as what has been publicized. blackout. Building a platform to distribute Fulfilling our commitment of power peak shifting information in power supply and quality service. time. Our Response Economy Our Response Making charging standards known to the I hope the electricity fee is reasonable. Choice Providing various power supply programs public and regulating the fees. I hope the fee for other electricityfor customers. Helping our customers cut their expenses by related service is also reasonable. I hope I can have my own special Respecting customers’ choice and providpublicizing energy conservation ideas and I hope I would know how to cut my elecprogram of power supply. ing high quality service at the same time. providing overall service in this regard. tricity expense. I hope I can choose the construction team myself. 23 Power Supply 24 Delivered CSG Power Supply Service Pledge 95598 Customer Service Center CSG 95598 Customer Service Calling Center is information-enabled and operates under the principle of professionalism, standardization and lean management. The call center provides 24/7 service to answer customers’ inquiry, business application, complaints, breakdown repair requirements. The call center enable customers to supervise CSG service and is a dedicated trouble-shooting center. Power Supply Pledge Voice-related business Service dispatching Customer call the center to make The priority is to deliver supervision and coordination service in 1. 99.9% reliability on service in urban areas, 98% voltage passing rate on urban residents’ side, 99.5% reliability inquiry, breakdown report, complaints outages and customer complaints. on service in rural areas, 92% voltage passing rate at rural residents’ side. and advice CSG on improvement. Emergency response 2. Advanced notice/announcement for planned outages and power rationing. Non voice-related business Initiate emergency response in system fault, network fault, communica3. No random outage to residents’ domestic power. Customers can email, text or fax tion default, power outages and natural disasters. 4. Once outage occurs, power supply emergency repair team shall arrive on scene within 45 minutes in urban their requests to the center areas, 90 minutes in rural areas and two hours in remote areas. Power shall be restored within four hours in urban areas and five hours in rural areas after arrival of the repair team. Business Service Customer Service Center 5. Power supply program response: Response should be made in no more than three working days, seven working Application with commitment to constant Dispatching days, 15 working days and 30 working days to residents, low voltage clients, high voltage single power, and improve its service high voltage dual power clients. Ammeter and power connection: Ammeter shall be installed and power should be supplied in no more than three working days, five working days, seven working days to residents, low voltage clients and high voltage clients. 6. Power supply should be resumed to arrears clients once bills have been settled. Customer Quality 7. Clients waiting in CSG business hall should be no more than 15 minutes. Relationship Supervision Management 8. 90% of phone calls to power supply hot-line 95598 shall be put through within 20 seconds. 9. 100 power saving service training programs to 1,000 key clients shall be held annually. Collect and review customers’ demand and requirements Internal quality supervision 10. Power supply service hot-line 95598 takes clients consultancy, default handling and complaints on 24 hours basis. Collect service demand and expectation of different customers and Supervise business process flow, provide basis for customized service and marketing strategies. operators’ business processing and service quality Follow-up and supervision of customers’ complaints Report customers’ complaints to relevant departments and do followNational power CSG power CSG performance Compared to that External quality supervision Power Supply Standard up service to update customers on progress. supply standard supply pledge in 2012 of 2011 Supervise job assignments and Contact customers follow-up service Reliability on service in urban areas shall be no lower than (%) 99 99.9 99.9635 0.0229% improvement Maintain sound relationships with customers by telephone interview Customer satisfaction survey and visit. Voltage passing rate at urban residents’ end should be no lower than (%) 95 98 99.724 0.244% improvement Interview customers and analyze Information sharing Power supply emergency repair team shall arrive on scene in urban customer satisfaction Review and share knowledge, identify new methods to enhance organiareas in no more than(minutes) in outage cases 60 45 33 3 minutes ahead zation efficiency and innovation. Power supply emergency repair team shall arrive on scene in rural areas in no more than (hours) in outage cases 120 90 76 13 minutes behind Customer Satisfaction Evaluation Power supply emergency repair team shall arrive on scene in remote areas in no more than (hours) in outage cases 4 2 1.5 The same performance Customer satisfaction is 99.7%, the third-party customer satisfaction index is 77 points, 2 points higher than that of Power supply program response shall be made in no more than 8 7 6 1 working days behind 2011. In terms of complaints received, 79% reduction achieved. We maintained a sound customer relationship. (working days) to low voltage clients Power supply program response shall be made in no more than 20 15 12.5 0.5 working days behind Third Party Customer Satisfaction Index Eight Index in Customer Satisfaction (working days) to high voltage single power clients （Unit : point） （Unit : point） Power supply program response shall be made in no more than 80 79 45 30 26.7 5.7 working days behind 100 (working days) to high voltage dual power clients 77 91 91 75 75 87 75 90 85 84 84 83 84 77 77 77 78 80 70 71 71 69 71 70 Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau Co.Ltd Established 65 Customer Committee 60 Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau Co.Ltd established Customer Com60 50 mittee as a communication platform to talk to government CLP Gallop CSG CSG stable Safe Bills Business Business 95598 Customer Problem supply power payment process hall Hot-line commusolving officials, corporate leaders, opinion leaders and community leadBenchmark 2011 2012 service nication ers. The committee enables customers to put forward their 2011 score 2012 score requirements, comments, advice, and complaints and drives the The power supply service of Guangdong Power Grid has ranked number one in satisfaction among top ten service bureau to improve its customer service quality. sectors for seven consecutive years. Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau has ranked top for 12 consecutive years in customer satisfaction survey in Guangzhou public utility service. 25 Power Supply 26 Emergency Management Responding to Natural Disasters CSG has improved its emergency management system and operation mechanism. With full preparation and quick response, we have successfully handled variou stypes of incidents and more than 20 natural Improving Comprehensive Emergency Management disasters, including ice storms in Yunnan and Guizhou, earthquakes in Zhaotong and Lijiang, Yunnan Challenge Province, strong typhoons in costal areas as well as severe mountain torrents in Lijiang, Yunnan. CSG has been strengthening its ability to deal with emergencies by combination of prevention and Due to the complex management, thus minimizing the damage brought by natural disasters to power grids and customers. Impacts Countermeasures environment of the five provinces and Enhancing emergency management system. CSG has compiled Guidelines for Dealing with Emergencies, At 11:19 am on September 7th, a 5.7 magniregion in South China with focus on coordination in management. We have printed and delivered plans on how to deal with ice tude earthquake occurred at the border CSG has responded (Guangdong, Guangxi, Yunnan Power Grid sent 10,650 emergency damage, earthquake, and typhoon on the spot, standardizing the compilation of plans for on-spot between Liliang county, Zhaotong city, quickly, and sent Yunnan, Guizhou, Yunnan and an autonomous county for Yi, rescue staff, 620 vehicles, 46,000 emergency management, emergency supplies management and quota, and equipment management as well. We also rescue staff to the Hainan), these areas Hui, Miao ethnic groups at Bijie area, Weinlighting equipments and other emergency carried out pilot projects for improving the standardized management of emergency rescue teams in ing County, Guizhou, causing outage of supplies to the earthquake-stricken area, disaster-stricken are frequently struck Guangdong Power Grid, Yunnan Power Gird and Guizhou Power Grid. several power transmission lines and transensuring safe power supply for 13,092 tents area for restoration by earthquake, typhoon, former substation, with 30,300 households Earthquakes at 13 relocation sites. of power supply imfrost, drought, rainImplementing technical measures for disaster prevention. CSG has systematically analyzed disaster trends in southern areas, compiled “three maps” for the ice area, wind area, and thunder area, issued experiencing blackouts and 90,795 people mediately. storm, and hail, bringaffected. ing about great chaltechnical guidelines for protecting power transmission lines against thunder, ice and wind, and raised lenges to CSG’ s safe protection standards for some major lines. Based on the damage of the power grid, CSG ——Wen Jiaobao, production and emerIn August，influenced by such typhoons as Improving the overall disaster-resisting capability. CSG has improved its ability to fight against the then Prime Mingency management. “KAI-TAK” , “ Vicente” , and “Son-Tinh” , organized Guangdong, Guangxi and Hainan disasters through better planning and construction as well as research and application of disaster some areas in Guangdong, Guangxi and Power Grids to take quick response, sending ister prevention technologies and equipment for power grid, We have also improved our ability to prevent Hainan provinces experienced tripping of large number of staff and vehicles to the disasters for power grid from customers’ side, effectively combining precaution methods and emergency transmission lines, affecting a lot of Typhoons typhoon-stricken areas for restoration of management. customers. power supply while ensuring their own safety. Enhancing emergency management. In 2012, 1806 emergency drills were carried out with 21,340 participants; we have also established a coalition system for emergency cases involving governments, power In April, there were rainstorms and hails in The local power supply bureaus responded supervision departments, power generation enterprises as well as our customers. Lianzhou, Guangdong and Taijiang County, quickly and carried out contingency plans, Southeast autonomous prefecture in sending rescue teams and vehicles for restoGuizhou, with several lines damaged and Severe ration. many customers affected. rainstorms and hails Natural disasters; Emergency Emergency Emergency rescue team Accidents; Yunnan Power Grid strengthened power Response Security Emergency equipment From February to June，there were severe supply restoration, ensuring power supply Public health; droughts in Yunnan, with 254 small and System System Emergency supplies medium-sized rivers cut off, 390 small reserfor seedling growth, water supply for human Social security and livestock, agricultural production means voirs dried up, 3.154 million people and Emergency 1.622 million livestock in 15 prefectures and drainage; we also cooperated with the (cities) having difficulty in getting water. Droughts local governments for drought relief. Management Unified Effective System leadership coordination Coalition for emerProfessional Responsibility at gency operation From December, 2011 to February 2012, 173 Guizhou Power Grid set up 1,401 spots for management different levels Emergency Emergency ≥110KV power transmission lines in Guizhou supervision of lines covered by ice, with 364 Early warning Prevention first Organizing Operating were covered by ice due to the continuous key lines for supervision and 275 teams of System System Emergency response low temperature. Rain, snow 10,623 rescue staff. Prevention combined with emergency management and frost Staff from Guangxi Power 案 Left: Guizhou Power Grid workGrid Repairing Lines Hit 案 ers carrying out ice-melting drills. by Typhoon “KAI-TAK”. Right: Liuzhi Power Supply 例 例 Bureau of Guizhou Power Grid Left: Rescue staff repairing lines wais rescuing the drowned lines at dusk. in Bojitian Village. Right: Rescue staff repairing lines on rainy nights. 27 Power Supply 28 Power Grid Construction Construction of Key Projects By the end of 2012, we have completed half of Nuozhadu DC transmission project and Xiluodu DC transmission During the construction of power grid, problems including lack of construction land for power project. More than 40,000 construction workers overcame various difficulties such as blackouts, rains, and complex transmission lines and substations, soaring price of construction materials cost; and prolonged conterrain, sticking to the construction plan and ensuring the progress of projects. struction period,etc., became more and more significant. CSG has strengthened communication with governments at all levels and other stakeholders, formulating scientific plans for power grid From Shanwei in the east to Huizhou in the west, the 500kV Hui-Mao Transmission Line Project runs 108 kilometers. and promoting standardized design, with focus on construction of key projects. We have built a This project aimed to renovate the towers on the 15-year-old lines. The time schedule was tight and the engineering smart, efficient, reliable and green modern power gird with “3C” technologies, namely computer, extremely challenging. Still, CSG successfully completed the project in advance, significantly easing the power communications and control technologies. shortage in Guangdong province and facilitating the power transmission from eastern Guangdong to other places. Key Projects Constructed and Put into Operation in 2012 Power Grid Planning and Investment Number Project Commissioning th Time Improving and refining medium and long-term plans for grid network and the 12 Five Year Plan for Power Grid 1 500kV Shiyang-Wuyi Transmission Line Project January, 2012 Construction, to develop a clear mid-to-long-term plan for power and a prospective main grid network structure. 2 220kV Dongfang-Longbei Power Transmission and Transformation Project March, 2012 CSG has invested 67.1 billion RMB in grid construction, building 5,717 kilometer ≥220kV power transmission lines, 3 500kV Hui-Mao Transformation Project April, 2012 and 24.9 million KVA transformation capacities. 4 Nuozhadu 500 kV AC Transmission Project June, 2012 Power Grid Investment （Unit：100 million RMB） 5 500kV Vanguard Hezhou Power Station~HezhouⅠ、Ⅱ Circuit Lines Project June, 2012 600 6 No. 3 Generator Transformer Expansion Project in the 500kV Xingshi Power Station September, 2012 500 7 500kV Yucheng Power Transmission and Transformation Project in Zhaoqing September, 2012 500 457 425 389 8 500kV Harbor Transformer Substation Expansion Project October, 2012 400 9 220kV Bangpu (in the north) Power Transmission and Transformation Project December, 2012 300 232 10 500kV Kunpeng Transformer Substation Expansion Project in Shenzhen December, 2012 219 166 184 200 200 157 151 11 220kV Yuchong Power Transmission and Transformation Project in Yangpu December, 2012 145 149 94 97 100 0 Excellent Projects 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) ≥500 kV 220 kV ≤110 kV Project Award Awarded by Yunnan-Guangdong ±800kV Examination and Approval Committee for Golden Prize for 2011-2012 National Excellent Project Ultra High Voltage DC National Engineering Construction Quality Award Transmission Demonstration Project Excellent Project of Power Industry China Electric Power Construction Association Examination and Approval Committee for Shenzhen 500kV Zijing Silver Prize for 2011-2012 National Excellent Project National Engineering Construction Quality Award Transformer Substation Project Excellent Project of Power Industry China Electric Power Construction Association Examination and Approval Committee for Silver Prize for 2011-2012 National Excellent Project Guangdong 500kV Kuwan National Engineering Construction Quality Award Yunnan-Guangdong DC Transformer Substation Project Excellent Project of Power Industry China Electric Power Construction Association Project was award Golden Prize for National ExcelYunnan 500kV Tongbao Excellent Project of Power Industry China Electric Power Construction Association lent Project, the first time Power Transmission and The construction site of 500kV Tongbao series capaciStaff installing current equalizer at Suidong converter Transformation Project for CSG. tor compensation stations station for the ±800 kV UHVDC Yunnan-Guangdong project. “Gold Dot Award” Improving the Design 500kV Hui-Mao Upgrading Project of Substations Completed 65 Days in Advance CSG organized the first “Gold Dot Award” competition for the design of substations in 2012. With the theme of “collecting The 500kV Hui-Mao Upgrading Project was to ease power golden ideas, setting up standards” , this competition collected shortage in Guangdong. CSG successfully completed the a lot of ideas from the public, some of which would be applied project in five and a half months while such projects to the construction of green substations step by step. 886 would normally take 2 to 3 years of construction. works in total were received, among which 12 were awarded Wang Yang, the then Secretary of Guangdong Provincial the Golden Creativity Prize, and another 12 the Golden Design CPC Committee, when reading the Report on Putting Prize. Those awarded works were incorporated into the 500kV Hui-Mao Line Upgrading Project into Operation in standard design system and procurement list of CSG. Advance, has especially written “well done”. 29 Power Supply 30 Technological Innovation Innovation System We have established an open innovation system based on CSG research institutions, power science (on trial) CSG has enhanced the core competence in grid operation and major projects construction, bringing research centers in different provinces and areas, and professional technological departments. CSG works closely three core technologies, namely grid safety, stability and control technology, grid economic operawith famous universities, research institutions and equipment manufacturers in China. tion and system integration and application technology. In addition, we have obtained internationally leading achievements, patents, and standards with independent intellectual property rights, Technological Innovation Team effectively ensuring the safe and stable operation of the whole grid. two academicians of Chinese one national candidate of the Achievements of Technological Innovation High-level Academy of Engineering National Pacesetter Project technological talents three “Thousand-Talent67 experts who enjoy special 1317 new application for patents, up by 147% compared with the same period of the previous year Project” experts allowances from the government Patents 554 authorized patents, up by 190% compared with the same period of the previous year 9 achievements were awarded China Power Technology Prize Staff with Bachelor’s 20% 329 5756 Awards 14 achievements were awarded Progress Prize in Science and Technology of National Energy Degree or above master-degree PhDs holders We completed 21 projects included in the 11th Five-year Plan for national technology，and these projects have passed evaluation and approval of the Ministry of Science and Technology. Staff with professional Projects We were responsible for 16 projects included in the 12th Five-year Plan for national technology, expertise at medium 8.4% 166 6421 among which 13 were 863 Plan major projects, one was 863 Plan thematic project, and two level or above staff with senior staff with deputyprofessional title senior professional title were projects included in the technology-supported plan. We have built two National Technological Innovation Platforms, five Postdoctoral Research Staff with professional Platforms expertise at senior 21% 1190 8654 Centers, two national technological centers and some key laboratories for enterprises. senior level or above technicians technicians Investment in Research and Development Patents Applied and Authorized （Unit：quantity） We invested 1.74 billion RMB in research and development in 2012, taking up 0.43% of the revenue from our 1400 1317 main business. 1200 976 1000 Investment in Research and Development （Unit：100 million RMB） 800 30 533 600 422 18.10 17.40 400 20 231 15.80 100 140 133 112 14.00 200 10.50 57 10 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) 0 Patents owned Patents newly applied 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) Research on Technology and Equipment for ±800 kV Ultra High Voltage DC (UHV DC for Short) Research on STATCOM Key Technology and its Application Transmission and Its Application in Projects Static Synchronous Compensator (STATCOM for short) is one of the most state-of-art technologies in power compensation area. It is We solved several worldwide technical problems with regard to ±800 kV UHV DC transmission, mainly in the major structure of the a typical installation of Flexible AC Transmission Systems (FACTS), with self-commutated and semi-conductor bridge converter to system, control and protection system, over-voltage and insulation coordination, extra insulation configuration in high altitude, as well as realize dynamic reactive power compensation. With quick adjustment of voltage, STATCOM can serve as a voltage regulator, research on key equipment. We also made innovative achievements in technological development, research on equipment and application speeding up restoration after malfunction of the power grid, thus ensuring the safety of power supply. CSG completed its study on in projects, with the world’ s first ±800 kV UHV DC transmission project in operation, enabling China’ s DC transmission technology in line STATCOM key technologies in 2012. We built and put ±200 megavar STATCOM device into operation at 500 kV Dongguan Power with international standard. Our project has facilitated several successful EHV DC transmission projects at home and abroad, representing Station. Short-circuit test and trial operation both showed that the device can respond quickly when there was malfunction, so it a milestone in the history of world power technology. CSG has also enhanced its capability in manufacturing power equipment by leaps could support dynamic reactive power and improve system stability. This achievement has been listed as one of the 2013 priority and bounds, securing China’ s leading position in DC transmission around the world as well as enhancing our international competence. promotion projects in technological achievements , and it will be applied in the Pearl River Delta grid on a large scale. Our project has significantly contributed to the “west-to-east” plan and has achieved significant social and economic impacts. 31 Green Energy 32 Green Energy Fossil fuel consumption for Hydropower from West to East Energy-efficient power generation Contributing to developing A Beautiful China. CSG has realized that environmental-friendly power unit power generation reaches has reached and distribution has saved supply is essential to ecological preservation, while behaving well in energy conservation and emission reduction, CSG has also taken up its responsibility for power supply and customers in this regard, aiming to improve energy efficiency. As a result, CSG has promoted clean and efficient energy, improved 198 g standard coal/ kWh, 18.5% lower than national 87.9 TWh, increasing by 60% year-on-year. 5.13 million tons standard coal, increasing by 126% yearenergy-efficient power generation and distribution, and helped customers improve energy efficiency, average level. on-year. promoting a balanced and sustainable development of the company, the society and the environment. Energy Conservation and Emission Energy Conservation and Emission Energy Conservation and Emission Golden Bee 2020 Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction Performance Reduction on the Power Generation Side Reduction on the Power Grid Side Reduction on the Customer Side Lower reservoir of Guangzhou Pumped Storage Power Station 33 Green Energy 34 extreme climates such as high temperature, drought, rainstorm, snowstorm , and The power plays an important role in dealing with climate change and protecting the Global hurricane have become more frequent, posing a great threat to the safety of industry environment. The consumption of coal of power industry in China takes up people’ s life and their property. Problems like air, water, soil pollution and 50% of its national total consumption and the SO 2 emission from power energy shortage have been haunting a lot of countries and affecting people’ s life and work. generation accounts for 54% of the national total emission. Due to the relatively low cost of The global economic loss Research has shown that human activities, such as the use of fossil energy is the main cause of coal-fired power and the abundant coal resources in China, the coal power-dominant energy caused by natural disasclimate change and environmental pollution. It has become a global consensus to respond to structure will exist for a long time. Therefore, with regard to the future development of power ters in 2012 reached climate change, protect ecological environment and save energy. industry, the focus will be developing clean and efficient coal power while promoting non-fossil It takes millions of 992 billion RMB. energy like hydropower, nuclear power, wind power and solar power. By adopting measures such as reducing coal consumption for unit power generation, lowering auxiliary power consumption years to form a ton of coal, yet it takes no Data source: Estimated by rate of power plant, strictly implementing desulfation, denitrification and de-dusting, coal-fired more than a minute to Munich Re, the amount of power plants can reduce the emission of greenhouse gas and atmospheric pollutants significantly. burn them in the RMB was converted from US boiler of a thermal dollar at an exchange rate Standard Coal Consumption for Annual Emission of SO2 by p o w e r p l a n t . of 6.2:1. Power Supply in China Power Plants in China Therefore, we need to (Unit：gram/kWh) （Unit：10 thousand tons） improve energy 350 1100 345 efficiency to maximize America was hit by hurricane Sandy. Glacier in Greenland is melting. Some cities in China suffer from severe dust-haze. 1040 the value of each 113 people died, and economic loss Melted glacier reaches about 200 The highest PM 2.5 concentration reaches 340 340 1000 gram of coal. was up to 50 billion US dollars. billon tons each year. 1,000 microgram/cubic meter. 333 948 926 913 330 883 330 900 326 320 800 3.0 Human beings are con2.5 suming an equivalent of 310 700 2.0 1.5 earths’ resources to 1.5 maintain our way of life. 300 600 1.0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) 0.5 Data source: Living Planet Report 0 2012 delivered by the World WildData source: China Electricity Council（www.cec.org.cn） 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 (Year) life Fund (WWF) attaches great importance to dealing with climate change and CSG protecting ecological environment for the balanced and sustainable development of the society, taking improvement of energy efficiency as a key measure to China is facing a great challenge from climate change and environmental pollupromote energy conservation and emission reduction in both upstream and downstream China tion. Rainstorm, drought, typhoon and high temperature have become more freindustries. Having carried out the “Green Action” , CSG has developed an intelligent, quent and air pollution such as dust-haze and acid rain are getting more and efficient, reliable and green platform for the power grid, creating a favorable work and more severe, affecting people’ s life and health greatly. Chinese government attaches great living environment for regional economy and society with joint efforts from the public. Among the 10 most importance to and actively deals with climate change and environmental problem, incorporatpolluted cities in the ing energy conservation, CO2 emission reduction and environmental protection indicators into Green Action Platform world, seven are the mid-to-long-term 12th Five-Year Plan. Besides, the Report to the 18th National Congress of from China. Communist Party of China has pointed out the importance of promoting ecological preservaData source: Toward an tion. Through reducing emission in all fields, China has led the world in the scale of energy conEnvironmentally Sustainservation and emission reduction, and in the growth rate of the utilization of renewable energy. Power Supply Side Power Grid Side Customer Side able Future: Country EnviImproving production Improving efficiency of Improving efficiency of ronmental Analysis for the GDP Generated by Unit Power Consumption China’s Installed Capacity of efficiency of power supply power transmission power utilization People’ s Republic of China in China and Other Main Countries Renewable Energy Energy-efficient power Reducing line lose Helping customers in energy by the Asian Development （Unit：RMB/kWh） (Unit：10 thousand KW) generation and distribution conservation Green operation Bank (ADB) and Tsinghua 50 Promoting clean thermal power Promoting the idea of energy Building a green grid 42.4 28843 Optimizing the structure of conservation University. 38.6 30000 Disposing of waste properly 40 25336 Supporting low-carbon power supply Green office 21884 Sending more hydropower industry 30 18440 24.2 20000 from the West to the East Supporting electric vehicle 15553 20 Promoting nuclear power industry 10.5 Supporting the development 10000 10 of new energy 0 0 Japan France America China 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) Data source: National Bureau of Statistics, IndexMundi (a China’ s installed capacity of renewable Easing climate change, reducing acid rain, dust-haze and energy consumption, leaving our comprehensive data portal of all countries’ facts and statistics). GDP data of foreign countries were converted into RMB. energy ranks first in the world future generations a beautiful homeland with blue sky, green trees and clean water 35 Green Energy 36 Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction on the Power Generation Side Promoting Clean Thermal Power Development The power supply side plays an important role in energy conservation and emission reduction In 2012, coal power occupied 79% of the national total power generation. In the future, the proportion of in China. By enhancing power generation efficiency and increasing the proportion of clean coal power will see a slow decline while total coal consumption in power generation will still increase year CSG’ s average coal power generation in power plants, we can effectively reduce the emission of greenhouse gas and by year. CSG supports the effective development of clean thermal power by enhancing power generation consumption per air pollutants. CSG has made full use of its optimal allocation of grid resources by optimizing efficiency in thermal power plants to reduce the fossil energy consumption for per unit power. coal-fired unit was the structure of power source and actively promoting energy-efficient power generation and distribution to supply more clean power for the social and economic development in CSG’s service area. CSG has been helping thermal power plants in its business area to reduce the coal consumption, reaching a 3g/KWH average year-on-year decrease per unit, 2 g/KWH less than the national average. 302 g/kWh in 2012. CSG has been reducing the auxiliary power consumption rate of the power plant by impelling 10 plants to CSG’ s installed capacity of non-fossil energy employ the auxiliary power efficiency management system in 2012. CSG has been implementing the national power tariff policy in favor of desulfurizing coal-fired unit to accounts for Optimizing the Structure of Power Source 44 encourage the desulfurization of coal-fired unit. In 2012, the average operation rate of desulfurizers in CSG CSG helps power plants to increase the proportion of such clean energy as hydropower and new energy in business area grew to 98.26% with an average desulfurization efficiency of 95.48% and a total removal of % power generation, supporting the proposal in the 12th Five-Year Plan on increasing the proportion of 4.6426 million tons of sulfur. of the total installed capacity. non-fossil energy and reducing the emission of carbon dioxide per unit GDP. By the end of 2012, CSG’s installed capacity of non-fossil energy has accounted for 44% of the total installed capacity, 28% higher Coal Consumption for Power Supply (Unit: g/kWh) China CSG than the national average. CSG’s non-fossil energy generation capacity accounted for 38% of the company’s 350 total generation capacity in 2012, higher than the national average level of 21%. 345 345 340 2012 National Power Generation Constitution 2012 CSG’s Power Generation Constitution 340 343 (Unit: 0.1 billion kWh ) (Unit: 0.1 billion kWh ) 335 335 National Power Generation Capacity reached CSG’s Power Generation Capacity reached 337 330 4977.43 billion kWh 825.33 billion kWh 330 331 325 325 326 982.2 1043.2 474.4 50.1 320 323 1.97% 2.10% 5.75% 0.61% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 （Year） 8641.0 39107.9 2578.3 5150.5 78.57% 62.40% 17.36% 31.24% Supporting Nuclear Power Development In 2012, nuclear power After the Fukushima nuclear accident in Japan, China has become more strict and prudent in the Hydropower Hydropower generated in CSG busidevelopment of nuclear power. Based on the comprehensive safety inspection of the nuclear power units in ness area was 47.4 Thermal power Thermal power operation and those under construction, China has formulated and adopted the National Nuclear Safety Nuclear power Nuclear power Plan (2011~2020) and National Mid-to-Long-Term Nuclear Power Development Plan (2011-2020), allowing Wind power Wind power only a small number of fully-evaluated nuclear power projects in coastal area built according to the highest billion kWh, accountand others and others safety standard in the world. ing for 48.3% of the CSG is helping nuclear power plants to develop according to the national plan by actively prioritizing the national total. Push Forward West-to-East Power Volume of Hydropower Generated in CSG Business Area (Unit: 0.1 billion kWh) distribution of nuclear power and cooperating with them in scientific and rational dispatching of nuclear Transimission Project power units, providing grid-connecting service for the qualified newly-constructed nuclear power projects. Hydropower generated Total 1578 2578 CSG has been pushing forward the construction by the “west-to-east” Hainan 29 of west-to-east transmission channel and enhancproject increased by Guizhou 60 559 ing the transmission capacity for optimum Yangjiang Nuclear Power Plant Supporting the Coastal Nuclear Power resources allocation between east and west China % th On December 26 , 2012, the 500 kV Yangjiang-Wuyi nuclear power and balanced development between regions with Hainan 15 year-on-year. transmission line was put into operation, ensuring the power generated mutual benefit and win-win results. Guizhou 263 Yunnan 1255 by Yangjiang Nuclear Power Plant be connected to the power grid of CSG. CSG has given priority to the distribution and usage Yunnan 808 of hydropower within the region. CSG’ s average service time of hydropower unit increased by 474 Guangxi 525 Taishan Nuclear Power Plant Guangxi 330 hours in 2012, effectively decreasing the fossil The 500 kV Taishan Nuclear Power Transmission Project has progressed Stations to Connect to CSG Power Grid Guangdong 162 Guangdong 210 successfully and will connect Taishan Nuclear Power Plant with Guangdong energy consumption per unit power. 2011 2012 （Year） Power Grid with the lines running 66 km. It will be completed in June, 2013. Reduction of Standard Power CO2 Reduction SO2 Reduction Type (Unit: 0.1 billion kWh) Coal Equivalent (Unit: 10 thousand tons) (Unit: 10 thousand tons) Changjiang Nuclear Power Plant in Hainan (Unit: 10 thousand tons) rd On August 3 , 2012, 220 kV Power Transmission and Transformation Project “West-to-east”plan 879 2655 7062 52 in Dacheng, Danzhou, a key project of Hainan Power Grid, was completed CSG’s Regional Hydroand put into operation, ensuring the power generated by Changjiang Nuclear power Generation 2578 7786 20711 149 Power Plant in Hainan be connected to the power grid of CSG. 37 Green Energy 38 Energy-efficient Dispatching Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction on the Power Grid Side CSG has been leading China in promoting energy-efficient dispatching, giving priority to power generated by renewable energy, nuclear power and efficient thermal power in power distribution, through which CSG tries Power Grid has limited potential for energy conservation and emission reduction while The fossil fuel consumption for unit its best to supply power for the economic and social development with minimum consumption of primary transmitting power traditionally. However, we have been committed ourselves to reducing power power generation in energy and lowest emission. In 2012, CSG’s fossil fuel consumption for unit power generation was 198g/KWH, loss in transmission and providing green and environmentally-friendly power. CSG business area was 18.5% less than the national average. 198 g/kWh. By giving preference to hydropower and ranking thermal power according to their energy consumption, CSG’s decreased fossil fuel consumption was equivalent to 5.13 million tons of standard coal, or equivalent to an Green Power Grid Construction emission reduction of 13.65million tons of CO2 and 98 thousand tons of SO2. CSG has been promoting energy efficient power generation and distribution, decreasing fossil fuel consumption When planning the construction of power grid, CSG takes into full consideration of its impact on community and equivalent to 14.4 million tons of standard coal, or equivalent to an emission reduction of 37.68 million tons of environment, and applies new energy saving and environmentally friendly technologies extensively for the CO2 and 278 thousand tons of SO2. harmony between the power grid construction and natural environment. Trend of Fossil Fuel Consumption for Unit Power Generation China In 2012, 100% of the power grid construction projects passed the environmental assessment. All the projects put (Unit: g standard coal/kWh) CSG 310 into operation were subject to environmental protection assessment upon completion by competent authorities, 290 with the passing rate of 100%. CSG saw no breach of laws and regulations regarding environmental protection 258 265 257 270 throughout the year. 246 243 250 230 213 213 210 210 198 215 Planning scientifically to reduce arable land 190 being occupied by the transmission lines 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 （Year） Before construction Carrying out environmental impact assesstotal fossil fuel consumption for self power generation + total fossil fuel consumption for power received from other grids ment in accordance with the law Note: Fossil fuel consumption = for unit power generation Self-generated power + power received from other grids Applying advanced technology to reduce energy consumption and environmental impact Supporting New Energy Development Engaging in environmental impact assessment CSG supports the development of new energy and takes it as the important direction for the sustainable develAvoiding construction in natural reserves opment of power industry by improving its power generation capacity by new energy and ensuring the conand during the breeding season of wildlife nection of such power to CSG’ s power grid. In 2012, CSG studied the 12th Five-Year Plan on CSG New Energy Under Constructing scientifically to reduce the Development which adhered to the principle of Energy Diversity, Rational Distribution and Orderly Developconstruction impact on the ambient environment ment and facilitated the coordinated development between new energy and power grid. Executing environmental assessment standards to reduce environmental pollution Protecting vegetation during the construction Supporting Wind Power New Energy Solar Power Restoring vegetation, water and soil Development Recovering and disposing of waste Post Reducing the impact of equipment operaconstruction tion on the environment for a better ecoenvironment Leading and supervising wind power plants to enhance Strictly executing the blanket guarantee acquisitheir abilities such as low voltage ride through（LVRT) tion policy for solar power. Launching preliminary work of a new technology demonstration Promoting the construction of the Power ConnecStaff from Wuzhou Bureau of Ultra-high Voltage project in Guishan offshore wind farm in Zhuhai tion Demonstration Project of 130,000 KW Power Transmission Company put aluminum pot lids on the transmission towers for the birds to Distributive Photovoltaic System in Sanshui Newly-installed wind power capacity of 689.5 thousand settle down, maintaining eco-balance and reducIndustrial Park, Foshan, Guangdong ing power transmission risks. KW What Changes has the Energy-efficient Power Dispatching Brought? CSG’s First Green Substation Completed and Put into Operation Unlike the traditional balanced plan, energy-efficient power dispatching has changed the service time of each power unit, On 26th November, CSG’ s first green substation, Guangzhou 110 kV Jianfeng Substation was completed and put into operation. The facilitating the rational interest distribution among power plants and encouraging the development of efficient power substation has adopted green philosophy in energy conservation, noise reduction, land and materials conservation, etc. plants. CSG has been promoting energy-efficient dispatching by publishing power distribution information and assuring Energy conservation: Such energy saving equipment as LED lights and Land conservation: With optimal electric lines, equipment and display, its fairness in accordance with the law and meeting the requirements of the competent authorities. CSG has established inverter air conditioners have been applied, reducing the loss within the 3% of the land has been saved. Thanks to the advanced technology, power generation planning system, on-line monitoring systems for flue gas desulfurization, coal consumption and thermal substation by 338 thousand KWH annually. corridor occupied by the overhead lines was reduced by 50-75%. load, and information disclosure system, ensuring the scientific and efficient development of energy-efficient power Noise reduction: CSG has made use of ventilation, interior design, shapes Materials conservation: Industrial design has led to the reduction of dispatching. of doors and windows, and noise reduction equipment, which has helped a decoration materials in the substation. Overhead lines have adopted noise reduction of by 10 decibels compared with traditional substations. high strength materials, saving 6-8% of steel. 39 Green Energy 40 Energy Conservation and Environmental Protection Practice Disposing of Waste Properly Line Loss Reduction The philosophy of circular economy has been adopted in the operation of power grid. CSG disposes of waste generated from the operation of the power grid by recovering and reusing Reducing line loss is key to energy conservation and emission reduction for the power grid waste energy. Recovery Rate of SF6 100 enterprises. CSG has enhanced the management of both technical and managerial line loss by The overall line loss Controlling the emission of waste according to the national standards so as to reduce environmental rate for the whole grid monitoring the indicators and process, so as to reduce line loss. %. pollution. (statistics from the parent company) was Recovering and recycling waste oil from transformers, with the rate close to 100%. 6.06 Why Do We Try to Reduce Line Loss As Much As We Can? Commissioning qualified companies to completely recover and recycle SF6 gas. %. Line loss is inevitable in power transmission. But reducing line loss is significant as even 0.01% reduction of line loss equals to the conservation of over 75 million kWh power, equivalent to saving 22,650 Green Office tons of standard coal, and reducing the CO2 emission of 58,890 tons. CSG attaches great importance to energy conservation and emission reduction in the offices, strengthening green office publicity, improving the systems, advocating water, power and resources conservation among the staff, so as to raise their awareness on green development. Reducing Technical Line Loss Reducing Managerial Line Loss Ascertaining the optimal place for the Managing the line loss on the basis of load center to avoid exceeding the district, voltage, line and zone supCSG has revised the Management Methods for Energy-efficient Office for better management power supply radius plied by one transformer in this regard. Carrying out overall management of Optimizing the load factors to balance line loss statistics and pilots at the the reactive power The company has implemented the standards strictly that the temperature of the air conditioners Countermeasures same time in summer shall not below 26℃, while it shall not be above 20℃ in winter. Lights in the offices were against Line Loss replaced with LED lights. 2012 saw the conservation of 9.77 million kWh power in the offices. Adjusting the number and capacity of Optimizing the process of reading the transformers for transmission and distribuammeters and carrying out campaigns tion for their better utilization; promoting against power larceny CSG has promoted water saving utensils, examined regularly the water pipelines and replaced energy-efficient amorphous transformers the old ones to avoid water leakage. The company has made full use of rain water and Selecting the cross-sectional area of Managing, analyzing and controlling reclaimed water up to the water quality for green land and landscape irrigation. the transmission lines based on the line loss of power supply enterprises density of economy current at the county level CSG has controlled the purchase of high emission vehicles. Vehicles to be purchased by organizations within CSG will be subject to inspection and approval based on their emissions so as to control fuel consumption. CSG’s Overall Line Loss Rate （Unit：%） 7 6.68 6.35 6.28 6.06 CSG has saved office supplies by standardizing the purchase of stationeries and equipment, 6 5.35 making full use of office automation system to reduce printing paper files. 5 4 CSG has advocated TV and telephone conferences to reduce emissions by such transportation as 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 （Year） planes. In 2012, the headquarters of CSG held 58 video conferences, taking up 38% of all the meetings, translated into the the reduction of 200 thousand kilometers air miles and 21,634 tons of CO2. Note: Overall line loss rate rise was due to abundant rainfall in the western provinces in China in 2012 and the increase of power supply from the west to the east. The increase of cross-provincial long distance power transmission led to the rise of overall line loss compared with the same period of the previous year. Left: Customer Service Center of Impact of “West-to-east” Plan on the Overall Impact on CSG’s Overall Line Loss Rate due to the Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau and Line Loss Rate of CSG company’s taking over Rural Power Supply Enterprises Yuexiu District Power Supply Bureau Due to the physical properties of power transmission and transformation In 2012, the overall line loss for the whole grid (statistics from the parent have renovated their office buildings equipment, power transmission of large scale and long distance will result in company) was 6.06%, while the rate based on the statistics from the with energy-efficient lights, saving increasing line loss. In 2012, because of abundant rainfall in the west of overall assets was 7.24%. The two figures are different for the reason that, about 400 thousand kWh power annually. China, power supply in the “west-to-east” plan increased by 28%, causing in the rural power enterprises reform, local power supply enterprises are Right: Hezhou Power Supply Bureau of increasing line loss. However, 70% of the power supply increment was being taken over by CSG. Taking into account the high line loss rate of Guangxi Power Grid recovers 220 kV renewable hydropower, even when the power causing line loss was deducted, those power supply enterprises at the county level, the rate for the overall power cables abandoned by Xindu it can still be translated into the reduction of power generated from fossil grid is conspicuously higher than that for the parent company. Substation due to its technological fuel by 65 billion KWH, 12.5 times of power causing line loss, achieving Note: When collecting statistics, overall assets include subsidiaries at upgrading. The recovered cables are used the county level or those in the prefecture-level cities. to make cable joints in training programs. significant effect in energy conservation and emission reduction. 41 Green Energy 42 Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction on the Customer Side Energy Conservation Publicity CSG has publicized energy conservation to the public through such channels as media, internet, seminar, In the process of power generation to power consumption, customers have the most potential in energy conservation exhibition hall and business hall, in the hope of heightening the energy conservation energy conservation and emission reduction. CSG has made great efforts in this regard, making awareness of each enterprise, child and ordinary people with effective publicity. In 2012, CSG’ s energy known the philosophy that the energy saved is genuinely green, providing energy-efficient services conservation public announcements were played for 1,270 times on CCTV, 70 times on Phoenix Satellite in an all-round manner, so that an increasingly number of customers are fully aware of energy conTelevision, effectively sharing our philosophy with about 200 million people. servation. As a Power Seller, Why Do We Need to Help Our Customers in Power Conservation? Natural resources can meet the basic needs of human beings, but not our greed. CSG cares about not only the economic value of power, but also the impact on the whole society and environment. It is our responsiEnergy Conservation China International Energy Conservation bility and also the need of the society for sustainable development to save power for our customers by Green Innovative Promotion Conference Products & Technologies Show Competition enhancing the efficiency of power utilization and making full use of the power. Over 60 energy conservation China International Green InnovaCSG held Middle School Energy promotion conferences, semitive Products & Technologies Conservation Pioneers CompetiSupport for the Customers in Energy Conservation in an All Around Way nars and forums were held in Show is a leading exhibition of tion with the theme of “i Energy 2012, with over 5,000 particigreen and low carbon technoloConservation; i Future” to Such energy-efficient service platforms as CSG synthesis Energy Corp. and power-saving centers at various levels pants. gies, products and services, where impart knowledge on energyhave integrated energy-efficient technologies and managed energy on the basis of contracts, providing CSG has publicized the energy efficient power consumption, co nser vatio n p hilo so p hy and environmental protection and energy-efficient services to customers in an all around way, which also creates value for them and enhances energy achievements internationally. low carbon to students. efficiency. In 2012, CSG synthesis Energy Company implemented contract-based energy management projects for 33 enterprises, with 40% average power saving rate. Support for Electric Vehicle Industry Energy Conservation Given consultation to and made diagnosis of 3,179 customers in Five ProvConsultation and inces and regions, selecting 500 potential customers in energy conservaCSG has actively supported the electric vehicle industry in adherence to the principle of “giving priority to Diagnosis tion, with the average energy conservation potential of 39.5%. battery replacement, a combination of battery replacement and charging stations” . The company has facilitated the national technical standards and operation standards, and has built smart service network for Establishing an on-line building efficiency monitoring system for Yucca Hotel in JiangBuilding Energy replacing and charging batteries of electric vehicles. men, Guangdong, which can monitor the energy consumption of equipment with Conservation terminal interface, providing scientific evidence for energy conservation renovation. CSG has facilitated the development of smart service network for replacing and charging Reaching agreement with Shougang Guiyang Special Steel Co., Ltd on comprehensive utilization Comprehensive batteries of electric vehicles through coopof flue heat and gas, with estimated power saving of 275 million kWh annually, equivalent to 97 Utilization of Energy eration with the local governments and has thousand tons of standard coal reduction, and 268 thousand tons of CO2 emission reduction. conducted research on relevant technologies, Carrying out 13 contract-based energy management projects in generator standards and rules for electric vehicles, in Industrial Energy energy conservation, reactive power compensation and electro-magnetic order to make due contribution to the advent Conservation cookers promotion. of electric vehicle era. By 2012, CSG has built 18 charging stations and 3,229 charging Renovating 106 thousand street lights and 200 thousand interior lights, Lighting Energy poles, charging and replacing the batteries of 150 thousand of the latter accomplished, with 70% power saving rate and Conservation 120 tho u sand vehicles, with the p o wer 20% illuminance improvement. charged of 4.53 million kWh. Providing charging service to electric vehicles Pulling out the Plug to Reduce Power Consumption Implementation of Tiered Electricity Tariff for Residents Do you know that even if you have turned off the TV or air conditioners CSG has actively supported the national tiered electricity tariff for residents and has implemented the policy in the five provinces at home, as long as they still have access to the power, they are on and region since July 1st, 2012. stand-by, consuming 10% of the on-mode power generally. Survey The tiered electricity tariff scheme takes into account of the affordability of residents with different income, and ensure stable tariff shows that in an ordinary urban family appliances on stand-by mode for 80% residents. CSG hopes to reflect reasonable power supply cost. The purpose of this policy is to build tiered tariff mechanism, consumes 0.36 kWh power per day, while for some families with a large with basic principle of “the more you use, the more you pay” , so that customers, in particular, residents who consume much power, number of appliances, this figure can rocket to 4 kWh. Calculated at the will change their power utilization habits, thus reaching a social consensus of reasonable power utilization, power conservation and present power tariff, you can save 80 to 800 RMB if you pull out the emission reduction for a resources-saving and environmentally friendly society. plugs to reduce power consumed by appliances on stand-by mode. 1 2 Stand-by mode is consuming power Search 43 Green Energy 44 Golden Bee 2020 Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction Performance Bees have been living in harmony with the environment and society on this planet for 120 million CSG’s Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction Performance with Up-stream years. They collect honey and spread pollen at the same time, doing good to both themselves and and Down-stream Firms in 2012 others, and serving as an excellent example of harmony with the nature. Power Standard Coal CO2 SO2 Item (100 million kWh) (10 thousand tons) (10 thousand tons) (10 thousand tons) Golden Bee 2020 was born in China as a visionary sustainable action plan encouraging vision and inspiring spirit. CSG, as a “Golden Bee Enterprise” with the spirit of bees, launched the Golden Bee Power Increment Generated by Non-fossil Energy 773 2334 6210 45 2020 Initiative with China WTO Tribune in June, 2011; as a Chairman company of the “Low Carbon and Efficiency Management” Special Committee, CSG has actively promoted the cross-industrial Replacing the non-efficient Generator cooperation in this regard, so that an increasing number of stakeholders will take part in energy with efficient Ones 41 108 0.8 conservation and emission reduction for the common development of low carbon industry. Energy-efficient Power Generation and Distribution 513 1365 9.8 Diversity of services. CSG provides diverse services including but not limited to energy conservation, supporting services for electric vehicles, Collaborate Collaborate Power Grid Loss Reduction 16 49 131 0.9 building and lighting energy conservation, offshore wind power developwith with power governments plants to ment, new energy and energy utilization. to support enhance power low carbon generation Innovation of low carbon management research. CSG, on the basis of develpilots efficiency Energy Conservation of the Customers 8.12 26 70 0.5 opment trend for internationally leading enterprises, carries out research on Collaborate Collaborate innovative low carbon management, exploring new low carbon business mode with research with customers and promoting the development of power grid into a green and low carbon one. institutes Golden Bee 2020 to conserve Total 2965 7883 57 to promote energy and Green Action low carbon achieve emission Diversity of partners. CSG cooperates with various partners from differtechnology Cross-industrial reduction ent fields, such as governments, power plants, research institutes, Cooperation CSG’s Total Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction Performance with Up-stream customers, electric vehicle manufacturers and suppliers for the developCollaborate and Down-stream Firms Green ment of low carbon economy. with auto Power Standard Coal CO2 SO2 Item Procurement in industry to collaboration support electric (100 million kWh) (10 thousand tons) (10 thousand tons) (10 thousand tons) with suppliers Significant value. CSG has supported the pilots development in the five vehicles Power Increment Generated provinces and region for the development of regional clean and highly efficient by Non-fossil Energy 4519 14343 38152 275 energy, electric vehicle industry and efficiency service market. 1000 Enterprises Energy Visitors from Primary and Replacing the non-efficient Generator Training Series with efficient Ones 1169 3062 22 Conservation Campaign Middle Schools （Unit：session） （Unit：number） （Unit: people） 180 185 190 8390 46430 Energy-efficient Power Generation 200 9000 50000 and Distribution 1440 3768 28 172 41250 6832 7135 150 141 7000 6587 40000 36680 32470 32000 100 5000 30000 Power Grid Loss Reduction 281 882 2345 17 3179 50 3000 20000 0 0 10000 Energy Conservation 74 247 375 3 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012（Year） 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012（Year） 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012（Year） of the Customers In June, 2012, CSG, together with China WTO Tribune held the panel discussion on Cross-industrial Cooperation Total 18080 47702 346 for Low Carbon Responsibility and Competitiveness at the Seventh International CSR Forum, with the theme on facilitating in-depth green development. At this forum, experts, stakeholders and media present spoke highly of Note: Data of power increment generated by non-fossil energy and power grid loss reduction in the 10th Five-year Plan come from 2002, while in the CSG and called CSG a pioneer in green development. 11th Five-year Plan, from 2005, in 12th Five-year Plan, from 2010. Let’ s join hands to promote energy conservation and emission reduction for blue sky, green trees and clear water. CSG representatives participated in panel discussion on Cross-industrial Cooperation for Low Carbon Responsibility and Competitiveness. 45 Economic Performance 46 Economic Performance Power sales reached Revenue from main business stood at Total pre-tax profits amounted to CSG has ensured the maintenance and appreciation of state-owned assets. 701 419.2 38.2 Confronted with changing economic landscape, CSG has taken the initiative to deal with the risks by implementing national TWh, billion RMB, billion RMB, power tariff policies to the letter, and tapping the potential of cost reduction and efficiency improvement. Representing 5.13% Representing Representing The company is dedicated to promoting economic and social development with steady and reliable power increase compared with the same 7.65% increase compared with the 13.35% increase compared with the period of the previous year. same period of the previous year. same period of the previous year. supply, thus creating much more value for stakeholders. Operation Performance Law Compliance Assets Management Cost Reduction and Efficiency Improvement Power Market Development Promotion Regional Economic and Social Development Promotion CSG has provided reliable quality power supply to automatic assembly line production 47 Economic Performance 48 Operation Performance Law Compliance Grade A in operation performance In 2012, CSG made steady progress in cost reduction and efficiency improvement by lean management, ensuring maintenance and appreciation of state-own assets, and CSG has been operating in accordance with the laws and regulations, and has taken the initiative to maintain the power market order. We enhance prevention and control of legal risks, intensify operashouldering the basic responsibility of common development with stakeholders. The tion controls within the company, improve transparency in operation and receive supervision from evaluation for seven the stakeholders, which help us prevent commercial bribe and corruption. The long-term credit company passed all the evaluation of operation performance indexes with full marks years in a row carried out by the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of rating for CSG was AAA+ in 2012. There were no major incidences of misconduct nor tax evasion. (SASAC)the State Council. The company is proud as it has been awarded Grade A by SASAC seven years in a row, and listed as a Fortune 500 Companies for eight consecutive years. Year 2012 witnessed no loss of state-owned assets. Legal Risk Management CSG has strengthened prevention and control of legal risks. We have effectively controlled legal risks by providing customized legal services and promoting the integration of legal work and operation management. The cases in CSG’s ranking in Fortune 500 Companies which CSG was liable for dropped by 7% compared with the previous year, with economic losses dropping 26%. 156 No. 149 th No.152 nd No. th Improvement of Prevention Mechanism Against Legal Risks No. 185 th Carried out prevention CSG has prevented legal risks with three methods, namely due diligence investigation of the legal risks for No. 226 th and control of legal major operation decisions, improvement of the legal consultancy system for important projects, recruitrisks, reducing eco ment of legal personnel as members of major projects, providing full services for our projects and ensuring nomic loss by 1.46 the legal implementation of major projects. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Leaders Make Law-Based Decisions billion RMB. Note: In 2012, due to such factors as the separation of main and supporting power grid, CSG was Leaders make decisions according to the laws. Decisions are made on the basis of the law, downgraded in the ranking of Fortune 500 Companies. If such a factor was excluded, CSG would rank while any decisions against the law will not be made. the 141th place. Three The Legal Department is Responsible for Coordination and Guidance Contract performance rate was Lines of The legal department makes timely analysis of strategies for risk control, guiding business 100 Power Sales of 701 Billion kWh Revenue from Main Business of 419.2 Billion RMB Defense departments on risk prevention and control. （Unit：100 million kWh） （Unit:100 million RMB） % Up by 7.65% compared with that of 2011 Business Department Performs its Own Functions Up by 5.13% compared with that of 2011 The business department handles affairs according to the laws, supervises legal risks for all 8000 7010 5000 types of businesses, and ensures the implementation of countermeasures. 6668 3894 4192 6027 4000 6000 3665 4826 5239 3108 Proper Settlement of Legal Disputes 2842 3000 4000 We properly solved cases left over by history through the following measures: leaders taking charge of cases, 2000 signing commitment letters, organizing experts to analyze major cases, and adopting specific strategies for 2000 1000 each case. There were no new major legal disputes caused by breach of law and regulations in 2012. 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012（Year） 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012（Year） Legal Clinics CSG has set up “legal clinics” to improve the legal performance at the grassroot level. By the end of 2012, we have set up 26 “legal clinics” company-wide, providing a comprehensive platform for legal risk management, Total Pre-tax Profits of 38.2 Billion RMB Total Assets of 555.6 Billion RMB legal consultant services, training of legal knowledge and solving legal problems at grassroot level. （Unit：100 million RMB） （Unit：100 million RMB） Up by 13.35% compared with that of 2011 382 Up by 5.33% compared with that of 2011 5556 1500 Customer Service Center 400 6000 1500 internal hot-line with commitment to constant improve its service 320 337 5275 4908 295 4404 300 4500 Risk prevention Answering customers’ 3837 208 questions Consultancy service External 200 3000 Internal Dealing with problems 100 1500 Legal publicity Solving disputes 0 0 Legal studies Legal Clinics 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012（Year） 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012（Year） 49 Economic Performance 50 Enhancement of Auditing within CSG Cracking Down on Power Larceny Rectified At present, power larceny has not yet been eliminated. There are still some people, driven by their own interests, CSG has made full use of auditing’s supervision and service function, with an aim to boost strategic development. 1.929 We completed 5364 auditing projects in 2012, adding revenue and saving expenses of 234 million RMB and proposing 6283 pieces of advice related to management. Through an overall auditing project, the audited asset has running the risk of stealing power. Power larceny not only results in the direct loss of state-owned assets and impairment of users’ benefits, but also many hidden dangers which will possibly cause widespread blackouts or billion RMB illegal covered 80% of CSG’s total. And we were also awarded the title of Leading State-owned Enterprise in Auditing. even endanger the surrounding residents. In recent years, power larceny is increasingly characterized by network, funds. large-scale crimes and professional skills, which poses a great challenge to security and benefits of the power grid A Clean, Corruption-Free and Self-disciplined CSG and social equality. CSG has made concrete measures to implement Clean Campaign, and has perfected Clean Code of Practice Difficulty in evidence collection due to Criminal gang committing technical means employed in power larceny larceny with heavy losses and supervision mechanism. On-line development of black market Features of Collective larceny with negative Building a Clean Improving Supervision Being Responsible for Accountability of power larceny Power Larceny impact on youngsters Culture Mechanism Anti-Corruption System Difficulty in investigation due to Forcible and brazen power larceny backstage larceny Organized workshops Intensified supervision Improved the system Strengthened punishon integrity, and and set up a accountpost responsibility for ment of any misconpre-post training on ability system for anti-corruption, and ducts; having received What should we do to better prevent power larceny? clean practice and improving integrity 26000 accountability 513 letters of inquiry integrity were delivamong CPC members letters were distributed and corruption report ered to 1931 newly and signed and addressed 39 cases Preventing power larceny is a long and arduous journey. It needs all-round cooperation among governrecruited staff Set up joint meetings of ments, corporations, police and the general public, together with the media, and the awareness of Printed clean code of supervision commisSecretary of Committee Penalized 58 people integrity in electric utilization and illegality in power larceny. Only by pooling the wisdom and efforts Practice sion to enhance superfor Discipline Inspecwho breached CPC’ s of everyone and taking effective measures can we eventually succeed in preventing power larceny. Organized monthly vision tion should report discipline and regulaactivities with the duties and corrupt tions, saving a loss of theme of integrity and events 19.44 million RMB and discipline education; confiscating 2.23 Countermeasures against Power Larceny Played 2180 publicity million RMB Technical Measures in and education videos Cooperation Between Carrying out special campaign with Facilitating precise monitoring and manpublic security departments to crack agement of line loss by technical means; Preventing and Addressing down on power larceny positioning suspect customers of power Efficiency Supervision Police & CSG larceny by automatic measuring system; Power Larceny Punishing criminals of power larceny launching spot inspection for timely and According to the system of “3Is &1L” (the management of important events, important cadres’ appointment and harshly with legal means precise power larceny prevention dismissal, important project arrangement and large amount funds), CSG has supervised the efficiency in such major fields and crucial links as fixed asset investment and construction, supplies procurement bidding, cost reduction and efficiency improvement in enterprise production management. CSG has approved 560 projects and Publicizing Power Facilities Protection Regulation to enhance the pubic’ s Inspection put forward 1697 supervisory proposals throughout the year, achieving economic benefits of 180 million RMB. Extensive Reinforcing the inspection tour of measurawareness on illegality of power larceny ing devices and power distribution equipTour CSG has assigned ombudsmen for a further efficiency supervision on some key projects of fixed asset investment Publicity Exposing some major and typical power ment so as to find the loopholes timely and construction, promoting standardized administration of major projects. larceny cases by media (including TV, Two CSG’ s efficiency supervision projects in engineering construction and fixed asset investment have been listed Internet and newspapers) in 2009-2012 Central Enterprises Demonstration Projects of Efficiency Supervision by SASAC(State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission). CSG Leadership Workshop on Integrity Right after the Chinese New Year holiday, CSG held a Workshop on Left: Remote control devices for power Integrity specially designed for leaders in key positions, with an aim larceny used in a market of Shenzhen to foster leaders with healthy value and integrity. Right: In Shenzhen, the wire joint for “For me, this two-day workshop is enlightening. Cadres’ development power larceny was connected brazenly to has benefited from company’ s cultivation for years. If you earn some the public lines. Electrician on-duty petty profits at the cost of a job or even a happy family, it is not noticed fire caused by the power larceny worth the candle. No fluke mind for us!” Xie Bin, Manager of Marketing Department said. CSG is holding the Leadership Workshop on Integrity 51 Economic Performance 52 Assets Management Cost Reduction and Efficiency Improvement Challenges confronted by CSG include asset management, operation & maintenance cost and asset Confronted by complex economic situations at home and abroad and the sluggish power consumpThe cost saved reached 6.7 efficiency. The company introduced Asset Lifecycle Management to ensure appreciation of tion growth in the five provinces and region, CSG steadily carries out the policy of cost reduction billion yuan state-owned assets. and efficiency improvement. By bringing into full play the advantages of centralized capital manRMB agement, the company has controlled the costs and improved performance. for the whole year. Asset Management Approaches Guided by asset management strategies, CSG has focused on five links, asset planning, asset acquisition, engiMaking full use of CSG has made full use of warehouse inventories, utilizing the idle supplies neering construction, asset operation and asset retirement by means of asset performance analysis. CSG has warehouse inventories worth 2.3 billion RMB. established the asset management system based on asset value management and information technologies for better management of assets. Reducing the power CSG has spent more on hydropower, and reduced the power purchasing unit purchasing cost cost by 6.51 RMB/1000KWH Optimal Asset Cost, Reliability, Service Efficiency and Service Life CSG has cut down the non-productive outlays and put off the non-emergent Controlling the power projects, achieving zero growth in such costs as three public consumpAsset Management System Development supply cost tions ( vehicle purchasing and maintenance, overseas trips, and official Asset Management Asset Management Asset Management receptions) and saving the power supply cost of 2.1 billion RMB. Technical Standards Strategies Organizational Structure Performance System The centralized purchasing rate increased from 61% in 2011 to 80.2% in Centralized 2012. The accuracy rate of demand planning increased from 85% in 2011 to Asset Planning Asset Acquisition Engineering Construction Asset Operation Asset Retirement purchasing 98.7% in 2012. Asset investment Procurement tender Quality management Operation basis Technical inspection planning & evaluation Supplier management Schedule management Operation strategies Demand forecasting Contract execution and Cost management Operation & mainteAsset recycling & Centralized capital The centralized capital operation rate was 94%, operating the income of 1.5 mechanism disposal quality control nance quality control management billion RMB. Planning model Renewal of assets Asset Value Management Information Technology Power Market Development Promotion Capacity Building in Asset Management Strictly conforming to the rules and maintaining the order of the power market, CSG has seriously implemented the national measures to promote the sound, sustainable and harmonious By integrating the existing operation mechanism and technical standards, CSG has improved the procurement development of the power market by ensuring open, fair, impartial and efficient transactions. quality from preferred suppliers and adopted efficiency analysis in assets operation, maintenance and retirement with an aim to enhance the assets management. CSG lays more emphasis on relationships among governments, power plants and customers. CSG pays close CSG has centralized infrastructure and technological upgrading investment to avoid repeated construction. By eliminatattention to not only its own economic performance, but also the rights and interests of the power plants and ing differences among all kind of standards, CSG has put forward a more demanding requirement in power properties customers for their understanding and support. and materials, for the purposes of establishing a scientific supplier evaluation system and enhancing the management of CSG has actively implemented the 12 Five-Year Plan Agreement of the “west-to-east” plan. Confronted with the supplies. shortage of rainfall and coal in the first quarter, CSG has effectively optimized the power resources distribution, by In terms of assets operation, CSG has worked with the manufacturers to formulate equipment maintenance and inspectaking advantages of the flood season to ensure an orderly power supply. tion manual, incorporating manufacturers’ requirements with on-the-spot operating experiences to enhance the reliabilCSG understands and responds to the demands of power generation enterprises and continuously enhances power ity of equipment and carry out its subsequent expenditure research. In terms of assets retirement, CSG has set up the trading service quality. indicator of net assets retirement value to make full use of the assets. Optimization and Integration What is Asset Management? of Warehouses The core of asset management is to balance asset performance, risks and costs. CSG manages the assets of the Guided by “large warehouses, large whole grid, ranging from planning, design, procurement, construction, operation to retirement. CSG has made distribution” , CSG has actively optimeticulous care in all expenditures of both the investment and procurement of equipment and services. Based on mized and integrated the warehouses, and achieved significant savings of the acceptable risks, CSG aims to strike a balance between safety and efficiency, for maximum efficiency and land and rent expenses. The number minimum investment cost of each link. of warehouses has decreased from 3,172 to 399, saving 48 million RMB of rent expenses per year. The warehouse before renovation The warehouse after renovation 53 Economic Performance 54 Regional Economic and Social Development Promotion Enhance Cooperation with Hong Kong and Macau As the five provinces and region and two cities in CSG’ s service area have distinct strategic positioning, CSG customizes development strategy to balance regional difference and synergy to better serve local economic and social development. CSG hosted the 2nd CSG,CLP &CEM Power Industry Summit in 2012. The summit is held to enhance cooperation and deliver power support to the social and Guangdong economic development of Guangdong, Hong Kong and Macau. Assist implementation of local government’ s CSG hosted the 17th CSG, CLP & CEM Seminar on Power Service with the theme of transformation and relocation strategy Guizhou “Great service for the social era.” The seminar provided a platform of discussion on meeting increasing customer demand and delivering better service for Guangdong Power Grid constantly reinforces power grid construction to ensure reliable power supply, to better service economic development to Guangdong Province, Hong Kong and Macau. Guangzhou and support Guangdong’ s effort in industry transformation and Yunnan Guangxi Guangdong Unscheduled four generator outage in Castle Peak A Power Plant led to CLP’ s moving up the industry chain. In 2012, Guangdong Power Grid power supply shortages in July, 2012. CSG actively supplied power to CLP and it Shenzhen invested 17.111 billion RMB on power grid construction and sold was the first time for CSG to supply power to Hong Kong in the past 30 years’ 371.9 TWh electricity. power grid interconnection. The 2nd CSG,CLP&CEM Power Industry Summit In 2011, CSG supplied 3.586TWh power to Macau, representing 90% of Macau’ s Guangxi Yunnan Hainan total electricity consumption. Deliver a comprehensive service to the development of Northern Bay Economic Zone and Xijiang River Economic Belt Facilitate Yunnan’ s development as a bridgehead Boost GMS (Greater Mekong Sub-region) Cooperation Guangxi Power Grid customizes its service strategy based on customer Yunnan Power Grid works closely with the local government to build CSG plays an active role as the nation’s executive agent in the GMS Power Cooperation Framework. Under the principle of requirements and demands in Northern Bay Economic Zone and Yunnan as a “Green economy, a province with distinct ethnic culture and a Xijiang River Economic Belt. The company has taken specific measures bridgehead opening to Southeast Asia” . The company facilitates develop“Sticking to main business and cooperating with neighboring countries”, CSG communicates and cooperates with GMS to implement Strategic Cooperation Framework Agreement with ment and utilization of renewable energy to improve ethnic minorities living countries on power grid connection, and has enhanced cooperation with GMS member countries (Vietnam, Laos, Myanmar, Guangxi Province to facilitate key power source project and support quality, supports hydropower dispatching in dry seasons with an aim to and Thailand, etc) to facilitate optimized resource allocation and common development. local government’s mission of “building multi-billion dollar industry”. deliver energy support for economic and social development for Yunnan. Myanmar Thailand Guizhou Hainan CSG imported 1.935 TWh electricity from Myanmar CSG signed Framework Agreement on Enhancing Deliver a comprehensive service to Guizhou’ s sustainable Facilitate Hainan’ s development as an International Cooperation and Communication with EGAT and has development Tourism Island Laos established a high-level visit mechanism. Guizhou Power Grid takes concrete measures to implement State Council’ s Opinions on Hainan Power Grid constantly improves city power distriCSG signed a MOU on Investment on Construction of National CSG restarted Sino-Thailand 500kV power connection Facilitating Fast and Sound Social and Economic Development of Guizhou and pays serious bution grid automization level and power supply reliability Power Grid Project with the Government of Laos. project to facilitate regional power grid connection attention to Guizhou’ s development requirements. Guizhou Power Grid enhances the to provide power support to facilitate Hainan’ s developCSG signed agreement with Laos National Power Grid on Conand sub-region power trading market. capacity of “west-to-east” plan to support the steady growth of local coal and electricity ment as an International Tourism Island. Hainan Power industry. In 2012, Guizhou Power Grid sold 86.97 TWh electricity and completed 34.985 Grid signed Strategic Cooperation Framework Agreement struction of 230kV Power Grid in Northern Laos. The project TWh power transmission in the “west-to-east”plan, and therefore, has made active contribuon Haikou Power Grid with Haikou city government, and is implemented in EPC model. tion to local GDP growth. The province ranked No.2 in terms of GDP growth in the country. speeds up retrofitting of power distribution grid . Vietnam Guangzhou Shenzhen CSG signed GGU and BOT with Vietnam on the Vinh Tan I Deliver a comprehensive service to Guangzhou’ s mission Support local government’ s mission: build Shenzhen coal-fired power plant. of building the city as a national central city as a modern international city The first Sino-Vietnam hydropower investment projectGuangzhou Power Supply Bureau is dedicated to Guangzhou’ s mission of building Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau has taken solid steps to serve Xiaozhonghe Hydropower Station realized power generation the city as the national central city. Guangzhou has identified its strategic objecthe local government’ s efforts in economic transformation tives as an international business and trade center and world renowned culture and upgrading. The bureau speeds up power grid construcand connection to the main grid. city. To support local government’ s mission, Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau has tion based on a step-by-step approach with an aim to deliver CSG supplied 2.697TWh electricity to Vietnam in 2012. CSG International signed BOT contract with taken vigorous steps to facilitate power grid infrastructure construction and uses an orderly and quality power supply service. In 2012, the Department of Industry and Commerce, Vietnam international leading power companies to benchmark its service. The bureau is bureau supplied 70 TWh electricity to the city and therefore committed to delivering a world class power supply network and service. helped Shenzhen to achieve 10% GDP growth . Constructing a New Micro-Power Grid CSG’s Accumulated Power Supply to On 28th August, China’ s southernmost power supply bureau –Sansha Power Supply Macau Exceeded 20TWh Bureau, Hainan Power Grid was officially founded in Yongxing Island, Xisha. Zhuhai Power Supply Bureau started power supply to Macau since Sansha Power Supply Bureau’ s mission is to build a smart micro-grid with the 1 st July, 1984 and its accumulated power supply to Macau has feature of “smart, efficient, reliable and green” to ensure power supply to the city exceeded 20 TWh in the past 29 years. Qinlian Power transmisand assist the city to establish itself as an island with unique charm. Li Guoliang, sion line (Zhuihai-Macau) was put into operation in June, 2012. Vice governor of Hainan Provice, remarked: “CSG took the initiative to to take the CSG has established a robust power supply network consisting of formidable challenge of infrastructure investment against the backdrop of starting 5 *220kV lines as main supply and 4*110kV lines as backup. The from scratch. We are impressed by CSG’s accountability and responsibility. ” total transmission capacity to Macau has reached 0.9MW. CSG has played a positive role in supporting Macau’s economic prosperity. Sansha Power Supply Bureau, Hainan Power Grid officially founded Night view of Macau 55 Social Harmony 56 Social Harmony CSG has invested 96 58 CSG joins hands with the stakeholders for a harmonious and win-win situation. 24.2 CSG provides thousand Over power services for harmonious urban and rural development. By putting people first, CSG strives to build a billion RMB % staff company with happy atmosphere for common development of both the staff and the company itself. CSG has of staff have been trained. have participated in volunresponded to the partners’ demand so as to seek mutual benefits and win-win situation, and brought brightness in the construction and renovateer activities. and happiness to the society by lightening lights in tens of thousands of families with sincerity. tion of power grid in rural areas. Support for the Farmers, Rural Areas and Agricultural Production Public Welfare Cooperation and Win-Win Staff Development Apart from power supply, CSG staff help the elderly to irrigate their banana plantation 57 Social Harmony 58 Support for the Farmers, Rural Areas, and Agricultural Production CSG accelerates regional development of power supply in rural areas and increases its investment in improvement and Quality Improvement of Power Supplied to the Rural Areas upgrading of rural power grid to satisfy the demands of economic development and for better life of local residents in the CSG has improved the power supply Reliability of Power Voltage Qualification Rate at the rural areas. CSG supports the development of new rural areas by universal service and “Electricity-to-Every-Household”. ability and the quality of the power, Supply in Rural Areas Customers’ Side in Rural Areas reducing the SAIDI in rural areas by 99.91% 4.08 hours compared with the same 98% 93.98% Increasing Investment in Rural Power Grid 98% 94% period of the previous year, and the In 2012, CSG invested 24.2 billion RMB in the improvement overall line loss rate to less than 12%. 92% 92% 92% and upgrading project of rural power grid, replaced 1.43 Both the reliability and voltage at the million ammeters and overloaded distribution transformers customers’ side in rural areas are 86% 90% with smarter ones, which effectively eased such problems as higher than the national standards. low voltage and unsteady power supply by the power distriNational Standard Rural Areas Covered by CSG bution grid in rural areas, and ensured power supply to the development of new rural areas. Basic Management Enhancement for Rural Power Enterprises Newly Built and Improved Power Equipment in Rural Areas CSG has innovated the mode of rural power development by adopting “the subsidiary system and branch manageVoltage Class Length of Lines (kilometers) ment” , and evaluating management of power supply enterprises at the county level. The company provides classified guidance to rural power enterprises which are of different scales and in the different development phases to bring 110 kV 1979 them in line with professional management. 35 kV 2171 10 kV 30734 Ensuring Power Supply to Rural Areas in the Spring Festival Low voltage lines 68623 The basic features of power usage in rural areas supplied by CSG is of low power load at ordinary times. Festivals and holidays are peak times for power consumption. CSG launches a project on power usage optimization in rural areas, Type Number which prevents distribution transformers from burning in the Spring Festival. 110 kV substation 100 Before the Spring Festival of 2013, CSG finished the compatibility improvement of 14,339 overloaded distribution Eight staff were on their way to the village for transformers to improve power supply ability of rural power distribution grid and distribution transformer. The 35 kV substation 203 construction, carrying to a 400 kg transformer. company also completed load forecast of over 180,000 common transformers, and provided enough fuse wires and The country road was next to the bottomless cliff. low voltage switches to ensure the availability of spare parts. CSG have prevented accidents by arranging special Distribution region 30442 inspection and maintenance of overloaded distribution transformers. Improvement of Power Services in Rural Areas CSG actively carries forward the integration of power supply services in urban and rural areas, providing special services to meet power demands in rural areas and narrow the gap in power supply between these two areas, enhancing power management system there by promoting standardization of power supply enterprises at the county level and improving power management and services there. Toll House at the Local Train Station Door-to-Door Power Supply Services for the Spring Ploughing Dong Dengshu, a meter reader in Zhuchang Power Supply Sub-bureau in Kaili Power Supply Sub-bureau of Guizhou Power Grid founded a team Guiyang Power Supply Bureau of Guizhou Power Grid, is responsible for to provide door-to-door services to the villages for their spring collecting power fees from over 3,000 rural families. Taking villagers’ daily ploughing. Visiting villages, team members got to know their power routine into consideration, he collected fees at places where villages always demands for the spring ploughing and preparation, examined and visit. His fee collection arrangement saved the villagers’ troubles of paying maintained the power equipment and explained to them the policies the bills at local power supply sub-bureaus. on power usage and knowledge about safe usage. They spared no effort to ensure villagers’ production with safe and satisfactory power. At the New Year’ s Eve, some Zhuang ethic minorities dressed up and had their family reunion dinner around an electromagnetic oven powered by stable voltage, in a small courtyard of the farm house in Zining District, Nanning, Guangxi. 59 Social Harmony 60 Public Welfare Cooperation and Win-Win Returning the support of the society is one of CSG’ s commitments. The company has standardized the CSG adheres to the principle of equality and mutual benefit to establish a harmonious and interactive company’ s charity and donation, and explored new form of cultural welfare by earnestly complying with relationship with partners; it also actively builds cooperation platforms and expands collaboration “On Strengthening the Financial Administration of the Donations Made by Enterprises” formulated by the channels to seek joint development with them. In 2012 CSG was complaint-free from business partners. State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council. In 2012, CSG’ s donation reached 30.93 million RMB in total. There was no major community complaint throughout the year. Strengthening Cooperation with Power Plants First, CSG has taken the initiative to establish exchange platforms for power plants and power grid to Poverty Alleviation deepen communication and ensured “open, fair and just” power dispatching to maintain a coordinated Power plants’ satisfaction operation between power grid and power plants. rate on power dispatching CSG encouraged its staff to participate in the Eliminating Infant 94.39 Anemia Campaign on Children’ s Day, donating “Loving and Secondly, in 2012, CSG further strengthened its service to power plants and continued to enhance communication Nutritious Package” valued at 4.8472 million RMB to 48 thousand and coordination through briefing meetings and power plants/grid joint meetings; CSG also made full use of the infants in Guizhou Province and won the Outstanding Contribution dispatching information platform to release 776 pieces of dispatching information. % Award of China Children’ s Charity Award. Finally, through such effective communication between different levels, the provincial power grid companies, CSG supplied 15 KWH power for free per month to 2.23 million five prefectural/municipal power supply bureaus and power source project companies have realized seamless connection. guarantee families in rural areas and low-income families in urban areas. CSG visited needy families and disadvantaged groups to alleviate Strategic Cooperation their poverty, offering help to Shanyao people in Yunnan Province. Protecting Suppliers’ Interest Supplier The company set up a “CSG Shanyao Class” , in total, 98 Shanyao CSG considers suppliers as important partners Comprehensive Assessment on Performance students were financially supported till their college graduation. Chen Zhili, the then Vice-Chairman of the Standing Procurement Supplier for development, builds procurement Committee of the National People's Congress distribplatform, strictly follows bidding procedure Cost Effectiveness Analysis uted the “Loving and Nutritious Package” donated Volunteer Activities by CSG to infants suffering from anemia. and has hence established a fairly competitive, Agreement Supplier standard and efficient bidding mechanism. Establishing Procurement Bid Framework CSG advocates that staff participate in volunteer activities. There Candidate Supplier are 58 thousand staff in total participated in activities such as CSG has developed a supplier creditabilPassing On-site Assessment “combating droughts to ensure power supply” , “helping immiity assessment system and established Preparatory Supplier grant workers’ children” and “ workshops on safe power use”. strategic cooperation relationship with Passing Document Review them. There are 6 categories of suppliers Disasters Relief based on an all-round assessment. Registered Supplier Openly Recruit and Accept Registration Confronted with natural disasters like earthquake, typhoon, and severe drought, CSG spares no effort to deal with emergency and restore power supply to meet the needs of the disaster-stricken Enhancing Power Construction Contractor’s Accountability areas, and donate money and materials for the reconstruction. Ling Weicai, a staff of Guangxi Power Grid, has CSG has been strictly supervising the quality of construction projects, innovating measures for safe engineering, helping CSG has donated 4.0159 million RMB to earthquake-stricken area led his cycling team named “Eagle” to five nurspower construction contractors to increase safety management capability and strengthen accountability awareness and ability. in Yiliang, Yunnan, and promoted “CSG Wells” mode to combat ing homes over the past 12 years and became drought by spending two million RMB on building 500 water the “sons” of 50 lonely senior citizens. Secondly, CSG has conducted assessment and annual examination on contractors, established profile on their qualificellars, making drinking water available to Shanyao people. cation and creditability, introduced point-based management mechanism to incentivize them for better management. Thirdly, CSG launched a campaign to rectify subcontracting engineering projects. In 2012 CSG inspected 8,252 projConservation of Culture in South China ects, completed rectification on 4,665 and punished 16 organizations for committing 5 forbidden practices. To build Guangdong into a leading province in cultural development, CSG has invested 10 million RMB in the establishCSG has intensified the safety management of power construction contracted engineering to include death or personal ment of Guangdong Province Lingnan Culture and Art Promotion Fund. CSG has been working with another 13 compainjury accidents in contracted engineering project into its own safety performance assessment. It has also standardnies, to facilitate south China cultural and art exchanges and the development of cultural industry in Guangdong. ized the safety regulation exam for contractor company staff, ensuring they are all qualified. “CSG Happy Kitchens” Benefit Rural Children Optimization of Material Stock Types of Materials (unit: type) Using demonstration construction standards of “Happy Kitchens” in As enormous materials involved in production and operation process, eliminate hidden 2400 Guangdong, CSG has built “Happy Kitchens” in 11 primary schools 2134 dangers and waste are crucial. CSG conducted optimization of the categorization of 5 Reduction Rate in Lianyang regions in Qingyuan, enabling over 1000 primary major categories, 27 kinds of equipments and streamlined 2,134 types to 412 and has 1800 school students in remote mountain areas to have access to hot rice 80.69% laid a foundation for equipment standardization. and delicious dishes at noon every day. 1200 To suppliers: Reduce frequent adjustment on production lines, increase production Ten standards for “Happy Kitchens” are as follows: a set of 412 efficiency and expand scale effect; encourage suppliers to improve the quality of 600 electromagnetic oven, an electrical rice cooker, a microwave oven, a equipment. disinfection cabinet, a refrigerator, an electric water heater, a 0 To CSG itself: Lower inventory and optimize equipment to save costs, to improve kitchen ventilator or an exhaust fan, a workstation, a set of dishware Before After transportation and maintenance and reduce safety risks. Optimization Optimization storage racks and a set of dining table and chair for students. 61 Social Harmony 62 Staff Development International Communication and Cooperation CSG has been actively helping staff shape their values and caring for employees’ satisfaction. CSG has been actively building international exchange platform, expanding external cooperation channels, estabThe company has secured safe working environment and offered competitive welfare to lishing collaboration relationships with world-leading power companies and international organizations to increase working efficiency and improve staff’s physical and mental health. improve its own management through comparision with advanced peers. Signed cooperation agreements with eRDF and China-US Clean Energy Forum, establishing international platform for the development of green power grid. Increased communication and exchange with organizations, actively participated in international conferences and activiHappy CSG ties, maintained dialogue with other power companies, greatly enhanced CSG’s global influence. Culture Working efficiency Physical and mental health Values Fairness and equality Clear responsibility Healthy and dynamic Responsible Power Industry Events Participated in 2012 communication and efficient process optimistic and tolerant grateful coordination effective plan resilient and balanced virtuous International Power Annual Meeting AORC-CIGRE respect and between work and life diverse subjects diligent Electronics and Motion Technical Meeting recognition Control Conference professional service homely unity and care continuous development aggressive CEPSI2012 Rio+20 Corporate Boao Forum Sustainability Forum for Asia Material Basis Safety Basis Strengthening Cooperation between Universities and CSG By the end of 2012, the total number of staff in CSG was 312,000 with 23% females. CSG has been strengthening cooperation with universities and jointly establishing platforms to promote innovations and mutual development by sharing resources. Over the last ten years, CSG has recruited 45,000 university graduates. Staff Age Pattern Staff Education Level Pattern CSG has signed cooperation framework agreement with Chinese University of Hong Kong to initiate collaboration in scientific research, talent education, business manage13.2% 1.9% ment and technology applications. It comes good news in 14% the following four areas: Guangzhou Super Computing Centre, green and low-carbon campus and hospital project 35.2% and smart grid demonstration. 21.2% 19.5% 39.6% CSG has also collaborated with Harvard Kennedy School of Government on a 3-year training program for senior executives. Presently CSG is the only Chinese SOE holding train30.4% 25.0% ing program with Harvard University. Below 29 30~39 Master’s degree Bachelor’s College CSG signing MoU with Kennedy School of Governgraduates holders and above degree holders ment, Harvard University 40~49 50 and above Technical High school school graduates graduates and below Main Organizations CSG Joined in KPI for Staff Personnel Development in 2012 Organization Qualification Organization Qualification Indicators Performance Indicators Performance Member of Deputy Diamond Proportion of staff Supports to 48,028 China Electricity Council Boao Forum for Asia 100% Director-General Level member joining labors’ union disadvantaged staff million RMB Power Sector Branch, Member of Proportion of staff AESIEAP Member Staff turnover 1% 100% China Institute of Internal Audit Vice Chair Level receiving physical check Power Sector Branch, Member of Deputy National Committee of Average annual Number of staff joining 70,341 Member Nine days Institute of China Supervision Director-General Level China Labour Security paid holiday mentoring program person-time 63 Social Harmony 64 Staff’s Rights and Benefits Management of the Executive Complying with China Labor Contract Law and other relevant regulations, CSG has been signing CSG has been further reforming personnel selection and appointment systems, optimizing the leadership employment contracts with staff, paying their social insurance, respecting human rights, forbidding structure at all levels, innovating the mechanism of young executive training, improving the leadership forced labor and protecting staff’s privacy. In 2012 there was no major labor dispute in CSG. assessment mechanism, with the foucs on developing competitive compound executive executives. Optimizing the executive structure: balancing senior, middle-aged and young persons in the management teams at Position Salary Holiday, Annuity and Human Rights Benefit of various levels; establishing centrally managed Talent-Bank for all levels. Management Management Medical Insurance the Retired Improving assessment system: building talent selection and appointment standards valuing both on morality and ability; setting up a performance-led, differentiated assessment system; making full use of assessment system’ s Establishing posiEstablishing a unified 100% of staff All staff are treated Improving the supervision and stimulation function by promoting the outcomes of assessment. tion responsibility salary system have social insurequally regardless of retirement allowsystem to increase ance their sex, age, race and ance mechanism Developing all-round executives: strengthening training mechanism to develop managers’ all-round knowledge, Frontline staff’ s averstaff accountabilreligious belief and paying allowproviding more timely and relevant training. Last year we organized training programs for middle-aged and age salary growth All staff are covered ity ance punctually young managers and cooperated leadership program for senior executives with Harvard University to broaden reached 6.8% in 2012 by supplementary Protecting female staff’s Legalizing employmedical allowance rights and benefits Appropriating 1% their horizons and develop their leadership skills. The average satisfaction rate for training was 90.4% in 2012. Gradually realizing ment relationship, system of the total salary “equal salary for Employing disabled realizing 100% spent to support equal job” within the P a i d h o l i d ay i s persons and forbidding contract signing rate same organization encouraged hiring minors as stipulow-income retired members Staff Training lated by Chinese laws CSG continues to develop capability-based training and assessment system, improve the facilities of training center, and provide more relevant and timely training programs to raise staff’s capability. Occupational Health & Safety CSG pays great attention on occupational health and safety. It has built safe working environment, kept on Development CSG’ s Hongfeng training center in Guiyang has been certified by the Minissafety training, equipped all staff with work protection outfit and actively prevented personal safety acciof training try of Foreign Affairs and Ministry of Education as the first China-ASEAN center Number of training dents and occupational hazardous accidents. There was no occupational disease case in CSG in 2012. education and training center in electric technologies. sessions offered 1.35 Organizing regular health check and special physical check for certain employees, holding health and safety training; Delivered company-level training program for cell leaders for the first time Training million for cell as a demonstration and guidance; in 2012, 1,969 training courses were held Unifying the types and functions of 18 protective equipments and outfits, equipping all staff with leaders for cell leaders, 150,000 cumulative sessions were implemented. regular protective gear; Promoting safety measures at grass-root levels, establishing “family working station” and “harmonious transformer substation”, building every class and team into a safe production base and a harmonious family. Career Development Democratic Management Adopting people-oriented philosophy, CSG established a fair and broad career development platform CSG ensures staff participation in corporate management and supervision through the staff representative and environment for members displaying their capabilities, to realize joint development for both the conference and other platforms. staff and company. In 2012, labors’ unions at various levels organized 735 meetings , including staff representative meetings, comOptimizing personnel structure through an open, fair and just recruit mechanism; 9,410 talents in mittee meetings and joint meetings where representatives reviewed and passed 523 major items and collected various fields were recruited in 2012. 1,623 proposals from staff. Establishing three career development paths – management, professional field and skills to support Great promotion on management information disclosure, ensuring staff’ s right to know and supervision. The future development of staff. overall satisfaction rate for management transparency was 99%. Issuing Management Regulation of CSG Expert Technicians and setting up technician levels including Establishing the representatives inspection mechanism to inspect 12 CSG organizations. The representatives talked to assistant technician, level-3, level-2 and level-1 technicians, senior technician and specialist. The first 119 frontline workers and collected feedbacks. These feedbacks have promoted settlement of problems in practice. review appointed 251 expert technicians. Family Wishes on Helmets Haozhen Workshop “Dad, you are the one we care most.” This message is Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau has set up Haozhen Studio named after the electric power cable expert Lu from a CSG member’s daughter, who works for Zhuhai Haozhen. Mr Lu is the tutor of the studio where he Power Supply Bureau of Guangdong Power Grid. His imparts all his experience to young technicians helping daughter posted this message on his safety helmet. To them improve their skills rapidly. raise the awareness of safety, the substation of Zhuhai By the end of 2012, CSG has set up seven tutor studios in Power Supply Bureau operated “Safety reminder on transmission and operation, examination and repair, helmet” activity and invited staff’ s family members to power relay protection and other fields, where the experipost their care messages on staff’ s helmets, reminding enced tutors shared their skills, technical experiences and them the importance of safety at all time. professionalism with the younger generation. Lu Haozhen examining power cables with his apprentices 65 Social Harmony 66 Source of Responsibility Caring about the Staff CSG considers staff as the most important asset. We care about people and are creative in the ways to support staff. Serving the Customers Customer-centered, focusing Shouldering social responsibilEstablished a Support Center for Disadvantaged Staff, with on power supply reliability ity and building a green power Returning the priority on single-parent families; Caring about CSG Lights Up grid Carried out staff mentoring program, giving psychological Every Household the Staff Support of the Society guidance and care to frontline staff, assisting staff to cultivate in Southern China a positive attitude; People-oriented, joint develLighting up every household rd opment of staff and company, and bringing brightness. and Caring for retired staff and holding the 3 “Day of The Elderly”; establishing a happy CSG. Commitment of CSG happiness to the society Set up 352 recreational venues such as staff bookstore, dancing room and 499 cultural activities areas; operating a series of cultural and sports events to enrich staff life. Staff bookstore of Guangxi Power Grid of CSG Corporate core values are the long-term and fundamental beliefs of a company; they are the touchstone of a company's deciCSG’s support to disadvantaged staff in 2012 sions and action. CSG has identified the core value as CSB Lights Up Every Household in Southern China , which conveys the company's commitment to serve the customers, care about the staff, protect the environment and support social development, Person-time Value of donated goods Organization Activity receiving support ( ten thousand RMB) the nature of our value is to treat all stakeholders responsibly the government, customers, staff, business partners, the environCSG Visiting and helping disadvantaged staff, model workers and frontline staff 1080 47.20 ment, the community and the public. headquarters Guangdong Visiting and helping disadvantaged staff, model workers, retired staff and For last decade, CSG’ s corporate culture has played a pivotal role in company operation and development. CSG has developed a corpoPower Grid frontline staff; funding the education of children from low-income family 73407 3064.07 Guangxi Visiting and helping disadvantaged staff, model workers, retired staff and rate culture that emphases safety, service and responsibility, under which a team with a commitment of “devoting myself to the Power Grid frontline staff; funding the education of children from low-income family 1687 322.00 brightness of thousands of homes” is formed and an environment of actively fulfilling social responsibility is created. This belief Yunnan Visiting and helping disadvantaged staff, model workers, retired staff and 21639 428.55 becomes the origin of CSG responsibility, guiding CSG to conquer various difficulties and to create value for stakeholders continuously. Power Grid frontline staff; funding the education of children from low-income family Guizhou Visiting and helping disadvantaged staff, model workers, retired staff and Power Grid frontline staff; funding the education of children from low-income family 11886 406.00 Hainan Visiting and helping disadvantaged staff, model workers, retired staff and 554 46.30 CSG Corporate Creeds Power Grid frontline staff; funding the education of children from low-income family Guangzhou Power Visiting and helping disadvantaged staff, model workers, retired staff and Supply Bureau frontline staff; funding the education of children from low-income family 2754 188.55 Actively shouldering social responsibility; Shenzhen Power Visiting and helping disadvantaged staff, model workers, retired staff and 14346 209.10 Mission making every effort to ensure power supply Supply Bureau frontline staff; funding the education of children from low-income family Honors rewarded to CSG staff in 2012 Core Value CSG Lights Up Every Household in Southern China Honor Number Awarding organization To be a world-leading power grid company that excels in service, National Model Worker 8 State Council Strategic Objective management and corporate image Outstanding Technician of State-Owned Enterprise 9 SASAC National 1st May Labor Medal, 1st May Labor Certificate, CSG Spirit Devoting myself to the brightness of thousands of homes 39 All China Federation of Trade Unions Pioneer Worker’s Team Outstanding organization, winner company and winner team All China Federation of Trade Unions, 27 in the national “Safety Cup” contest State Administration of Work Safety Corporate Lifeline The safety and stability of power grid National 8th March Outstanding Woman 1 All China Women’s Federation Model Worker, Pioneer Worker’s Team, Expert Technician, Outstanding Female Team and Woman of Exploits 157 CSG Safety Principle Any accident is preventable Operation Principle Social benefit is the priority; business benefit is the focus Group Wedding – Happiness x 20 Service Principle Customer comes first; achieving win-win in harmony On 13 Sep. 2012, a group wedding was held in Hezhou Power Supply Bureau, Guangxi Power Behavior Principle Be an honest person and do appropriate things Grid for 20 couples. The group wedding was simple but warm, making all newlyweds feel at home. A couple said: “The group wedding let us Team Principle Insist on principle and value friendship; jointly build a happy CSG feel love from CSG and from the society. My happiness and the kind wishes I received are multiplied by many times.” For details of CSG corporate culture, please log on http://www.csg.cn/qywh/nwwhln 67 Responsibility Management 68 Responsibility Management Serving the Customers Communication with Stakeholders To enhance sustainable development abilities, CSG has Caring about Returning the enhanced its operation through management, earnestly CSG Lights Up In May, 2012, before the UN Conference on Sustainable Development, Mr. Zhao Jianguo, Every Household Board Chairman of CSG, was interviewed by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC for Continuous Support of the Society the Staff implemented the Action Plan for the Harmonious Developin Southern China th improvement short). Zhao elaborated on the company’ s philosophy of social responsibilities, and the ment of State-owned Enterprise during the 12 Five-year company’s support for the special practice of UNGC. Plan Period, strengthened management, integration, perforCommitment Social of CSG mance, communication and research of responsibilities, responsibility At the invitation of Rio+20 Corporate Sustainability Forum, CSG took part in the discustaken social responsibilities in the company’ s daily operamanagement sion on global sustainable development with 2,000 representatives from the United Zhao Jianguo, CSG Chairman, Nations, industrial sectors, investment sectors, governments, local agencies and civil orgation in cooperation with staff and external partners in a To be a world-leading power grid is being interviewed. company which excels in service, nizations from around the world. down-to-earth manner. CSG’ s image as a responsible commanagement and corporate image pany has been widely recognized. CSG held campaigns in 15 major cities such as Guangzhou and Shenzhen with the theme of Enhancing Management and Ensuring Reliable Power Supply, communicating face to face with over 40,000 people, leading to better communication with and understanding of Responsibility Management all the sectors in the society. CSG took part in the Sino-Swedish Sustainability Report Seminar and delivered a key-note CSG has incorporated CSR into its operation management by amending CSR regulations and enhancing the CSR management talk as the representative of Chinese companies. CSG systematically introduced the system. An integrated three-tier CSR system covering the headquarters, subsidiaries and grass-root power supply enterprises company’ s specific measures and experience in strategy implementation and management Hui ethnic group are reading the CSG’s has been built. Departments in charge of CSR in subsidiaries and power supply enterprises have been specified, which are improvement by taking the Report as a tool in managing sustainable development. Corporate Social Responsibility Report. equipped with part-time and full-time persons in charge of CSR and liaison. CSG has taken part in the China Industrial Sector Social Responsibility Report Press ConResponsibility Performance ference for three consecutive years. The 2011 press conference was held by China Federation of Industrial Economics at the Great Hall of the People, Beijing. CSG’ s Report has In September, 2011, the State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council (SASAC for short) promulgated claimed extensive attention from enterprises and representatives present. Guideline for the Implementation of 12th Five-year Harmonious Development Strategy of State-owned Enterprises, proposing that we shall give CSG, together with China WTO Tribune held the workshop on Cross-industrial Cooperation top priority to gaining insights into the Strategy and implementation of the Strategy for sustainable development, harmonious development for Low Carbon Responsibility and Competitiveness at the Seventh International CSR of state-owned enterprises, society and environment, and for building strong, excellent and world-class enterprises by encouraging them to Forum. The workshop provided an arena to discuss green development and approaches of take their CSR. CSG, as one of the ten key companies appointed by the SASAC in implementing the Strategy, has formulated strategy implesustainable development for Chinese enterprises. Zunyi Power Supply Bureau is demmentation scheme on the basis of the company’s Mid-to-Long-Term Development Strategy and 12th Five-year Plan of different subsidiaries. onstrating on-load operation process Invited by MBA Class of China Academy of Social Sciences, CSG elaborated on the to the citizens. CSG has carried out activities for enhancing CSR management. CSG Scheme for CSR Management Enhancement Activities has been company’s philosophy and practice of social responsibilities to senior corporate managers. printed and distributed so as to provide guidance to the affiliated organizations for enhancing their CSR management and promoting CSR activities on the grass-root level. CSG companies at provincial level and Power Supply Bureaus in Guangzhou and Shenzhen have released their Annual Report on Social Responsibility Practice, introducing their CSR efforts in 2011 for understanding and support from local stakeholders. Key contents of the Action Plan for the Harmonious Development of CSG has implemented the working plan State-owned Enterprise during the 12th Five-year Plan Period One core：sustainable development CSG realizes sustainable development Three main goals： Enhancing greatly the ability to create economic, social and environmental value Quality Sound Good Improving greatly social communication ability Service Management Image and operation transparency Enhancing greatly brand reputation and influence CSG has identified ten key areas to implement the Action Plan, for the Honesty Honesty five features the company is striving for, namely reliable power supply, Striving to be a statequality service, energy conservation Green Responsibility Green Responsibility owned enterprises with and emission reduction, technologifive five features features cal renovation, support for the farmfive features: ers, rural areas and agriculture production, supply chain manageSafety Vigor Safety Vigor ment, law compliance, staff’ s rights and interests, charity and political responsibilities. CSG has identified 20 specific measures 25 key aspects have been identified for harmonious development and the five features that CSG has been striving. 69 Responsibility Management 70 Stakeholders Expectations and Requirements Communication and Response Approaches Practice Innovation on Responsibility CSG has studied the Corporate Social Responsibility Reports of internationally leading enterprises and their carbon information disclosure, so as to catch up with them, learning from their advanced experience and enhancing the company’ s internaLaw compliance Kunming Municipal Government and tional influence on social responsibility. Compliance management and active Yunnan Power Grid had a discussion on T a x a t i o n i n a cco r d a n ce taxation; National energy policy execupower supply reliability of Kunming In the Fifth International Seminar on Social Responsibility Report of Chinese Enterprises, the company’ s research finding, with the law tion; Promotion of own grid construction metro. Yunnan Power Grid spared no Safe power supply with governments; Daily management Responsibility Report of Advanced European Enterprises and Views on Cross Culture-A Comparison from CSG’ s Perspective, effort to accelerate the construction of enhancement; Be subject to supervision Maintenance and appreciation and inspection; Work report and suggestransmission lines and ensure power was well received by professionals of social responsibility at home and abroad. of the state-owned assets supply for the metro to put into operations acceptance; Management structure tion. Continuous and steady reward improvement Government Honors Timely and sufficient payrolls and social Salary and welfare guarsecurity for the staff; Enhancement of CSG has published Guidance on Building antee staff’ s access to management; Healthy A Happy CSG, formulated and carried Staff’s health and safety working environment provision; out Assignment Breakdown Chart of Assurance of health and safety training Building A Happy CSG and put forward Equal opportunities for and physical examination; Fair promotion 2,588 measures and 141 regulations on promotion and developmechanism establishment; Support for the 43 specific tasks and implementation ment poor staff; Staff-counseling scheme; Happy plans formulated by public sectors at Love for the staff atmosphere creation; Special protection to different levels The Blue Paper of Enterprises’ Social The company’ s 2011 Corporate Social Staff female staff Responsibility in 2012 released by Responsibility Report was rated “Five China’ s Academy of Social Sciences Stars” by experts at Enterprises’ Social indicted that CSG ranked the third in Responsibility Research Center of the list of Top 100 Enterprises ComChina’ s Academy of Social Sciences, and mitted to Social Responsibility, topped 885 sample reports evaluated by becoming the best of the best for the White Paper of Chinese Enterprises’ Reduction of outages Reliable power supply; Management of Guizhou Power Grid has put forward first time. Social Responsibility Reports in 2012. customers’ satisfaction; Construction “Convenient Counter” to collect power High quality power supply fees in rural areas, which eased customand improvement of power grid; techConvenient service nology and management innovation; ers’ difficulty. The company has also Discussions and customers visit; Energy offered “Bilingual” Service” to senior Guidance on energy conserconservation publicity citizens and children of ethic minorities. vation Customers CSG has signed a strategic cooperation Delivery on promise Procurement information publicity; agreement with China Development The company’ s case, The company’ s Responsibility Index was Acceptance of feedbacks; Negotiation Bank for comprehensive strategic coopEnergy-efficient power Open, fair and just procureawarded “Special Gold Award of Social and communication; Project and strateeration in various fields, such as power ment generation and distribuExperience sharing gic cooperation and responsible procurement planning, “west-to-east” plan, power grid improvement, bill issuance, and tion for Green DevelopHonors Responsibility” and in the list of Top 100 Chinese Enterprises Committed to “going-global” . ment ,won the award of Social Responsibility in 2012 released at Partners the Best Chinese Practice the Fourth Annual Meeting of Chinese granted by the World Enterprises’ Social Responsibility. Compact in 2012. Energy-efficient power generation and Energy conservation and distribution; Environment information CSG Energy Company has built an open emission reduction publicity; Environmental Impact Assessand energy-efficient service platform for Resources conservation ment; Environmental protection technolcontract-based energy management, and ogy innovation; Low-carbon and energy promotion and application of LED lightClimate changes response ing in Guangzhou, for building Guangefficiency management initiative; Green Eco-protection office; Support for the electric vehicles zhou into a green and low-carbon city. industry Environment Hainan Power Grid was rated The Corporate Social as “Meritorious Enterprises Responsibility Report of in Social Responsibility” . Liu Yunnan Power Grid was Public service development Sur vey o f co mm unities’ dem ands; Yingshang, the former Chairin communities Education and publicity in communiThe company encouraged all the staff to awarded “Special Social man and Communist Party ties; Discussions and exchange; take part in Eliminating Infant Anemia Responsibility Award of Poverty alleviation Campaign on Children’ s Day. And the Secretary was awarded construction of official website; Public Golden Bee Enterprises in Communication and exchange welfare activities such as like “ Getting donation has reached 4.8472 million RMB. “Meritorious Entrepreneur in communities 2012”. to Know CSG” in Social Responsibility”. Communities and the Public 71 Outlook 2013 72 Report Rating Rating report on 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd. Entrusted by CSG, Economics Department of the Corporate Social Responsibility Research Center of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences selected experts from the China Corporate Social Responsibility Report Rating Panel to sit on the “Rating Panel of 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd.” to assess and rate CSG 2012 CSR Report. Rating Basis CASS-CSR 2.0 and Rating Standards on Corporate Social Responsibility of Chinese Enterprises(2013) jointly released by the Corporate Social Responsibility Research Center of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Economics Department, China National Enterprise Federation, China Petrochemical Federation, China Light Industry Federation China Corporate Citizen Committee, Sino-German Trade and Sustainable Development and Corporate Social Responsibility Project, WTO Tribune, and the Corporate Social Responsibility Research Center of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, Economics Department. Rating Conclusion Outlook 2013 Completeness（★★★★☆） The Report disclosed 86.01% core indicators in power utilities and demonstrated a good completeness. Core indicators include: responsibility management, power supply, economic performances, green and environment and social harmony. Substantiveness（★★★★★） Due to uncertainties of the national economy, power consumption in the five provinces and region in south China The Report covers substantive topics on “ Ensure power supply” “Ensure power use in rural and remote areas” “Comprehensive outage will grow slowly in 2013. The company will develop steadily, predict operation risks, accelerate development transmanagement” , “Equipment management” , “Improvement of power transmission efficiency” and “System and measures of green power formation patterns to improve its performance and efficiency, and ensure power supply for a well-off society. supply” are included. The Report includes a detailed, substantive and well-versed analysis on CSG’s performance power supply sector. In strategic management, the company will improve management in an all-round way to lay a solid foundation for steady develBalance（★★★★★） opment. CSG will also enhance strategic and integrated management, perfect the framework of integrated management system by The Report disclosed a number of negative information involving accidents and equipment accidents, major power grid accidents, and spotting short-board and bottleneck, and supporting “To-Top” campaign in pilot power supply bureaus. To launch the development of staff turnover rate, explained and reviewed power outage in Shezhen on 10th April, 2012 in a detailed manner, and put forward correction measures. The Report is an outstanding and a well balanced one in terms of disclosing positive and negative information. advanced management system, CSG will establish the Comprehensive Management Committee for the application of this system. Comparability（★★★★☆） In power supply, the company will manage and control risks to ensure safe and steady operation of power grid with reliability The Report disclosed 34 key performance indicators for the past 5 consecutive years, and demonstrated very good comparability; the over 99.958% and 99.889% in rural and urban areas respectively. The company will strengthen system operation and manageReport disclosed indicators including power grid stable operation, customer satisfaction, and therefore, demonstrated excellent horizontal ment by fully carrying out 39 main tasks against ten safety risks for better abilities in disasters prevention and relief, and emercomparability. gency management as well. CSG will strengthen the management of equipment and staff’ s safety by building “Three Defense Readability（★★★★★） Lines” and strictly implementing “Two Tickets and Three Systems” . It will tighten control and management of three main risks, The Report is well structured, fluent, concise and with convincing case studies. The Report is very well supported by a number of visual namely electric shock, pole falling and falling from high altitude. The company will also strengthen customer service manageforms, including tables and flow charts; in terms of layout, the Report is exquisite. The Report performed very well in readability. ment with an aim to reduce the number of complaints to 77 per one million customers, and steadily promote information inteInnovativeness（★★★★★） gration in marketing. Investment in power grid construction will also be enhanced, with a budget of 55.2 billion RMB. The feature report on responsibility explains status quo and challenges confronted by domestic and overseas power sectors, and reviews In green energy, the company will transform the development pattern of power grid for an intelligent, highly effecCSG’s CSR performance, with in-depth and unique discussions on its own development and breakthroughs. The Report actively shares environment protection with its readers. It is a very innovative report. tive, reliable, green and modern power grid. The company will plan power grid construction ahead and launch development of automatic planning for power distribution grid in major cities. CSG will accelerate the construction of Xiluodu and Overall rating（★★★★★） Nuozhadu DC Project, and further implement the “west-to-east” plan for power supply increment of 4.9%, reaching 130.4 The 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report of China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd. was rated five stars by the panel. It should be billion kWh. The company will promote the green development of power grid and strive to achieve a line loss rate of 7.35% regarded as an outstanding corporate social responsibility report. (based on the statistics about the total assets). Manual on Construction of Green Power Grid will be formulated to specify the implementation of green substations and lines, and also vigorously dedicate to energy-efficient power distribution. CSG Suggestions Energy Company and energy-efficient power utilization centers at all levels will play an important role to ensure two successThe Report should further disclose Key Performance Index (KPI) to improve its completeness. ful evaluation programs, “Two Third of Thousandths” and “Enterprises Low Carbon Efforts”. In economic performance, the company will vigorously explore the power market in order to achieve power sales Rating Panel increase of 5.1% at 736.5 billion kWh, and achieve income increment of main business of 5.6% at 442.5 billion Panel leader: ZHONG Hongwu, Director of the Corporate Social Responsibility Research RMB, EVA at 4.07 billion RMB, and the power sales of ten thousand RMB fixed assets at 9,950 kWh. The company Center, Economics Department of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences will closely follow economic situation to understand trend of power utilization in all industries, and accelerate ammePanel Member: MI Jianhua, Director of Power Reliability Management Center, SERC ter installation for the customers to ensure their early access to power. CSG will also achieve a harmonious and winSHA Yiqiang, Former Director of Research Office, China Electricity Council win situation by putting customers’ needs in the first place and establishing files for important and big customers. In social harmony, the company will upgrade and improve the rural power grid, strengthen staff development, and create sound development atmosphere for the understanding, recognition and support from stakeholders. CSG will improve the investment efficiency of rural power grid construction, and effectively address problems in Peng Huagang Zhong Hongwu structure and power supply service. Assessment and evaluation of leadership groups and leaders at all levels will be Vice Chairman, Rating Panel Head of Rating Panel strengthened. CSG will make full use of human resources both in and out of the company, and further the developExecutive Vice Consul, the Corporate Director of the Corporate Social Social Responsibility Research Responsibility Research Center, ment of corporate culture. Communication with stakeholders will be given priority to operation transparency in Center, Economics Department of Economics Department of Chinese order to meet the expectations of stakeholders, namely supply chain, counterparts, partners, media and the public. Chinese Academy of Social Sciences Academy of Social Sciences 73 The Endorsement from the Third Party 74 The Endorsement from the Third Party The Endorsement from the Third Party Deputy Director of China WTO Tribune, Director of Peaking University International Chu Xuping Deputy Director General of Research Bureau in SASAC Yin Gefei Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development Research Center Based on the five-star reports of the past two years, CSG’ s 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report reached a higher level in terms of quality. Firstly, it is more read-friendly. By adhering to CSG’ s 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report comprehensively presented its the principle of equal dialogue and open communication, the Report was presented with concise words and reader-friendly expression, realizing the equal communication with its shareholders. CSR practice to the stakeholders. What impressed me the most is the enormous and For example, in the whole Report, High Quality Service-related chapter is informative and high quality data, which is convincing and authentic. convincing. Secondly, a stronger sense of social responsibility has been demonstrated. The Report emphasized the discussion and systematic analysis of problems, such as “what causes the outages?” , “ why we still help customers save the power since we are just the power seller” , which better revealed CSG’ s philosophy and practice of social responsibility. Thirdly, it is more The data have showed the excellent sustainable development of CSG. In this internationalized. The Report has put the environment part in the front, which can meet the real information age, everything should be based on data. As indicated by the Report, in needs for developing a beautiful China and align with the philosophy of international counterparts. The professional graphic design highlights data and attracts readers. 2012, CSG’ s power sales grew to 701 billion kWh, increasing by 5.13%; operation revenue hit 419.2 billion RMB, increasing by 7.65 %；taxation of profit jumped to 38.2 billion RMB, increasing by 13.35%; power saved by the grid reached 1.6 billion Mi Jianhua Director of Power Reliability Management Center of China Electricity Council kWh, among which power saved by the customers was 812 million kWh. These CSG’ s 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report has covered corporate strategy, culture and social twinkling figures are not only the highlights of the Report, but also evidence of responsibility practice. It is innovative as it has not only inherited the ideology of corporate culture and CSG’ s sustainable development and outstanding management. Rich data presented social responsibility, but also summarized the achievements in the past 10 years. The Report in a continuous and holistic manner are significant and can tell the truth. The data comprehensively unfolded CSG’ s performance in four areas, namely power supply, environmental protection, economic performance and social harmony, reflecting its top-down design and in the Report is of high quality in that it is continuous and relevant. From 2003 to implementation of development strategies. The Report has made dramatic improvement in the chapter 2012, CSG has presented the data of total assets, power sales, business revenue and of Power Supply, making it more systematic and focused by using facts to reveal CSG’ s core values. CSG “west-to-east” plan for 10 years in a row, the data of urban and rural SAIDI for 5 shoulders its responsibility and tasks in the process of its mission of establishing the company as an years, the data of voltage quality for 5 years, and the data of coal consumption and internationally leading company. The company attaches priority to the issues of farmers, rural areas and agriculture production. In terms of reliable power supply, CSG’ s provincial and municipal sulfur dioxide emissions for 5 years, which did express CSG as a responsible companies have ranked the top in reliability on service index, which should be given credit to. company, its excellent management and its steady path towards success. Meanwhile, the Report reflects the needs of customers by professionally answering main questions they concerned in such areas as factors leading to outages, quality service and demand management. CSG’ s candid and professional disclosure has won recognition and understanding of its social responsibility practices from governments, society, upstream and downstream firms and customers. CSG’ s data-based Report is worth learning. In this information age, social responsibility needs to be fulfilled by providing information, taking action and thus Sha Yiqiang Former Director of Research Office of China Electricity Council improving performance via mass data analysis. Be it government’ s development of a beautiful China, company’ s sustainable development or academic research, data In recent years, CSG’ s Corporate Social Responsibility Report has become better and better. There analysis is the key to communication, decision-making and data-based social were innovations in 2012’ s Report. First, the content was comprehensive with comprehensive and responsibility management. accurate data. It unfolded CSG’ s performance in four areas, namely power supply, environmental protection, economic performance and social harmony, meeting the expectations of the stakeholders. Second, CSG had an equal communication with the stakeholders. Chapters illustrating analysis and prompt response to customers’ demand in High Quality Service, analysis I hope CSG will, as always, exert itself to make a greater contribution to the social and countermeasures of outage in Reliable Power Supply, and further reading on power consumption have met the needs of stakeholders and strengthened the affinity of the Report. and economic development of China. Third, the Report has elaborated on the responsibilities and missions in four areas, illustrating CSG’s commitment and its responsibility. 75 Performance of the United Nations Global Compact 76 Performance of the United Nations Global Compact About Us CSG has observed the Ten Principles in its decision making and operation process ever since its entry into UN Global Compact Corporate Governance in 2010. The company actively participates and supports events held by the Global Compact in China. In 2012, CSG particiCSG is a state-owned backbone company. In accordance with the Company Law and the requirements of the State-owned Assets pated in a number of Global Compact events, including high-end interviews, best practice selections and training programs, to Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council, CSG has established a modern corporate Governance structure name just a few. consisting of board of directors and operation management. Board of directors plays a core role in corporate governance. The board of directors exercises administration in accordance with Articles Ten Principles Involved chapter of Association and continuously perfects its operation mechanisms to guarantee the efficient, standard and orderly operation. of the Report Compliance and progress made in year 2012 Service-oriented, operation-based; conglomeration-operation, integrated management are the CSG’ s strategic orientation. CSG specifies Businesses should decision making power and procedures, maintains a sound check and balance. CSG has always practiced a stringent regulation, Staff’s Rights Comply with laws and regulations, implement Labor Law and rules support and respect and interests procedures and operation. CSG is dedicated to a highly effective operation for state-owned asset safety and appreciation. the protection of Pay full respect to and guarantee staff’ s right to know, right To facilitate corporate strategic transformation and establish a sound legal person governance, CSG has established board of directors at internationally proDemocratic to participate, right to supervise and right to express. management Guangxi Power Grid, Guizhou Power Grid and Hainan Power Grid and has formulated specific rules on board structure and responsibility. claimed human rights Human Power supply to 81,800 households with the total populaRights Staff’s Rights tion of 360,000 who had no access to power in the past and has achieved “electricity-to-every-household”. Organization Structure and Interests Make sure that they CSG headquarters has 20 departments, one institution and four branches, namely Bidding Service Center, Education Training Center, CSG EHV CSG reviewed and refined contracts with 43,000 staff in are not complicit in Serve Farmers, rural electricity bureaus in Guangdong Power Grid, Power Transmission Company, CSG Power Generation Company; eight wholly-owned subsidiaries, namely Guangdong Power Grid Company, human rights abuses Rural Areas and Guizhou Power Grid and Hainan Power Grid and phased in Guangxi Power Grid Company, Yunnan Power Grid Company, Guizhou Power Grid Company, Hainan Power Grid Company, Guangzhou Power Agriculture equal pay for equal position under the same jurisdiction. Production Supply Bureau Co. Ltd, Shenzhen Power Supply Bureau Co. Ltd, and CSG International Company. Besides, CSG is the controlling shareholder of CSG Financial Company, CSG Research Institute, CSG Energy Company, Dinghe Property Insurance Co., Ltd, and CSG Media. Businesses should uphold the freedom of associaIn strict compliance with the Labor and Contract Law of Democratic Assistant President, Chief Counsel, Chief Engineer, Chief tion and the effective People’ s Republic of China, and sticks to fair employGeneral Office Affiliated Units management ment and equal pay. recognition of the right CSG Power Dispatching and Control Center to collective bargaining Every plant eligible for trade union establishment has Strategy and Policy Dept. (Share the office with System Operation Department) established trade union. Every staff at grass root level Staff’s Rights is a trade union member. Planning and Development Dept. Bidding Service Center The elimination of all and Interests forms of forced and Carry out staff mentoring program, and help staff to Branch Companies Labor Personnel Dept. Education and Training Center compulsory labor Staff’ occupational alleviate psychological pressure and strike a balance Relations (CSG Party School, Administration College) Economist, Chief Information Officer, Deputy Chief Engineer safety and health between life and work. Staff’ s average annual leave is 9 days. Human Resource Dept. EHV Power Transmission Company effective abolition of Staff’s Rights 735 meetings including staff representative meeting, Finance Dept. child labor and Interests taskforce meeting and joint meetings were held. 1623 CSG Power Generation Company proposals made by staff representatives were collected. Marketing Dept. The elimination of Absolute elimination of child labor and CSG acts as an discrimination in Staff’ Rights Guangdong Power Grid Company equal opportunity employer, employ any qualified Operation and Technology Dept. respect of employand Interests people regardless of his/her disability. ment and occupation Guangxi Power Grid Company Infrastructure Dept. Wholly-owned Subsidiaries Board of Directors Management Team Businesses are asked to Yunnan Power Grid Company Green and Materials Dept. support a precautionEnvironmental Fossil fuel consumption for unit power generation is 198 ary approach to enviGuizhou Power Grid Company Protection grams standard coal per kWh. ronmental challenges Information Dept. ”West-to-east” power transmission hit 87.9TWh. Hainan Power Grid Company Undertake initiatives Green and 5.13 million tons of standard coal saving achieved by Safety Supervision Dept. to promote greater Guangzhou Power Supply Bureau Co., Ltd. Environment Environmental energy-saving power dispatching. environmental responProtection Rural Electricity Administration Dept. sibility The average coal consumption of coal-fired power genShenzhen Power Supply Bureau Co., Ltd. Board of Supervisors eration was 325 grams/kWh, representing 3 grams/kWh reduction than that of 2011. International Cooperation Dept. Encourage the develGreen energy CSG International Co., Ltd. opment and diffusion Grid-wide line loss rate was 6.06% in 2012. Audit Dept. of environmentally Energy Efficient friendly technologies Operation Legal Dept. CSG Electric Power Research Institute CSG actively facilitates Ethical Central Enterprise Holding Subsidiaries Inspection Bureau CSG Synthesis Energy Co., Ltd. Initiative, and avoid legal risks, with focuses on internal Businesses should work control enhancement, performance supervision, and put Party Work Dept. Antiagainst corruption in supervision of important decision implementation in CSG Financial Co., Ltd. Law Compliance corruption all its forms, including place. CSG is dedicated to establishing itself as a Labors’ Union extortion and bribery zero-corruption and clean company. CSG’ s long term CSG Media Co., Ltd. corporate credit rating is super AAA. In 2012, no major System Operation Dept law/regulation breach happened. (Share the office with CSG Power Dispatching and Control Center) Dinghe Property Insurance Co., Ltd. 77 About Us 78 Overview: CSG and its Secondary Units About the Report China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as CSG) was established in 2002. CSG invests, constructs and operates power networks in Guangdong, Guangxi, Yunnan, Guizhou and Hainan provinces and region. The service area is of one million square kilometers, with a population of 230 million. The Company is headquartered in Guangzhou. Dear readers, the Report covers CSG’s CSR performance in year 2012. We hope this Report will help you to better understand our commitment and win your support for our future development. Assets Business Number of Number of Secondary units Main business (100 million RMB) turnover staff customers Official website Address Contact This Report is the sixth Social Responsibility Annual Report issued by China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd.The CSR (100 million RMB) (People) (10,000 household) No.757, DongfengReport 2011 was released on 16th May, 2012 and the CSR Report 2013 will be published in May, 2014. Guangdong Power 2010.78 2321.40 102437 2734 http://www.gd.csg.cn dong Road, Guang020-85121906 It was written both in Chinese and English. Adhering to the principles of objective, standard, transparent, and Grid Company zhou, Guangdong comprehensive, the Report disclosed the company’s safe and qualified power supply, and its performance in Guangxi Power No.6, Minzhu Road, Grid Company Responsibilities include: invest, 516 482 51182 921 http://www.gx.csg.cn Nanjing, Guangxi 0771-5692222 economy, environment and society. The Chinese version will be the final version, should discrepancies occur construct, operate, maintain power between Chinese and English versions. Yunan Power No.73, Tuodong grids in its service area. Other main Road, Kunming, Grid Company 894.40 598.68 59567 1088 http://www.yn.csg.cn 0871-63165908 business scope include: power trading, Yunan power dispatching, power resources Time Frame Guizhou Power optimization, power marketing, power No.17, Binhe Road, The time frame of the Report is from January 1st, 2012 to December 31st, 2012. Part of the content extends to other 634.50 563.51 54204 1073.2 http://www.gz.csg.cn 0851-5592222 Grid Company Guiyang, Guizhou equipment sales, commissioning, years’ performance to enhance comparability and forward looking of the Report. testing. Guangxi Power Grid, Yunan Hainan Power Haifu Road, Haikou, Grid Company Power Grid, and Guizhou Power Grid 151.05 101.57 11175 213 http://www.hn.csg.cn Hainan 0898-65317992 Range of the Report are responsible for “West-to-east” power transmission plan project. “China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd.” is the principle part of the Report, including its subsidiaries, branches and Guangzhou Power NO2, Tianhenaner 390.85 420.13 9270 470 http://www.gdgz.csg.cn Road, Guangzhou, 020-87514281 affiliated institutes. Supply Bureau Co., Ltd. Guangdong Shenzhen Power No.4020, ShennanCompilation Basis 367.29 501.2 5268 254.5 http://www.sz.csg.cn dong Road,Shenzhen, 0755-88938000 Supply Bureau Co., Ltd. Guangdong CSG Social Responsibility Index （CSG-CSR 1.0） The company is responsible for References construction, operation and manageCSG Extra High ment of inter-provincial main networks No.116,Tianhe SASAC’s “Guidelines---About Central Enterprises’ Implementation of Social Responsibility”;( No1, 2008, Research Voltage Power and the important connection lines of 495.02 369 4747 http://www.ehv.csg.cn Road, Guangzhou, of SASAC); 020-38126666 Transmission China Southern Power Grid. It is a key Guangdong Company enterprise to implement the nation’ s CASS-CSR 2.0 of Chinese Academy of Social Sciences; “west-to-east” plan. Global Reporting Initiative’s Guidelines; （GRI Version 3.1） “China Industrial Enterprise and Industrial Association Social Responsibility Guidelines” , China Federation of CSG Power The CSG Power Generation Company is No.32, Longkoudong Generation in charge of construction, operation and 188.39 31.7 1516 http://www.pgc.csg.cn Road, Tianhe District, 020-38128001 Industrial Economics’; Company management of power plants for CSG. Guangzhou “Recommendations Standards on Social Responsibility of Chinese Enterprises and the Implementation Guide”, China Business Council for Sustainable Development. It is in charge of operation of transnational (cross-border) projects of power transmission and transformation; investment and management of 42nd Floor, R&F Sources CSG International offshore power projects and equity, offshore Yinglong Plaza,No. 76, 0.833 56 http://csgi.csg.cn 020-85121088 Data adopted in the Report are based on the company’s official documentations, statistics reports and other Co., Ltd. power projects contracts, labor services Huangpudadao,Tianh cooperation, external technical cooperation, and e District, Guangzhou published information. import/export of new technologies, international trade, and consulting and information service. Reliability It is in charge of technical support to planning and 13-20 Floor, West CSG guarantees that there is no false record, misleading statement or substantial omission in the Report. construction, research, development and Tower, Yuedian BuildCSG EPRI implementation of key science and technology 2.2 3.5 210 http://www.sepri.csg.cn ing, No6, Shuijungang, Dongfengdong 020-38120516 Title Description projects, new technology development on power grids, research and development of new Road, Yuexiu District, In the Report, “China Southern Power Grid Co., Ltd.” is also referred to as “CSG”, “the company”, or “we”. products.It is the publisher of CSG Technology. Guangzhou Improvement Compared to Previous Reports Its business scope covers: lighting, green building, coal mine gas, waste heat recovery Yueneng Building, A How-to-read Guide More informative table of contents A new style of chairman’s speech CSG Synthesis No.45, Tianhe Road, and reuse, distributed energy, offshore wind 4.63 1.02 134 http://ny.csg.cn Yuexiu District, 020-38122715 Disclosure of risks and analysis of challenges Expand coverage of index for better substantiveness Energy Co., Ltd. power, development of industry zone and PV panels in building, EV charging stations. Guangzhou Systematic analysis on reasons, impacts of Power Outage on 10th April, 2012 in Shenzhen, balanced views on CSG’s addressing measures and results. Stakeholders’ comments in standardized style Its main business covers deposits, settle42nd Floor, R&F Further reading suggested New glossary Response to panel members’ comments CSG Financial ment, loan, and entrusted loan, its financial Yinglong Plaza,No. 76, services cover securities investment and 212.06 13.09 121 http://fc.csg.cn Huangpudadao,Tianhe 020-85121875 Company equity investment to financial institutions. District, Guangzhou Further Reading If you wish to know more about social responsibility of CSG, please visit the official website at: www.csg.cn, and Its business scope covers: investment, management and operation of media please refer to the Social Responsibility Report published by Guangdong Power Grid, Guangxi Power Grid, Yunnan No.846, DongfengCSG Media industry, design, and production, publicaPower Grid, Guizhou Power Grid, Hainan Power Grid, Guangzhou Power Supply Co., Ltd and Shenzhen Power 1.42 1.48 130 http://cm.csg.cn dong Road, Yuexiu 020-38120932 Co., Ltd. tion of advertisement, advertising agent business, corporate image planning, film District, Guangzhou Supply Co., Ltd in 2012. and television program production. Report Request Its main business covers property insur13-14 Floor, Building You can download electronic copy from our official website. Should you have any inquires, or should you need a Dinghe Property ance, liability insurance, credit insurance, 1,.Excellence Century Insurance Co., Ltd. guarantee insurance, short-term health 33.51 12.05 1197 http://www.dh.csg.cn Center,No.2030, Futian 0755-82522688 hardcopy, please send email to csr@csg.cn, or call us at (020) 38121917. District, Shenzhen, insurance and accident insurance, etc. Guangdong 79 Feedback Form 80 Feedback Form Report Index Report Directory GRI Benchmarking CASS-CSR Benchmarking Dear readers: Front Cover 2.1 Thank you for reading our Report. CSG will make every effort to improve the Interview with the Board Chairman 1.1/1.2 P2.1/P2.2 P4.6 Report. We would appreciate your comments. The Management 4.2/4.3 Guid to Read P3.1/G1.2 Feature Report on Responsibility/Responsible practice in the past decade EN5/EN18 Feature Report on Responsibility /Lighting Up Thousands of Homes, No Matter How Far They are EC8/SO5 ESM2.14/ESS2.9 Implementation of GSG Mid-to-Long-Term Development Strategy 2.10 Power Supply ESS3.11 Multiple Choice Questions: (Please Tick Your Choice) Power Supply/Safe Production 4.11 S3.1/S3.2/S3.3/S3.4/S3.5/ESS3.7/ESS3.8/ESS3.10/S3.12 Power Supply/Reliable Power Supply 4.11/EC8/PR2 ESM2.7/ESM2.16/ESM2.17/ESM2.18/ESM2.19/ESM2.21/ESM2.22 Power Supply/Quality Service EC8/PR1/PR5/PR8 M2.1/M2.2/M2.3/M2.5/M2.6/M2.8/S4.1 Power Supply/Emergency Management 4.11 S3.2 1 Overall comments on the Report: □ Very good □ Good □ Ok □ Poor □ Very poor Power Supply/ Power Grid Construction EC8 Power Supply/Technological Innovation M2.9/M2.11/M2.13 Green Energy EC2/EN5/EN18 E1.1/E3.1 2 The quality of the information disclosed is: □ Very good □ Good □ Ok □ Poor □ Very poor Green Energy/Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction on the Power Generation Side EN5/EN16/EN17/EN18 ESE2.2/ESE2.3/ESE2.4/ESE2.5 EN5/EN6/EN12/EN14/EN18/EN26 E1.2/E1.5/ESE1.6/E1.8/ESE1.9/E1.12/E2.1/ESE2.6/ Green Energy/Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction on the Power Grid Side /EN28/SO1/SO10 ESE2.7/E2.12/E2.13/E2.14/E3.3/E3.4/E3.5 Green Energy/Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction on the Customer Side E1.7/E1.11/ESE2.8/ESE2.9/E2.15 3 The structure of the Report is: □ Very good □ Good □ Ok □ Poor □ Very poor Green Energy/Golden Bee 2020 EN5/EN6/EN18 E1.3 Green Energy/Energy Conservation and Emission Reduction Performance EN18 ESE2.10/E3.2 EN7/EN16/EN17 Economic Performance 4 The layout design of the Report is: □ Very good □ Good □ Ok □ Poor □ Very poor Economic Performance/Operation Performance 2.8/EC1 P4.4/M1.2/M1.3/M1.4/M1.5/S1.6 Economic Performance/Law Compliance SO3/SO4/SO8 M3.6/M3.7/M3.8/M3.9/M3.10/S1.1/S1.2/S1.3/S1.4/S1.7 Economic Performance/Assets Management Economic Performance/Cost Reduction and Efficiency Improvement 5 The readability of the Report is: □ Very good □ Good □ Ok □ Poor □ Very poor Economic Performance/Power Market Development Promotion ESE2.11 Economic Performance/Regional Economic and Social Development Promotion 2.5/SO5/EC9 M3.2/S1.8/S4.2 Social Harmony Open-ended questions: Social Harmony/Support for the Farmers, Rural Areas and Agricultural Production SO5 ESM2.15/S1.5/ESS4.3 Social Harmony/Public Welfare EC1/SO6/SO9 S4.4/S4.10/S4.11/S4.12/S4.13/S4.15 Social Harmony/Cooperation and Win-Win 4.13/EC6 G3.3/M3.1/M3.3/M3.5/M3.11 Social Harmony/Staff Development EC3/EC5/LA1/LA2/LA4/LA5/LA7 S1.9/S2.1/S2.2/S2.3/S2.4/S2.5/S2.6/S2.7/ESS2.8/S2.10/S2.11/S2.12/ 1 Any improvements the Report should make? /LA8/LA9/LA11/LA13/HR4/HR6/HR7 S2.13/S2.14/S2.15/S2.16/S2.17/S2.18/S2.19/S2.20/S2.21/S2.22/S2.2 3/S2.24/S2.25/S2.26/S2.27/S2.28/S2.29/S2.30/S2.31 Source of Responsibility 4.8 G1.1 Responsibility Management/Responsibility Governance G2.1/G2.2/G2.3/G5.2 Responsibility Management/Responsibility Performance G1.3/G3.2 2 What other social responsibility information should the Report disclose? Responsibility Management/Communication with Stakeholders 4.14/4.15/4.16/4.17 G5.1/G5.4/G5.5 Responsibility Management/Innovation on Responsibility G3.1/G6.1/G6.2 Responsibility Management/Honors 2.10 P5.3/G4.3 Outlook 2013 A1 Report Rating 3.13 A2 The Endorsement from the Third Party A2 UN Global Compact P5.1 About Us/Corporate Governance 2.6/4.1/4.4/4.9 P4.5/M1.1 3 Any suggestions on CSG’s social responsibility work , please specify: About Us/Organizational Structure 2.3/2.9 About Us/Overview: CSG and its Secondary Units 2.2/2.4/2.7 P4.1/P4.2/P4.3 About the Report 3.1/3.2/3.3/3.4/3.5/3.6/3.7/3.9/3.11/4.12 P1.1/P1.2/P1.3/P1.4/P1.5/P1.6/P1.7/P1.8/G4.1/G4.2 Feedback Form A4 Report Index 3.12 A3 2012 CSG Key CSR Performance P5.2 Back Cover 2.4/3.4 P4.1 (We would appreciate it if you could fax the completed feedback form to 020-38122187) 81 Key Corporate Social Responsibility Performance of CSG in 2012 82 CSG Key Performance on Corporate Social Responsibility in 2012 Power Generation Side Customer Side National Power Source Portfolio SAIDI of Urban Users Total Assets (hours/ household) (100 million RMB) Customer Portfolio in 2012 in 2012 Power Supply 12 Economic 6000 5556 Performance 10.42 11.22 5275 4908 9 4500 4404 6279 6.66 5.20 3837 1093 127 5.55% 6 3000 13.02% 1.51% 3.21 23763 1258 3 1500 21.00% 1.11% 1226 5950 0 0 14.6% 70.87% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) 171 0.15% Investment in Power Grid Construction Investment in R&D Sales Ranking among the Fortune 500 (100 million RMB) (100 million RMB) (0.1TWh) (place) 1000 915 20 8000 100 833 18.10 7010 156 149 152 15.80 17.40 6027 6668 185 14.00 226 750 697 15 6000 200 671 5239 10.50 4826 Primary 482 industry Hydropower 500 10 4000 300 Secondary coal-fired power 250 5 2000 400 industry nuclear power Tertiary 0 0 0 500 industry 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) new energy Urban and rural residents other 81684 Main Business Data of CSG 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Main Business Data of CSG 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Unit : 0.1TWh 72.19% Unit : 10,000 KW SAIDI of Urban Users (hours/ household) 10.42 11.22 6.66 5.20 3.21 Total Assets (100 million RMB) 3837 4404 4908 5275 5556 Investment in Power Grid Construction (100 million RMB) 482 915 833 697 671 Sales (0.1TWh) 4826 5239 6027 6668 7010 Total consumption in the five provinces Installed capacity : 113155 Investment in R&D (100 million RMB) 14.00 10.50 15.80 18.10 17.40 Ranking among the Fortune 500 (place) 226 185 156 149 152 and region in South China: 839.6 TWh Length of Transmission Lines of 110 kV and Above ( km) 124950 139286 151899 163404 165563 Revenue of Main Business (100 million RMB) 2842 3108 3665 3894 4192 Capacity of Transforming Equipment of 110 kV or Above (10,000 KVA) 40873 48513 57932 64389 68892 Total Profit and Taxation (100 million RMB) 295 208 320 337 382 Maximum Load of Unified Power Generation Management (10,000 KW) 8887 13393 10436 11323 11966 CSG Power Source Portfolio Power Consumption Portfolio Investment in the Construction and in 2012 West-to-East Transmission Upgrading of Rural Power Grid in 2012 Green Energy 1156 (0.1TWh) 1243 Social Harmony (Unit: 100 million RMB ) 260 1200 280 1117 480 1057 969 230 213 242 72 77 2.38% 900 210 1.03% 1.10% 136 612 273 600 140 3.03% 1.35% 355 36 300 70 5.07% 0.51% 11314 0 0 691 3192 55.98% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) 9.86% 45.53% Saved Energy of Customer Side Line Loss Rate Participation of Volunteer Work Number of First-time Power Users (0.1TWh) （%） (person-times) (10,000) 22.4 Non-CSG 24 8 80000 20 19.75 6.68 61203 63889 16.60 6.35 6.28 6.06 Key industry 60000 58000 15 18 6 Hydropower 5.35 Special industry 10.52 8.18 12 10.2 4 40000 10 coal-fired power 8.8 Commercial 8.12 20000 16780 5 3 4.38 nuclear power 6 2 Bulk sale pumped storage 0 0 0 0 Resident 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (Year) wind power other 7530 697 Agriculture 37.26% Unit : 10,000 KW 9.94% Main Business Data of CSG 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Main Business Data of CSG 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 1890 Other 26.96% Investment in the Construction and Upgrading Unit : 0.1TWh West-to-East Transmission (0.1TWh) 1057 1156 1117 969 1243 of Rural Power Grid (Unit: 100 million RMB ) 136 260 230 213 242 Installed capacity for the five provinces Saved Energy of Customer Side (0.1TWh) 8.8 10.2 22.4 19.75 8.12 participation of Volunteer Work (person-times) 16780 61203 63889 58000 and region in CSG’s service area: CSG power sales :701 TWh Line Loss Rate（%） 6.68 6.35 6.28 5.35 6.06 Number of First-time Power Users (10,000) 16.60 10.52 3.00 4.38 8.18 20209(10,000KW) Energy Saving through Smart Dispatching 258 227 1440 Staff Training Rate (%) 94.0 96.4 96.3 96.5 96.0 (10,000 tons of standard coal) Energy Saving Through Line-loss Reduction (0.1TWh) 11.4 48.5 70.7 66.0 16 Total External Donation (10,000 RMB) 14000 6712 23274 8280 3093
