HORIBA / CSR Report “Omoshiro Okashiku” — Bridging the past and the future with The HORIBA Motto: “Joy and Fun” our gratitude. “Joy and Fun” represents our desire to see all employees performing work that is January 26, 2013 marked the 60th anniversary of HORIBA’ s establishment. The rewarding and allows them to lead happy and fulfilling lives. We want our people to put traditional Chinese calendar uses 60 years to represent the full cycle of life. This year, to “Joy” into their work through their own efforts by making the most of the time they spend both reflect on our origin and start anew, we will engage in a variety of activities under the in the workplace. To that end, the company provides places where employees can work theme “ TASUKI—Handing on Omoi ” in an effort to carry on what has been passed down with a sense of “Joy and Fun.” Furthermore, if employees do work with a sense of “Joy and Fun,” their ability to generate ideas increases, their imagination expands, their to us for the future and for the world. Through our analytical technologies, we will continue efficiency also rises, and corporate value increases. This results in a “win-win” to contribute to resolving issues related to energy, human health, the environment and relationship for customers, shareholders, suppliers, employees and the society. safety worldwide. “Omoi”: being phrased by the five pillars The design of the logo “Omoi ” means an emotional feeling, passion, thoughts, enthusiasm, desire, aspiration, A tasuki is the sash worn in an ekiden (long distance relay race). A sash in the corporate ambition, commitment, mission, and objective. We encourage our employees to have the color, and five colors representing the five business segments, forms a “60” to celebrate following “Omoi ,” which is the essence of acting on “Joy and Fun” through their work. our 60th year anniversary. On the sash is the message, “Handing on Omoi. From our predecessors to the next generation and the world.” 1. To be a part of a collaborative community, at the forefront of new ideas and creations 2. To achieve goals and making my life memorable by fostering the highest intellectual potential 3. Reach across the globe to expand learning that captures key business developments, wherever they occur 4. To be proud of sharing what I do and what HORIBA delivers 5. I want to participate all around and where I can be of help 1 2 HORIBA PREMIUM ー which is to contribute to realize “a life of content for all .” since provided training courses annually. We also continue to implement unconventional initiatives for recruiting new employees, such as employing Creating premium quality people who possess an outstanding quality. We will Creating premium quality and maintain HORIBA’ s positive evaluation system that and value through value through individual encourages employees to take on challenges as employees’ self-realization well as our unique personnel system that promotes individual employees’ Under this CSR policy, we constructed automobile open and fair competition, and we will step up our efforts to contribute to the realization of a society testing facilities in Japan, China and the United that provides a “life of content for all,” through self-realization States in 2012 to support the development of individual employees’ efforts to realize their environmentally friendly vehicles. The initiatives potentials. we implemented in 2012 also include the opening of the HORIBA Europe Research Center in France Chairman, President & CEO to contribute to cutting-edge research and Toward further growth HORIBA, Ltd. development of technologies such as for lithium in the future ion rechargeable batteries and fuel cells. We also started construction of reagent plants in India and This year 2013 marks the 60th anniversary of the Brazil. foundation of HORIBA Ltd. One of our group M e s s a g e Also, in an effort to promote CSR initiatives that companies has a history going back nearly 200 comply with United Nations Global Standards that years. I believe the reason why HORIBA Group we signed in April 2011, we will make every effort keeps attracting such a distinguished company to protect human rights, eliminate unfair labor with long history is our consistent management Contributing to society through medicine (EBM) on behalf of patients. In the field of practices, protect the environment and prevent policy based on our unique corporate culture our products and technologies the environment, HORIBA’ s systems that monitor corruption. In 2012, aiming to further enhance our symbolized by the corporate motto, “Joy and Fun.” air and water pollutants, including PM 2.5, are global CSR activities, we implemented specific This corporate culture has created HORIBA’ s T o p The analytical and measurement technologies widely used for environmental monitoring in measures to collect information on the CSR invisible assets, including human resources and developed by the HORIBA Group support people’ s countries around the world. In addition, HORIBA’ s activities of our overseas group companies. Each technologies not only promoting our corporate lives in the fields of energy, human health, the technologies for radiation measurement and quality year we continue to step up our efforts to grow as a activities but also contributing to the realization of a environment and safety. management in various industries contribute to global company necessary for today’s society. society that provides a “life of content for all.” For example, in the field of energy, HORIBA’ s ensuring safety and security. We believe our employees are the most invaluable In 2013, we will continue our commitments to automotive emission measurement systems and In addition, a large number of HORIBA devices are asset that forms a foundation for these business corporate activities and work with our stakeholders power train test systems play essential roles in the used to manufacture products that are necessary in activities and CSR initiatives. True to the HORIBA to achieve HORIBA PREMIUM, which is to create development of clean engines for environmentally our daily lives, including semiconductors, motto, “Joy and Fun,” ＊1 we expect our employees to premium quality and value, and to fulfill our social friendly vehicles; further, our line of optical light-emitting diodes (LEDs), display materials (e.g., remain firm in their commitment to the five pillars responsibilities. We look forward to receiving your spectrometers are necessary for cutting-edge organic ELs and electronic paper), and solar battery that phrase the HORIBA’s “Omoi ” ＊2 and to fully continued attention to, and understanding of, our research such as material analysis, which is panels. develop their potentials. Based on the belief that current and future activities and we appreciate your indispensable in R&D on lithium ion rechargeable We support people’ s lives through our technologies their efforts to fully realize their potentials will generous guidance and support. Thank you very batteries, fuel cells and other items of growing and products, thereby contributing to the realization enable us to create premium quality and value as much. demand. In the field of human health, HORIBA’ s of a safer and more sustainable society. This is our well as to build win-win relationships with all of our hematology and glucose analyzers are used in pride and also the unchanging principle of the stakeholders, we continue to invest without hospitals and clinics in order to quickly assess HORIBA Group’ s CSR activities. In 2013, we will hesitation in human resource development. In order health conditions using only small amount of blood continue to perform our corporate activities with to train our personnel to play leading roles on the samples, enabling doctors to accurately administer main focuses on the fields of energy, human health, global stage, in 2009 we opened the HORIBA ＊1, ＊2 : See page one for information on the HORIBA motto, “Joy medical treatment as well as evidence-based the environment and safety under our CSR policy, COLLEGE, our original in-house college, and have and Fun,” and the five pillars that phrase the HORIBA’s “Omoi .” 3 4 Five business segments that support present and future technologies Striving to achieve a sustainable society through analysis and measurement Evidence-based medicine support Five business segments Maintaining safe and healthy lifestyles, saving energy and Medical Blood Glucose Analyzer reducing emissions, researching and developing new energy Effective and efficient medical treatment requires not only excellent medical Automotive technologies, and realizing sustainable manufacturing—all these activities are founded upon accurate measurements of skills but also prompt and accurate data. HORIBA offers easy-to-use Test Systems data using analytical and measurement instruments. As a hematology and glucose analyzers for medical professionals. Our medical comprehensive manufacturer of analysis and measurement analyzers are routinely used in clinics, hospitals, emergency labs, NICUs Process & Environmental Scientific instruments, our goal is to contribute to creating a sustainable and commercial labs. Our advanced technologies make medical society by revealing the essence of various issues facing the examinations possible with only a small sample of blood, reducing both Automatic Blood Cell global environment and society, as we fulfill our mission to patient suffering and the workload on medical professionals, and thus Counter plus CRP* Medical Semiconductor provide the means to analyze or measure complex contributing to improving the quality of people’s lives. * C-reactive protein substances. s e g m e n t s Comprehensive support for Semiconductor manufacturing support developing environmentally friendly for the realization of a prosperous vehicles and pleasant society Automotive Test Systems Motor Exhaust Gas Semiconductor Mass Flow Controller Analyzer HORIBA contributes to the development of powertrains with high fuel During semiconductor manufacturing processes, which support B u s i n e s s economy and performance while facilitating compliance with global contemporary IT industries, products are inspected at each step by a emissions regulations. HORIBA also develops, manufactures, and markets number of measurement and control systems. HORIBA’ s technologies advanced test and measurement systems for all stages of vehicle and provide instrumentation to support semiconductor manufacturing powertrain development. The extensive HORIBA product line provides vital processes. We also support the manufacture of flat panel displays, support for developing environmentally friendly vehicles. Driveline Test System including liquid crystal displays used in high-definition TVs and mobile Fiber Optic Type Chemical Solution phones, and organic electro-luminescent displays, as well as solar cells Concentration Monitor and light-emitting diodes. Measurement tools for environmental Measurement technologies that provide protection and the development of solutions for a wide variety of materials new energy industries from nano to bio applications Process & Environmental Portable Gas Analyzer Scientific Benchtop pH/Water Quality Analyzer In compliance with global environmental conservation regulations and HORIBA scientific instruments provide solutions for the analysis of a wide conservation efforts, HORIBA provides analysis and measurement systems variety of materials to support researchers as they explore the unknown across a broad spectrum of applications ranging from air and water to soil. and produce the high-technology products and new materials of the future. HORIBA’ s technologies play important roles in areas such as monitoring gases Analysis of the nano-materials required for fundamental research focuses and wastewater from chemical plants, managing water for medical applications, on the nano-level behavior of molecules and atoms. HORIBA’ s analysis analyzing water purity for the semiconductor industry, and controlling water Automatic COD* systems are also applied in many other areas, including pH measurement X-ray Monitoring System Analytical Microscope quality in the pharmaceutical, food and cosmetics industries. Our products of pharmaceutical products, inspection and defect analysis of electronic reduce the environmental impact of operations and facilitate the monitoring of * Chemical Oxygen Demand parts, criminal investigations and archaeological research. processes in order to support industrial development. 5 6 Analytical and measurement technologies which contribute to society Quality management Meeting the needs of society and customers with reliable technologies Electronics Detection of contamination in manufacturing to increase production yields Cosmetics Management of particles in foundations and skin lotions Quality inspection to detect contamination of food products such as vegetables, Food products meat, rice and cooking oil As a company with five business segments Pharmaceutical products Accurate analysis of high-purity pharmaceutical water HORIBA’ s analytical and ( A u t o m o t i v e Te s t S y s t e m s, P r o c e s s & measurement technologies affect Energy Environmental, Medical, Semiconductor, and our lives in many ways. We at Scientific), HORIBA is deeply involved in Human health and safety HORIBA believe t hat provid i ng Contributing to society through analysis and measurement Safety Human issues related to energy, human health, the products and services that satisfy Health Various inspections of food products, such as checking residual agricultural environment and safety. Food safety chemicals and customs inspections of imported food the needs of our customers will HORIBA is working to realize a sustainable Automatic monitoring and inspection of parameters such as turbidity, color, contribute to building a more society that brings comfort to all by providing Drinking water residual chlorine and water pressure at water supply facilities Environment sustainable society and improve the analytical and measurement technologies Medical examinations Quick blood tests using small samples to reduce suffering of patients people’s quality of life. required for industrial development. Safe driving Promoting safe driving by analyzing the causes and circumstances of accidents Environmental radiation measurement Measuring environmental radiation especially where people live and work R&D of new materials and new energy technologies Protection of the global environment New materials R&D of new materials, such as carbon nano materials and graphene Detection of PM2.5, photochemical smog and other pollutants by continuously R&D of organic electro-luminescence technology, which is expected to play an Air pollution monitoring monitoring atmospheric conditions Organic electro-luminescent elements important role in the next generation of flat panel displays R&D of rechargeable battery components such as anodes, cathodes, electrolytes Water quality monitoring for rivers, lakes and oceans Monitoring water quality in natural environments, including rivers, lakes and oceans Rechargeable batteries and separators R&D of natural energy technology, which is expected to play an important role in Control of factory waste emissions Monitoring waste gas emissions and liquid discharge Clean energy next generation energy technology Control of wastewater discharge Monitoring the quality of water discharged from factories Analysis of toxic materials, supporting compliance with environmental regulations Hazardous substances Productivity improvements in manufacturing and processing factories around the world Chemical fertilizers Monitoring soil contamination caused by chemical fertilizers Improving device quality and yield through fluid control, chemical solution Semiconductor devices monitoring and particle detection, etc. Agricultural and domestic water Water quality monitoring of agricultural and public water supplies Flat-panel displays (FPDs) Control and inspection of the manufacturing process of next generation FPDs Development of efficient and advanced process control for the manufacture of Solar cells solar cells Improvement of agricultural and fishing environments Printed circuit boards High-accuracy inspection of lead-free printed circuit boards Management of water quality in fish hatcheries, live fish transportation and Management of ink, paint, and coating powder as well as inspections of the surface Productivity improvements hydroponic cultures Painting and coating gloss of coatings Food safety assurance by measuring nitrate ion concentrations and residual Safety management of manufacturing processes in environments where explosive Safety and security chemicals in agricultural products Petrochemical plants gases may be present Archaeological research Next generation vehicle R&D Non-destructive analysis of historical artifacts, including cultural properties and High-accuracy measurement of low-concentration exhaust gases from vehicles Protection of cultural properties valuable objects Ultra-low exhaust emissions designed to meet the latest emissions regulations Fuel efficiency Support using test equipment for R&D of high fuel economy vehicles Forensics Greenhouse gases Analysis of the greenhouse gases (CO2, CH4 and N2O) emitted from vehicles Research and assessment of new fuels that are potential alternatives to gasoline Criminal investigations Analysis to find clues to solve cases based on mere traces of evidence Alternative fuels and diesel Development of vehicle simulation testing environments for major automotive Engines, powertrains and brakes components Electric motors Performance assessment of the electric motors required for electric and hybrid Veterinary medical care vehicles Analysis of driving conditions using digital tachographs to promote energy-saving Environmentally friendly driving driving Animal hospitals Quick and accurate medical examinations for animals 7 8 Special Interview Dr. Yuzo Aoyagi Counsel andex-President, New A.C.E. Institute Co., Ltd. Doctor of Engineering Cutting Edge Technology Supporting Future Environmentally-Friendly Vehicle R&D on a super-clean diesel engine designed to drastically reduce NOx and particulate emissions Many Japanese people have a negative image of diesel engines because they think smoke from diesel engine exceptionally pollute the environment. However, in Europe, diesel vehicles are quite popular as environmentally friendly vehicles. What is the true potential of diesel engines? ─ The following is an interview with Dr. Yuzo Aoyagi, ex-President of New A.C.E. Co., Ltd., who was engaged in R&D on a super-clean diesel engine designed to further reduce pollutants in engine emissions. Diesel Engines with High Thermal Efficiency and was hot topic of debate in the Tokyo Metropolitan fuel as their fuel in Japan. These two characteristics comparable to that of gasoline engines. Less CO 2 Emission causing Environmentally Government’s “No Diesel Car Campaign” during the late lead to fuel consumption of diesel vehicles to be Friendly Performance 1990s, contributing to a negative image of diesel engines. approximately 30% less than that of gasoline vehicles of Analytical and Measurement Instruments used to the same weight. Since consuming less fuel is directly Prove Theories of Engineers ー In Europe, passenger cars equipped with diesel ー What’ s the difference between diesel and gasoline related to emitting less amounts of CO2, diesel vehicles engines account for a large percentage of vehicles. Why engines in the first place? are favorable in Europe with the mindset of preventing ー Against such a backdrop, your company, New is there such a big difference between Japan and First off, they use different fuels. Gasoline engines use global warming. A.C.E. Institute Co., Ltd is conducting R&D on a Europe? gasoline fuel, which is a high-quality, highly-volatile super-clean diesel engine to achieve an even higher Over 50% of new registered passenger cars a year in fraction of petroleum. In contrast, diesel engines use ー Diesel engines have high efficiency and low level of environmental performance. Europe are diesel vehicles . In some countries, such as diesel fuel consisting of a relatively low-volatile fraction environmental impact. So, you can say they have New A.C.E. Institute Co., Ltd is an R&D company that France, the percentage of diesel passenger cars even of petroleum. In addition, gasoline engines use excellent engine performance? was jointly established in 1992 by diesel engine exceeds 70%. On the other hand, the percentage of spark-ignition combustion which ignites a compressed That’ s right. However, they also had problems that took manufacturers and an engine parts manufacturer. Our new diesel passenger cars sold in Japan has remained premixed air and fuel by means of a sparkplug. Diesel many years to solve. The largest of which was diesel aim was to reduce exhaust gas emissions from diesel low and only slightly exceeded 10% during the 2000’ s. engines use compression-ignition where pressurized emission. Specifically, the main issue was reducing the engines and improve their thermal efficiency. Using My impression is that there is a widespread fuel injected into compressed air under amount of air-polluting nitrogen oxides (NOx) and globallyleading research results obtained by the misunderstanding of diesel vehicles among Japanese high-temperature and high-pressure burns by particulate matters (PMs) produced by the diesel company, we participated in the next-generation people. I sometimes lecture at universities and find that self-ignition and diffusion process. The difference in combustion process. With gasoline engines, NOx and low-emission vehicle project launched in 2002 by the more than 90% of students have a negative image of combustion mechanism results in a characteristic of other air pollutants have been drastically reduced Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism. diesel engines, thinking that their exhaust gases are diesel engines that the air charged into engine is through the use of three-way catalysts. However, these very bad for the environment. compressed up to very high-pressure level. The higher three-way catalysts could not be applied to diesel One reason for this misunderstanding is that city buses gas compression ratio leads higher efficiency, that is, engines, whose exhaust gas contains excess amounts and trucks of old models, manufactured when emission higher engine output is obtained from combustion of oxygen. It was for this reason that new technologies regulations were not as strict as today, still run on the chamber due to greater expansion power. Therefore, for diesel engines, such as common rail fuel injection roads, emitting diesel smoke. These vehicles were the diesel combustion process is generally described as and exhaust gas recirculation (EGR), were developed to ◀P a r t s f r o m t h e expensive and have proven durable, so some vehicles a high-thermal-efficiency process. reduce the amount of NOx and particulate emissions. super-clean diesel that were manufactured several decades ago still Diesel engines are not only recognized for high thermal As a result of such efforts, today we have clean diesel engine being developed by New A.C.E. Institute remain in service. In addition, black diesel smoke efficiency, but for their utilization of inexpensive diesel engines with high environmental performance Co., Ltd. 9 10 ー Do you have any expectations or requests for ◀ Dr. Aoyagi was nominated analytical and measurement device manufacturers? as an honorable SAE Fellow by the Society of Measurement systems are to be built by combining our Automotive Engineers (SAE), a distinguished needs and the features of individual devices. Therefore, U.S.-based professional association with a long it is essential that we communicate closely with history, for his many years manufacturers. We would like to further promote such of research achievements related to reducing diesel collaboration. In particular, the test methods used to exhaust emissions (FY2005). measure engine emissions are changing, and in recent years, so-called transient tests, in which measurements are conducted under the simulated driving conditions of actual roads, have become required. Changes in test motivation. Therefore, I think engineers must have methods require corresponding changes in heated discussions among themselves. measurement systems. We expect that more efficient and easier-to-use measurement systems will be ー Finally, please tell us about your goals and dreams Through this national project, we took part in developing high boost pressure; 3. high-pressure injection; 4. high developed in the future and we would like to share many for the future. a super-clean diesel engine. We set a challenging goal b r a k e m e a n e ffe c ti v e p r e s s u r e ( B M E P) ; a n d 5 . specific requests to make this happen. What is most important in the development of engines of reducing NOx emission to one-twentieth of the level wide-range and high rate of EGR. More specifically, by from the viewpoint of mechanical engineering is stipulated by the emission standards at the time (2002) combining cutting-edge technologies, “turbo inter-cooler Intensive Discussions are the Source of Innovation improving thermal efficiency. Therefore, I have no and the amount of PM contained in diesel smoke to one systems” and “wide-range and high rate of EGR”, we doubts that diesel engines will continue to be twenty-fifth of the level stipulated in the standards. attempted to reduce both NOx and PM simultaneously. ー You have been engaged in R&D on diesel engines mainstream internal-combustion engines. In addition to These figures are far below the levels of the subsequent Fortunately, our project led to a variety of achievements for a long time. Is there anything that you regard to be hybrid systems, there are also many related emission standards, and it was a challenge comparable that are currently being commercialized by automobile particularly important in your research? technologies that draw my interest, such as turbo to climbing an unexplored mountain. manufacturers today. Generally speaking, mechanisms that show outstanding compound technology as well as Rankine cycle systems performance in some limited aspects, while having and thermoelectric elements which convert waste heat ー Could you outline the background of your R&D ー In your R&D efforts, you use various analytical and problems in other points are rarely accepted in practice. into power or electricity. So, I will continue to engage project and the technological challenges concerning measurement devices. How do your engineers view Therefore, diesel engines that are focused only on in R&D in order to further improve thermal efficiency. your research? such devices? reducing NOx emission are not of much use. It is also Some researchers in Europe who love cars tell me that In short, the cleaner exhaust gas is, the better it is for They are absolutely necessary tools. The mutually necessary to reduce the amount of PM as well as to once you drive a diesel car, you can’ t leave it. The the global environment. That is the reason we started supportive relationship between an engineer and his or achieve high levels of performance in terms of thermal greatest charm of a diesel car is its high engine our R&D project—we thought that it was a good her equipment is similar to that of the relationship of a efficiency. To commercialize a diesel engine, it is performance, which has outstanding acceleration at low opportunity to expand Japan’s technologies globally as married couple. necessary to strike a balance between these different speeds. Noise levels have also greatly improved regulations would continue to become more stringent At our company, we use a variety of measurement factors. Basically, technologies are developed to be compared to older models. I hope we can contribute to demanding in countries around the world. devices in order to evaluate diverse parameters, utilized in some way. Therefore, technologies show their the development of future environmentally friendly cars Actually, reducing diesel emissions faces a trade-off including those of emissions, fuel efficiency and engine value when they are practically utilized. In sum, we by further reducing emissions using our technologies. between NOx reduction and PM reduction, Combustion performance. We perform measurements to prove our emphasize the importance of overall consistency and at higher temperatures generates more NOx, while theories and hypotheses through experiments. For applicability in R&D. Also, my personal research style combustion at lower temperatures generates more PM. example, that was certainly the case with our R&D on cherishes the power of focusing. By nature, I tend to Allow me to speak a bit about the technical details. In a new EGR system. Theoretically, the diesel engine absorb myself in my work. My friends often tell me that I our R&D on super-clean diesel engines, we defined the that we produced was designed to reduce NOx am stubborn because I pursue my interest or whatever following targets related to combustion: 1. lean burn; 2. emission to less than one-tenth of the conventional inspired me until I’m fully satisfied, with no compromise. Dr. Yuzo Aoyagi level, a truly epoch-making achievement. However, ー If you are stubborn, perhaps you have many Counsel andex-President, New A.C.E. what is important is not the NOx emission such an Institute Co., Ltd. engine can theoretically reduce but to what extent the disagreements with others. Doctor of Engineering diesel emissions can actually be made cleaner. Yes, I often do (laughs). When starting a large project, I After graduating from the Tokyo Institute of Technology in 1971, Dr. Therefore, it is always necessary to conduct always ask all members to share the thoughts and Aoyagi joined Hino Motors, Ltd., where in the Engine Research Department he engaged in R&D on technologies for reducing experiments to measure emitted gas components. In thoroughly discuss the project. Though these pollutants in emission and fuel consumption for heavy duty diesel our experiment, the measurements conformed exactly discussions may sound like quarrels to outsiders, we engines. Dr. Aoyagi completed his education at the Graduate School to our expectations, so I was extremely pleased with cannot achieve truly satisfactory results without sharing of the Tokyo Institute of Technology in 1980. In October 1998, he was appointed as Managing Director and General Manager of the the results. honest opinions. I have an impression that today’ s Research Department at New A.C.E. Institute Co., Ltd. and was Measurement devices are rarely spotlighted in R&D, but young people tend to avoid having arguments or CEO and President from 2011 to 2013. Now he has been in his current position since June 2013 . In 1982, he received the Technical as I said earlier, they are our invaluable tools and confrontations with others. However, while expressing Paper Award of the Japan Society of Mechanical Engineers. In 2006 measurement results sometimes lead to even new our opinions to one another, we often not only discover and 2007, he also received the Best Paper Award by the Society of ◀A n a l y t i c a l a n d development concepts. I believe the emission new problems, but also develop confidence in each Automotive Engineers of Japan. Dr. Aoyagi is a fellow of the Society of Automotive engineers of Japan, the Japan Society of Mechanical measurement devices measurement system installed in our company is the other. It is impossible to achieve the world’ s highest Engineers fellow and also an SAE fellow. are invaluable tools in reserch. best in the world for diesel engine R&D. level of performance without extremely strong 11 12 CSR Promotion System Promoting CSR activities The HORIBA Group formed the HORIBA CSR Promotion Committee in April 2005. The Committee is currently engaged in CSR initiatives with the full-fledged support of Group companies in Japan. It determines CSR policies and priority challenges for all Group companies. Committee members try hard to keep everyone at each workplace informed about the deliberation, decisions and approvals made at the meetings, through their respective CSR CSR promotion and management systems that exceed public expectations Promotion Committees. HORIBA CSR Promotion Committee We promote CSR activities that respect the circumstances of each of our stakeholders and that contribute to the HORIBA, Ltd. HORIBA STEC, Co., Ltd. HORIBA Techno Service Co., Ltd. HORIBA Advanced Techno Co., Ltd. creation of a sustainable society and a prosperous future through providing high-quality products and services. CSR Promotion Committee CSR Promotion Committee CSR Promotion Committee CSR Promotion Committee Therefore, together with creating and maintaining a company structure with higher performance, we strive for strict business ethics that complies with laws, our company contract and other social norms. Compliance Committee Compliance Committee Compliance Committee Compliance Committee CSR Promotion ■ Deliberations on how to implement policies and issues adopted by the HORIBA Group’ s CSR Committee Promotion Committee Basis for Management ■ Social action work in the areas of education, environmental protection and contributing back to local communities Compliance ■ Compliance-related awareness building as well as prevention,early detection and advice on Creating and maintaining a company structure with higher performance, Committee correcting illegal acts alongside strict compliance with business ethics WEB A ■ Internal reporting systems (external lawyer consultation services, internal e-mail reporting system, etc.) ■ Provision of compliance-related seminars for employees in managerial positions C S R HORIBA, Ltd. signed the United Nations Global Compact Corporate Governance / Internal Controls P r o m o t i n g The HORIBA Group is a registered participant in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), The Ten Principles of By upholding the basic principles of open and fair, HORIBA, Ltd. is striving to maximize managerial transparency and which is a strategic policy initiative with ten the United Nations Global Compact corporate value. We have put the following organizations and systems in place to promote corporate governance and universally accepted principles in the areas of internal controls: Principle1 Businesses should support and respect the protection human rights, labor, the environment and Human of internationally proclaimed human rights; and External directors improve the quality and transparency of management decision making and anti-corruption. Rights Principle2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights External directors enhance the function for monitoring business operations. In the HORIBA Corporate Philosophy, the Code abuses. Board of Auditors Three auditors (including two outside auditors) supervise and monitor the business operations of Ethics, and the Integrated Management Principle3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association conducted by the Board of Directors. System, the HORIBA Group defines rules to and the effective recognition of the right to collective be observed while carrying out corporate bargaining; Independent directors Three external executives are designated as independent directors as specified by the securities activities that comply with the ten UNGC Labour Principle4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory exchange. labour; principles. The HORIBA Group is working to Internal auditing The Internal Auditing Division provides advice and guidance to ensure that business operations Principle5 the effective abolition of child labour; and spontaneously observing these principles in its throughout all HORIBA Group companies are conducted legally and fairly in accordance with Principle6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of corporate activities. In 2012, we implemented employment and occupation. laws, statutes and company regulations. specific measures to collect information on Internal controls We have adopted the Basic Policies for the Development of Internal Control Systems to establish Principle7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach our overseas subsidiaries’ CSR initiatives. to environmental challenges; systems to ensure legal compliance and for risk management. Each year we continue to step up our efforts to Environment Principle8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental grow as a global company needed by society. responsibility; and Integrated Management System (IMS) Principle9 e n c o u r a g e t h e d e v e l o p m e n t a n d d i f f u s i o n o f environmentally friendly technologies. AntiPrinciple10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its Corruption forms, including extortion and bribery. In April 2011, the Japan Quality Assurance Organization (JQA) granted the JQA Integrated Management System Certification (JQA-IG0001-07) to the HORIBA Medical Group in the group IMS* category. We are aiming to have our major overseas ISO13485 Quality HORIBA CSR Policy production bases obtain accreditation for ISO9001 (quality) and ISO14001 (environmental) standards. ISO9001 In addition, the Kyoto Application Center of HORIBA, Ltd. was approved by the Promoting CSR through operations Japan Accreditation Board as a test station for ISO/IEC 17025:2005 (RTL00880) IMS Occupational Based on our commitments in the field of energy, human health, the environment and safety, (chemical testing) in June 2001. Also the CS of the HQ at HORIBA Techno Service Environment health & We will pursue corporate initiatives to contribute to the realization of a “ life of content for all.” ISO14001 Co., Ltd., one of our group companies, was accredited by the National Institute of safety OHSAS18001 Technology and Evaluation as a CAB for ISO/IEC 17025:2005 (ASNITE 0033C) Top issues for 2012 Calibration of Emission Test Facilities in August 2009. HORIBA PREMIUM: Create First Class Value 1. Enhance communication with stakeholders 2. Achieve IMS* targets *environmental Integrated Management System (IMS) is a management system that integrates the ISO9001 quality standard, the ISO14001 standard and the occupational health and safety certification OHSAS18001. HORIBA, Ltd. and HORIBA STEC Co., Ltd. 3. Adhere to compliance * See page 14. employ IMS in combination with the ISO13485 quality management system for medical devices. 13 14 Overview of CSR activities Detailed data on our CSR activities is available on our website. CSR activities through daily business operations http: // www. horiba.com / gaiarepor t / HORIBA Gaiareport Search Global Compact Location Theme Name of activity Activities and policies Major activities Related company rules on the Principles website Working Together Improvement in We always provide high-quality products and appropriate Design review, enhanced design change control, evaluation of new ■ Corporate Philosophy : customer satisfaction services in a timely manner in order to increase customer products, reliability evaluation of components, satisfactory responses Customer Responsiveness with Our Customers Ad satisfaction and earn our customers’ trust. We also work to customer’s inquiries, after sales service by HORIBA Techno Service ■ Code of Ethics: to contribute to society through fair, free market price Co., Ltd., internal technical exhibitions, Craftsmanship competition, Behavioral Criteria 3, 4 and 6 B competition. PQI competition, business operation improvement activities ■ IMS Policy 1 and 2 Working Together Responsibility to We appropriately distribute profits to our owners Executive-lead financial briefings for institutional ■ Corporate Philosophy : owners and investors (shareholders) and periodically report on our management investors, visits to overseas investors (Europe, North Responsibility to Shareholders and with Our Owners status to investors and stakeholders in order to maintain America and Asia) by executives, briefings via conference Investors C management transparency. calls, interviews, briefing sessions for investors at ■ Code of Ethics: s t a k e h o l d e r s exhibitions, briefings for individual investors Behavioral Criteria 14 Working Together Establishment of We maintain relationships of trust with our suppliers and learn HORIBA Group meetings with production partner 5, 8, 10 ■ Code of Ethics: Code of Conduct 3 partnerships with from each other based on the awareness that our activities companies, product workshops, factory tours, quality ■ Code of Ethics: with Our Suppliers would be impossible to carry out without their cooperation and study sessions, Craftsmanship competition, QC activity D production partner Behavioral Criteria 2, 11 and 16 companies support. conferences, improvement activity report sessions, ■ IMS Policy 2 technological study sessions Working Together Respect for employees’ We consider each employee an invaluable asset and respect their Promotion of managers regardless of gender, Reduced Working Time 1, 2, 3, 4, ■ Corporate Philosophy : Employees human rights, personalities and individuality. We actively maintain communication System, Work from Home System, employment of new graduates with ■ Code of Ethics: Code of Conduct 4 with Our Employees with employees and create opportunities for education to develop foreign citizenship, employment of disabled people, overseas training 5, 6 Ea personalities and o u r ■ Code of Ethics: individuality each individual’s potential to the maximum possible extent. We also opportunities, workplace visiting day for employees’ families, support for Behavioral Criteria 18 and 19 provide an open and fair working environment. the development of society’s next generation, employee birthday parties Assurance of safety, We give the highest priority to human safety and health in all Workplace safety patrols by executives, establishment of the Corporate Philosophy : Employees W i t h ■ health and comfortable of our business activities and take an active part in raising Health Management Office, medical examinations and health ■ Code of Ethics: Code of Conduct 4 work environments for each employee’ s awareness of safety and health issues in guidance services, seminars by obstetricians, promotion of local ■ Code of Ethics: Eb employees order to promote physical and mental health. food dishes at company cafeterias, safety and crime prevention Behavioral Criteria 20 and 21 workshops, training by in-company fire-fighting teams ■ IMS Policy 3 Working Together Prevention and We abide by all environmental laws and regulations and strive Promotion of environmental monitoring systems and devices 7, 8 ■ Code of Ethics: Code of Conduct 7 alleviation of to the utmost to improve and protect the environment by for R&D on new materials, new energy sources, and ■ Code of Ethics : with Society setting internal control standards based on our integrated next-generation vehicles; initiatives for resources and energy Fa environmental Behavioral Criteria 13 and 14 problems management system. Further, we work to obtain the best conservation in production; wastewater monitoring; proper ■ IMS Policy 2 environmental conservation systems. management of chemical substances; waste reduction Eco-Design Products In order to provide society with products that are designed to be Eco-Design evaluation (in terms of weight, longevity, ease 9 ■ Code of Ethics: Code of Conduct 7 environmentally friendly throughout their life cycles in terms of longevity, of recycling, ease of dismantling, ease of processing, ■ IMS Policy 2 energy-saving, ease of recycling, ease of dismantling and ease of processing, environmental friendliness energy saving and Fb we certify products that meet our in-house standards as “Eco-Design information provision) products” and apply these standards when developing new products. Dialogs with local We serve as a responsible corporate citizen by performing an School visits to offer classes on environmental issues, ■ Code of Ethics: Code of Conduct 6 communities active and independent role in closely communicating, participation in local events, acceptance of interns, local collaborating, and cooperating with local communities. environmental conservation activities, support for Fc recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake, charity activities, inspection of trash collected around the office Unique corporate We demonstrate leadership in promoting the development of Corporate advertisements; Gaiapress, an informational ■ Code of Ethics: messages the analysis and measurement industry. Also, from our unique website on the environment, nature, space, and science Code of Conduct 5, 6 and 7 perspective as an analysis and measurement equipment ■ Code of Ethics: Fd manufacturer, we provide the public at large with messages Behavioral Criteria 6, 13 and 14 that stimulate interest in analysis and the global environment. ■ IMS Policy 2 15 16 Major activities in 2012 Working Together with Our Owners “Joy and Fun,” the precept of HORIBA’s CSR activities Responsibility to owners and investors WEB C Activities and We appropriately distribute profits to our owners (shareholders) and periodically report on our policies management status to investors and stakeholders in order to maintain management Staying true to our company motto, “Joy and Fun,” we are striving to create an open and fair corporate culture. transparency. We aim to form closer partnerships with our stakeholders and improve our CSR activities. Action In order to maintain two-way communication with our owners, we provide detailed information about HORIBA’s management philosophy, strategies and achievements and conduct more than Detailed data on our CSR activities is available on our website. 300 interviews with investors each year in addition to product briefings at exhibitions. In 2011, HORIBA was awarded the “Best IR Award” by the Japan Investor Relations Association. In 2012, in an effort to promote IR activities that meet investors’ changing needs as the percentage of http: // www. horiba.com / gaiarepor t / overseas investors continues to increase, we conducted executive-level financial briefings for institutional investors as well as briefing sessions for investors at major exhibutions in Japan, and HOR I BA Gaiareport Search our president visited overseas investors in the United States and the United Kingdom. Major activities ■ Executive-lead financial briefings for institutional investors ■ Visits to overseas investors (Europe, North America and Asia) by executives s t a k e h o l d e r s ■ Briefings via conference calls ■ Interviews ■ Briefing sessions for investors at exhibitions ■ Briefings for individual investors Working Together with Our Customers TOPICS Change in the dividend policy: A policy of returning profits based on consolidated profits Until the fiscal year ended on December 31, 2012, we had a dividend policy of returning 30% of non-consolidated net income of HORIBA, Ltd. to owners. Starting from the fiscal year that ended on Improvement in customer satisfaction WEB A -d, B December 31, 2013, due to the expansion of our business and an increase in profitability of our group companies, we revised our dividend policy. The new target is to provide a total shareholder return (dividend Activities and payments plus share buybacks) of 30% of consolidated net income. We always provide high-quality products and appropriate services in a timely manner in order to policies o u r increase customer satisfaction and earn our customers’ trust. We also work to contribute to society through fair and free market price competition. Action Placing high priority on improving quality, we conducted design reviews during the design stage, W i t h enhanced change control, and performed on-site assessments of new products as well as reliability evaluation of components with the aim of providing customers with products that meet their needs. We also worked to reduce quality costs (those of prevention, evaluation and loss) to strike a balance Working Together with Our Suppliers between different cost components. In addition, in the processes of design, production, and purchasing, we exchanged information with our production partner companies in order to reduce the number of faulty products. Establishment of partnerships with production partner companies WEB D Major activities ■ Design review ■ Enhanced design change control ■ Evaluation of new products Global Compact Principles In our Code of Ethics, we state that we will engage in fair, transparent, and free market competition and ■ Reliability evaluation of components ■ Satisfactory responses to customer’s inquiries ＞＞ 5, 8 and 10 strictly forbid unfair business transactions. We also work with our suppliers and production partner ■ After sales service by HORIBA Techno Service Co., Ltd., companies to realize appropriate use of chemicals in compliance with global environmental regulations. ■ Internal technical exhibitions ■ Craftsmanship competition ■ PQI* competition Activities and We maintain relationships of trust with our suppliers and learn from each other based on the ■ Business operation improvement activities * Product Quality Improvement policies awareness that our activities would be impossible to carry out without all their cooperation and support. Action When purchasing parts, materials, or equipment, we observe Japanese and foreign laws and TOPICS Opening sales and service sites in Fukushima regulations as well as social codes. When choosing suppliers, we make objective assessments Since the occurrence of the Great East Japan Earthquake, local based on indicators of quality, prices, delivery, environmental friendliness, and CSR activities in governments and other organizations have been using HORIBA’ s order to ensure fair and free market transactions. We also implement purchasing policies that PA-series environmental radiation monitors to monitor radiation place high priority on ensuring compliance and reducing environmental burdens such as and verify decontamination. In March 2013, we opened a sales exchanging memorandums with our suppliers to elimitate any possible relations with antisocial office and service station in Fukushima Prefecture. The service groups, requesting that they support restrictions on trade of conflict minerals, and recommending station features automatic equipment for helping customers the use of reusable packaging to deliver parts and materials. accurately calibrate their environmental radiation monitors quickly. Major activities HORIBA Group meetings with production partner companies ■ Product workshops We provide full support services to customers so that they can ■ always use their monitors with a sense of security. ■ Factory tours ■ Quality study sessions ■ Craftsmanship competition ■ QC activity conferences ■ Improvement activity report sessions ■ Technological study sessions 17 18 Assurance of safety, health and comfortable work environments TOPICS 55th Anniversary of the HORIBA Group for employees WEB E-b Production Partner Companies’ Association We consider our suppliers to be production partner companies Activities and We give the highest priority to human safety and health in all of our business activities and take with whom we work and grow together. We maintain strong policies an active part in raising each employee’ s awareness of safety and health issues in order to relationships with our materials suppliers as well as assembling promote physical and mental health. companies. The HORIBA Group production partner companies’ Action To help HORIBA employees lead more fulfilling lives as well as to promote the realization of association commemorates its 55th anniversary. We will continue to improve together under the motto of “Achieving co-evolution, comfortable and lively workplaces, HORIBA’ s executives issued the Declaration on the The award ceremony at the 2012 harmony and coexistence.” HORIBA Group meeting with production Promotion of Physical and Mental Health in May 2012. Based on this declaration, a variety of partner companies health and safety initiatives were implemented. Physical and Mental Health Promotion Declaration (May 7, 2012) To stay true to the “Joy and Fun” motto, the HORIBA Group promotes its employees’ physical and mental health in order to help them live fulfilling lives with a sense of purpose in both life and work as well as to realize comfortable and lively workplaces. Working Together with Our Employees Chairman, President & CEO, HORIBA, Ltd. Major activities Workplace safety patrols by executives ■ Establishment of the Health Management Office Respect for employees’ human rights, personalities and individuality WEB E-a ■ ■ Medical examinations and health guidance services ■ Various seminars by safety and health experts s t a k e h o l d e r s Global Compact Principles HORIBA’ s Code of Ethics forbids all forms of discrimination and mandates respect for human rights as well ■ Promotion of local food dishes at company cafeterias ＞＞ 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 as employees’ personalities, individuality, and privacy. Further, we periodically hold meetings with the ■ Safety and crime prevention workshops ■ Training by in-company fire-fighting teams labor union. Activities and We consider each employee an invaluable asset and respect their personalities and individuality. We policies actively maintain communication with employees and create opportunities for education to develop each individual’ s potential to the maximum possible extent. We also provide an open and fair working TOPICS Launching the Physical and Mental Health Promotion Project environment. In response to the executive declaration, we launched the Physical and Mental Health Promotion Action In order to develop the potentials of our employees, we provide various training courses and Project aimed at developing specific action plans. Along with representatives from the health implement personnel systems. We continue to develop our HORIBA COLLEGE initiative, which insurance association and labor union, staff members in charge of occupational health and safety, aims to systematically provide expert training effectively through 270 training courses. In 2012, a health management, and welfare participated in discussions on how to promote physical and mental health in corporate activities from various perspectives, after which health promotion plans were o u r total of more than 2,700 employees participated in such training courses. In 2012, we also sent 19 trainees from companies in Japan to HORIBA Group business sites around the world. Further, in implemented. response to our employees’ changing family situations, we have introduced the Reduced Working W i t h Time System and the Work from Home System as part of our efforts to support our employees in Physical and Mental Health Promotion Action Guidelines (Summary) maintaining and improving their work-life balance. In 2012, 33 women and 5 men took childcare leave at HORIBA Group companies in Japan. We also recruit disabled people and graduates from Promotion of three types of prevention universities outside Japan to support employee diversity. Primary prevention Promotion of physical and mental health / Prevention of illnesses and injuries Secondary prevention Early detection and treatment of illnesses and injuries / Major activities Prevention of the development of serious symptoms ■ Promotion of managers regardless of gender ■ Reduced Working Time System Tertiary prevention Prevention of recurrence of illnesses and injuries after returning to work in order ■ Work from Home System ■ Employment of new graduates with foreign citizenship to minimize disadvantages to employees and their workplaces ■ Employment of disabled people ■ Overseas training opportunities ■ Workplace visiting day for employees’ families Enhancement of four healthcare measures ■ Support for the development of society’s next generation ■ Employee birthday parties Self-care, line care, care by in-company experts and care by outside experts TOPICS Promotion of diversity In order to create a workplace where all employees can work with “Joy and Fun,” we have introduced work systems designed to help employees maintain work-life balance. At the same time, we appoint personnel TOPICS Opening of the HORIBA Farm to different jobs based on standards for evaluating abilities, achievements, commitments, and goal In April 2012, the HORIBA Farm opened in Shiga Prefecture’ s achievement processes in accordance with Takashima City to start organic cultivation of blueberries and our basic personnel management policies, 【 Number and Percentage of Female Managers 】 other seasonal vegetables without the use of chemicals. In which support open and fair competition. No. of female managers % of female managers 2012, a total of 209 HORIBA employees and their families Against the backdrop of our global corporate participated in farming. We will make use of these farming activities, we will continue to employ 4 companies in Japan 8 2.7 % experiences in promoting the physical and mental health of diverse personnel using the percentage 15 major overseas 74 18.0 % employees and their families. In addition, we will serve the companies* of female managers as a key indicator of vegetables and fruits grown and harvested by employees and diversity. * Companies targeted for company-wide internal controls on financial reporting their families in the company cafeterias and training centers. Farming at the HORIBA Farm 19 20 Dialogs with local communities WEB F-c Working Together with Society Activities and policies We serve as a responsible corporate citizen by performing an active and independent role in closely communicating, collaborating, and cooperating with local communities. Major activities ■ School visits to offer classes on environmental issues ■ Participation in local events Prevention and alleviation of environmental problems WEB F-a ■ Acceptance of interns ■ Local environmental conservation activities ■ Support for recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake ■ Charity activities Global Compact Principles Based on the recognition that environmental initiatives are an essential requirement for validating the ■ Inspection of trash collected around the office ＞＞ 7 and 8 existence and activities of companies, as stated in our Code of Ethics, we are taking independent, proactive actions aimed at environmental conservation. Further, as part of our integrated management system, we have established a mechanism that is designed to contribute to reducing environmental impact, including by maintaining environmental impact balance as well as by minimizing energy consumption and waste. TOPICS Donations for Hurricane Sandy victims Activities and We abide by all environmental laws and regulations and strive to the utmost to improve and protect New Jersey, one of the states of the United States, was policies devastated by Hurricane Sandy, one of the largest hurricanes ever the environment by setting internal control standards based on our integrated management system. Further, we work to obtain the best environmental conservation systems. recorded, which struck the southern part of the state on October Action 29, 2012. At HORIBA Instruments Incorporated in New Jersey, Under our integrated management system policies, we promoted the construction of safe, high-efficiency some employees’ company housing and automobiles were clean factories and developed energy and resource conservation activities with the aim of contributing to damaged by flooding. HORIBA Group companies in Japan asked protecting the global environment. In 2012, some HORIBA Group companies expanded their offices, their employees for donations to support those affected by the Ms. Mary Pat Christie, Hurricane Sandy greatly increasing the group’s environmental impact. Nevertheless, our electricity consumption in Japan hurricane and donated a total of $40,000 USD to the Hurricane Relief Fund Chairperson (middle), and increased by only 3%, while our gas consumption decreased by 5%. The group’s consumption of HORIBA representatives Sandy New Jersey Relief Fund. (at the appreciation ceremony held in resources, including metal and packaging materials, decreased compared to the previous year. April 2013) s t a k e h o l d e r s Major activities ■ Promotion of environmental monitoring systems and devices for R&D on new materials, new energy sources, and next-generation vehicles ■ Initiatives for resources and energy conservation in production ■ Wastewater monitoring ■ Proper management of chemical substances ■ Waste reduction Unique corporate messages WEB F-d Activities and We demonstrate leadership in promoting the development of the analysis and measurement policies industry. Also, from our unique perspective as an analysis and measurement equipment manufacturer, we provide the public at large with messages that stimulate interest in analysis and Eco-Design Products WEB F-b the global environment. Major activities ■ Corporate advertisements o u r Global Compact Principles Our Code of Ethics mandates that we contribute to improving the lives of people around the world and to ＞＞ 9 protecting the global environment. To this end, we are striving to promote the use of new materials, new energy ■ Gaiapress, an informational website on the environment, nature, space, and science sources, and equipment for developing next-generation vehicles and environmental monitoring systems. Activities and In order to provide society with products that are designed to be environmentally friendly throughout W i t h policies TOPICS HORIBA’s calendar awarded the their life cycles in terms of longevity, energy-saving, ease of recycling, ease of dismantling and ease of processing, we certify products that meet our in-house standards as “Eco-Design products” and Excellent Calendar Award at the International apply these standards when developing new products. Calendar Show, the world’s most prestigious Action The HORIBA Group’ s products are designed to minimize environmental impact throughout all stages calendar exhibition of their development, from parts selection to packaging. New products developed in 2012 (12 products At HORIBA, we believe that corporate calendars are a type of developed by HORIBA, Ltd., 8 products developed by HORIBA STEC Co., Ltd., and 5 products 365-day media. Based on the belief that thinking about the Earth’s developed by HORIBA Advanced Techno Co., Ltd.) were registered as Eco-Design products. diverse ecosystems significantly contributes to genuine Major activities ■ Eco-Design evaluation (in terms of weight, longevity, ease of recycling, ease of dismantling, environmental conservation, each year we make an original ease of processing , environmental friendliness energy saving and information provision) calendar focused on a specific theme that contains unique pictures of animals and plants for each of the 365 days of the year. At the 63rd International Calendar Show held in Stuttgart (Germany), HORIBA’s 2013 calendar, Admiration for Wings, was TOPICS HORIBA’s portable gas analyzer received a Nikkei Global Environmental Technology Award chosen to receive the first Excellent Calendar Award from among The winners of the 22nd Nikkei Global Environmental Technology approximately 1,000 calendars that had been evaluated highly in Awards were announced and HORIBA’ s PG-300 portable gas analyzer countries around the world. HORIBA’ s calendar was also awarded received the Outstanding Product Award. HORIBA’ s the Gold Prize and the Special Prize at the 64th National Calendar 2013 HORIBA calendar, PG-300, a compact gas analyzer that can be carried Exhibition as well as the 34th Japan BtoB Advertisement Award “Admiration for Wings ” around in power plants and factories, enables users Gold Prize. to easily measure concentrations of five gases that are common pollutants, including nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulfur dioxide (SO 2 ), using a single device. It also weighs 20% less than conventional Detailed data on our CSR activities is available on our website. models and requires less power. Portable gas analyzer Nikkei Global Environmental Technology http: // www. horiba.com / gaiarepor t / Awards Ceremony (November 7, 2012) HORIBA Gaiareport Search 21 22 What is the Gaiareport? According to Greek mythology, Gaia is the maternal goddess of the Earth who ensures t hat t h e p l an e t t hr i ve s an d is c ap ab l e o f cl eansin g i t s e l f. T h e H O R IBA G ro u p, a manufacturer of analytical and environmental measuring instruments, contributes to the advancement of a sustainable society through our analy tical and measurement business. To express this determination, we have named our CSR communications media Gaiap ress (our website) an d Gaiarep or t (th e C SR rep or t). At HORIBA , we remain committed to the global environment by focusing on environmental measurements. See our data resources on the Web for more information Detailed information about our CSR activities appears on the Web, making its access easier and more convenient. Searching for the subject you are interested in is made easy by using keywords or categories to take you to the web page where the relevant information is available. For more information, access our data resources on the Web! HORIBA Gaiareport 検索 HORIBA, Ltd. The new Gaiareport 2, Miyanohigashi-cho, Kisshoin, Minami-ku, significantly reduced paper use Kyoto 601-8510, Japan TEL: (81) 75-313-8121 From 2009 on, the Gaiareport is in leaflet and online FAX: (81) 75-321-6621 formats, signif icantly reducing the use of paper URL: http://www.horiba.com compared to the previous booklet format. The essence of *Please direct all inquiries to HORIBA’s CSR activities focuses on the hope that our the Corporate Communications Office. Gaiareport will be read by as many people as possible. ●Relevant websites Environmental protection initiatives  http://www.horiba.com/social-responsibility/ Investor relations  http://www.horiba.com/investor-relations/ Gaiapress  http://gaiapress.horiba.com/en/ This is printed on FSC-certiﬁed paper using wood from “responsibly managed forests” and is also Lake Biwa Ecological Paper, part of the cost of which is donated to an environmental charity working to protect the environment of Lake Biwa. Also, it was printed with soy-based vegetable ink, using a waterless printing process that does not produce hazardous liquid waste. Moreover, we oﬀset carbon dioxide emissions from the production process through the COJ (CARBON OFFSET JAPAN). Catalogue No. HRE-0060C Printed in Japan TM-N(EI)23
