GRI Index | Life Technologies Customer Service 800 955 6288 Quick Order Sign In to Your Account Cart 0 Products & Services New Ideas Communities & Social Technical Resources About Us Home > About Us > Sustainability > GRI Index Sustainability GRI Index Transforming Science Revolutionizing our Value Chain Reporting Strategy and Profile for Life Technologies Engaging Stakeholders 2012 marked the fourth year that Life Technologies reported global citizenship and sustainability milestones following the Generation 3 (G3) GRI Index guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) . This year, we again reported to Level B self-declared while transitioning to a Our Progress web-based presentation of our full annual data. We are once again providing key highlights via an abbreviated, printed companion piece as well. New this year is a mobile application (coming soon!) to enable stakeholders to browse our sustainability reporting on their iPad or tablet. Our aim in choosing these formats is to provide the best possible access to information for our stakeholders, most of whom access this material via our website. We hope you will enjoy this more dynamic and data-rich reporting format. Through this report, we intend to convey how we sustainably conduct our business, since living as a global citizen is at the core of our company's purpose. We look forward to developing a dialogue with our stakeholders and welcome your feedback. Profile Disclosures Economic Environment Labor Human Rights Society Product Responsibility Profile Disclosures GRI Indicator Response Link 1.1 Statement from company View our CEO message CEO Message leadership 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and This information is available in our Annual Report opportunities. Annual Report. 2.1 Name of the organization Life Technologies 2.2 Primary brands, products, and View our Company Facts Company Facts services 2.3 Operational structure of the View our Annual Report Annual Report organization 2.4 Location of headquarters Carlsbad, California 2.5 Countries of operation View our Company Facts Company Facts 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal Life Technologies is listed on the form NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol LIFE. 2.7 Markets served View our Company Facts Company Facts http://www.lifetechnologies.com/global/en/home/about-us/sustainability/gri-index.html?CID=fl-gri[6/11/2013 12:04:03 PM] GRI Index | Life Technologies 2.8 Scale of the reporting View our Company Facts and Company Facts organization Annual Report Annual Report 2.9 Significant changes during the View our Annual Report Annual Report reporting period 2.10 Awards received in the reporting View our Awards and Recognition Awards & Recognition period 3.1 Reporting period Calendar year 2012 3.2 Date of most recent previous Previous report covered calendar Leading Forward: Our report year 2011 and was released in Sustainability Roadmap 2012 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual 3.4 Contact for questions regarding Meredith Raymond sustainability@lifetech.com this report 3.5 Process for defining report Visit the sustainability section of our Sustainability Homepage content website 3.6 Boundary of the report View About This Report About This Report 3.7 Limitations on the scope or View About This Report About This Report boundary of the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on entities View About This Report About This Report that affect comparability across For additional information, view our reports Annual Report Annual Report 3.9 Data measurement techniques We have applied GRI principles and and the bases of calculations protocols in the preparation of this report where applicable to the nature of our business practices and reporting policies. 3.10 Explanation of corrections to View About This Report About This Report earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes from previous No significant changes reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods 3.12 GRI index This is the table of Standard Click here to go to the top of Disclosures. this page 3.13 External assurance for the report Our green marketing and Zero About This Report Waste initiatives have been externally assured. 4.1 Governance structure of the View our Board of Directors Board of Directors organization 4.2 Is the Chair of the highest Gregory T. Lucier is the Chief Board of Directors governance body also an Executive Officer and Chairman of executive officer and, if so, why? the Board at Life Technologies. 4.3 Number of Board members that View our Corporate Governance Corporate Governance are non-executives 4.4 Mechanisms to provide View our Corporate Governance Corporate Governance recommendations to the highest governance body http://www.lifetechnologies.com/global/en/home/about-us/sustainability/gri-index.html?CID=fl-gri[6/11/2013 12:04:03 PM] GRI Index | Life Technologies 4.5 Executive compensation linkage View our Corporate Governance Corporate Governance with performance 4.6 Conflict of interest avoidance View our Corporate Governance Corporate Governance 4.7 Qualification of Board members View our Corporate Governance Corporate Governance 4.8 Values statement, code of View our Protocol conduct Life Technologies Protocol 4.9 Board procedures for overseeing View About This Report About This Report economic, environmental, and social performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the View our Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Board’s own performance 4.11 Addressing the Precautionary View our Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Principle 4.12 Endorsement of externally View our Partnerships Partnerships developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives 4.13 Association memberships View our Associations Associations 4.14 Stakeholder groups engaged We report this information in the Engaging Stakeholders Engaging Stakeholders section of our website. 4.15 Basis for identification and We report this information in the Engaging Stakeholders selection of stakeholders with Engaging Stakeholders section of whom to engage our website. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder We report this information in the Engaging Stakeholders engagement Engaging Stakeholders section of our website. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that We report this information in the Engaging Stakeholders have been raised Engaging Stakeholders section of our website. Economic UNGC GRI Indicator Principle(s) Response Reference(s) EC1 Economic value Our direct economic Our Progress generated and distributed indicators are reported on Our Progress; for the Annual Report remainder, view our Annual Report. EC2 Financial implications of 7: actions We report our physical, Carbon Disclosure climate change operating, and financial Project risks pertaining to climate change as part of our Carbon Disclosure Project submission. EC3 Defined employee benefit View our Annual Report Annual Report plan obligations EC4 Government financial We do not receive any Annual Report assistance significant financial http://www.lifetechnologies.com/global/en/home/about-us/sustainability/gri-index.html?CID=fl-gri[6/11/2013 12:04:03 PM] GRI Index | Life Technologies assistance. EC5 Entry level wages 1: outcomes We do not currently report this information. EC6 Local spending on We select our suppliers supplies based on quality, delivery, cost, and service. We are committed to sourcing from diverse and small businesses, however we do not track our spend with locally-based suppliers. EC7 Local hiring for senior 6: actions and We expect hiring staff to management outcomes provide equal opportunities to all candidates. We do not require that location be factored into hiring decisions. EC8 Investment for public Read more about our Transforming Science benefit impact through our science and visit our Giving Back at Life Giving Back at Life program EC9 Indirect economic impacts Our products have the Transforming Science potential to address some of the most pressing Engaging Stakeholders challenges of the 21st century: clean water and Supplier Data safe food, improved healthcare, protected genetic diversity, and a healthy environment. Our success is linked to the communities in which we live and work our customers, suppliers, and shareholders. Environment UNGC GRI Indicator Principle(s) Response Reference(s) EN1 Materials used by weight 8: outcomes We do not track materials or volume used by weight or volume. EN2 Recycled content 8,9: outcomes Due to the nature of our materials business, we do not use any recycled input materials. EN3 Direct energy consumption 8: outcomes View energy usage data Our Progress in Our Progress EN4 Indirect energy 8: outcomes View our energy usage Our Progress consumption data in Our Progress EN5 Energy saved due to 8,9: outcomes Examples of our energy Energy Reduction Case conservation and energy improvement projects are Studies http://www.lifetechnologies.com/global/en/home/about-us/sustainability/gri-index.html?CID=fl-gri[6/11/2013 12:04:03 PM] GRI Index | Life Technologies efficiency available in our Energy Reduction case studies Carbon Disclosure and in our Carbon Project Disclosure Project submission. Conservation Our Progress results are summarized in Our Progress. EN6 Energy-efficient or 8,9: actions As part of our Greener Greener Product renewable energy based Product Alternatives Alternatives products and services program, we strive to improve the energy Customers efficiency of our instrument product lines. Biofuels UL Environment validates our energy efficiency claims. In addition, we develop tools and equipment to accelerate viable renewable energy solutions. EN7 Indirect energy reduction 8,9: actions Examples of our indirect Energy Reduction Case energy consumption Studies improvement projects are available in our Energy Carbon Disclosure Reduction case studies Project and in our Carbon Disclosure Project Our Progress submission. Conservation results are summarized in Our Progress. EN8 Water withdrawal 8: outcomes All of our water is drawn Our Progress from municipal sources. View our water usage data in Our Progress. EN9 Water sources, habitats 8: outcomes All of our water is drawn Case Studies significantly affected by from municipal sources. water withdrawal Per CDP water guidance, CDP Water we do not believe we significantly affect any water sources, but continue to work to reduce our water consumption. More information is available via our CDP water submission. EN10 Water recycled and 8,9: outcomes We do not have the CDP Water reused information and data to report on this indicator at Case Studies a global level but the information we do capture is reported in our CDP water submission. Our Carlsbad facility provides reuse of wastewater onsite. We also provide examples of our initiatives in our Water Reduction case studies. EN11 Location and size of high 8: outcomes We do not currently report biodiversity land this information. EN12 Significant impacts on 8: outcomes We do not report this as it http://www.lifetechnologies.com/global/en/home/about-us/sustainability/gri-index.html?CID=fl-gri[6/11/2013 12:04:03 PM] GRI Index | Life Technologies protected areas is not material to our business. EN13 Habitats protected or 8: outcomes We do not currently report restored this information. EN14 Programs to manage 8: actions We discuss this Biodiversity impacts on biodiversity information as part of our contributions to science. EN15 IUCN Red List species 8: outcomes We do not currently report and national conservation this information. list species with habitats in areas affected by operations EN16 Greenhouse gas (GHG) 8: outcomes View emissions data in Our Progress emissions Our Progress. Additional information can be found Carbon Disclosure in our CDP submission. Project EN17 Other relevant indirect 8: outcomes We are developing our Carbon Disclosure GHG emissions strategic response to Project address our Scope 3 emissions, according to the GHG Protocol. Currently, we report our business travel and downstream transport emissions via our CDP submission. EN18 Initiatives to reduce GHG 7,8,9: actions We provide examples of Energy Reduction Case emissions initiatives that have led to Studies energy savings and GHG emissions reductions in Carbon Disclosure Project our eco-efficiency case studies. We also provide a list of energy-related projects via our CDP submission. EN19 Ozone-depleting 8: outcomes We discuss this Carbon Disclosure Project emissions information via our CDP submission. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other 8: outcomes This information is not significant air emissions relevant to our business since such emissions are related to energy production. We primarily source energy from external suppliers and the energy we do produce is via low-carbon installations. EN21 Water discharge 8: outcomes We do not currently report this information. EN22 Waste by type and 8: outcomes View waste generation Our Progress disposal method data in Our Progress. We also provide examples of Zero Waste case studies waste reduction efforts in our Zero Waste case studies. Our sites that have achieved zero waste certification have http://www.lifetechnologies.com/global/en/home/about-us/sustainability/gri-index.html?CID=fl-gri[6/11/2013 12:04:03 PM] GRI Index | Life Technologies externally validated waste data for landfill and recycling. EN23 Significant spills 8: outcomes Life Technologies did not Our Progress have any significant spills to report in 2012. View health & safety data in Our Progress EN24 Hazardous waste 8: outcomes We do not ship any hazardous waste internationally. EN25 Water discharge impacts 8: outcomes We do not currently report this information. EN26 Environmental impact 7, 8, 9: actions We discuss this Greener Product mitigation for products and information in our Greener Alternatives services Product Alternatives and Product Stewardship Product Stewardship pages. EN27 Recycled products and 8, 9: outcomes Some of our products Closing the Loop packaging include recyclable components or packaging Product Take-back and we partner with customers to take back and recycle them. More information is available under the Product Stewardship section of our website. EN28 Environmental non8: outcomes View health & safety data Our Progress compliance, incidents, and in Our Progress fines EN29 Impacts of transportation 8: outcomes We do not have sufficient Carbon Disclosure Project data to report globally on our transportation impacts but we do provide the information that is available via our CDP submission. EN30 Environmental protection 7, 8, 9: We do not currently report expenditures outcomes this information as such expenditures and investments are aggregated with our overall operations expenses. Labor Practices UNGC GRI Indicator Principle(s) Response Reference(s) LA1 Workforce composition View our employee data Our Progress in Our Progress LA2 Employee turnover 6: outcomes We report employee Annual Report retention via our Annual Report. LA3 Full-time benefits We are committed to Health and Wellness http://www.lifetechnologies.com/global/en/home/about-us/sustainability/gri-index.html?CID=fl-gri[6/11/2013 12:04:03 PM] GRI Index | Life Technologies offering a complete array of competitive compensation and health, wellness, financial, and supplemental benefits to support our global employee population at every stage of life. More information is available on our Health and Wellness page. LA4 Employees covered by 1, 3: outcomes We report collective Annual Report collective bargaining bargaining via our Annual agreements Report. LA5 Minimum notice 3: outcomes We are compliant with requirements notice periods as required by local laws. LA6 Workforce included in 1: outcomes Management commitment Our Progress health and safety and grassroots employee committees involvement are the Safety at Life Technologies cornerstones of our robust safety culture. View our America's Safest safety committee Companies membership data in Our Progress. In 2012, EHS Today named Life Technologies one of America's Safest Companies. LA7 Employee injury and 1: outcomes View our health and Our Progress illness rate safety data in Our Progress LA8 Education, counseling, 1: actions We provide employees Health and Wellness and prevention programs with education, counseling, and Life Even Better prevention programs LA9 Health and safety topics in 1: actions We do not currently track formal agreements this information at a global level. LA11 Lifelong learning We promote internal and external training programs. LA12 Performance reviews All employees receive an annual performance review. LA13 Employee diversity 1, 6: outcomes View diversity data in Our Our Progress Progress Board of Directors LA14 Remuneration by gender 1, 6: outcomes We do not publicly disclose salary information. LA15 Post-parental leave rates We do not currently track post-parental leave at a global level. http://www.lifetechnologies.com/global/en/home/about-us/sustainability/gri-index.html?CID=fl-gri[6/11/2013 12:04:03 PM] GRI Index | Life Technologies Human Rights UNGC GRI Indicator Principle(s) Response Reference(s) HR1 Human rights clauses in 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6: View our Supply Chain Supply Chain Labor investment agreements outcomes Labor Standards Standards HR2 Suppliers and contractors 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6: In 2012 we began actively Suppliers screened for human rights actions and screening our suppliers on outcomes human and labor rights. We sent our surveys to Tier 1 direct suppliers, who collectively represent 80% of our overall supply chain spend, and added verification questions to our supplier audit checklist for all supplier audits. HR3 Human rights employee 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6: Annual training on our Our Progress training outcomes Protocol--Life Technologies' code of conduct-is required for all employees. While we do not specifically track the number of hours specific to human rights, the general concepts are integrated into our governance practices. View our anti-corruption data in Our Progress for annual completion rates. We also require suppliers, consultants, contractors, agents, and distributors, acting on behalf of Life Technologies, to follow the policies that are applicable to their position or representation. HR4 Discrimination incidents 1, 2, 6: actions Life Technologies does not and outcomes publicly disclose this information. HR5 Operations with freedom 1, 2, 3: actions Life Technologies does not of association risks publicly disclose this information. HR6 Operations with child 1, 2, 5: actions We have not identified any Our Progress labor risks owned operations at significant risk for incidents of child labor. HR7 Operations with forced or 1, 2, 4: actions We have not identified any Our Progress compulsory labor risks owned operations at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor. HR8 Security personnel human 1, 2: outcomes Security personnel acting on rights training behalf of Life Technologies are expected to follow the policies that are applicable to their position. HR9 Indigenous peoples' rights 1, 2: actions and Life Technologies does not http://www.lifetechnologies.com/global/en/home/about-us/sustainability/gri-index.html?CID=fl-gri[6/11/2013 12:04:03 PM] GRI Index | Life Technologies violations outcomes publicly disclose this information. HR10 Operations subject to In 2012 we surveyed Tier 1 human rights reviews direct suppliers that collectively represent 80% of our material spend on human and labor rights. We received a 55% response rate. HR11 Human rights grievances View our human rights data Our Progress in Our Progress Society UNGC GRI Indicator Principle(s) Response Reference(s) SO1 Community impact We assess the environmental EHS Achievement management impacts of our new facilities Program Standards but do not publicly disclose due diligence findings. Our Giving Back at Life EHS Achievement Program and its corresponding audit process hold our facilities accountable for reducing their environmental impacts. In addition, we volunteer our time, share our talents, and donate our resources to the communities where we work and live around the world. SO2 Business units analyzed 10: outcomes View our anti-corruption data Our Progress for corruption risk in Our Progress SO3 Employees anti-corruption 10: outcomes View our anti-corruption data Our Progress training in Our Progress SO4 Actions taken in response 10: actions Life Technologies does not to corruption incidents publicly disclose this information. SO5 Public policy positions 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, View the Public Policy section Public Policy and training 7, 8, 9, 10: of our website actions SO6 Political contributions 10: outcomes Our U.S. political action Federal Election committee (LifePAC) Commission contributes funds donated by Disclosures employees. These contributions are publicly disclosed on the U.S. Federal Election Commission's website. SO7 Non-competitive behavior Life Technologies does not publicly disclose this information. SO8 Non-compliance fines Life Technologies does not publicly disclose this information. SO9 Negative community Life Technologies does not impact from operations publicly disclose this http://www.lifetechnologies.com/global/en/home/about-us/sustainability/gri-index.html?CID=fl-gri[6/11/2013 12:04:03 PM] GRI Index | Life Technologies information. SO10 Managing negative Life Technologies does not community impact publicly disclose this information. Product Responsibility UNGC GRI Indicator Principle(s) Response Reference(s) PR1 Safety assessment and 1: actions and We assess health and safety improvement outcomes impacts at every stage of the life cycle, for all products and services. PR2 Regulatory and voluntary 1: outcomes We are not aware of any Our Progress code incidents incidents of non-compliance. View our product regulation data in Our Progress PR3 Product information 8: actions and Our product information labeling outcomes describes the safe use and handling of our products. We do not describe how the products are sourced. PR4 Product labeling non8: outcomes We are not aware of any Our Progress compliance incidences incidents of non-compliance. View our product regulation data in Our Progress PR5 Customer satisfaction We actively gauge customer Customer Feedback practices satisfaction through direct contact, website feedback boxes, customer site visits, and surveys. We have found a high degree of satisfaction but specific results are not publicly reported. PR6 Marketing regulation Our marketing compliance communications policies and procedures are in accordance with the principles of industry practices. PR7 Marketing and We have not had any communications nonincidents of non-compliance compliance incidences with marketing communication in 2012. PR8 Customer privacy 1: outcomes We are not aware of any breaches breaches of customer privacy or losses of customer data. PR9 Fines for non-compliance View our Annual Report Annual Report About This Report The web-based report is current up to and including 2012 performance data and activities at manufacturing, distribution, sales, service, support, and training facilities worldwide for the period ending December 31, 2012. This report does not address the http://www.lifetechnologies.com/global/en/home/about-us/sustainability/gri-index.html?CID=fl-gri[6/11/2013 12:04:03 PM] GRI Index | Life Technologies performance of our joint ventures, third-party manufacturers, suppliers, or contractors. However, as our commitment to global citizenship evolves we are increasingly holding all suppliers/vendors, partners, and franchises accountable to our policies and procedures concerning safety, health, and sustainability. This report addresses the full range of material economic, environmental, and social impacts of the organization, within the boundary of the report as described in the GRI Index. The basis for reporting on facilities does not significantly affect comparability from period to period. There were no effects of any restatements of information identified in this report. We have also included 2013 information to add clarification to some of the described 2012 activities. External assurance has been employed to verify our Green Product Marketing and Zero Waste certification at the Pleasanton, California; Kingsland Grange, UK; Regensburg, Germany; and Bleiswijk, The Netherlands sites. Our Board of Directors retains the ultimate responsibility for approving policy, strategy, goals and resources for sustainability, including but not limited to the areas of ethics, environment (including climate change), labor and human rights. As part of our performance process, the Board annually reviews the status and progress of key sustainability initiatives. In addition, this report includes communication on our progress toward the principles outlined by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). In 2012, Life Technologies continued our support of the ten principles of UNGC with respect to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. More information on our commitment to these principles | Read more > Meredith Raymond Associate Director, Global Sustainability and Product Stewardship | sustainability@lifetech.com Sustainability highlights: More about our sustainability: 2012 – Sustainability Report GRI Index Our Progress: 2008-2012 Data Awards & Recognition Solutions Guides Ordering Contact Us Life Science Molecular Probes® Handbook eProcurement Email & Phone Clinical Gibco® Cell Culture Basics Supply Center Life/Thermo Fisher Merger Bioproduction Labeling Chemistry Selection Guide Redeem a Quote Human Identification DNA & RNA Selection Guide Website Overview Food Safety Antibodies Selection Guide Animal Health Vectors Selection Guide More Product Selection Guides Terms of Service Privacy Policy Price & Freight Policy © 2013 Life Technologies Corporation. All Rights Reserved. Products By: Title, Brand, Price, Popularity, Best Sellers Product Categories By: Title, Popularity, Our Choices, All-Round Favorites http://www.lifetechnologies.com/global/en/home/about-us/sustainability/gri-index.html?CID=fl-gri[6/11/2013 12:04:03 PM]
