COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) LANDELL CONSULTING 9 / 190 Queen Street Melbourne, Victoria, Australia 3000 22 February 2013 INTRODUCTORY REPORTING INFORMATION Name of the Organisation Landell Consulting Country Australia Joining Date 12 December 2009 Organisation Type Small company Sector Primarily government Website www.landell.com.au GRI Reporting Level C C+ B: B+ A A+: Reporting Period February2012 – January 2013 Date of most recent previous report 12 February 2012 Reporting cycle Annual External Assurance Yes No Contact Caroline Gordon Principal, Government and Corporate Social Position Title Responsibility E-mail info@landell.com.au Contact number +61 3 9011 8440 TABLE OF CONTENTS OPEN LETTER OF SUPPORT FROM LANDELL’S MANAGING DIRECTOR 3 1. LANDELL’S MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT 4 2. LANDELL’S ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 4 2.1. ORGANISATIONAL NAME 4 2.2. SERVICES PROVIDED 4 2.3. LANDELL’S ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE / SCALE OF THE ORGANISATION 5 2.4. LOCATION OF THE ORGANISATION’S HEADQUARTERS 5 2.5. NUMBER OF COUNTRIES WHERE THE ORGANISATION OPERATES 5 2.6. NATURE OF OWNERSHIP AND LEGAL FORM 5 2.7. MARKETS SERVED BY THE ORGANISATION 5 2.8. REPORT BOUNDARIES, INCLUDING CLIENTS, SUPPLY CHAIN AND STAKEHOLDERS 5 3. LANDELL’S 2012 CSR INITIATIVES 6 3.1. WORK ON AN INTERNATIONAL AID PROGRAM 6 3.2. PARTNERSHIP WITH THE UNIVERSITY OF MELBOURNE 6 3.3. DEVELOPMENT OF AN EVALUATION AND REPORTING TOOL FOR SOCIAL PROCUREMENT 6 3.4. DEVELOPMENT OF SOCIAL PROCUREMENT VIDEOS 6 3.5. MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNITED NATIONS’ GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK AUSTRALIA 7 3.6. MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNGCNA HUMAN RIGHTS WORKING GROUP FOR BUSINESS 7 3.7. INTERNSHIPS FOR INTERNATIONAL STUDENTS 7 3.8. PARTICIPATION IN THE 2012 MELBOURNE UNGCNA ANTICORRUPTION FORUM 7 3.9. PARTICIPATION IN THE 2012 SOCIAL ENTERPRISE EXPO AND SOFA FORUM 7 3.10. PARTNERSHIP WITH AIESEC (MELBOURNE UNIVERSITY) 8 3.11. WORK PLACEMENT FOR NEWLY-ARRIVED IMMIGRANTS 8 3.12. LANDELL’S INTERNAL CSR INITIATIVES 8 4. LANDELL’S REVIEW OF 2012 INITIATIVES 9 4.1. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR MEASUREMENT CODE 9 4.2. LANDELL’S REVIEW OF ITS 2012 CSR INITIATIVES 10 5. LANDELL’S 2013 CSR INITIATIVES 15 6. COMMUNICATION OF THE COP 15 OPEN LETTER OF SUPPORT FROM LANDELL’S MANAGING DIRECTOR It gives me great pleasure to present Landell Consulting’s Communication on Progress for 2013, which:  represents Landell’s commitment to the 10 principles of the Global Compact;  reflects upon Landell’s progress in implementing its 2012 Global Compact initiatives;  provides Landell with the opportunity to outline its 2013 corporate social responsibility (CSR) objectives; and  ensures that Landell is accountable for its actions and responsibilities to its stakeholders and the wider community. Landell’s CSR strategy includes the following initiatives undertaken in 2012:  Landell worked on an international aid program for a Commonwealth Government agency;  Landell began developing a monitoring and reporting tool for social procurement in association with the University of Melbourne;  Landell’s CSR Unit disseminated the Social Procurement Toolkit for the Victorian Department of Planning and Community Development which Landell developed pro bono for local councils: http://www.dpcd.vic.gov.au/localgovernment/social-procurement/social-procurement-toolkit-introduction;  Landell assisted a not-for-profit organisation, which supports and encourages the establishment of commercially viable social enterprises throughout Australia, to develop a strategic plan by which to extend social procurement initiatives to other local governments;  Landell Training’s package includes units on CSR and social procurement;  Landell has undertaken a number of assignments under its pro bono arm, including the provision of advice and services to the Peter MacCallum Cancer Hospital and the Royal Victorian Eye and Ear Hospital;  Landell has maintained its membership of the United Nations’ Global Compact Network Australia (UNGCNA), which will further support Landell’s incorporation of the 10 Compact Principles into its business strategy; and  Landell has employed a number of international students and has participated in a Government employment program aimed at newly-arrived migrants to assist them in developing work skills to enable them to readily find employment in the Australian marketplace. As Landell’s CSR strategy has expanded, so too have the benefits to Landell of our membership of the Global Compact, which include an increase in the positive social effects of our operations on our value chain, the enhanced ability to identify corporate risks and opportunities, continuous organisational performance improvement and an enhancement of stakeholder relations, including the provision of significant learnings to stakeholders through collaboration. Lexton Gebert Managing Director 1. LANDELL’S MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT On 27 November 2008, the Managing Director of Landell Consulting, Lexton Gebert, wrote to the Honourable Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the United Nations seeking membership of the Global Compact. On 12 December 2008, the Global Compact Office officially informed Landell that it had become a member of the Global Compact. 2. LANDELL’S ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1. Organisational Name Landell Corporation Pty Ltd trades as Landell Consulting. 2.2. Services Provided Founded in 1999, Landell Consulting is a management consultancy specialising in government procurement, probity, risk management, project management, CSR, social procurement, and training. In 2008, Landell Consulting extended its operations to include a CSR Unit, managed by a Principal of the organisation. In 2011, Landell established:  Landell Training, a registered training organisation (RTO); and  a pro bono arm of the CSR Unit. Landell’s diverse government client base includes many Commonwealth, State and local government departments and agencies, exemplified by its membership of the following government probity and procurement panels. COMMONWEALTH  External Procurement Advisors Panel  Department of Immigration and Citizenship Panel VICTORIA  Victoria Police Panel  Business Services Panel Agreement  Department of Treasury & Finance Panel  eServices Panel  Department of Treasury & Finance Panel  Commercial and Financial Advisory Services  Department of Premier & Cabinet Victorian  Long Term Service Agreement Victorian Electronic Record Public Records Office Strategy Implementation Strategy NEW SOUTH WALES (NSW)  NSW Government  NSW Procurement Pre-Qualified Supplier List 2.3. Landell’s Organisational Structure / Scale of the Organisation Landell has a committed team of highly experienced consultants working across the organisation’s four business lines. Landell’s organisational structure is represented in summary format diagrammatically below. Managing Director Communications and Office and Finance Manager Business Development Manager Media Consultant Principal, ICT Procurement Principal, Government Business Manager, Principal, Probity Policy and CSR Landell Training Senior Consultant Senior Probity CSR Consultant Training Consultant Advisor Social Procurement Senior Consultant Probity Advisor Consultant Probity Advisor Consultant Consultant 2.4. Location of the Organisation’s Headquarters Landell Consulting is based in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. 2.5. Number of countries where the organisation operates Landell Consulting currently only operates in Australia. 2.6. Nature of Ownership and Legal Form Landell Corporation Pty Ltd, which trades as Landell Consulting, is a private company. 2.7. Markets Served by the Organisation Landell Consulting primarily undertakes projects for local government, the Victorian Government, the NSW Government, and the Commonwealth Government, but has undertaken several projects for the private sector. 2.8. Report Boundaries, including Clients, Supply Chain and Stakeholders This report extends beyond the internal operations of Landell Consulting to its suppliers and clients. 3. LANDELL’S 2012 CSR INITIATIVES 3.1. Work on an International Aid Program Landell worked on an international aid program for a Commonwealth Government agency. 3.2. Partnership with the University of Melbourne Landell has identified a key issue in social procurement processes in the public sector, namely the difficulty in monitoring, measuring, evaluating, and reporting the social benefits generated by social procurement projects. In 2012, Landell engaged in a partnership with the University of Melbourne (UoM) in July 2012. Five high-achieving students in the third-year subject called “MGMT30012 Business Consulting” were sponsored by Landell to complete a consulting project to provide recommendations for the development of an evaluation and reporting tool for social procurement. Landell provided weekly guidance and assistance to the student team to complete the project within a 10-week timeframe. This project was successfully completed in early November 2012, in the form of a 10,000-word report. Landell plans to use the findings and recommendations as a guide to develop the evaluation and reporting tool. The UoM team received very high marks and an opportunity of “real world” work experience in a consultancy doing pro bono work. 3.3. Development of an Evaluation and Reporting Tool for Social Procurement Landell is currently developing pro bono an evaluation and reporting tool for social procurement. Landell has interviewed numerous stakeholders in academia and the private and public sectors to identify key issues that the tool should address. It is expected that this tool will encourage the involvement of numerous organisations to undertake social procurement projects, as it captures the social value generated from these projects. 3.4. Development of Social Procurement Videos Landell is developing two social procurement information videos pro bono with Paul Rodgers (of paulrodgers.pro), who is an internationally-recognised procurement specialist. The first video will be an entry-level guide to social procurement. The second video guide will be tailored for social procurement practitioners. The videos should be completed in the first half of 2013. 3.5. Membership of the United Nations’ Global Compact Network Australia Landell is a member of the United Nations’ Global Compact Network Australia (UNGCNA). The aim of the UNGCNA is to facilitate and co-ordinate knowledge exchange, providing value-added services to members as well as providing a meeting point where organisations can develop best practice around CSR. As a result, it is expected that this will further support Landell in incorporating the 10 Compact Principles into its business strategy and initiatives, and enhance its involvement in the Human Rights Working Group. 3.6. Membership of the UNGCNA Human Rights Working Group for Business Landell is a member of the UNGCNA Human Rights Working Group for Business. 3.7. Internships for International Students In 2012, Landell continued its internship program, funding paid internships to two international students, one from China and one from Brazil, to provide them with work experience in Australia. 3.8. Participation in the 2012 Melbourne UNGCNA Anti-Corruption Forum Two employees from Landell participated in the 2012 United Nations’ Global Compact Network Australia (UNGCNA) Anti-Corruption Leadership Group for the Business Melbourne Forum. The Forum provided Landell with:  assistance in developing anti-corruption initiatives;  an insight into anti-corruption case studies;  a snapshot of the compliance requirements and attendant legal implications; and  shared experiences from industry and business stakeholders. 3.9. Participation in the 2012 Social Enterprise Expo and SoFA Forum Three Landell employees participated in the 2012 Social Enterprise Expo and Social Firms Australia (SoFA) forum, which was jointly organised by the Melbourne City Council, Social Traders and Social Firms Australia, to present the most recent information regarding social enterprises and social procurement. The Social Procurement Toolkit, developed pro bono by Landell’s CSR Principal, was introduced during a presentation to the SoFA audience. 3.10. Partnership with AIESEC (Melbourne University) Landell and the Association Internationale des Étudiants en Sciences Économiques et Commerciales (at the University of Melbourne), the world's largest youth-run organisation, engaged in a partnership in which Landell provided a one-year work placement to a Canadian graduate, who undertook the role of Project Support Officer (PSO) to assist in the development of her youth leadership skills and provide her with relevant experience and skills in Australia. The PSO was involved in:  assisting with the leadership of Landell’s ISO 9001 Readiness Project, with the aim of significantly reforming and improving the office management systems, ultimately leading to ISO 9001 accreditation;  various office management functions in consultation with the Office and Finance Manager; and  assisting Landell Principals with a number of projects. 3.11. Work Placement for Newly-Arrived Immigrants In September 2012, Landell engaged a newly-arrived immigrant from Iran, who was studying at the North Melbourne Institute of Technical and Further Education (TAFE). The aim of this engagement was to engage this recently-arrived person with relevant work experience in Australia. 3.12. Landell’s Internal CSR Initiatives Landell has maintained and improved upon its internal CSR initiatives, all of which have been documented in Section 4.2 below. Landell Consulting’s Communication on Progress February 2013 4. LANDELL’S REVIEW OF 2012 INITIATIVES 4.1. Key Performance Indicator Measurement Code Below is the code key for performance assessment. Target Achieved  2012 project successful in its aims. Project complete, or ongoing with continuing systems. Target On Track for Success  Project has not yet had sufficient time for completion, but remains on track for success Target Steady  Shortcomings in core/non-core areas. Project may still be successfully implemented with effort, but a revision of targets is recommended. Target Not Assessed  Insufficient time for project results to be known, or limited data available. No results are yet determinable. Unacceptable Progress  Target has not yet been successful and appears manageable only with major effort. Target Failure  Target has not been successfully met, and has little or no prospect of successful attainment. Page 9 of 16 Landell Consulting’s Communication on Progress February 2013 4.2. Landell’s Review of its 2012 CSR Initiatives LABOUR Initiative Performance Indicator Measurement Performance Results in 2012 Performance Results in 2011 Training Training  Employees have been offered training hours in relevant areas,  Employees have been offered training hours in relevant  Total training hours per employee per including training for maintaining a legal practising certificate. areas, including training for maintaining a legal annum hours  Landell operates a graduate mentoring program, an internship practicing certificate and our graduate mentoring  Gender profile: program and an overseas graduate program. program for our graduate recruit. Employees who have o Employee/sub-contractor gender Gender Profile of Landell not yet elected to undertake their training allowance profile % male / % female  Managerial: 50% male (2) and 50% female (2) continue to have the option of doing so. o Managerial gender profile  Employee/sub-contractors: 55% male / 45% female Gender Profile of Landell % male / % female Incidents  Managerial: 50% male (2) and 50% female (2)  Total number of incidents of  Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken  Employee/subcontractors – 50% male and 50% female discrimination/actions taken against against Landell in 2012: 0 Incidents Landell number  Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous  Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions Human  Total number of incidents of violations people and actions taken in 2012: 0 taken against Landell in 2011 Resources (incl. involving rights of indigenous people and  Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of 0 Equitable actions taken number customer privacy and losses of customer data in 2012: 0  Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Employment  Total number of substantiated complaints  Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and indigenous people and actions taken in 2011 0 Policies) regarding breaches of customer privacy voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts in 2012: 0  Total number of substantiated complaints regarding and losses of customer data number Resources breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer  The Staff Induction Manual has been updated and is accessible to data in 2011 0  Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary all staff via the intranet. The Manual outlines Landell’s policies  Total number of incidents of non-compliance with codes concerning health and safety (including ICT policies), principles, organisational structure, quality regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and impacts number management system, and the staff’s rights, obligations and safety impacts in 2011 0 responsibilities. An Intern Induction Manual has also been Employment Conditions  Annual Landell staff turnover rate: % developed.  Annual Landell staff turnover rate for 2011 10%  Full-time employees receiving the Employment Conditions  All full-time employees received the following benefits following benefits sick leave; recreation sick leave; recreation leave; carer’s leave; bereavement leave; carer’s leave; bereavement leave;  2012 Landell staff turnover rate: 9%  Full-time employees who received the following benefits sick leave; leave; and study leave 100% and study leave % recreation leave; career’s leave, bereavement leave and study leave: 100% Code of Conduct  Code breaches investigated & remediated  Code breaches 0 Code breaches: 0 Page 10 of 16 Landell Consulting’s Communication on Progress February 2013 HUMAN RIGHTS Performance Indicator Initiative Performance Measurement Results in 2012 Performance Measurement Results in 2011 Measurement  Landell maintained its membership of the  Landell is a member of the United Nations’ United Nations’ Global Compact Network  Involvement in United Nations’ Global Compact Network Australia’s Human Australia Global Compact Network Rights Working Group for Business Australia’s Human Rights Working  Landell maintained its membership of the  Landell has assisted Human Rights Working Group for Business United Nations’ Global Compact Network Group in reviewing a survey to be sent to its Australia’s Human Rights Working Group for Commitment to  Involvement in UNGCNA as a members and provided pro bono advice Business Human Rights member  Based on Landell’s internal Human Resources  Based on Landell’s internal Human Resources  Number of operations with a child Framework, and the use of the Maplecroft Child Framework, and the use of the Maplecroft Child labour risk number labour Index where relevant, Landell had 0 Labour Index where relevant, Landell had 0 operations with a child labour risk  Availability of human rights operations with a child labour risk statement to staff  Landell’s human rights statement was made  Landell’s human rights statement was made available to all staff via Landell’s intranet available to all staff via Landell’s intranet Page 11 of 16 Landell Consulting’s Communication on Progress February 2013 ENVIRONMENT Performance Indicator Performance Measurement Results in 2012 Initiative Performance Measurement Result in 2011 Measurement (change from 2011)  % reduction in paper use 10% from 2010  Landell uses EMAS Europa (EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme)  % reduction in paper use 4.5% endorsed recycled paper and maintains a contract with Tree House Recycling for paper disposal and recycling  % reduction in electricity use 5.0%  % reduction in electricity use  % reduction in water use 3.5% 10% from 2010  Employees routinely turn off lights, and  % reduction in water use  Reduction in paper use from 2011 natural light is used wherever possible to % 10% from 2010 minimise electricity usage  Reduction in electricity use from  Employees routinely turn off lights, and natural light is used wherever 2011 %  Landell participates annually in EarthHour. possible to minimise electricity usage Reduction of Landell’s  Reduction in water use from 2011  Insufficient usage material could be obtained %  Landell participates annually in EarthHour environmental from the building manager to effectively footprint  Staff working from home % monitor Landell’s electricity and water use,  Insufficient usage material could be obtained from the building manager to  Use of Gmail, Google+ and and as a consequence, it was not possible effectively monitor Landell’s electricity and water use, and as a consequence, Go-To-Meeting (to preclude to monitor a reduction in CO2 emissions. it was not possible to monitor a reduction in CO2 emissions unnecessary travel by employees) increase from 2011  Staff working (at least part-time) from home  Staff working (at least part-time) from home 70% 80%  Use of Gmail (to preclude unnecessary travel by employees)  Use of Gmail, Google+ and Go-To-Meeting 20% increase from 2010 (an online meeting tool) to preclude unnecessary travel by employees  In addition to our online instant messaging facilities for Landell staff and 20% contractors, Landell uses virtual meetings to minimise travel. Landell primarily relied on Gmail video and audio chatting in 2011, and employees were provided with training and support on the use of our new systems. All new employees receive training and systems support as part of their induction training Page 12 of 16 Landell Consulting’s Communication on Progress February 2013 ANTI-CORRUPTION Performance Indicator Performance Measurement Result in 2011 Initiative Performance Measurement Results in 2012 Measurement  Landell participated in the UNGCNA anticorruption forum held in Melbourne on 07/11/12  Landell has developed a Code of Conduct,  Landell staff have engaged in corporate which incorporates key Global Compact Landell’s Anti Increased individual and anti-corruption discussions principles including anti-corruption Corruption corporate awareness of requirements. Initiatives anti-corruptions measures  The Landell Code of Conduct, which  The Landell Code of Conduct provides for the incorporates key Global Compact principles confidential reporting of conduct breaches to including anti-corruption requirements. is made senior management available to employees through Landell’s intranet Page 13 of 16 Landell Consulting’s Communication on Progress February 2013 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Performance Indicator Initiative Performance Measurement Results in 2012 Performance Measurement Result in 2011 Measurement  Landell was contracted to act as a broker for the  Provision of CSR and social CSR Training procurement training for  Landell has developed pro bono training provision of expert advice on social courses in CSR and social procurement procurement to eight local governments in government officers Victoria.  As an adjunct to this project, Landell’s CSR Unit developed pro bono a Social Procurement Toolkit for the Victorian Department of Planning and Community Development. The Toolkit can be found at http://www.dpcd.vic.gov.au/localgovernment/loc  Landell worked on an international procurement al-government-reform/procurement/social Involvement in international aid procurement/social-procurement-toolkitInternational aid program for a Commonwealth Government aid services introduction agency  Landell established Landell Training, a registered training organisation.  Landell developed training materials and tools which include corporate social responsibility and sustainability policies and procedures. Table 1: Landell's 2012 CSR Performance Page 14 of 16 Landell Consulting’s Communication on Progress January 2013 5. LANDELL’S 2013 CSR INITIATIVES Landell’s 2013 CSR initiatives include, but are not limited to:  completion and dissemination of the social procurement monitoring, evaluation and monitoring tool;  development of two social procurement videos;  development of the Social Procurement Package;  collaboration work with expert organisations in the social procurement field, such as Social Traders and paulrodgers.pro to implement social procurement projects;  continued pro bono work for the not-for-profit and charitable sector, including the Peter MacCallum Cancer Hospital;  CSR and social procurement training;  continued support for the UNGCNA; and  continued environmental and social sustainability initiatives within Landell. 6. COMMUNICATION OF THE COP Given that Landell is a small, private company, which does not produce an annual report, Landell’s COP will be published on its website at: http://www.landell.com.au, to enable the company’s stakeholders and clients to view Landell’s progress in implementing its CSR strategy. Page 15 of 16
