Responsible Growth AAK Sustainability Report 2012/2013 Contents The ﬁrst choice for 2. Responsible Growth at AAK value-added vegetable 3. 4. Global Compact Global CSR Objectives oil solutions 6. Marketplace AarhusKarlshamn AB (AAK) is one of the world’s leading producers of high value12. Supply chain added speciality vegetable fats. Development and production of these fats require 20. Environment signiﬁcant technological know-how and they are used in various applications 26. Workplace within Bakery, Infant Nutrition, Dairy, Cosmetics, Chocolate and Confectionery. 32. Community AAK has production facilities in Denmark, Mexico, the Netherlands, Sweden, 38. CSR Approach the UK, Uruguay and the US. The company has three Business Areas; Food 41. CSR Organisation Ingredients, Chocolate & Confectionery Fats and Technical Products & Feed. Further information can be found on the company’s website www.aak.com. 42. AAK CSR Teams 44. Global Reporting Initiative 47. Reporting Criteria Scope This report covers AAK´s entire organisation, including production plants, administrative ofﬁces, sales ofﬁces and sourcing operations. The environmental data is restricted to the production plants. In 2012 AAK acquired the companies Oasis Foods Company, New Jersey, USA and Crown-Foods A/S, Denmark. These companies are not included in the report as they will start reporting from 2013. Throughout the report, AAK colleagues share stories about some of our many CSR initiatives. Top managers also share their thoughts and insights in relation to their speciﬁc areas of responsibility. Altogether, this report should provide a clear picture of how we at AAK work with sustainability – our drive towards responsible growth. This report is available in English and Swedish. It can be downloaded as a PDF-ﬁle at www.aak.com. To obtain a printed copy please contact Corporate Communications at comm@aak.com. Head ofﬁce AarhusKarlshamn AB (publ.) Jungmansgatan 12 SE-211 19 Malmö, Sweden +46 40 627 83 00 info@aak.com Registered ofﬁce: Malmö Reg. No. 556669-2850 II | AAK Responsible Growth CEO Statement by Arne Frank Welcome to the AAK Sustainability Reaccordance with one or more internationally Employee safety port 2012/13. With this, our fourth susrecognised food safety standards. Employee safety was made a top priority for tainability report, we aim to present our AAK in 2012. We are committed to ensuring important corporate social responsibility Sustainable sourcing that our employees stay safe and healthy while (CSR) objectives, initiatives and activities Another area where we endeavour to make they are working for our company. Despite a clear difference is raw material sourcing. To our best efforts, our global Lost Time Injury in a transparent way. this end, our Supplier Code of Conduct guides Rate remained at the same level as the year all direct raw material suppliers so that fundabefore. However, we are happy to report that Responsible growth is one of the corner stones mental principles of labour and human rights, our Lost Day Rate (a measurement of the of the AAK Acceleration strategy, and is essenenvironment and anti-corruption are respected. severity of incidents) have improved by over tial to our aspiration to be our customers’ first In West Africa, we have been working closely 60 percent compared to the baseline when we choice in value-added vegetable oil solutions. for many years with the women in rural areas started monitoring this globally in 2009. We For us, responsible growth is about acting who gather wild shea kernels. We steadily are resolved to further strengthen our efforts responsibly towards all our key stakeholders strive towards a more sustainable and efficient to improve safety, and have designated 2013 – the local communities in which we operate, supply chain, at the same time improving as the year for a focused and elevated safety our global and local customers, employees, the livelihood of hundreds of thousands of initiative, raising the bar and implementing new investors and suppliers. West African women. In 2011, we established safety measures globally. Pressures on natural resources and the a shea partnership with DANIDA (Danish consequences of global warming are growing government´s aid organisation), the governEngaging locally in severity. These will be compounded by the ment of Burkina Faso, NGOs and L’Oréal. This As a global company, AAK contributes to the anticipated rise in global population of two partnership is progressing better than planned, development of the local communities in which billion people by 2030, along with an expected and we are well on the way to achieving our we operate by creating jobs, paying taxes and increase in average calorific consumption per objective of training 30,000 women and traddoing business with local enterprises. However, capita. To us, this makes responsible behaviour ing directly with them in accordance with fair we have found that we can make a significant everyone’s duty, including companies, governtrade principles. difference by engaging in local communities in ments and individuals. We continue to be very engaged in the a variety of different ways. I am pleased to see Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil (“RSPO”), the many ways in which our employees truly Model for responsible growth and its board. While occasionally being critiengage with their local communities, although Our model for responsible growth is based on cized, the RSPO is in our opinion still the best only a small fraction of these are presented in the ten principles of the United Nations Global positioned body to promote and ensure continuthis report. Local communities outside Western Compact along with our corporate policies ous improvements in the palm oil industry. We Europe and USA are particularly prioritized. and codes. To drive progress, we focus our also continue to be engaged in GreenPalm, efforts within five specific areas: Marketplace, an excellent tool to ensure support also to the Raising the bar Supply Chain, Environment, Workplace and independent smallholders, who often need a In this new Sustainability Report 2012/13, we Community. In each of these, we continually financial incentive to be convinced to comply are proud to present the significant progress set and deliver on ambitious objectives, and with RSPO rules. made and the challenges overcome during the benchmark our performance both internally last year across our five focus areas. and externally. The model guides our global Resource efficiencies Going forward, we will continue to focus on and local organisations in their pursuits of We are simultaneously growing our business growing the business responsibly by applying responsible business growth. and pursuing a strategy of shifting focus toward our AAK Acceleration strategy and our model for When welcoming new additions to the AAK more value-added (and thus more refined) responsible growth. We are strong believers in family through acquisitions, the model is used products. We are aware that more refined continually striving to further improve our model. to align business practices with responsible products in general require more resources per A dynamic model such as this evolves as we growth. New members may have standards produced unit, which challenges our ability to gain new knowledge and the external environthat differ from AAK’s, and whilst this someenhance our global resource efficiency, and to ment changes. I expect a continued and strong times inspires us to improve ours, we normally document it. Despite this challenge, we have focus on sustainable sourcing of raw materialign them to the AAK way. We have found managed to keep our energy consumption als, resource efficiency that the best recipe for success is to have per produced unit at the same level as last and employee safety. clear objectives and share best practices in a year, and decreased our global greenhouse Responsible growth is structured fashion. gas emissions per produced unit. A significant a key part of our way of contributing factor has been the shift at our doing business. Food safety production sites from the use of oil to natural Numerous surveys indicate that food safety gas as a fuel. Our consumption of water has remains the top concern amongst consumincreased over the years as a result of acers and our customers. That conforms to our quisitions, reallocation of production and the Arne Frank own view. During 2012, all AAK production expansion of activities that require intensive sites were food safety audited and certified in cleaning. AAK Responsible Growth | 1 AAK in 60 seconds AAK’s vision is to be the ﬁrst choice in AAK’s 12 production plants are located The parent company, value-added vegetable oil solutions in Denmark, the Netherlands, Mexico, AarhusKarlshamn AB (publ.), is a Sweden, the UK, Uruguay and the US. Swedish-registered joint-stock comAAK has more than a century of We also have sourcing operations, pany. The company’s shares are listed unrivalled experience with vegetable toll manufacturing and sales ofﬁces in on NASDAQ OMX, Stockholm, in the oils for a broad spectrum of applicaseveral key locations around the world Mid Cap segment, Consumer Goods tions. Our customers are primarily from sector the food, confectionery and cosmetics New products are developed in close industries. We also supply the animal partnership with customers, drawing Our corporate strategy program, AAK feed and technical industries on oils and fats expertise and knowAcceleration, has three priority areas: ledge of market trends. This allows Growth – Efﬁciency – People which AAK’s products are ingredients, AAK to create lasting solutions that all are crucial for the future developincluding alternatives to dairy fat and meet customer needs, expectations ment of AAK. We want to grow our cocoa butter, trans-free solutions, low and high standards business, we want to work in a more saturated fats solutions, nutritious fats efﬁcient manner – and we want all our for infant formula, environmentallyAAK is one of the founders of the people to be mobilised, as nothing friendly lubricants, and healthy skin Roundtable on Sustainable Palm can be achieved without focused and care products Oil (RSPO). AAK also founded and dedicated employees. Under each operates GreenPalm, which provides priority area we have a number of AAK’s raw materials are derived from an exclusive web-based platform for priority projects, each with well-deﬁned renewable sources primarily from the trade in certiﬁcates for sustainable objectives and activities Northern Europe (rapeseed), Europe palm oil. Through these and other and Mexico (sunﬂower), USA (soya initiatives, AAK continuously contribbeans), West Africa (shea kernels) utes to the promotion of sustainable and Southeast Asia and Latin America palm oil (palm) AAK is organised in three business areas Food Ingredients Chocolate & Technical Confectionery Fats Products & Feed Our largest business area primarily offers Our second largest business area offers Our Technical Products & Feed business solutions to the Bakery, Infant Nutrition, cocoa butter alternatives for chocolate, area provides biolubricants for metalworkDairy and Food Service industries. compounds for coating and moulding, and ing, forestry and construction, fatty acids speciality fats for confectionery ﬁllings. and glycerine for various applications and proteins and fats for animal feed. Operational key figures (SEK million unless otherwise stated) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Net sales 17,207 15,884 14,808 16,695 16,911 Operating profit 851 827 824 918* 1,003** Operating profit per kilo, SEK 0.55 0.58 0.57 0.64 0.66 Earnings per share, SEK 10.80 10.14 14.15 14.72 15.66 Return on net operating assets, % (RONA) 11.00 12.60 13.10 13.30 13.90 * Adjusted for acquisition costs ** Adjusted for acquisition costs and the effects of Hurricane Sandy costs III | AAK Responsible Growth AAK in the world Production plants and sales offices Sales offices Customisation plants Sourcing operations Our reason for being A vital ingredient AAK’s core business is the production of vegFat is essential to human life. We need it for However, all our customers have one interest etable oils and fats from natural, renewable energy, to absorb vitamins, to produce horin common: applying value-added vegetable raw materials. Produced in our twelve plants in mones and to provide us with essential fatty oils and fats in their products. As a result, vegEurope and the Americas, our products reach acids that our bodies are unable to synthesise. etable oils and fats from AAK are present in global markets through our sales offices in key However, following the rise in obesity and many of the products we all use and consume locations throughout the world and our close obesity-related diseases, fat is often seen as on a daily basis. network of agents and distributors. harmful and something to be avoided. We use plant-derived raw materials, such as At AAK, we work continuously to develop Responsible growth rapeseed, soya beans, shea kernels, sunflower healthy types of oils and fats that meet the At AAK, sustainable development is fundaoil and palm oil, primarily sourced in Northrequirements of customers and consumers. mental to our business. Hand in hand with ern Europe, West Africa, Southeast Asia and social and environmental responsibility, financial Latin America. Some raw materials – seeds and Part of daily life growth is key to our continued development kernels – are crushed and the oil is extracted at Close customer cooperation is central to our and future success. This is what we mean by our production plants, while others are bought work, whether identifying the right solution for “responsible growth”. as crude oils or semi-refined oils, which we an application or developing new products. As We believe that leading sustainability in then process and refine further. a supplier to a wide range of manufacturers of our everyday activities helps us achieve our Drawing on our extensive knowledge and branded goods in the food, cosmetics, animal vision of being the first choice in value-added experience, we utilise and add value to the feed and technical industries, we interact vegetable oil solutions. natural properties of vegetable oils and fats, with very different customers who have very and this has been our speciality for more than different needs. a century. AAK Responsible Growth | IV Responsible growth at AAK Responsible growth is the key objective of our AAK Acceleration strategy, and is essential to our vision of being the first choice for value-added vegetable oil solutions. For us, responsible growth is about our responsibility towards all of our key stakeholders – the local communities where we operate, our customers, our employees, our investors and our suppliers. Based on our strategy, input from our stakeholders and market trends we have developed a model for responsible growth to guide our global CSR work. AAK responsible growth CSR organisation Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact (UNGC) is a solid We have defined five CSR focus areas – the Partnering with other businesses, NGOs, and platform and a broad concept based on ten ‘pillars’ – that are important to our business. governmental agencies is a key element of the universal principles within Human and Labour These provide an overview and help us focus Global Compact concept, and we are proud to Rights, Environment and Anti-corruption. It our resources. participate in several partnerships. The RSPO, enjoys participation by all of the major playTo maintain momentum and drive improvethe Global Shea Alliance, the UNDP and the ers in global business and CSR, including the ment, we define objectives within each of the Burkina Faso project are a few examples of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), ETI (Ethical five focus areas. Further, we monitor many these. Trading Initiative), ICC (International Chamber other indicators internally, based on the GRI Our CSR system is not static, adjusting of Commerce) and OECD (Organisation for guidelines. instead to input from such stakeholders as Economic Cooperation and Development). AAK The engine behind all of this is our global customers, investors, and employees. We has been a member of the UNGC since 2002. CSR organisation, established in 2007. monitor new and upcoming legislation. We folAAK’s CSR policies and codes are based on To be transparent and share information with low trends in our communities, and benchmark the UNGC, and apply globally to all AAK busistakeholders is also part of our approach. Sedex our CSR practices against those of retailers, ness activities. So are the policies and codes facilitates the sharing of information with local customers and competitors. of many of our customers, which enhances customers. Our Sustainability Report shares Our overall objective is to grow AAK responour strategic alignment. information globally, primarily with investors sibly and achieve sustainability as a whole. in AAK, and via the web with all stakeholders. 2 | AAK Responsible Growth Global Compact – AAK, a member since 2002 The United Nations Global Compact is an initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With more than 10,000 signatories in over 130 countries, the UN Global Compact is the world’s largest voluntary corporate sustainability initiative. The principles are: Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery AAK Responsible Growth | 3 Global CSR Objectives Our 2012 objective achievements and 2013+ objectives are presented in brief. The objectives are further commented in more detail in the five sections to which they apply, namely Marketplace, Supply chain, Environment, Workplace and Community. Global CSR objectives 2012+ What we achieved Sedex Sedex 2012: 8 sites SMETA audited Objective met with 8 sites now being SMETA (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit) audited and sharing their audit reports at the Marketplace Sedex platform Supplier Code of Conduct Supplier Code of Conduct 2012: Minimum 90 percent implementation for Objective exceeded with 95 percent implemented direct raw material suppliers (excl. West Africa) Supply chain 2012: Minimum 90 percent implementation for Objective met with 90 percent implemented direct raw material suppliers in West Africa Energy Energy 2012: Investigate opportunities to exploit Initiative launched by joint meetings with renewable energy technology suppliers of plant equipment Waste Waste Environment 2015: Minimum 98.5 percent of waste Well on track with 97.4 percent disposed disposed as reused, recycled or recovered as reused, recycled or recovered Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 2012: Average Lost Time Injury Objective met with average Lost Time Injury Rate to be at or below 1.5 Rate: 1.5 Positively Lost Time Injury Rate kept decreasing by 25 percent Workplace Safety Safety 2012: Develop a common global safety strategy First step established through external consultant safety assessment report Performance and Development Plan (PDP) Performance and Development Plan (PDP) By Q2 90 percent were completed. 100 percent by 2012: All employees to have a PDP by Q2 end August Local engagement Local engagement 2012: Engaging in local projects and activities All sites are engaged in local community activities in a variety of ways Community 4 | AAK Responsible Growth AAK responsible growth CSR organisation Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact Global CSR objectives 2013+ Sedex 2013: Increase number of production sites sharing CSR data with customers on Sedex Supply chain certification Marketplace 2013: Increase number of production sites being RSPO supply chain certified Supplier Code of Conduct 2013: 98 percent implemented with direct raw material suppliers (excl. West Africa) Supply chain 2013: 95 percent implemented with direct raw material suppliers in West Africa Energy 3-year energy efficiency process driven by local energy efficiency teams at all sites: 2013: Teams established, monthly meetings and at least one project initiated 2014: Energy efficiency projects at all sites delivering according to plan 2015: Energy efficiency results documented at all sites Environment Waste 2015: Minimum 98.5 percent of waste disposed as reused, recycled or recovered Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 2013: Reduce LTIR by minimum 10 percent per year (excl. West Africa). Base year 2012 at 1.5 2013: LTIR to stay at or below 2.3 in West Africa Workplace Safety 2013: Implement a Global Safety System and conduct annual safety audits at all sites Performance and Development Plan (PDP) 2013: All employees to have a PDP by Q2 Local engagement 2013: Engaging in local projects and activities Community AAK Responsible Growth | 5 AAK Marketplace responsible growth CSR organisation Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact Key achievements RSPO supply chain certification Percent of production sites 100 80 70 60 60 60 40 20 20 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 Sedex members Percent of production sites 100 80 80 70 60 60 40 40 20 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 Food Safety certified Percent of production sites 100 100 90 80 80 70 60 40 20 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 6 | AAK Responsible Growth In this section we cover all the areas where we meet our customers. It includes our products, product development, food safety, product information and market communication. Our interaction with customers is based on Over the years, we have established longstandsound business ethics and a deep understanding relationships with our customers, building ing of our responsibility for safeguarding cuson mutual respect and detailed understanding tomer brands. As a supplier of ingredients for of customer needs. Knowing our customers some of the world’s best-known brands, we means knowing our markets, and that gives recognise our role and our customers’ expecus a head start when responding to market tations and see these as key elements in the trends. From time to time, we even set new execution of our AAK Acceleration program. trends through the development of leadingedge products. AAK focuses on three business areas: Oils and fats from AAK perform valuable functions in customers’ products. They may enFood Ingredients sure the right meltdown property, carry flavour, – Our largest business area primarily supply essential fatty acids, provide texture and offers solutions to the Bakery, Infant Nutrimuch more. In each case, our understanding tion, Dairy and Food Service industries of the customer’s requirements is key to deChocolate & Confectionery Fats, veloping the right solution. This is why close including Personal Care cooperation is so important. In cooperation – Our second largest business area with customer representatives, our product offers cocoa butter alternatives for experts test applications, develop solutions chocolate, compounds for coating and and explore new production methods. moulding, and speciality fats for confectionery fillings Technical Products & Feed – Our Technical Products & Feed business area provides Biolubricants for metalworking, forestry and construction, fatty acids and glycerine for various applications and proteins and fats for animal feed Marketplace objectives RSPO supply chain certification Certification, and are now ready to process by enabling the sharing of audit reports with We are constantly working to meet our cussustainable palm. customers who are also Sedex members. tomers’ needs and support them as they move Our objective for 2013 is to further increase Eight of our ten reporting production plants towards certified sustainable palm oil (CSPO). the number of certified facilities to at least ten. are already members of Sedex and underwent Right now the Book & Claim / GreenPalm is a SMETA audit in 2012. We expect more sites the ideal option. However, AAK also provides Sedex audit to become members of Sedex during 2013, mass balance and segregated CSPO. The Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Seenabling them to share information about labour Judging by current trends, the demand for dex) is an online platform for sharing ethical and business practices, health, safety and the sustainable palm oil looks set to increase in the data between companies and their suppliers. environment with Sedex-member customcoming years. In preparation for this, eight of Developed specifically to support the Sedex ers – an important step in ensuring an ethical the eleven AAK production plants that handle system, the Sedex Members Ethical Trade supply chain. palm oil have obtained RSPO Supply Chain Audit (SMETA) follows the same philosophy AAK Responsible Growth | 7 Infant Nutrition – built on quality and trust Infant Nutrition, AAK’s fastest growing business segment, is built on quality and trust. We have earned the trust of our customers all over the world by meeting their demands, constantly supplying the right products with the right quality and with a strong focus on food safety. Our prime strength is to develop customised solutions with special compositions for different applications. Getting as close as possible to the composition of mother´s milk fat is our ultimate goal and we are close. Throughout our product and application development we maintain a strong focus on our Corporate Social Responsibility. In a proactive way, we work on sustainable solutions. This proactive approach has brought us to the leading position in this segment. Today, we continue to enhance our position as the natural choice for vegetable oils and Renald Mackintosh fats for specialised applications. Our increased President Infant Nutrition and Food Service Continental Europe capability to build special fat structures that are essential components in the creation of the necessary fat combinations for different in all aspects. This, combined with the strong formulas has brought us even closer to our continuous sustainability focus, has earned us customers than before. Our new technological our customers’ trust. We are convinced that developments have shown the market that this approach will keep us on the right track for we are able to bring value-added solutions continued strong growth in the future. Product development – supporting sustainable growth For more than 100 years, AAK has refined same time, specific needs in emerging markets and developed functionality based on natural are becoming drivers for improvements in shelf and sustainable raw materials and processes. life and sensory qualities. In today’s market conditions, we continue to At AAK, we invest significant resources in build on this experience, meeting global conunderstanding the nature of our raw materisumers’ current and future needs for healthy, als and the capabilities of our present and natural and affordable food that is produced potential technologies. This effort enables us in a sustainable manner. to develop products close to our customers to In 2012, we focused our development acmeet the specific needs of each market and tivities on healthier products with improved each customer. nutritional value. We have seen this trend being In our product development processes, asdriven by consumer awareness in all regions, sessing and documenting environmental, health but increasingly also by national and regional and safety aspects is an integrated part of regulation. It is a fact that specialised vegetaeach project. In this way, we ensure that AAK ble oils and fats are in many cases excellent will continue to stand for functionality based alternatives to some of the raw materials that on natural and sustainable raw materials and are becoming increasingly scarce and costly, processes. in terms of both health and economics. At the Karsten Nielsen Chief Technology Officer 8 | AAK Responsible Growth Sharing knowledge Our commitment to transparency involves sharing various types of data. In our interaction with customers, knowledge sharing is equally important. We have established a dedicated protocol for product development projects, where customer cooperation is in focus. For example, we often run customer application trials in our pilot plants and offer advice on optimising customer processes as well as products. For us at AAK, our dialogue with customers is important, both to gain an understanding of the customer view and also to foster closer cooperation. Both the AAK Academy and our Global Magazine are useful tools for sharing knowledge and the latest information. Advanced training and information provided by AAK content varies over time, but examples of topics include: new product launches, highlights of product benefits and the latest news from the scientific world. The magazine also presents events where AAK has participated or will do so and lists when the AAK Academy courses will take place. The magazine is highly appreciated by our customers, and investors also see it as AAK Academy – the training a good way of receiving information about AAK. centre for lipid technology AAK’s Global Magazine is available both in a The AAK Academy is exclusively for customers, printed version and as a PDF file for downloadand its advanced training concept cultivates a ing from the our website www.aak.com. good understanding of fat technology that can help to guide customers in the search for the Lena Ingvarsson Marketing Director Dairy Solutions most suitable fat for a given product. It also facilitates dialogue between customers and oils and fats”. This is written by experts from AAK to achieve the best cooperation. The AAK and contains both theoretical and practical AAK Academy offers a wide range of courses, knowledge relating to oils and fats. and the format is highly flexible, with lecturers Since the beginning, in the early 1990s, AAK selected among the experts on our staff. has educated thousands of customers in lipid AAK Magazine | No 2, 2012 The Academy’s basic courses on oils and technology. The goal is to continuously expand fats technology give a comprehensive overview the academy and make it possible for even of relevant topics. The important role of oils more customers to be educated in this field. and fats in the diet is reviewed from different standpoints. Soft processing methods and Global Magazine their enhancement of quality and functionality – latest information are described, together with food safety and AAK always aims to share the latest informapractical advice for handling oils. tion with customers, and one tool for doing Topping the suc Participants receive complete documentation this is our Global Magazine. Published twice Better milk cho cess, page 2-3 at higher cap colate of all lectures. In addition, they get their own a year, it is an important tool for creating and acity, page 6-7 Health and nut rition claims, copy of the publication, “Handbook – Vegetable maintaining awareness among customers. The page 16 AAK Responsible Growth | 9 Infant Nutrition Substantial product information Bakery The minimum requirement for product inforProduct Information Sheet / Product Specimation is usually stipulated by legislation and fication specifies the physical and chemical stated in the standard contracts used in our properties of the products and are often be business. part of a contract fats for red partner in AAK – the prefer Infant Nutrition Requirements for further information depend Material Safety Data Sheet relates to safety Bakery solutions on the type of delivery. For example, they vary issues, often concerning transport. It is a – Shortening your way to success! according to whether the product is standard or legal requirement for chemicals, but not for Dairy So lutions highly refined; and whether they are ingredients food. However, most customers demand or final consumer products. this information AAK’s product information sheets sometimes Quality & Product Safety Sheet contains For the majority of products, a Certificate of have different names in different countries, additional information related to the product Analysis accompanies each delivery. The certifibut in general, three types of information are such as allergens, GMOs, contaminants, cate is produced by the relevant AAK laboratory available: country of origin, raw materials and addiand confirms compliance with agreed product tives, typical fatty acid composition, etc. specifications. A matter of trust When it comes to meeting customers’ needs Food safety is another area of customer and expectations, trust is just as important as concern. To satisfy the requirements of cusour products. Our customers must be able to tomers as well as national and international rely on AAK as a safe supplier, and particularly legislation, our production plants are certified upon our commitment to working in an ethically in accordance with recognised standards, and sound manner. subject to regular audit by third parties. AAK’s Our Code of Conduct, which applies to all Quality Control functions ensure and docuAAK staff, regulates how we interact with both ment that each and every delivery lives up to customers and suppliers. The Code is based specifications and all food safety requirements. on the same standards as the supplier codes Our vision is to be our customers’ first choice that our customers expect us to follow, enin value-added vegetable oil solutions. To compassing ILO conventions, human rights, achieve that, it is important for us to show our OECD guidelines and the UN Global Compact. customers that AAK is a responsible, trustThe AAK Code of Conduct is our guarantee to worthy supplier that would never compromise customers that we act responsibly, right across their brands. our organisation. Third party certification of AAK production plants SKE VER ITAS 100 percent are certified to one or more internationally recognised food safety DET NOR EMENT SYSTEM CERTIFICA TE standards (FSSC 22000 / ISO 22000 / BRC) MANAG AK Q-DEN-DAN No. 24137-2008-A Certificate certify that This is to mark A/S 72 percent of sites handling palm oil have RSPO Supply Chain Certification Den arlshamn AarhusK standard: system to the management conform found to has been 9001:2008 DS/EN ISO ranges: t or service ng produc for the followi ate is valid This certific and fats. edible oils sales of ction and nt, produ developme Product date: in the appendix. Place and n will appear 2011-06-07 CB Certificate Number 00110 in the certificatio included Certificate Number Hellerup, , 50 percent are quality management certified according to ISO 9001 Locations VERITAS BMTRSPO000022 DET NORSKECE, DANMARK A/S until: ASSURAN te is valid RSPO Member Number BUSINESS This certifica 2014-05-31 200010400000 DANAK Date of initial BM TRADA Certification Petersen 4 April Reg.nr. 5001 2011 SYSTEM Date of last issue Rikke Topp g Director 29 March 2012 Managin by performed has been Date of expiry tion audit Certifica rd 3 April 2017 Uffe Pilgaa Lead Auditor Date of first RSPO Certification 4 April 2011 BM TRADA certify that the t may render this certificate invalid. RSPO Supply Chain System of on Agreemen the Certificati k of conditions as set out in Assurance, Danmark Business +45 39 45 48 00, A/S www.dnv.c om / www.dnv.d AarhusKarlshamn UK Ltd fulfilment Lack of Det Norske Veritas, Hellerup, Denmark. Tel: King George Dock 2., DK-2900 Tuborg Parkvej 8, Hull 40 percent are environmentally certified according to ISO 14001 North Humberside HU9 5PX complies with the RSPO Supply Chain Certification Systems, version November 2011. This guarantees that the criteria for processing RSPO certified sustainable palm oil through one or more of the supply chain models as stated in the RSPO Supply Chain Certification Systems have been met. Management representative and contact details: Mike Stewart mike.stewart@aak.com Scope of Certification The refining of palm oils and incorporation into bulk blends, foodservice, bakery and speciality oil products. Supply chain model assessed: Mass Balance Segregation Identity Preserved Signed on behalf of BM TRADA Certification Ltd Vic Bowen, Chief Operating Officer Chiltern House, Stocking Lane, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, HP14 4ND Further clarification regarding the scope of this certificate and verification of the certificate is available through BM TRADA. In addition, various production plants are also certified according to other standards such as national energy standards, organic standard KRAV, feed safety, health and safety, Halal and Kosher production. This certificate remains the property of BM TRADA Certification Ltd And can be withdrawn in case of terminations as mentioned in the contract or in case of changes or deviations of the abovementioned data. The licensee is obliged to inform BM TRADA immediately of any changes in the above mentioned data. Only an original and signed certificate is valid. BM TRADA Certification is accredited for ISO/IEC Guide 65:1996 and approved by RSPO on 30th March 2010. For multisite clients the scope of certification shown above includes facilities shown in Appendix A 10 | AAK Responsible Growth Trustworthy Supplier status requirements of their quality policy for suppliers. This, in order to maintain and improve the quality of products offered to consumers, which is part of their current competitive advantage and differentiates them from competitors. At the end of the conference, AAK was awarded a score of Excellent in the Social Workplace Accountability Assessment 2012, which gives AAK the designation of Trustworthy Supplier within the restaurant chain. AAK Mexico is very proud to recieve this recognition. This is the result of the continuous efforts and hard work of the Mexican team in meeting all our customers’ needs. Ana Valdez Food Service Manager, Mexico On 26th March, Arcos Dorados Mexico (Golden Bruno Russ, Quality Manager of Arcos Dorados, Arches Mexico) held its Supplier Meeting with along with Mario Nájera, Supply Chain Director the participation of more than 30 suppliers of for Mexico, Costa Rica and Panama, underlined McDonald’s restaurants in Mexico. the relevance of accomplishing each of the Customer: “The history of Ferrero since the beginning is characterised AAK is an import part of this process, contributing with their by continuous research of high quality raw material and deep knowledge on palm oil and tropical fats in Asia and Africa. knowledge of the whole supply chain. In future, being able to tell consumers the story of the origin Therefore long lasting relationships between Ferrero and its and the path from “field to fork” of the raw materials, enhancsuppliers are part of the company’s history and have allowed ing the value of the raw material itself, will be increasingly us to continuously raise the bar on topics like quality, freshimportant and will require producers (like AAK) and end users ness and traceability. (like Ferrero) to work closer than ever on this common aim.” This last aspect also includes efforts of Ferrero and our commercial partners to confirm our target to achieve 100 percent Ferrero sustainable palm oil purchase by the end of 2014. AAK Responsible Growth | 11 Processed raw material Processed raw material X 1000 MT X 1000 MT 1,800 1,800 AAK Supply chain 1,600 1,671 responsible 1,600 1,643 growth 1,671 1,643 1,400 1,485 1,518 1,400 CSR organisation 1,485 1,518 1,200 Objectives and GRI 1,200 1,000 1,000 Stakeholders Transparency Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community 800 Legislation Sustainability 800 Trends Report 600 Benchmarks AAK web 600 Partnerships 400 Group CSR policies and codes 400 200 UN Global Compact 200 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Key achievements Supplier Code of Conduct ex. West Africa Supplier Code of Conduct ex. West Africa Implementation % Implementation % 100 100 Objective 95 98 Objective 90 95 98 80 90 80 60 60 40 40 20 20 0 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 Supplier Code of Conduct in West Africa Supplier Code of Conduct in West Africa Implementation % Implementation % 100 100 Objective 90 95 Objective 80 90 95 80 60 60 59 59 40 40 20 20 0 0 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 Key data Processed raw material X 1000 MT 1,800 1,600 1,671 1,643 1,400 1,485 1,518 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 12 | AAK Responsible Growth Supplier Code of Conduct ex. West Africa This section covers activities related to the sourcing of raw materials that we use in our production plants. Sustainable sourcing of raw materials is the backbone of our business and key to our AAK Acceleration execution. The combination of the right raw materials and value-adding functionality is key to the wide range of solutions we offer. Just as it is vital for us to obtain the right raw reason we are implementing a Supplier Code materials, we place equal emphasis on susof Conduct that applies to AAK’s direct raw tainable growing and procurement. For this material suppliers worldwide. Supply chain objective Supplier Code of Conduct In West Africa, we have decided to implement Human rights Housing Introduced in late 2009, our Supplier Code the Code in a different way due to various linChild labour Young workers of Conduct is an integral part of our approval guistic and cultural obstacles. Because ethical system for new suppliers. requirements in business relations are not a Working hours Remuneration During 2012, we were pleased to note the widespread tradition in the region, more meetWorking Freedom of compliance of 95 percent of direct raw material ings and explanations are required to achieve environment association suppliers, who were required to approve and the necessary understanding. In 2012, we sign the Code or demonstrate their compliance achieved 90 percent recognition here and Environment Corruption in some other way. Our objective for 2013 is expect to raise it to 95 percent in 2013. Forced labour Notification that 98 percent of raw material suppliers will Our Supplier Code of Conduct stipulates have confirmed their compliance with the Code. our requirements with regard to the following: Discrimination Workplace violence AAK Responsible Growth | 13 Supplier management In addition to palm oil, shea and rapeseed, we process a range of other raw materials. While our engagement in palm oil and shea is evident, our work to enhance sustainability aspects covers all the raw materials in our supply chain. Until 2010, AAK operated two different supplier approval practices. During 2012 we have been working towards further integrating them in one common practice, based on quality, food safety, environmental and ethical requirements. The first stage of implementation involved designing a common format for ethical requirements. This is still in the process of being implemented with suppliers. Once this is in place, we will focus on the other elements of our common practice. The Supplier Code of Conduct is a fundamental tool for assessing our suppliers. In this context, we have decided to work within our sphere of influence, i.e. to focus on those whom we have the best chance of influencby urging our suppliers to positively influence of influence and inspire other players in the ing – our direct raw materials suppliers. Still, their suppliers, we aim to broaden our sphere supply chain to act responsibly. Growth built on ethical supply chain As a leading supplier of high value-added veAAK’s raw materials are derived from renewgetable oil solutions, we at AAK are very consable sources that originate in a large number of cious of our obligation to source raw materials countries around the world. AAK’s production in a responsible and ethical way. We aspire to plants are located in Denmark, the Netherlands, advance policies and practices wherever we Mexico, Sweden, the UK, Uruguay and the source raw materials. We do this because we USA. In addition, we have sourcing operations, believe it will ensure that we are capable of toll manufacturing and sales offices in many securing the supply and quality of raw materials other key locations around the world. in the long term, to meet the demands and AAK uses an AAK Supplier Code of Conduct requirements of consumers and customers in cooperation with suppliers to ensure compand because it reflects our obligations to the liance with customers’ and our own demands. environment and society. AAK is one of the founders of the Roundtable Our products are used in a very large range on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO). We also of customer applications, and have to meet founded and operate the GreenPalm certificaour customers’ expectations in such a way tion program. Through these activities, AAK that customers always feel secure when using continuously contributes to the production of our products. Fundamental to AAK’s approach sustainable palm oil. is the fact that customer expectations of our Furthermore, AAK is a founding member of supply chain range from security of supply, the Global Shea Alliance. When sourcing shea Torben Friis Lange consistent quality and production efficiency to kernels in West Africa, we strive to introduce President Asia, Europe and Africa food safety, health and sustainability, including fair trade principles and educate rural women ethical practices in all our sourcing activities. in quality improvement. The sourcing of shea We have been able to influence and change kernels includes cooperation with governments our key sourcing activities to an extent, but we and NGOs. Proactive work with our supply recognise that we have to do much more, and chains is behind the development of sustaicontinuously focus on improving and innovating nable solutions. in a dynamic and challenging manner wherever we believe we can make a difference and improve standards. 14 | AAK Responsible Growth Raw materials Rapeseed Palm Olive Soya beans Sunflower Shea kernels Corn Coconut AAK’s core business is speciality vegetaSupporting our strong focus on customisaOur raw materials are sourced from all over ble oils that meet the needs of the food, tion, we operate a highly flexible production the world. confectionery and cosmetics industries. process. This enables us to respond to specific Sourcing renewable raw materials from customer needs for functionality, health profile, Rapeseed from Northern and Central around the globe, we manufacture our taste, processing, logistics, labelling and legal Europe requirements. In each case, our technical and Palm oil from Asia and Latin America broad product portfolio at 12 production commercial experts identify the optimum soluPalm kernel oil from Asia plants in Europe and the Americas. tion to a specific need. Olive oil from Southern Europe Soya bean oil from the US and Our products are of both nutritional and funcNatural raw materials South America tional value, outstanding for their structure, Our raw materials are obtained from rapeseed, Sunflower oil from Eastern Europe melting and crystallisation, rheological proppalm oil, soya beans, shea kernels, sunflower and Mexico erties, flavour release and skin penetration. seed, olives and many other sources. Drawing Shea kernels from West Africa Product development is often carried out in on our extensive knowledge and more than a Corn oil primarily from America and close cooperation with customers, suppliers, century of experience, we exploit the properties Eastern and Southern Europe research organisations or other external partof vegetable oils to add value to the products Coconut oil from Malaysia and the ners to ensure a strong fit with market and of customers within our target industries. Philippines customer demands and to take advantage of the latest technologies. AAK Responsible Growth | 15 Palm Supporting the production of sustainable palm oil – increasing demands for Food manufacturers and retailers have an easy Manufacturers of consumer products get sustainable palm oil way to reward palm oil producers for adhering to sustainable and responsible practices, and a simple way to support sustainable palm production to tell their customers that they have done so. Sustainable palm oil producers can obtain It is an exclusive, RSPO-endorsed, weba premium for their efforts Globally, palm oil is the most produced and based platform for trading in sustainable palm Smallholders who lack access to a certiconsumed vegetable oil, accounting for 33 oil certificates, called the GreenPalm Program. fied supply chain now have a certification percent of the world’s vegetable oil production. Organised by Book & Claim Ltd, an AAK option Soya bean oil, at 27 percent, holds second subsidiary, the platform makes it possible for place. The oil palm has the highest yield of all end-users to pay producers directly for certified The GreenPalm Program supports the producoil crops at an average of 3.7 tonnes of oil per sustainable palm oil (CSPO). There are three tion of sustainable palm products that meet hectare – soya bean yield being around a tenth. obvious advantages to this: the requirements defined in the Principles While this makes palm oil plantations highly and Criteria of the Roundtable on Sustainable efficient, palm oil production has raised serious Palm Oil (RSPO). concerns, including relating to deforestation and elimination of orangutan habitats to name two. In 2003, WWF initiated the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) along with AAK, Golden Hope Plantations, Migros, Malaysian Palm Oil Association, Sainsbury’s and Unilever. The organisation has now worked for more than a decade to promote the growth and use of sustainable palm oil worldwide. Due to our position as an intermediary in the palm oil supply chain, we are fully dependent on the availability of supply of physical, segregated sustainable palm oil and, to some extent, on the demand from customers. Customer requirements define the kind of palm oil we deliver and we see increasing demands for sustainable palm oil. In preparation for the future demand all of our major production plants have obtained RSPO Supply Chain Certification and are ready to produce sustainable palm oil as required. Our overall aim, as stated in the annual progress report to the RSPO, is for all palm oil used in AAK’s production plants to be RSPO progress RSPO-certified sustainable by the end of 2015. However with the current supply limitation, and AAK has continued its close involvement with As it expands, the onus is on the RSPO to the limited demand from our customers, this the RSPO, as a founding member eleven years further develop internal governance and to target looks challenging. ago, as an Executive Board member ever respond to the demands of worldwide markets. since, and as a strong supporter. The RSPO The challenge for the RSPO and its members has continued to grow rapidly, with over 1,000 remains to take the next step towards making members and now more than 8.5 million tonsustainable palm oil the norm. Smallholders nes of certified production, covering over 15 (responsible for a significant proportion of global percent of global palm oil production. production, but with only a small part certified) Such progress is a significant achievement, must be incentivised to join so that palm oil with growth far exceeding that of other similar becomes known for its sustainability credentials. commodity and multi-stakeholder initiatives. The RSPO’s profile as the benchmark for palm Tim Stephenson Finance and Global Trading Director sustainability has steadily increased, and with RSPO Executive Board Member such a profile come inevitable criticisms. Many are concerned that the RSPO’s new Principles and Criteria, though clearly a significant step forward, do not go far enough (in particular, with regard to carbon emissions). 16 | AAK Responsible Growth GreenPalm – continues to grow Four separate groups of independent smallholding the RSPO certification process, and hope Demand continues for GreenPalm certificates ers in Thailand achieved RSPO certification in to be certified during 2013. GreenPalm will into 2013, particularly in the PKO market. October 2012. Within weeks, they had all traded be working with these groups to ensure they GreenPalm will be able to service the demand their certified production via the GreenPalm have access to the global market place so that and pass the rewards on to all RSPO-certified program. Together, the four groups consist they can be rewarded for their commitment to producers, regardless of the scale of their of 412 members, tending a total of 758 plots sustainable practices. operations. To this date we have traded over covering an area of 2,767 ha. GreenPalm has The overall numbers for GreenPalm demon7 million certificates. continued to support the farmers as they have strate excellent growth. The total volume traded sold their entire certified production volume for during 2012 was 2,873,968 certificates, a milBob Norman Green Palm General Manager 2013 as well. lion certificates more than 2011. To date, over Other independent smallholder groups in $38 million has been paid to RSPO-certified Malaysia and Indonesia are also undergoproducers under the GreenPalm scheme. Rapeseed – sourcing close to home Rapeseed is an important raw material at AAK. Thanks to local seed suppliers and in-house processing, we can offer oils from traditional seeds and a range of speciality variants. Most of the rapeseed used for our products is grown in Sweden, where farms have increased their output in recent years. Through our close cooperation with the farmers, we are able to maintain control of the entire value chain, from production of raw material to finished products. The rapeseed meal that remains after oil extraction is used as animal feed. In both conventional and new varieties with a high oleic acid content, rapeseed oil has the lowest saturated fat content of all vegetable oils and is high in monounsaturated fatty acids. It also contains the essential fatty acids linoleic acid (Omega 6) and alpha-linolenic acid (Omega 3), as well as vitamin E (tocopherol) and vitamin K. Its nutritional and functional properties mean that rapeseed oil is ideal for use as a cooking oil or ingredient. Food applications range from mayonnaise and salad dressings to baby food. In margarines and bakery products, rapeseed oil ensures the right consistency and an improved nutritional profile. For high-temperature processes, high-oleicacid varieties of rapeseed are significantly more suitable. The advantages are a low saturated fat content together with good thermal and storage stability. AAK Responsible Growth | 17 Shea – a strategic raw material Shea kernels from West Africa are a very important and unique raw material for AAK. Over more than 60 years, we have gained extensive knowledge and experience of this raw material and the local communities in which we operate. Our continued presence in West Africa is essential to us. We monitor selected shea trees to assess the size of the next harvest, and we handle a number of processes to ensure an unbroken supply chain from the collection of shea kernels to early treatment on transportation to the harbours, and to their warehousing and shipment to Northern Europe. Shea trees grow in some of the world’s poorest countries. Here, we work with the women who collect the shea kernels, building capacity in local communities. Our work in these areas includes the formation and teaching of women’s groups in villages and by doing direct business with them we help them markedly improve their livelihood. Combined with our involvement in the Global Shea Alliance, of which we are a founding member, these activities demonstrate our commitment to the sustainable sourcing of shea in West Africa. We are proud of our achievements and are committed to continuing our work. Shea supply chain, West Africa Shea is a wild crop, so we never experience health care to our staff, such as for example two similar seasons. medical check-ups, vaccination programs and At AAK, we continued our pursuit of streammosquito nets. lining the supply chain from the West African For the companies we work with in West women collecting shea kernels to our factories Africa, we focus on increasing compliance with in Scandinavia. Recently, we initiated constructhe AAK Supplier Code of Conduct. Working in tion of our new yard in Bobo Diolassou (Burkina Africa, we realise that full compliance will only Faso). This yard will allow us to further our happen gradually. influence on the business conduct and working In the years to come, we intend to continue conditions in the West African bush. A yard conon this path towards a short, streamlined and sists of warehouses, weighing bridges, offices, transparent supply chain, and we are open to laboratories, staff quarters and a workshop cooperating with all stakeholders who share for our trucks. In all the operations we run in this vision. West Africa, we put great effort into complying with the national legislation and providing Knud Larsson Sourcing & Trading Director 18 | AAK Responsible Growth The Global Shea Alliance The Global Shea Alliance is a multi-stakeholder association promoting quality and sustainability in the shea industry. It supports rural African communities and promotes women’s empowerment by strengthening the shea industry and value chain. AAK is a founding member together with other stakeholders. Vision To design, develop, and deliver strategies that drive a competitive and sustainable shea industry worldwide, improving the livelihoods of rural African women and their communities Mission To be the premier platform to satisfy the strategic interests and practical needs of its members, shea stakeholders large and small worldwide. More information about the Global Shea Alliance can be found at www.globalshea.com. Kolo Nafaso – the house of shea kernel benefits In 2009, AAK started a project in Burkina Faso ability to decide when, how and to whom to A newly conducted questionnaire found that working directly with women’s groups in order sell the shea kernels in their possession. They the women participating in the project are ento educate women to treat the shea in the best are not in any way bound to AAK. thusiastic and wish to continue working with possible way – from collection to storage – and AAK promotes transparency in the market AAK, especially because pre-financing offered thus increase their income from higher quality and better-quality shea, which is important in at the very beginning of the season helps fight shea kernels. elevating the livelihoods of the women doing poverty during the lean season and increases During the shea season, extending from June the lion’s share of the work. The development women’s independence. 2012 to May 2013, AAK engaged more than of our project is following the set plan. Our 14,000 women in Burkina Faso in our shea first intermediate objective – to enrol 30,000 Monika Hjorth General Manager West Africa project, named “Kolo Nafaso”. The work with women into our project – will be reached by the women’s groups in Burkina Faso follows the end of 2013. Fair Trade principles.This gives women the AAK Responsible Growth | 19 Waste to reuse, recycle or recovery % AAK Environment 100 responsible growth Objective CSR organisation 98.3 97.6 97.4 95 Objectives and GRI Transparency 90 Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships 85 Group CSR policies and codes 84 UN Global Compact 80 Key 75 achievements 2009 2010 2011 2012 Waste to reuse, recycle or recovery % Total direct CO2 emission 100 Per unit processed material Objective 160 97.6 98.3 97.4 95 156 140 150 143 120 90 100 85 80 84 60 80 40 75 20 2009 2010 2011 2012 0 2010 2011 2012 Key data Total direct CO 2 emission Waste to reuse, Per unit processed recycle or recovery material Energy consumption 160 % Per unit processed material 100 156 140 150 3.0 Objective 143 97.6 98.3 120 97.4 95 2.5 2.57 2.56 100 2.44 2.25 2.0 90 80 60 1.5 85 40 84 1.0 20 80 0.5 0 2010 2011 2012 75 0.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Energy consumption Total direct CO2 emission Per unit processed material 3.0 Per unit processed material 160 2.5 156 140 150 2.57 2.56 2.44 143 2.25 120 2.0 100 1.5 80 1.0 60 40 0.5 20 0.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 0 2010 2011 2012 20 | AAK Responsible Growth Energy consumption The section on Environment covers AAK’s impact on the environment in terms of consumption and emissions from our production plants. To make this section easier to navigate, it is divided into four sub-sections: Energy, Air, Water and Waste. AAK’s production plants differ in size, capacity aim to become more environmentally friendly employees who are directly involved in achievand the types of processes used. Processing – improving day by day. ing the results. vegetable oils is both complex and energy To achieve this, we implement environmental As a matter of course, we take environmental intensive. At AAK, we are very much aware projects, monitor consumption and emissions, laws and regulations very seriously and are of the footprint our production plants leave and identify best practices by benchmarking proud to report that, in 2012, we recorded no on the environment. We therefore constantly our production plants against each other and incidents of non-compliance. Moreover, no strive to reduce our consumption of energy and against other players in the industry. A handsignificant spills were registered during the year. water and to reduce waste and emissions. As ful of our various environmental projects are part of our AAK Acceleration program, it is our described in this section, presented by the Environmental objectives Waste Energy There have been some exciting developments point compared with 2011 primarily caused Energy is necessary for our business. We can’t in the solid waste handling industry over the by new aquisition of Louisville, Kentucky and manage without it, but we can continually strive past ten years. It has grown dramatically and change of US federal legislation regarding used to increase energy efficiency. In fact, reducing specialised methods have been developed bleaching earth. In spite of the drop, we are energy consumption and consequently reducfor the recovery of material value by reuse, still confident that we will achieve our target. ing impact on the environment is integral to the recovery of recyclable materials and the During the last year, 2.6 percent (equal to the way we manage our operations. establishment of waste-to-energy facilities – 2,000 MT) of our total waste was disposed of A common way of measuring energy efall of which have significantly increased the in the least favourable way: landfill. Sending ficiency is to calculate the amount of energy number of waste disposal options available waste to landfill means not utilising any of consumed versus the production output. Howto us. Through the implementation of sorting the potential value that may still be present. ever, AAK’s strategy of producing and selling systems, we can now dispose of our waste What’s more, in many countries, a landfill tax more specialised, refined products means both more responsibly and more cheaply than has been introduced to reduce the amount of that we generally require a greater amount ever before. waste disposed of in this way. Our objective of energy per unit of output. This tends to blur In 2012, 97.4 percent of our waste material is that, by the end of 2015, minimum 98.5 the results of our energy efficiency initiatives went for reuse, recycling or recovery. This percent of our waste will go to reuse, recycling and makes it hard to paint a clear picture. actually represents a decline of 0.9 percent or recovery. For this reason, we have decided to focus on local organisation, projects, progress and Least favourable Most favourable results driven by local energy efficiency teams. Landfill Recover Recycle Reuse Reduce Our process for the coming three years will be as follows: 2013: Teams established, monthly meetThe development that we want our waste disposal to follow: going from waste to landfill, over recovings and at least one project initiated ery, recycling and reuse, to reduction. 2014: Energy efficiency projects at all sites are delivering according to plan 2015: Energy efficiency results documented at all sites AAK Responsible Growth | 21 Resource efficiency We continue to take a holistic approach to makes the mixing of the oil with the processing our sustainability improvements, taking into aids much more efficient, allowing us to use account our suppliers, our own operations less of them. and manufacturing processes, as well as our On these pages, you can see just a few exlogistics. We always strive to improve perforamples of the improvements we have made to mance. By ensuring our equipment is in optiour business and where we have significantly mal condition and by employing best-in-class reduced our consumption of energy, whilst processes across our business, we ensure improving productivity and reducing waste. that we continuously improve performance. We Our operational mission is to be the leader focus on best available technologies, where in our field, and our approach is to focus on we are developing a number of new opportuglobal supply chain organisation, where we all nities together with our equipment providers learn from each other and share best practices. to considerably reduce energy consumption To do this, we review our supply chains from across our business sectors. end to end for sustainability, and every year We are in the process of implementing a new our global heads of operations meet to share planning tool in two of our largest sites. This best practices. will enable us to plan better and to optimise our It may take time to achieve our ambition supply chain, reducing stocks to a minimum, and vision, but by stating our intentions we whilst also reducing transportation, through can develop long-term plans. We also believe David Smith optimisation of routes and loads. in establishing KPIs and in setting short-term Vice President AarhusKarlshamn AB and President European Supply Chain We are developing micro-bubble technology objectives with strategic milestones for monito improve yield performance in the UK. The toring progress. This two-pronged approach, tiny bubbles are produced in the soft crude oil employed over the past few years, has made by a pioneering ‘nano-cavitation’ system. This our program the success it is today. Energy Rising energy costs and the link between enKentucky, both in the US, all energy comes electricity constitutes 40 percent. Several sites ergy consumption and impact on the climate from coal. Some production plants have their are purchasing 100 percent green electricity. have sparked an increasing focus on energy own power plant and sell energy in the form of Overall, then, total energy consumption issues. Responsible growth is only possible steam and electricity externally. To account for reached 3,888,000 Gj, an increase of 1.9 perif energy consumption and costs are kept as this, the total energy consumption given in this cent. Calculated per tonne produced, energy low as possible. report refers to energy purchased plus energy consumption has decreased by 0.2 percent Due to our relatively high energy consumpgenerated minus energy sold. despite our strategic decision to increase protion, efforts to increase energy efficiency and, In 2012, our production plants had a comduction of highly refined products which, all where possible, move towards renewable enbined direct energy consumption of 3,900,000 other things being equal, require more energy ergy sources are important. Gj, an increase of 1.9 percent compared to to process. The type of energy used at our production 2011. Direct energy consumption from renewThe proportion of energy from renewable plants varies considerably and very much deable resources constitutes 28 percent. sources is in line with our energy consumption pends on location. In Montevideo, Uruguay, During the same period, electricity purchases objective: we want to utilise renewable sources all direct energy consumed is derived from (indirect energy consumption) increased by 14.5 of energy and new green technologies to a biomass, while for example in Louisville and percent to 740,000 Gj. The proportion of green greater extent. Direct energy consumption 2012 Purchased electricity 2012 Total energy consumption Per energy X 1000 Gj Renewable 4,500 Biomass Fuel oil 40% 4,000 24% 39% 3,500 3,000 2,500 Biofuel 2,000 4% 1,500 1,000 Non 500 renewable Gas 60% 0 33% 2009 2010 2011 2012 22 | AAK Responsible Growth 22 percent steam reduction One of the main objectives for AAK South level recommended by the manufacturer, and, America is to lower plant steam consumption, as a consequence, we observed a decrease in which has two benefits: energy savings and a the undesirable stripping of fats material into reduction in water consumption. the cooling water. The steam consumption reduction from the In the tank yard, an improved maintenance 2011 value of 1,764 mt steam/delivered mt to program was developed to optimise the temthe 2012 value of 1,374 mt steam/delivered mt perature control for fat storage. was achieved after carefully optimising some All these changes led to the desired steam processing units. savings, yet at the same time did not affect the The pressure in the deodoriser vacuum ejecquality of the final products. tors was reduced to less than 8 bar in winter and less than 10 bar in summer. The direct Martin Gil Production and Operations Director, Uruguay steam injection was reduced to less than the Air Rising average temperatures, more extreme weather and changes in rainfall patterns are all symptoms of the climate change we are experiencing. Today, legislation and markets aim to mitigate these changes by reducing the greenhouse gas emissions believed to be the driver of global climate change. At AAK we are ready to play our part. In 2012, we generated 218,000 MT of carbon dioxide at our production plants, 6.4 percent less than in 2011. 37 percent of direct carbon dioxide emissions stemmed from renewable because we can easily switch between the At our site in Morelia, Mexico, we have installed resources. different fuels, we obtain the full benefit in the infrastructure for receiving and using natural Carbon dioxide emissions from fossil fuel all aspects. Our various energy optimisation gas. This will replace the use of fuels used per tonne processed decreased 8.3 percent projects, carried out every year, improve the such us Fuel Oil No. 6 (Heavy Oil), Fuel Oil compared to 2011. overall heat exchange in the plant. Exchange No. 2 (Diesel), propane gas and LP gas. By The ozone layer protects life on earth by of the energy is not consistent, which means converting to natural gas, we have reduced our filtering out some of the sun’s harmful UV we have more surplus low-temperature encosts by fuel consumption by 50 percent. In radiation. For that reason, any thinning of the ergy than we can utilise. This excess heat is addition, we have reduced our carbon footprint ozone layer is hazardous. At AAK, we are therefore sold to the local community, and they by 25 percent, which means that 3,900 metric working actively towards eliminating all equipfunction as our buffer. In this way, we have tonnes of carbon will not be emitted into the ment that uses ozone-depleting substances created symbiosis. atmosphere. (ODS), which are generally used for cooling. In 2012 we used 27 kg ODS. Policies are in Direct emissions Direct CO2 emission 2012 place to phase out all remaining equipment MT % that uses ODS. 600 100 Due to our use of fuels, our production plants emit 251 MT NOX (nitrogen oxide) and 339 MT 500 80 SOX (sulphur oxide). 227 MT VOC (Volatile 400 Organic Compounds) are also emitted from 60 plants that run extraction and solvent fractiona300 40 tion processes. We constantly monitor progress 200 across our production plants. 20 At our Karlshamn site in Sweden, the main 100 fuels used are wood pellets, biofuels and green 0 0 electricity. At some times of the year, there is Nox Sox VOC 2009 2010 2011 2012 an excess of green electricity available, and 2009 2010 2011 2012 Non renewable Renewable AAK Responsible Growth | 23 Water Water consumption Waste discharge Water consumption In addition to being energy intensive, vegetable When water is discharged, its quality is measX 1000 M3 2,500 oil processing requires large amounts of waured by two different methods: BOD5 (bioter, mainly for cooling and steam production. chemical oxygen demand) and COD (chemical 2,000 Most of our products do not contain water on oxygen demand). This determines the degree 1,500 leaving the plants. of pollution and has to be within stipulated limit Combined, our production plants use values. The method used is defined by the 1,000 45,000,000 m3 of surface water. This walocal authorities. 500 ter, which is used for cooling, has no contact Total BOD5 for sites using this method was 9 with products or pollutants and is returned to MT while COD was 1,015 MT. Measurements 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 the source without any change in quality. The are within the stipulated limits. All discharged discharged water may, however, be slightly water from AAK sites is treated at our own or warmer than when entering our system. Surmunicipal treatment plants. face water consumption stayed at the same level as last year. Water consumption Water discharge Ground water and municipal water used in Per unit processed material X 1000 M3 processing totalled 2,100,000 m3, an increase 1.6 2,000 of 13.8 percent compared to 2011. Calculated 1.4 as processing water per tonne produced, con1.2 1,500 1.0 sumption has increased by 11.4 percent. This 0.8 1,000 is partly due to the shifting and startup of new 0.6 equipment. 0.4 500 0.2 0.0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 50 percent reduction in water consumption As part of our continuous improvement proshowing the team involved that water has a optimised by storing it in underground tanks, gram, in 2012 we started a distinct project to high cost, is not unlimited and – above all – is which made it possible to retire the cooling reduce water consumption in the Zaandijk very expensive to clean. tower. Since cooling towers consumer a lot factory and thereby also reduce our discharge Our first corrective measure was to install a of water, this moved our project even further into the sewer system. mechanical vacuum in the vacuum system for in the right direction. During the project’s start-up, we analysed the deodoriser. By doing this, we saved steam By the end of 2013, we will see a total rethe primary areas where water is used and and that meant using less boiler feed water. duction in water consumption of more than identified three that bore greatest responsibilThen, we optimised the heat recovery from the 50 percent compared to 2011, and we believe ity: boiler feed water, cooling tower water and deodoriser and the boilers, which reduced the that our objective for 2014 will be to use less cooling water in heat exchangers. steam consumption even more. Total steam than 13,000 cubic meters for the full year. To achieve a reduction, we looked at the consumption was reduced by over 50 percent, This would represent a 60 percent reduction usage behind the processes. In most cases, in spite of growing production volume. All steam compared to 2011. water is used because it is available, cheap tracing was replaced with hot water. Return and regarded as “unlimited”. We were able to water is now re-used. Marcus Bense create new focus and change mind-sets by Furthermore, the use of cooling water was Technical Director European Supply Chain and Managing Director, The Netherlands Focus on water consumption In Aarhus, we have continued the past year’s reasons for the contamination of condensate, involves a lot of employees who talk to their focus on water, energy and fuel conversion for the entire the plant. In this way, the re-use colleagues and, consequently, lots of people into biofuel. of condensate has increased from 74 percent learn to focus on water savings. If the target is to decrease the use of water, in 2011 to 87 percent in 2012. The increased focus on water has caused it is necessary to first measure water consumpThe re-use of condensate is one of the main many minor improvements and optimisations. tion. In 2012, one of the focus areas was to reasons for this year’s 30 percent decrease In this way, all the employees have contributed. improve the re-use of condensate for steam in water consumption. The fact that we are Henrik Wessman production. We succeeded in doing this by measuring water consumption, and performService Manager, Denmark appointing one person responsible for finding ing water balances for all production areas, 24 | AAK Responsible Growth Waste Disposal of waste During 2012, our production plants generated 77,000 MT of waste, a 13 percent decrease compared to 2011. All 99.8 percent of the total amount of waste was non-hazardous. In waste disposal, there is a clear, very positive tendency towards reduced use of landfill. Nevertheless, new acquisitions joining the AAK Group have had less waste disposal focus and have a challenge improving waste management to meet AAK objectives for 2015. 2,000 MT were disposed of in landfill in 2012, which is an increase of 29 percent compared to 2011. However excluding our new acquisition the waste to landfill improved 18 percent. A large proportion of our waste is shea meal, which is the residual product when oil is exThe majority of our finished products are dein packaging material. By weight 69 percent tracted from shea kernels. Shea meal has no livered in bulk, defined as more than 0.9 MT of our products are bulk deliveries, while 31 nutritional value and is used as biomass in per delivery unit, thus including pallet tanks. percent are packed goods. power plants. Delivering products in bulk means a reduction Total waste 2012 waste disposal Hazardous waste MT 3% 0% % 100,000 22% 2.5 80,000 2.0 60,000 1.5 40,000 1.0 20,000 0.5 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 0.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 75% Reuse Recycle Recover Landfill Upgrading waste stream segregation Recycling has been a huge challenge at the historical disposal methods such as composting AAK Louisville facility. 2013 has seen a conare no longer viable options. The alternative certed effort to reduce landfill-bound waste and is landfill disposal. increase our recycled material levels. Overall, there are many challenges, but the Among the efforts implemented this year are single biggest improvement will be the installaincreased accumulation of waste oils shipped to tion of a state-of-the-art wastewater treatment biodiesel plants; increased recycling of plastic plant that will allow more oil to be separated including bags, bottles and straps; efforts to from water than is currently possible. The inkeep cardboard free of oil so that it may be stallation will increase the total percentage of recycled; and an automated system that allows waste recycled at the facility. more oil to be reused in our products, so that it does not go out as waste. Scott Welsh Health, Safety and Environmental One challenge facing all US vegetable oil Manager, USA facilities is disposal of spent bleaching earth. US federal laws require bleaching earth to be shipped as a hazardous material in transit, and AAK Responsible Growth | 25 AAK Workplace responsible growth CSR organisation Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact Key achievements Lost Time Injury Rate 2.5 2.3 2.0 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.0 0.5 0.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 Lost Day Rate 45 40 39.6 35 37.7 30 25 20 20.9 15 15.5 10 5 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 26 | AAK Responsible Growth This section is about working life at AAK: how we remain an attractive workplace for our employees and make sure that everybody is healthy and safe. Our employees are our most important resource. With 2,164 employees at the end of the year and many different locations across the globe – in production plants, sales offices and sourcing operations – AAK is a diverse company with many different job functions. Common to every employee are our values Safety is key and Code of Conduct, which govern the way in which we conduct our business, execute Safety in the workplace is a top priority with our AAK Acceleration program, and interact AAK, and we are committed to ensuring our with one another and with our stakeholders. employees stay safe and healthy when performCombined with the UN Global Compact and ing their daily work for the company. our CSR Policy, they provide the framework Our production plants work continuously for AAK as a workplace. to improve the Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR). Our global LTIR reporting include data from our production sites and our sourcing sites in West Africa. In 2010, the rate dropped from 2.3 to 1.5 and stayed at 1.5 in subsequent years including 2012. The Lost Day rate, calculated per 200,000 working hours and a measurement of injury severity, has shown a significant improvement of 60 percent from 2009 until 2012 now at a rate of 15.5. Two cases of occupational disease were registered. Workplace objectives Performance and Safety Development Plans To further strengthen our work on safety, we result in one or more days/shifts of sick leave It is crucial to our business that everyone grasps recently decided to unite our global safety per 200,000 working hours. our overall objectives and clearly understands experience and knowledge to better identify Global LTIR objectives and reporting for what is expected. For that reason, we have and share best practices. In 2013 we are imprevious years have included records for both introduced Performance and Development plementing a Global Safety System comprising production sites and sourcing sites in West Plans (PDP) – formal, annual meetings beall production sites and conduct safety audits Africa resulting in an average of 1.5 for 2012. tween individual employees and their immediate at all sites every year. Broken down LTIR at production sites were 1.4 managers. and at West African sourcing sites 2.3. The PDP meeting is a dialogue where inLost Time Injury rate For obvious reasons, we have decided to dividual objectives are discussed and perAny work-related injury is clearly unacceptable set up separate objectives from 2013: formance is assessed. Mutual expectations and AAK constantly strives to be a zero injuProduction sites: Reduce LTIR by at are also shared, including an evaluation of ries workplace. Since 2010, we have aligned least 10 percent per year, base year competencies and development needs. definitions and measured injuries across the 2012 at 1.4 Our objective is for all employees to have AAK Group. We have defined Lost Time Injury Sourcing sites in West Africa: Maintain had their personal PDP by mid 2013. Rate (LTIR) as the number of work injuries that LTIR at or below 2.3 AAK Responsible Growth | 27 Health and safety at AAK We are now in the process of developing a new to become a reality, each stakeholder within our strategy that will build on the many strengths health and safety system must become more we have, but will also recognise the many involved and better understand their personal changes that continue to take place around us role. This in turn will make it easier for them to and that present new challenges for our health assume their responsibilities and perform the and safety systems as a whole. necessary actions effectively. Our initial approach is to develop and launch Our objectives are: a safety campaign during 2013. a. To reinforce the promotion of worker We will renew momentum to further iminvolvement in health and safety prove our health and safety performance b. To specifically target key issues and to We are responding to a wider range of focus on these to bring down our incident risks: in our smaller, recently acquired rate business units; in new technologies dec. To adapt and customise our approaches veloped; and in traditional, longstanding to our different sectors, to achieve the sources of risk best results by optimising our resources We are exploring new and better ways in areas that are most relevant to them of engaging our workforce in all workplaces of all shapes and sizes, using the To develop our campaign, we brought together David Smith knowledge that we have gained from the all our health and safety and site managers in Vice President AarhusKarlshamn AB and President European Supply Chain past. A fully involved workforce will enable February 2013 for three days at our operations us to achieve a better health and safety conference, held in Malmö. One important performance goal of the conference was to launch a safety We have a common, shared set of KPIs campaign in March 2013, with a number of Working together for risk prevention involves throughout our organisation key initiatives for improving awareness and everyone at AAK. We are all part of the soluperformance. Since then, our safety managers tion. The improvements in AAK’s health and We believe everyone has a role in bringing around the globe have participated in a monthly safety performance over the last five years are about improvements in health and safety review to monitor performance, share ideas already a collective achievement that we can performance. We all need to work together and develop best practices. all take pride in and build upon. towards a common set of objectives. For this Labour rights Labour rights issues are governed by our CSR Kentucky. The complaints were filed with the Policy, which applies to all our sites. Among U.S. EEOC (Equal Employment Opportunity other things, the policy states our view on child Commission). Two complaints were resolved to labour and young workers, on forced labour, all parties’ satisfaction. One complaint remains and on freedom of association and the right open with no recent activity. to collective bargaining. Forty-seven percent We do not report our ratio of basic salary of our employees are covered by collective for men relative to women, since interpretabargaining. There were no strikes during 2012. tion of the data would not give a true picture. We do not have a Group policy that stipulates On average, AAK pays more in salary to male a common, cross-group notice period for sigemployees than to female employees, not benificant operational changes. Instead, we abide cause the basic salary for male employees is by national legislation and local agreements higher, but because male employees generally based on collective bargaining, combined with have jobs with a higher salary. For the same what is outlined in the CSR Policy: “We give job, the salary for male and female employees fair notice to employees of significant changes is the same. that could substantially affect them.” Giving staff equal and fair treatment is another focus area of our CSR Policy. During 2012, there were three official complaints of discrimination at our production site in Louisville, 28 | AAK Responsible Growth E-learning safety training At the beginning of this year, we embarked on Over 1,000 courses have been completed so a safety training program for all employees at far, the majority of them with a 100 percent pass Runcorn, utilising our new e-learning centre. mark, and very positive employee feedback. We All 49 of the courses are ROSPA (Royal sociare greatly encouraged by this response, and ety for the prevention of accidents) accredited, believe that the training has helped achieve a which means that we can be confident that reduction in the year-on-year on-site accident their content and structure is relevant and up statistics. to date. The length of courses varies from 18 A training program for all agency staff who to 25 minutes, allowing us to release shop floor attend the site has also been initiated, requiring staff to participate without disrupting production. the completion of three core safety courses A core training program was developed for before they start work in the factory. each department. By building on this, we created an individual training program for each Mike Pocock Health, Safety and Environmental Manager, UK employee, which was then included in their PDPs (Performance and Development Plans). AAK Code of Conduct During 2010, we developed and began imDeployment AAK Supplier Code of Conduct* plementing the AAK Code of Conduct (often Information and communication External Disclosure Policy referred to as the Code) globally. Combined Business ethics AAK Legal Policy with our values, our policies and our rules for Human and labour rights AAK Insider Policy corporate governance, the Code provides a Health, safety and environment AAK Intellectual Property Rights Policy strong framework for our business and a way AAK Group Policy: Corporate Social to maintain the trust of our stakeholders, which In addition to the Code, a series of policies are Responsibility* is essential to our continued success. established to give more detailed guidance to AAK Group Environmental Policy* The Code is applicable to all employees at specific topics: all sites in all business areas, in all markets, at A short version of the AAK Code of Conduct all times. It covers the following overall topics: and policies marked with * can be found on our website, www.aak.com, under the section Documentation. AAK Graduate Trainee Program In 2012, we launched our new AAK Graduate Building on our experiences and the feedTrainee Program, targeting university graduates back from both trainees and managers, we with a technical background, as a pilot across are refining and fine-tuning the elements of Europe. Four trainees were recruited for Sales, the 2013/14 Trainee Program. We are also Customer Innovation and Commercial Product expanding its scope, both geographically (with Management positions. the participation of our US organisation) and The AAK Graduate Trainee Program is an functionally (into our European Supply Chain advanced accelerating and on-boarding proorganisation), to continue to improve not just gram designed to give our trainees the best posthe program but AAK as a whole. sible start to their careers. Over its 12 months, Morten Nørgaard they experience a mix of on-the-job learning, HR Program Manager individual development activities and formal training. Trainees had both a commercial and an operations rotation, providing them with a solid overview of the AAK value chain. AAK Responsible Growth | 29 Internal communication Staying healthy Internal Communication is one of the proSafety in the workplace is also about maintainjects in the People priority area – part of our ing health. We are present in many countries AAK acceleration program. Its objective is to with very different cultures, varying degrees of significantly improve internal communication health awareness and different health initiatives globally in AAK by enabling all employees to by local or national authorities. understand both the direction and the perforFor these reasons, we do not have a uniform mance of the company. approach to maintaining health, but instead One of our key channels is the AAK intranet, base our activities on local decision-making, which targets every AAK employee, although informed by a needs assessment. Most initiain practice not everybody uses a computer on tives focus on our employees. Examples of a daily basis. This is why we also share inforAAK health initiatives include: mation via bulletin boards, electronic boards, information leaflets and regular “town hall meetFirst aid training ings” for all staff. The most efficient means of Safety training communication very much depends on local Protective equipment like helmets, safety tradition and culture, which is why the local glasses, and computer glasses management teams are responsible for sharHealth checks ing timely internal communication, in the right Sports facilities way. To monitor our employees’ satisfaction Annual vaccinations against flu with internal communication, we run regular employee surveys. In 2012 this resulted in For our employees in West Africa, we offer a 2 percent increase in the satisfaction rate free mosquito nets; annual information on within AAK. risk control; vaccination against yellow fever, meningitis and cholera; and health insurance – again based on a local needs assessment. AAK Mexico operates health facilities and offers consultation for employees’ family members and the local community as a whole. Our workforce in numbers Employee distribution by age Permanent employees turnover by age 13% 22% 33% 28% As of December 31st 2012, AAK had a total of 2,164 employees (an average of 2,211 employees, as stated in our 2012 Annual Report), 5 percent less than in 2011. Among our permanent employees approx. 8.6 percent left the company. The average age of employees in Europe is significantly higher than in the rest of the world 30% 24% 20% 30% due to a more mature organisation. 22 percent of our permanent employees <30 30-39 40-49 >49 <30 30-39 40-49 >49 are female. This is a lower percentage than in many other businesses, and is explained by the fact that a job in our production plants typically Employee category by age Employees by age attracts more men than women. However, at % % 100 100 managerial level, 17 percent are female. 75 percent of our employees are permanently 80 80 employed, while 10 percent are on temporary contracts. The remaining 15 percent comprise 60 60 trainees, agency staff and at-will employees. 40 The latter is a doctrine of American law that 40 refers to an employment relationship which 20 20 can be broken by either party with no liability. 0 3 percent of our employees work part-time. 0 Management White-collar Blue-collar Americas Europe West Africa <30 30-39 40-49 >49 <30 30-39 40-49 >49 30 | AAK Responsible Growth Employment contract type 9% 4% 2% 10% 75% Permanent Temporary Apprentice Agency staff At-will Employment type 3% 97% Safety and a good working environment Someone once said that the only thing we know and union representatives have great skills, Full time Part time for certain about the future is that there will be and modern, forward-thinking employers are changes. This obviously includes our work at putting these to use. Employee category by gender AAK, which, in the future, will streamline and The daily work with safety rounds, risk as% rationalise in ways that usually lead to reducsessments in relation to changes, creation of 100 tions in personnel. This places great demands action plans for the systematic work environon owners, management and employees to ment, etc. is a very demanding job that takes 80 prevent accidents and illness. time and will never end. But the reward is the 60 The most important thing is that the owners minimisation of injuries in our workplaces and and Group clearly state that safety and a good seeing our employees thrive. We will continue 40 working environment are high on the agenda. to work with and develop this at AAK. Next, it is important that there are an organiAAK has come a long way with this work 20 sation, structures, written documentation and at the plant in Karlshamn. The owners and the financial resources allocated to a prevenGroup and local management clearly stated 0 Management White-collar Blue-collar tive work environment at our factories around that workplace safety is a top priority. The introthe world. duction of so-called ‘orderliness rounds’, which Female Male Another key factor is the education and trainthe local management implements, reinforces ing of our employees in security and safety this objective. The local security team is very issues. It is also equally important to ensure committed and works hard to get employees Employee gender that, when our processes evolve and become to report work-related injuries and incidents. % more complicated and require fewer operators, This led to 175 reported incidents at AAK in 100 personnel are trained. We must prevent not Karlshamn in 2012. Never before had so many 80 only accidents but also psychosocial workincidents been reported in the company. This environment problems. In this context, it is is a very important tool for preventing acci60 important to emphasise that there are clear dents. But, of course, more can be developed delegations and powers in the organisation through the Safety Officer in the project, with 40 for all employees. more emphasis placed on training staff in new It is also very important for employees and processing technology as it is introduced. 20 union representatives engaged in safety to 0 become involved as early as possible in project Leif Håkansson Americas Europe West Africa Principal safety representative – IF Metall, work, preferably during the design phase. Staff Karlshamn, Sweden Female Male AAK Responsible Growth | 31 AAK Community responsible growth CSR organisation Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact Examples of community engagement Childrens´ day Summer classes Health fair Volunteers building homes Charity bike ride 32 | AAK Responsible Growth In this section we present the activities that we initiate and engage in, be they local, regional, national or international, in order to play our part and act responsibly in society. Contributing to and being part of the community where we operate is essential to maintaining a positive relationship with neighbours, politicians and authorities. Through our commitment to community causes, we are also instrumental in creating a workplace with highly motivated employees who take pride in working for a company that makes a noticeable difference. Local community involvement As a global company, AAK contributes to the development of the local communities where we operate by creating jobs, paying taxes and doing business with local enterprises. However, it takes more than this to truly become part of the community in which we operate. Our community engagement is based on diverse thinking, leading to initiatives ranging from giving employees time off to engage in local activities, donating products and raw materials, and providing used equipment, to giving direct financial support. We are very much aware of the impact that AAK has on the community when we enter, operate in, or leave an area. During 2012, we did not establish or terminate any operations that required a special community impact assessment. participation in local events and councils, giving Overall, our community involvement helps give The impact of existing operations is monitored presentations and participating in interviews. us the “license to operate” that is essential continuously by means of dialogue, through for Media monitoring also provides us with a picture for us as a company and as a player in local example “open house” events, hosting visitors, of local attitudes towards AAK. business life. Community objective We have long been an active member of the communities in which we operate, through sponsorship or direct participation in projects. In 2012, we engaged in numerous local activities. We will continue to ensure that we are an integrated part of our local communities in the future. AAK Responsible Growth | 33 Being a good neighbour We are an industrial company located within recreation, sports and culture that take place an urban area. Our good relationship with the during the year with the participation of around neighbouring community and our actions and 400 people. policies to avoid any kind of negative effect on In 2013, we replaced fuel oil with natural the wellbeing of our neighbours are therefore gas in our processes. Through this action, we topics of the highest priority for our company. reduced our carbon footprint by 25 percent – a During 2012, we paid special attention to reduction of 3,900 tons of CO2 per year. AAK employees’ behaviour around the facilities For the current year, we expect to keep up and to the logistics operations derived from our with our commitment as a socially responsible industrial activity. Some of the relevant actions company, complying 100 percent with Mexican during last year were: control and improveenvironmental regulations. We shall continue ment of the traffic flow in the plant access, and behaving according to solid professional ethics, AAK´s support for fire brigades and emergency seeking to transform our colleagues into a team services. Since social issues are fundamental that works in harmony with our environment. for us, we have a plan for activities such as Octavio Díaz de León, Managing Director AarhusKarlshamn, Mexico AAK as a global citizen The impact of our business goes beyond local communities. At a global level, we do our best to involve ourselves in areas where we can make a difference – our sphere of influence. As we see it, that means influencing our suppliers and – through our involvement in various interest groups – the industry in which we are operate. Due to the global nature of our business, considering issues such as corruption and bribery is a necessity. The section on bribery in our Code of Conduct is aimed at ensuring alignment across the AAK organisation: “Employees will not accept or offer any form of bribes, whatever the form, method or purpose.” Any employee can contact our Code of Conduct compliance function to report material violations of laws, legal requirements and/or the AAK Code of Conduct. Information received will be treated confidentially, anonymity will be respected and the sender shall not fear reprisals from anyone. AAK is naturally also a member of various national and international organisations that safeguard the interests of the vegetable oils and fats industry. Through these organisations, we interact openly with authorities and aim to influence the legislation that governs our business. 34 | AAK Responsible Growth Summer courses in Mexico Summer at AAK Mexico brings with it a soughtFor those with more energy, we have karate after tradition. We refer to our Summer Courses, classes and football, but there are also jazz, which allow us to live in a closer and warmer Arabic dance and ballet classes for the more relationship with the younger members of the coordinated and kinesthetic ones. families of our employees, as well as the chilAnd, of course, we did not forget those dren and youths in our community. All this seeking relaxation, so we included yoga and comes through activities that develop physipainting as well. cal skills and strengthen important values in As with every other activity within AAK, this everyday life, such as respect, teamwork and Summer Course is supported by instructors who friendship. are totally qualified and committed to teaching To AAK, developing this type of activity fills these workshops. At the end of the courses, in us with pride and satisfaction. Its purpose is to a Closing Ceremony often attended by around plant the seeds of sports and creativity while 800 people, a show is performed in a theatre strengthening other aspects of coexistence where the participants demonstrate what they and trust among the little ones. have learnt during the programs. It gives us great satisfaction to know that This is definitely an activity in which we, as our families and community look forward to a company, are delighted to participate and – and do not hesitate to register or take part enjoy what our community has to offer. in – the various activities we have planned for them. This year 300 people have participated, Ramiro Corona HR Manager, Mexico including children and adults. Charity bike ride in UK Covering a mammoth 175 miles over three strenuous days, 20 cyclists from AAK Hull and Runcorn took to the roads to raise more than 15,000 SEK for the mental health charity Mind. This challenging ride, which started in Newport, South Wales, before heading on to Hereford, Shrewsbury and finally Chester, saw twenty of our staff and customers push themselves to the absolute limit in aid of a very worthy cause. Veterans of this annual event, which has been running for over ten years, were joined by several new recruits, who returned having thoroughly enjoyed the experience. This year’s event was relatively free of mishaps, with only a couple of punctures to report. Donations were received from various companies. Each of our cyclists raised a minimum of 550 SEK, with one participant even auctioning his bike for 1600 SEK post-event! The charity, Mind, campaigns to improve services, raise awareness and promote understanding of mental illnesses, as well as offering advice and specialist support to anyone experiencing a mental health problem. Judith Murdoch Communications & CSR Director, UK AAK Responsible Growth | 35 AAK volunteers build homes for the poor Once again in 2012, AAK South America vol1. Constructing transitional homes that TECHO is currently supported by 530,000 unteers participated in the project “Constructallow families to have a private, safe and volunteers in 19 countries. Funding comes ing with Companies” organised by the NGO decent shelter from grants, corporate support and individual “TECHO” (“ROOF”). 2. Coordinating social inclusion programs donations. AAK-SA has been supporting this This Latin American non-profit organisation such as education, health care, economic NGO since 2009. mobilises youth volunteers to eradicate the development, micro-finance, and vocaextreme poverty that affects more than 80 miltional training Andrea Gonzalez 3. Helping residents develop their own susRegional Logistics Manager, Uruguay lion people in the region. It works together with Latin America’s most marginalised populations tainable communities, including construcin three phases: tion of permanent housing 36 | AAK Responsible Growth Examples of memberships that safeguard the interests of our industry National associations Netherlands Oils, Fats and Oilseeds Trade / NOFOTA Association of Dutch Oil Processing Industries / Vernof Product Board Margarine, Fats and Oils / MVO Confederation of Danish Industry / DI The Association of Danish Oil and Oilseed Processors / ADOP Asociación Nacional de Industriales de Aceites y Mantecas Comestibles / ANIAME Confederación Patronal de la República Mexicana / COPARMEX Asociación de Industriales del Estado de Michoacán / AIEMAC The Swedish Food Federation / LI The Swedish Plastics and Chemicals Federation / P&K Seed Crushers’ and Oil Processors’ Association / SCOPA Association of Bakery Ingredient Manufacturers / ABIM International associations Swedish-American Chambers of Commerce / SACC The EU Oil and Proteinmeal Industry / FEDIOL The Institute of Shortening and Edible Oils / ISEO Federation of Oils, Seeds and Fats Association / FOSFA American Fats and Oils Association / AFOA FoodDrinkEurope National Confectioners Association / NCA European Oleochemicals and Allied Products / APAG Uruguayan Chamber of Industries / CIU National Institute of Oilseed Products / NIOP Improved conditions for women groups in Burkina Faso In recent years and as a follow up to our project Sankara Bintou, member of the How much did the bonus paid by AAK help you? “Kolo Nafaso”, we have monitored the quality women’s group of Bana Marché We have built a good system now where we of life of the participants as well as the develfor 2 years. put the money of the bonus in a bank account. opment of the shea trade within the project. Each woman in our group can come and borQuestionnaires were sent out and interviews What has changed in your life since AAK came row money from that account in case of need. conducted to gather information. with our way of purchasing shea? Qualitative interviews conducted in 60 vilI found many interesting things with AAK’s Do the women have to pay an interest rate lages in Burkina Faso show that pre-financing way of working. We work directly with AAK when they borrow money from your account? helped 84% of the women to fight poverty. The and their extension workers. The pre-finances Yes, If they borrow 5,000 CFA they have to questionnaires also showed that pre-financing have allowed me not to sell my shea kernels pay back 5,500 CFA increases the women’s independence. They when the price was low. have been able to spend their pre-financing Does it work well? on for instance: What did your group do with the bonus offered Yes, it does. Even if you guys left tomorrow we by AAK? would have enough funds to have a system Agriculture projects The money is put on the account of the group that works. Food and each member of the group can borrow Small business some money in case of need. What do the women typically do with the money Clothes for their children from the loans? Education of children Does AAK’s way of working help you to fight They use it for health issues and to buy food. Other needs of the women poverty? and their children Yes a lot, because we need the money badly In order to elevate the women’s standard of Buying medicine at the time of the pre-financing. living further, it is also important to increase Buying wood the quality of the shea. In order to obtain good Ouedraogo Habibou, head of the quality shea kernels the treatment of the goods Below are short extracts from interviews with women’s group of Bana Marché. is essential. AAK is therefore teaching the partwo women from our shea project conducted ticipants in the project how to handle the shea by Mads J. Feer, Manager of Sustainability What did you do with the pre-financing you kernels from picking to storing. As a result, we and shea in West Africa. received? can buy shea kernels of better quality which I used the money for inputs in my fields. It has means a bonus for the women – an additional helped me a lot. payment at the end of the season. AAK Responsible Growth | 37 CSR Approach Engaging with our stakeholders Responsible growth is the key objective of level we should set our next objectives to drive From customers and investors, we regularly our AAK Acceleration strategy, and is essenour future performance within this area. receive questionnaires, supplier codes of tial to our vision of being the first choice for An example of input from our shareholders conducts and suchlike, which we respond to value-added vegetable oil solutions. For us, is their emphasis that sustainable sourcing is in accordance with our policies. This type of responsible growth is about our responsibility a key element when they review new investinput serves as a useful guide to the priorities towards all of our key stakeholders – the local ment options, since this affects the risk profile on our stakeholders’ agenda – supporting our communities where we operate, our global of their portfolio. This input has reconfirmed our continuous, proactive efforts to maintain an customers, our employees, our investors and strong focus within this area and supported and up-to-date perception of what will be expected our suppliers. guided us to raise our ambitions. of us in the future. Our model for responsible growth is a dyOur key stakeholders provide our main namic one, continuously enhanced by new guidance in our continued development of Contacts knowledge gained, changes in the external responsible growth. Jesper Korning environment and our engagement with our Global CSR Manager key stakeholders for their input. Ongoing dialogue with Email: jesper.korning@aak.com The input from our key stakeholders comes external stakeholders from our ongoing dialogue with them, at both We value the ongoing input from and dialogue Anne Mette Olesen local and corporate levels, about their expecwith our stakeholders in respect of our CSR Chief Marketing Officer tations of us now and in the future. What do approach, including their assessments of our Or e-mail they expect from us as a good neighbour, a efforts. Through this dialogue, we can ensure sustainability@aak.com preferred supplier, an attractive workplace, a that AAK continues to be their first choice, also profitable investment and a valued customer? when it comes to CSR. Their input guides us as to where and at what AAK responsible growth CSR organisation Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact 38 | AAK Responsible Growth Investor Relations Shareholders Shareholders Activities AAK endeavours to generate an attractive Capital market days regard to long and short term-risks affecting return on investment for its shareholders. Our Roadshows the business. AAK meets with such investors largest shareholder is Melker Schörling AB, Meeting with institutional investors regularly, and provides information on our which indirectly owns 35 percent of AAK. Meetings with equity analysts strategy and approach, risk management and In total, approximately 75 percent of AAK’s Local meetings with the Swedish anti-corruption program, among other issues. shareholders are Swedish. More information Shareholders’ Association We believe that our annual Sustainability about AAK’s ownership structure is available Annual General Meeting Report is the most appropriate and efficient at www.aak.com. channel for providing information about our CSR AAK strives to facilitate current and potential practices. For this reason, we aim to answer Dialogue with shareholders shareholders’ assessment of our performance the most common questions in this report. Dialogue with shareholders is primarily conducthrough the transparent communication of However, we value constructive dialogue on ted through AAK’s Investor Relations function. our financial results and our work to enhance risks, opportunities and strategies related to Examples of Investor Relations activities include environmental and social sustainability. During CSR and sustainability. capital market days, roadshows for meeting the year, dialogues were held with a number of institutional investors, meetings with equity socially responsible investment analysts and analysts and local meetings with the Swedish investors. Some investors have a particularly Shareholders’ Association. The Annual General strong focus on CSR, and seek greater insights Meeting is also important for a close dialogue into how companies manage sustainability and with shareholders. corporate responsibility issues, particularly with Best Investor Relations Officer Best listed company in 2012 IR Nordic Markets organises an annual evaluaAt the Swedish Shareholders’ Association’s tion of the financial communication of Swedish 2013 annual congress, AAK was recognised as listed companies. As Director of Investor Re“The best listed company for its communication lations, I received the award for best Investor with potential and existing private shareholders Relations Officer in the Mid Cap category for through public meetings across Sweden”. The 2012. IR Nordic Markets is the largest IR study selection was made from among approximately in the Nordic region, and was performed for the 500 companies listed on the Stockholm Stock fifteenth consecutive year. The study covered Exchange. The jury´s explanatory statement feedback from analysts and investors in the was: “the 2012 winner is AAK, who, by partiNordic region and Europe, which provided cipating in shareholder meetings around the the basis for assigning the different awards. country, actively contributes to increasing the AAK’s financial performance and financial interest in private stock ownership.” risks are presented in the Annual Report 2012. Fredrik Nilsson Director Group Controlling & Investor Relations AAK Responsible Growth | 39 Maintaining momentum An important aspect of our CSR work is maintaining global momentum. To ensure that this happens, the Global CSR Manager visited all production plants in 2012 and again in early 2013. These visits had multiple objectives. During workshops with the local teams, CSR SWOT analyses were completed, feedback was given on the 2011 GRI Report and Sustainability Report, ambitions and objectives were discussed. Finally, locally reported Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) data was scrutinised with each member of the local team to clarify ambiguities and align definitions. As a special theme on this year’s tour, we launched a CSR training program aimed at employees in contact with customers. To be able to reach all the relevant employees, we based the training primarily on the “train the trainer” concept. To further support this training, a CSR booklet was handed out to all participants. To promote continued sharing of information, best practices and progress on CSR objectives on a more regular basis, we conduct monthly virtual conferences with the participation of all CSR team leaders. that has demonstrated outstanding CSR perforsuch as energy consumption, CO2 emissions, To make CSR even more visible within our mance. In 2012, the production site in Zaandijk wastewater discharge, Lost Time Injuries and organisation, each year we present our internal in the Netherlands was granted an award for the training of employees in cardiopulmonary CSR award to the AAK site or business area significant improvements on key indicators resuscitation (CPR). Increasing CSR awareness The introduction of dashboards is sharpening The adoption and global implementation of our attention on progress made. These comprise AAK Code of Conduct is another promoter for a one-page presentation of data and graphics the integration of CSR in our business. The showing GRI indicators with high priority or in Code is fully implemented with all employees significant development. A global dashboard who have read, understood, accepted and has been created for AAK’s Executive Comsigned the Code. Further systems have been mittee to follow global developments, while established to ensure that our Code is part of local dashboards illustrate and benchmark the introduction package for new employees. developments at individual production plants. 40 | AAK Responsible Growth AAK responsible growth CSR organisation CSR organisation Objectives and GRI Transparency Stakeholders Sedex Marketplace Supply chain Environment Workplace Community Legislation Sustainability Trends Report Benchmarks AAK web Partnerships Group CSR policies and codes UN Global Compact Management CEO and Executive Committee Production Sourcing Global CSR Manager CSR team CSR team CSR team CSR team CSR teams CSR teams CSR teams CSR teams Aarhus Montevideo Morelia Zaandijk SE UK USA West Africa DK South MX NL America Karlshamn Runcorn New Jersey Benin Dalby Hull Kentucky Ghana Burkina Faso Mali Ivory Coast Decentralised approach We believe in the importance of anchoring Since the global CSR organisation was estabAt our production sites, the teams consist of our CSR efforts in the organisation and in lished in early 2007, its objective has been to five to ten people led by a CSR Team Leader. incorporating a sustainability mind-set into our ensure breadth and diversity in the local teams, The teams at our sourcing operations in West everyday working life. To that end, we have which are central to our CSR work. The teams Africa have a different composition, and may set up a decentralised global CSR organisapossess competencies in Human Resources, draw on competencies from the major sites. tion responsible for CSR-related initiatives, Health, Safety & Environment, Finance, Sourcprogress, communication and reporting. ing, Operations and Sales. Global CSR organisation with local roots The Global CSR Manager is a member of AAK’s Executive Committee and reports to the Global team effort CMO (Chief Marketing Officer). The CMO’s The annual production and release of our GRI Report for internal use is a global team responsibilities include CSR and Communieffort involving staff from various functions at all sites. cations. In line with this, our Sustainability Report is a global team achievement that includes At Board level, the Audit Committee is restatements, initiatives, projects and views from the entire organisation. In addition, it sponsible for monitoring the follow-up and documents – for our stakeholders and ourselves – the fact that CSR is firmly anchored reporting of CSR topics, codes and policies. within our organisation. AAK Responsible Growth | 41 AAK CSR Teams CSR Team Hull, UK Judith Murdoch* Communications & CSR Director Peter Scarbrough Procurement Manager Ernesto Reynolds Zamudio Gomez Trading Manager Mike Stewart Technical and HSE Manager CSR Team Runcorn, UK Les Bales HR Manager Mike Pocock* HSE Manager Steve Harrison Health & Safety Officer Vicki Potter Finance Manager Liz Skern Financial Accountant Jon Devine Operation Manager Peter Evans Production Manager Ian Roberts Engineering Manager David Knowles Technical Manager CSR Team New Jersey, US Tom Winter* Vice President, Operations JoAnne Martinez Director Human Resources & Communications Kurt Faudel Supply Chain Director Scott Welsh HSE Manager Peter Maulbeck Vice President Accounting & Finance CSR Team Kentucky, US Tom Winter* Vice President, Operations Angela Cole HR Manager Luis Gomez Operations Director Jackie Steffey R&D Micki Hoskins Production Planning Deborah McRoberts EHS Specialist CSR Team MX Ramiro Corona* HR Manager José Luis Paredes Goche HSE Manager Maria de Lourdes Prado Zamudio QS Manager Ezequiel Perez Calderon Project Manager Gabriela Méndez Zamora Costing Analyst Laura Alejandra Calderón Rocha Applications and Development Manager Daisy Ramirez Castro Communications Consultant CSR Team Montevideo, South America Andrea González* Regional Logistics Manager *) Team leader Maria Soledad Cardozo Regional Manager for Applications and Product Quality Martin S. Gil Production & Operations Director 42 | AAK Responsible Growth CSR Team SE Anders Söderström* Site and Customer Quality Manager Gunilla Bergqvist Sourcing & Trading Martin Antonsson Purchasing Christine Åkesson-Stenbeck Regional Sales Director Joakim Karlsson Sourcing & Trading Jim Broberg HSE Manager Johan Bodin Technical Products & Feed, Binol Anna-Karin Nilsson HR Monica Hjorth Sourcing & Trading Rita Leissner Marketing Manager, Personal Care CSR Team Dalby, SE Annelie Abrahamsson* Qaulity Manager Andreas Åkesson External Communication, Product Development Manager Søren Ask NIelsen Managing Director CSR Team DK Mette Linnemann Nielsen* HSE Manager Marianne Dysted HR Manager Bo Porsgaard Pedersen Sourcing and Trading John Barner Koustrup Controller Anne Stine Toft Jensen CPM Trainee CSR Team Zaandijk, NL Piet de Bakker* Logistics and Sourcing & Trading Manager Mieke Doll QA Manager Marcus Bense Technical Director Site Manager Rene Huisman Controller CSR Team West Africa Hiske Keller Area Sales Manager Monika Hjorth* Shea Sourcing Manager Piet Mul Maintenance Manager Mads Jules Feer Sustainability and Shea Manager Tineke Brinkkemper HR Manager Christer Yxell Country manager, Mali Alexander Andersson Country manager, Benin Pär Torstensson Country manager, Ghana Martin Ingemansson Country manager, Burkina Faso AAK Responsible Growth | 43 Global Reporting Initiative G3 Index 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the CEO p. 1 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Annual Report: pp. 25-29 Report 2012: p. 18 2 Organisation profile 2.1 Name of the organisation p. II 2.2 Primary brands, products and services pp. 7-11 2.3 Operational structure Annual Report: 48 2.4 Location of headquarters p. II 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates p. IV 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Annual Report: pp. 56-57 2.7 Markets served pp. 7-11 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Annual Report: pp. 5, 32, 38 pp. III-IV, 30-31 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Annual Report: pp. 4-5 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period p. 39 3 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period 01.01.2012 31.12.2012 3.2 Date of most recent prior report 01.01.2011 31.12.2011 3.3 Reporting cycle Annually 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report p. 38 3.5 Process for defining report content p.47 3.6 Boundary of the report p. 47 3.7 Specific limitations of the scope or the boundary of the report p. 47 3.8 Basis for reporting on entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period or between pp. II, 47 geographical locations 3.9 Description of data measurements techniques and the basis of calculations p. 47 3.10 Explanation of any restatement of information given in earlier reports p. 47 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting No significant changes 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures pp. 44-46 3.13 Policy and practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report p. 47 4 Governance, commitments and engagements 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation Annual Report: pp. 47-53 4.2 Position of the Chairman of the Board Annual Report: p. 49 4.3 Number of independent, non-executive members of the Board Annual Report: p. 49 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to the Board or company management Annual Report: p. 47 4.5 Connection between compensation and the organisation’s performance Annual Report: p. 50 4.6 Procedures in place for the Board to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Annual Report: pp. 50-51 4.7 Procedures for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the Board Annual Report: p. 49 4.8 Mission, values, codes and principles relevant to economic, environmental and social performance pp. III, 3, 14, 29 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing the organisation’s management of economic, environmental and social Annual Report: p. 51 performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s own performance with respect to economic, environmental and social performance No reporting 44 | AAK Responsible Growth 4.11 Explanation of how the precautionary principle is addressed p. 10 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental or social initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses pp. 3, 16, 19 4.13 Memberships of associations p. 37 4.14 The organisations stakeholders p. 39 4.15 Basis for identification of stakeholders with whom to engage Engaging few selective stakeholders 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement pp. 34, 38-39 4.17 Key topics that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and the organisation’s respond Supply chain sustainability EC Economic Performance Indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Employee benefits: SEK 10,400,000 Community donations: SEK 600,000 EC2 Financial risks and opportunities due to climate change No reporting EC3 Coverage of the defined benefit plan obligations Annual Report: pp. 34-35 EC4 Financial assistance received from government SEK 7,900,000 EC6 Policy, practice and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers No reporting EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community No reporting EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit pp. 33-37 EN Environmental Performance Indicators EN1 Material used by weight or volume p.12 Processing aids: 23,000 MT Packaging materials: 29,000 MT EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input material 0% EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source p. 22 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source p. 22 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source p. 24 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Hull, UK and Newark, US sites adjacent to protected areas. No significant impact on production EN12 Description of significant impact on biodiversity No significant impact identified EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions p. 23 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions Insignificant in relation to emissions from production EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances p. 23 EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions p. 23 EN21 Total water discharge p. 24 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method p. 25 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills No significant spills EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impact of products and services, and extend of impact mitigation pp. 21-25 EN27 Percentage of products and packaging material reclaimed p. 25 Main initiative to reduce packaging material is to convert to bulk deliveries where relevant EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental No non-compliance incidents laws and regulations AAK Responsible Growth | 45 Fully reported Partly reported Not reported LA Labour Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region pp. 30-31 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region p. 30 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements p. 28 LA5 Minimum notice period regarding operational changes p. 28 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of fatalities by region pp. 26-27, 29 LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and risk-control programs in place regarding serious diseases p. 30 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category Inadequate recording globally LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category pp. 30-31 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category p. 28 HR Human Rights Performance Indicators HR1 Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or p. II that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and p. 13 action taken HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken p. 28 HR5 Operations identiﬁed in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may No risks identiﬁed be at signiﬁcant risk, and actions taken HR6 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken No risks identiﬁed HR7 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures No risks identiﬁed taken SO Society Performance Indicators SO1 Programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities p.34 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to corruption pp. 13-14, 29 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures p. 29 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption No incidents occurred SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying pp. 34, 37 SO8 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance No non-compliance incidents with laws and regulations PR Product Responsibility Performance Indicators PR1 Life-cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for p. 8 improvement, and percentage of signiﬁcant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of signiﬁcant products p. 10 and services subject to such information requirements PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications No reporting PR9 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision No non-conpliance incidents and use of products and services FP Food Processing Sector Supplement FP3 Percentage of working time lost due to industrial disputes, strikes and lockouts No incidents FP5 Percentage of production volume manufactured in sites certiﬁed by an independent third party p. 10 AAK Responsible Growth | 46 Reporting criteria Scope and materiality In general, data in this report covers our The majority of data in the Sustainability This is the fourth AAK Sustainability Report. activities from January 1st to December Report are drawn from measurements. Air The ﬁrst was published in October 2010. 31st 2012. Updated information regardemissions data are based on direct measOur aim is to continue reporting on an ing some 2013 events is included since urements, calculations based on speciﬁc annual basis. they are considered of material impordata and calculations based on default Since commencing structured reporting tance to our stakeholders. Data from our values. Information concerning purchased in 2008, we have followed the Global Re2012 acquisition of Oasis Foods Company, electricity from renewable resources is porting Initiative’s (GRI) G3 Sustainability New Jersey, USA and Crown-Foods A/S, based on national grid information, if not Reporting Guidelines. As this is the most Denmark are not included. However, we purchased as green electricity. Informawidely used reporting framework, we beexpect to include them in our 2013 report. tion about employees, including numbers, lieve many readers will already be familiar Environmental data (GRI abbreviation: gender, composition etc., is calculated with its principles and ﬁnd them helpful EN) relate to the 10 AAK production plants per December 31st 2012 and is based on when searching for information. We have that were fully operational in 2012 and the payroll information. focused on GRI Core Performance IndicaAAK products produced by our toll producSome minor data errors in the 2011 retors and a few additions from GRI’s Food tion partner Cousa in Montevideo, Uruguay. porting have been identiﬁed and corrected, Processing Sector Supplement. Other core data also include purchasing and will differ from the 2011 reporting. From Because GRI is an all-encompassing sites and sales ofﬁces. our experience of the reporting process, format, it is not relevant for us to report on we expect corrections will be necessary all criteria. In 2010, we initiated an internal Data and calculations in future reports as well. Nevertheless, we process to identify the issues relevant to We release the GRI Report internally in the believe that the trends and overall picture our business and our stakeholders. This inﬁrst quarter of every year. This is based given are a true reﬂection of our activities. volved discussions with staff at all sites and on information received from all sites, and The data included comprise data reported feedback from other stakeholder groups. contains both local and compiled global to the authorities and information generated Our ambition is to focus on reporting the data. A section showing trends from the speciﬁcally for this report. The report has information requested by stakeholders, or previous year is also included. Data and not been reviewed by external auditors. We that of internal value. information from the GRI Report form the trust that the requirements of authorities This Sustainability Report is a supplebasis of our Sustainability Report, which along with their effective scrutiny of the ment to the AAK Annual Report 2012 and is published externally. company are a sufﬁcient guarantee of the AAK Report 2012, and therefore only conaccuracy of the data reported. tains a summary of ﬁnancial performance ﬁgures. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) GRI is a network-based organisation that pioneers the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework. The reporting framework sets out the principles and performance indicators that organisations can use to measure and report their economic, environmental, and social performance. The framework also addresses the United Nations Global Compact principles and the OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. See www.globalreporting.org for more information. AAK Responsible Growth | 47 The first choice for value-added vegetable oil solutions Published by AarhusKarlshamn AB, Sweden. Produced by AAK Corporate Communication and AAK Corporate Social Responsibility. Graphics and original: www.johnjohns.se. Photography: www.benfoto.se, AAK, Thomas Tjäder. Shutterstock. Print: Exakta.
