BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 bp.com/sustainability Building a stronger, safer BP About our report This report covers the activities of BP Georgia, focusing on performance in 2012 while providing information on developments in 2013. It has been prepared by our business in Georgia. Data is shown for activities where we are the operator, unless indicated otherwise. In the report, references to ‘BP’ and the ‘BP group’ shall mean BP p.l.c., its subsidiaries and affiliates and, unless otherwise stated, the text does not distinguish between the operations and activities of BP p.l.c. and those of its subsidiaries and affiliates. Unless specified otherwise, references in this report to ‘us’, ‘we’, and ‘our’ shall refer to companies in the BP group operating in Georgia. Unless otherwise indicated all currency amounts are denominated in US dollars. As with all our previous BP in Georgia sustainability reports, this report has been independently verified. Cautionary statement BP in Georgia Sustainability pricing; operational problems; this document and in BP Annual Report 2012 contains certain general economic conditions; Report and Form 20-F 2012. forward-looking statements political stability and economic Material is used within this concerning the businesses, growth in relevant areas of document to describe issues for operations and strategy of BP. the world; changes in laws voluntary sustainability reporting By their nature, forward-looking and governmental regulations; that are considered to have the statements involve risks and exchange rate fluctuations; potential to significantly affect uncertainties because they development and use of new sustainability in the view of the relate to events and depend technology; changes in public company and/or are expected on circumstances that will or expectations and other changes to be important in the eyes of may occur in the future. Actual in business conditions; the internal or external stakeholders. results may differ from those actions of competitors; natural Material for the purposes of this expressed in such statements disasters and adverse weather document should not, therefore depending on a variety of factors conditions; wars and acts of be read as equating to any use including future levels of industry terrorism or sabotage; and other of the word in other BP p.l.c. product supply; demand and factors discussed elsewhere in reporting or filings. An introduction to Ernst & Young’s assurance process We have reviewed the BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 in order to provide assurance to BP management that the data, statements and assertions made regarding the sustainability performance of BP in Georgia are supported by evidence or explanation. Our scope of work and conclusions can be found on page 30. Front cover BTC pump station 1 Find out more online BP Georgia office employees visiting the bpgeorgia.ge operating site. bp.com/sustainability 2 Contents BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Contents Overview 2 Management introduction 3 Achievements and challenges BP Georgia’s General Manager reviews Our most significant achievement and challenges developments in 2012 and future prospects. in 2012. Focus areas 4 How we operate 18 Environment BP Georgia in context; governance and Environmental management; managing management systems; our people and values; our our impact. stakeholders; delivering local benefit. 13 Safety 21 Society Our safety performance; safety management; and Our approach to engagement with communities; risk management and emergency response. building local capacity; social investment projects. Our reporting and performance data 28 BP Georgia in figures 30 Assurance statement Our performance data from 2008 to 2012. Ernst & Young’s conclusions on BP Georgia’s reporting. Contents 1 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 A view from BP Georgia’s General Manager 2012 was one of our best years for safety. We In addition to our financial impacts, we have a worked approximately 3.4 million man hours, less obvious but important influence in Georgian completing some major projects in a wide range society. We not only provide contracts and of challenging environments, and had just one employment for local businesses, but we work medical treatment case in the course of the year. with them to promote better employment We and our contractors drove more than nine practices. We manage our impacts on the million kilometres in 2012 and improved our driving environment, and protect Georgia’s cultural safety record while doing so. This performance is heritage when we carry out our operations and a reflection of real excellence in risk management, projects. We develop capacity through our social project planning and execution and of the projects, supporting business start ups and effort we are making to hold contractors to BP helping young people build a brighter future. We performance standards. were, for example, especially proud in 2012 to be the official partner of the Georgian National We continued to prepare for the major capital Olympic Committee and the Georgian National works to expand the capacity of the South Paralympic Committee and to provide support Caucasus gas pipeline (SCP) and replace for the six Georgian Olympic and Paralympic Soviet-era sections of the Western Route Export athletes who competed in London. It proved an Pipeline, commonly known as the Baku-Supsa uplifting experience, and our support for them is pipeline. This has involved preparatory work continuing. with landowners, government and community stakeholders _ including completing and disclosing Many of these initiatives are described in We want to be a force for the Environmental and Social Impact Assessment this report _ our eighth consecutive annual (ESIA) for the SCP project and preparing the ESIA sustainability report, which we believe sets an good in Georgia by listening for WREP. These assessments, together with example for transparency and good governance. to what Georgian people obtaining the necessary permits to carry out the In that spirit, we recognize that we face a work, have been major undertakings. While effort number of challenges in the years ahead, such as want and playing our part to to complete permitting for WREP will continue in continuing to build contractor capability in safety, make it happen’ the months ahead, we will continue to work with leadership and management. Operating safely our partners so that field work can begin later in is something that is always top of our agenda. 2013. The projects will mark another milestone in In other areas, we want to be a force for good Neil Dunn our continuing investment in Georgia. in Georgia by listening to what Georgian people General Manager, BP Georgia want, and playing our part in making it happen. We continue to make a significant contribution to the Georgian economy through the jobs we provide and the taxes we pay. With SCP expansion progressing from a concept to reality, it should not be forgotten that a major part of our contribution to Georgia is in providing gas for domestic use. Neil Dunn This provides great value to the country and even General Manager, BP Georgia more so when the new facilities come on stream. May 2013 The gas Georgia takes from SCP will increase significantly in future, and will enhance national energy security. 2 A view from BP Georgia’s General Manager BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Achievements and challenges We highlight below our most significant achievements in 2012 and the challenges we face in the future. Achievements Challenges Continuing operating efficiency Delivering our major projects We continued our good record of pipeline operational efficiency, with SCP expansion and WREP sectional replacement create a range of average efficiency of more than 99% in our delivery operations (page 5). operational, safety, environmental and resourcing challenges. Our past experience gives us the experience we need to manage these projects Excellent safety performance successfully, but we need to demonstrate that expertise by delivering We carried out our operations and projects with just one recordable on our commitments to our shareholders, partners, colleagues, and injury _ while working approximately 3.4 million man-hours and driving communities (page 7). more than nine million kilometres (page 15). Building contractor capability in safety leadership SCP expansion progress While we have taken many steps forward, we will need to support our We made good progress on plans to expand SCP, including significant contractors in developing working cultures that give prominence to amounts of work on the environmental and social impact assessment, safety (page 14). which has been prepared for submission to the Georgian government (page 6). Raising contractor awareness of social risk We will need to work more with our contractors to increase their Managing our environmental impact awareness of the social impact of the work undertaken in the field, Our systematic approach to environmental management has been ensuring that we maintain positive relationships with local communities reflected in positive external audits and in our day-to-day management of (page 12). impacts in operations and projects (page 20). Developing our new employees Pipeline security enhancements We know that sustained effort is needed to develop our new joiners to We installed and successfully piloted a fibre optics intruder detection BP _ from providing English language training through to comprehensive system on a stretch of the Western Route Export Pipeline which technical training to give them the competencies they need for future has significantly improved our capacity to protect the pipeline from work in BP (page 10). interference (page 5). Launch of the new BP values and code of conduct We ran campaigns to raise awareness of the new BP values among our people, including new joiners (page 10). Contents 3 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 How we operate BP Georgia operates in accordance with BP’s system of internal control that governs the group’s operations worldwide. Our goals We are committed to safe and efficient transportation of oil and gas through Georgia to world markets. We take steps to build capacity of local people and contractor companies. We conduct our operations based on BP’s values and code of conduct requirements. In this section Internal systems and processes help us conduct our business responsibly. Extensive environmental and social impact assessment enables us to assess potential impacts of the SCP expansion project. Our activities generate benefit for the Georgian economy and local people. BTC pump station 1 People at work. 4 How we operate BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 BP in Georgia We carry out our operations in Georgia in the context of BP’s approach to sustainability, our strategy, values, management systems and procedures. BP operated interests in Georgia BP is one of the world’s leading integrated oil In 2012, we also carried out a variety of and gas companies on the basis of market maintenance and modification projects on the capitalization, proven reserves and production. pipelines and associated facilities. These included 1 Our objective is to create value for shareholders beginning the installation of an optical fibre 9 by helping to meet growing demand for energy intrusion detection system on WREP to deter 8 1. BP 35.8% in a responsible way. Globally, we employ illegal hot tapping; completing the installation of a 2. Socar 11.6% 3. Chevron 11.3% approximately 85,700 people. We have exploration fibre optic cable communication network which 7 4. Inpex 11.0% and production interests in 30 countries, including allows the unmanned secondary containment 5. Statoil 8.6% our midstream pipeline activities in Georgia. sites to be better controlled through the BP WREP 6 6. Exxon network; continuing to install grid power to the In Georgia, we operate the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan oil Mobil 8.0% Emergency Drain Down Facility (EDDF) and 2 7. TPAO 6.8% pipeline (BTC) and South Caucasus gas pipeline the Supsa terminal; constructing ten sewage 5 8. Itochu 4.3% (SCP) on behalf of two international consortia of treatment plants at various sites along the 9. Hess 2.7% energy companies and investors. These facilities 3 pipelines; and beginning the construction of 4 are now in their seventh full-year of operation. permanent accommodation at pump station 2. The BTC and SCP pipelines run side by side for 248 kilometres within Georgia, with two BTC SCP expansion pump stations, gas offtake pressure reduction and We are continuing to pursue our plans for the full metering facilities on SCP. There are a total of 16 field development of the Shah Deniz field in the block valves and 11 check valves on BTC, and six Caspian Sea, the source of SCP gas. The plans, block valves on SCP. 6 which include the development of new production 1. BP 30.1% 5 4 We also operate the Western Route Export platforms and subsea wells and pipelines, require 2. Hess 2.4% 3. Socar 25.0% 7 Pipeline (WREP) and Supsa terminal on behalf of the construction of two new compressor stations, 8 4. Itochu 3.4% an international consortium of energy companies. a pressure reduction and metering station (PRMS) 5. Chevron 8.9% Three hundred and seventy three kilometres of at the Georgia –Turkey border, a 56 kilometre 9 6. Statoil 8.7% WREP lies within Georgia, with 27 block valves, pipeline loop in Georgia in parallel to the existing BTC 7. Inpex 2.5% 10 four check valves and one check/block valve. It line, starting from the Azerbaijan-Georgia border 8. Tpao 6.5% 9. Eni 5.0% carries oil from the Caspian Sea via the Sangachal and a 16 km access road to the new compressor 11 10. Total 5.0% 3 terminal in Azerbaijan to the Supsa oil terminal on station in Tsalka. 1 11. Conoco 2 the Georgia Black Sea coast. Philips 2.5% Environmental and social impact Air BP, in a joint venture, provides international assessment grade aviation jet fuel to customers at Tbilisi Following preliminary route and site investigations international airport. in 2011, extensive work was carried out on Summary operational performance in the project’s environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA). The ESIA process involves 2012 extensive data gathering and analysis of the In 2012, we transported more than 246 million baseline conditions relating to the project and 1 barrels of oil through BTC and more than 29 million its potential environmental and social impacts. barrels of oil through WREP, with both pipelines These include considering potential sensitivities 1. BP 25.5% operating at more than 99% average efficiency. such as community safety and disturbance 2. Statoil 25.5% We safely delivered approximately 143,000 mmscf due to increases in traffic that the project will 3. TPAO 9.0% of gas, equal to more than 25 million barrels of oil bring to the area, employment and economic 2 SCP 7 3. NICO 10.0% equivalent (mmboe). opportunities, the project’s impact on infrastructure 4. Total 10.0% 6. LUKoil 10.0% In the course of the year, we completed 320 quality including water resources, roads and local 3 7. Socar 10.0% tanker loadings from the marine oil terminal at facilities, landscape and visual impacts and cultural 6 Ceyhan on the Turkish Mediterranean coast, where heritage, land ownership and registration. A range 4 the BTC pipeline ends, and 49 tanker loadings of alternative project development options are also 5 from the Supsa terminal, the end point of WREP. considered. How we operate 5 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Expanding our business in Georgia We are working with a wide range of stakeholders to communicate our plans for the new projects and understand their concerns. Comprehensive cultural heritage studies were announcements, newspaper advertisements, undertaken at all project locations, including project description leaflets, feedback forms, and walkover surveys and assessment of project direct consultation. More information about the areas and archaeological excavations. The cultural SCPX project related consultations can be found in heritage works associated with the project the society section of this report. extended to various locations around Tsalka and A limited number of concerns were raised by Marneuli. Archaeological excavations lasted from representatives from communities affected by June to November 2012, and studied locations the project, mostly in relation to individual and where project construction activities will take community claims for compensation for land place. These included the new pipeline right of used by the project, or restrictions in land use and way, associated facilities and access road. Teams access. Other issues raised were the potential contracted by the Georgian National Museum Mikheil Tsereteli undertook excavations at a number of locations impacts on village infrastructure from construction and employment opportunities. Deputy General Director, where construction works are planned. These did not reveal exact archaeological sites but confirmed We produced a guide to land acquisition and The Georgian National Museum signs of Bronze Age settlements and burials at compensation that provides land owners, land Tsalka and a medieval settlement at Marneuli. users, local authorities and the public with practical information on the land acquisition and compensation The Rescue Archaeology Programme, The ESIA also involved a health impact process for the SCPX project. The guide is available sponsored by BP and its partners as part assessment (HIA). This was carried out by a team on the BP Georgia website. Land acquisition of their efforts to protect the cultural of occupational and public health experts who for construction of the permanent facilities (the resources discovered during the construction researched and analysed health data locally and in compressor stations) was completed in 2012, and of BTC and SCP, represents one of the the immediate vicinity of the project. The aim of approximately 82% of the land required for the most significant commitments to cultural the HIA process is to assess the potential impacts right of way was also successfully purchased. heritage ever made by an international of the project on the health of local inhabitants to pipeline project. This approach provided a inform decision making and identify management WREP sectional replacement measures for inclusion in a health mitigation plan useful life-line to Georgian archaeologists In 2011, we advanced plans to upgrade sections or commitments register. and opened the door to new projects. of WREP to replace Soviet-era pipe. The proposed Today, observing the excavations at the SCP We also undertook extensive community work will involve re-routing the pipeline, with the expansion project, we are witnessing higher consultation. Opportunities for individuals and aim of reducing the risk of geo-hazards such as levels of professionalism from Georgian communities potentially affected by the project landslides, erosion and flooding and to take the archaeologists, who greatly enhanced their to review the assessment and provide their pipeline out of the territory of Akhalgori district. capabilities after the difficult periods of the comments are an integral part of the ESIA This is intended to reduce the majority of safety 1990s. process. We held public consultation meetings and security risks to the pipeline operations and in Tbilisi and the districts and used public maintenance. From early in the project, we have engaged with BP’s interests in the Caspian region government, NGOs and the scientific community, holding briefings with them in 2011 to outline the schedule and review key issues identified during the baseline studies as well as those put forward at consultation meetings. This included issues relating to land acquisition and compensation arrangements, impacts on land productivity, water resources and infrastructure, employment, and pipeline route selection through the Saguramo Strict Protection Zone of the Tbilisi National Park and the Mtskheta Landscape Protection Zone. These consultations continued as part of the ESIA Armenia process in 2012. 6 How we operate BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Governance and management systems We work to enhance safety and risk management, maintain the trust of people and grow value. BP’s strategy and sustainability for people worldwide. Our activities also generate jobs, investment, infrastructure and revenues We strive to be a safety leader in our industry, for governments and local communities. Our a world-class operator, a responsible corporate portfolio includes lower-carbon options with the citizen and a good employer. We are working to potential to make a significant contribution, now enhance safety and risk management, earn back and in the future. trust and grow value. Keeping a relentless focus on safety is a top Governance and risk management priority for us. Rigorous management of risk BP’s risk management system is designed to helps to protect the people at the front line, help ensure that risks are identified, understood the places in which we operate and the value and managed so that we can deliver safe and we create. We understand that operating in strong operations. politically-complex regions and technicallyDay-to-day risk identification and management demanding geographies, such as deepwater occurs at our group’s operations and functions, and oil sands, requires particular sensitivity to such as our activities in Georgia. We assess and local environments. We continue to enhance our manage day-to-day operating risks with reference systems, processes and standards, including to our management systems and actions to how we manage the risks that can be created by improve the management of risk are put in place the actions of our contractors and the operators where necessary. Periodic review of risks and risk of joint ventures in which we participate. management plans happens at the business and We can only operate if we maintain the trust of functional levels, including major accident risk and people inside and outside the company. We must other potentially high-consequence risks. earn people’s trust by being fair and responsible in Oversight and governance occurs at board, executive everything we do. We monitor our performance and function levels to help foster effective groupclosely and aim to report in a transparent way. We BTC pump station 1 in Georgia. wide oversight, business planning and resource believe good communication and open dialogue allocation, intervention and knowledge sharing. are vital if we are to meet the expectations of our employees, customers, shareholders, and the The board provides direction and oversight local communities in which we operate. of BP on behalf of the shareholders for all aspects of our business, including sustainability We are working to become a simpler business, performance. The board also reviews key group with a clear focus on what we do best. Our risks and how they are managed and delegates distinctive capabilities include exploration, some of its oversight and monitoring activities operations in deep water, managing giant to its six committees, composed entirely of fields and gas value chains, and our worldnon-executive directors. These include the safety, class downstream business _ underpinned by ethics and environment assurance committee technology and relationships. Strong financial which reviews BP’s processes to identify and performance is vital because it enables us to mitigate significant non-financial risks and make the investments necessary to produce the receives assurances that they are appropriate in energy that society requires as well as to reward design and effective in implementation, and the and maintain the support of our shareholders. group ethics and compliance committee which By supplying energy, we support economic provides information and assurance on the ethics development and help to improve quality of life and compliance programme. Tank roof inspection at the pump station 1. How we operate 7 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Our operating management system BP’s systems of governance, management and operation help us to conduct our business responsibly. As an operating business, we are accountable for Environmental management system delivering safe, reliable and compliant operations. We have long taken a systematic approach to the In this, we are supported by our safety and management of environmental issues in Georgia, operational risk (S&OR) function, which provides not least because of the commitments we made independent advice, scrutiny, challenge and, if under the environmental and social action plan needed, intervention. S&OR, which consists of a which was developed during pipeline construction central team and teams in the businesses, sets and necessitated a rigorous approach to action clear requirements, maintains an independent tracking and closure. The management system is view of operating risk, provides deep technical based on the ISO 14001 ‘plan-do-check-act’ cycle, support to the business, and intervenes and which is also fully incorporated into the OMS escalates if necessary. improvement cycle. Operating management system Our operations here have been certified against BP’s operating management system (OMS) ISO 14001 for 12 years, with the scope of provides the basis for managing our operations in activities covered under the system expanding a systematic way. steadily. As required under ISO, the system is regularly audited by an external assessor and we OMS integrates BP requirements on health, have disclosed our record of compliance in our safety, security, the environment, social previous sustainability reporting. responsibility and operational reliability, as well as related issues, such as maintenance, The effectiveness of our environmental contractor relations and organizational learning, performance is also regularly reviewed by into a common management system. It provides other audits such as the annual reviews by the us with one systematic and controlled holistic independent environmental consultant appointed approach for how businesses are managed. on behalf of the original project lenders. To date, 14 of these annual audits have been carried out, The principles and standards of the system including an audit in 2012. are supported by our environmental and social practices. These set out how our major projects Responsibility for implementing and maintaining identify and manage environmental and social the environmental management system (EMS) issues. They apply to projects that involve new rests with the leadership team. The Georgia access, projects that could affect an international compliance and environment team is responsible protected area and some BP acquisition for EMS co-ordination and maintenance, while negotiations. the regulatory compliance and environment Georgia site leaders on a daily walk around at director oversees the system across the BP pump station 2, near Gardabani. regional business. At site level, site managers are responsible for its maintenance. 12 Our operating management system Privil e years of ISO 14001 sult s oper ge to certification. Re ate formance Per Leade rsh k Ris ip P ro c e s s People BP O r ga res e du ni z ati oc P la n t Pr on Op t im iz ati ets on Ass 8 How we operate BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Our stakeholders We regularly engage with a wide range of our stakeholders who are affected in some way by our activities. Employees Our partners and contractors We employ more than 480 people in Georgia, As is typical in our industry, we rarely work in and the size of our workforce has grown over the isolation. Safe and responsible operations rely on past three years. In line with our goal of being a the capability and performance of our suppliers, local energy company, we have steadily increased contractors and partners. We set operational the proportion of Georgian nationals working in standards through legally-binding agreements and the business, to reach levels averaging 95% over we help to improve standards through training the past five years. In addition, we have trained and dialogue. We continue to take steps to build and developed local people, who increasingly fill the capacity of local contractors in areas such as management positions. We have extensive training safety, environmental performance, employment and development opportunities for all our people and practice, and social impact awareness. want their careers at BP to be exciting and fulfilling. With our partners, we invest in initiatives that help Government authorities to build the fabric of Georgian society, including a number of social programmes. We engage with several tiers of government in Georgia, from local authorities on issues relevant Local communities to particular communities, through to national We have built strong and constructive relationships government on more strategic matters. We are in over a number of years with the communities regular contact with officials to obtain permits and affected by our operations. We have a wide range licences, and in their monitoring of our performance. of social programmes, described in this report, We also engage with specialist government which seek to address local needs for infrastructure agencies such as the Strategic Pipelines Protection development, education, environmental protection, Department (SPPD) who provide additional security youth capacity building and enterprise development. for the BTC/SCP pipelines. Our team of community liaison officers works hard The 2012 Transparency International Corruption to stay in regular contact with communities near the Perceptions Index ranks Georgia 51st of the 176 pipelines and to understand their concerns and needs. countries and territories around the world. This Talking with local people and other stakeholders ranking puts Georgia first among the countries in helps our businesses to define what a positive the region. In all our interaction with government or negative impact on the local community bodies and regulators, our dealings are governed means. This is important for all our activities, but by our code of conduct, which requires integrity, particularly for new projects, where our presence honesty and transparency in our relationships. may bring about changes in the local area, such In relation to security, for example, we provide as jobs, capacity and capability building for local training to the SPPD on the Voluntary Principles on suppliers and support for community development, Security and Human Rights, a series of principles but also increased road traffic, changes in land use BP Georgia hosting a Paralympic athlete prior to that guide us on maintaining the safety and and landscapes, increased demand for fresh water his departure to the London 2012 Olympic and security of our operations within a framework that and varying levels of in-migration. Paralympic games. ensures respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. We have provided training to the SPPD Non-governmental organizations and on the need to respect human rights within civil society organizations international standards for the use of force, as recommended by an independent assessment We regularly work with local non-governmental conducted by an international security and human organisations (NGOs), and have helped several of rights expert in 2012. them in Georgia to develop their skills and experience. We have followed a strategy of enabling national Georgia’s industry NGOs to become the implementing partners of some We work with a number of business and industry of our flagship social programmes. Our programmes groups to share experience, develop collaborative support NGOs in fields of country-wide importance programmes, and promote good practice. As such as road safety and energy efficiency. We described in this report, we are members of support media capacity-building, and have provided the EU Georgia Business Council, the American guidance on the energy industry to journalists. We Chamber of Commerce, and collaborate with a continue to provide English language training to number of companies on bilateral initiatives. media representatives through the British Council. We have been founder members of important educational institutions, such as the International School of Economics at Tbilisi State University and the Project Management College. These bodies, which we continue to support financially, are helping to build a cadre of highly-skilled individuals, ready to take their place in the Georgian and international labour market. How we operate 9 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Our people and values We aim to develop the skills and experience of local people, providing them with career opportunities within a work environment that is shaped by distinctive values. Our workforce tailored training and development programme for recently recruited graduates. During the programme, The size and composition of our workforce reflects which typically lasts 24-36 months, the individuals the type of activities we are engaged in at any involved are given roles in at least two different areas one time. While we have consistently increased of the business, to develop a range of competencies. the number of Georgian nationals working in our Graduation is dependent upon successful completion business in recent years, expatriate contractors take of all training and competency requirements. A up positions in Georgia to transfer their knowledge profile of Tornike Todria, a Challenge graduate now or when their specialist skills are required. working in our health and safety team, is provided in In 2012, the total size of the BP Georgia workforce the ‘Safety’ section of this report. increased but the proportion of Georgian nationals Our values Giorgi Dzvelaia _ Back home, at working in the business decreased slightly. The slight increase in the number of expatriate workers BP’s new values were launched in Georgia Supsa reflects a rise in demand for expatriate staff in towards the end of 2011 and in 2012 we worked connection with the upcoming projects. At the end with our employees to communicate them and Giorgi Dzvelaia was appointed to the position of 2012, 94% of total employees in BP Georgia ensure all are aware of how they can be brought of Supsa terminal operations team leader in were Georgian nationals. Approximately 91% of to life in everyday behaviour. The values are now January 2012, a role that brings responsibility our managers and supervisors are now Georgian included in the BP code of conduct to emphasise for all onshore and marine operations, covering nationals, a proportion which increased by about their importance in day-to-day decision making. the work of 38 BP employees. 4% last year. About 13% of those Georgian Giorgi first worked at Supsa in 1998, and managers and supervisors are female. Our values progressed through several roles from We also engage more than 70 Georgian contracting operations technician, to operations supervisor companies, employing people who are embedded Safety to terminal deputy manager in 2006. Following in our organization and support our daily operations. spells as a production engineer and then as site controller at pump station 2 on the BTC In line with our preferred approach, we filled a Respect pipeline, Giorgi took up a three-year number of new roles in 2012 by making internal assignment on the Shah Deniz Alpha platform appointments and supplemented this with external in the Caspian Sea, where he was an offshore recruitment for technician and some other positions. Excellence operations engineer. New joiners receive language and technical training during their first year of work with us. “My time offshore was a great learning Courage experience working in a complex operating Building skills and experience environment, as part of a multinational team alongside people with many different types We run development courses for team leaders One Team to help them develop their managerial skills. of experience. Working on a remote platform These include courses on improving personal gives you real insight into the importance Safety: Everything we do relies upon the performance, effective team working and safety of our workforce and the communities of rigorous procedures and the quality of managing agency personnel. every process you carry out. And of course, I around us: we care about the safe management In addition, our human resources function carries of the environment, and we are committed to gained new knowledge of gas production and out in-house team leader awareness sessions. safely delivering energy to the world. processing and learned a lot through training in areas such as emergency response. These focus on various challenges facing Respect: We respect the world in which we team leaders such as how to handle difficult operate. It begins with compliance with laws I came back to Supsa for a number of reasons. conversations with employees; conducting and regulations, and we hold ourselves to the Professionally, I want to bring the experience performance reviews; recruitment processes; highest ethical standards and behave in ways I gained offshore to the different environment diversity and inclusion; and employee allowances. that earn the trust of others. we have here at the terminal _ such as how we can continue to build a strong safety culture. We sponsor continuing professional education to Excellence: We are in a hazardous business But I came back for personal reasons too _ help employees gain a formal degree or externally and are committed to excellence through the with a new young daughter, it was time to recognized certificate. In 2012, for example, systematic and disciplined management of our come home and be closer to my family. two employees graduated from the Project operations. We follow and uphold the rules and Management College, supported by BP. standard we set for our company. The priority for me now is to drive improvements in the way we operate at the We also seek to give opportunities for our people Courage: Achieving the best outcomes often terminal, to deliver more reliable operations to move within the BP Azerbaijan-Georgia-Turkey requires the courage to face difficulty, to speak business region in order to broaden their experience. up and stand by what we believe. We always and sustained excellence. I am pleased I have We currently have eight employees on assignment strive to do the right thing. We explore new had the opportunity to gain experience in a ways of thinking and are unafraid to ask for help. number of roles _ and I would very much out of the country (in Azerbaijan, Turkey, and the UK), support others doing the same. It would be and five who have joined us from Azerbaijan. One Team: Whatever the strength of the great, for example, for someone else to have We adopted the ‘Challenge’ graduate programme individual, we will accomplish more together. the opportunity to work offshore, as I did, and for the first time in Georgia in 2012. The initiative, We put the team ahead of our personal bring that experience home with them.” which is operated across the BP group, provides a success and commit to building its capability. 10 How we operate BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Our code of conduct We operate under the terms of the BP’s code of conduct and continue to highlight its importance to our employees. Employees discussing BP values at a “We are BP” forum. Akaki Devidze _ On assignment in Azerbaijan Akaki Devidze recently completed a sevenmonth assignment in Azerbaijan, working in the midstream finance department as a waste management financial analyst. His role was varied, ranging from supporting input to the group’s quarterly budgeting process, to analysis of service providers’ expenditure against forecasts, and contributing to the business’s five-year plan for 2013-18. A major part of his work involved dealing with a new waste management contract, which covered arrangements for the management of drilling waste the key waste management challenge facing the business in the region. Akaki was located in Baku from April to October 2012. “It was a very different experience. Tackling the business issue of In January 2012, members of the BP Georgia BP Georgia has a dedicated compliance and waste management, but from a financial leadership team presented their views and ethics officer, whose role is to oversee the perspective, gave me a great opportunity shared examples of the new BP values with implementation of the code and support staff with to work across the business, and insight their teams, followed by a group exercise and in queries that arise. These can include questions into how a cross-cutting issue like waste April, we ran two internal ‘We are BP’ sessions about what is permissible under the code and can management affects the business as a whole. devoted to the refreshed values and behaviours. cover topics such as whether it is acceptable or On a personal level, I met many colleagues In total more than 150 employees participated not to receive or provide gifts or entertainment, or whom I had only contacted by phone or email in these sessions, sharing examples of values in concerns about potential conflicts of interest. before, so it was very valuable for improving action and taking part in exercises and roundtable communication and building relationships”. We provide a number of channels for people to discussions. report potential breaches of the code or other legal The BP code of conduct requirements, including the confidential helpline, OpenTalk, which is operated by an independent We also operate under the terms of BP’s code of company and is available anytime, every day of the conduct, which sets out the basic rules we must week. We encourage our people to discuss any all follow in BP and explains how our values should potential problems with their line manager, HR or guide all our decisions. legal department representative, or the in-house The code, which is available in Georgian, was ethics and compliance officer. re-issued across the group in 2011, when it was updated to reflect the new BP values. It applies BP Georgia headcount 2012 to our entire workforce, which now numbers some 490 _ whether employees or agency staff. Agency expatriate staff Agency national staff We continue to highlight its importance because BP expatriate employees BP national employees it gives us the guidance and support we need to 600 conduct our business ethically and to comply with the law. 500 We provided training in 2012 in Georgia about the changes made to the code, beginning with the 400 Georgia leadership team, and following up with training provided by team leaders and managers to 300 their staff at our sites. We run code of conduct induction for new joiners, 200 covering both BP employees and new agency staff. We provide training on how allegations of 100 fraud and misconduct against the BP standard should be reported, covering the types of possible incidents and who should be notified. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 How we operate 11 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Delivering local benefit Our activities have a positive impact for Georgia by generating government revenue, creating jobs, and providing opportunities in the supply chain. With our support community members rehabilitate the local infrastructure. Nato Tkhlashadze BP Georgia Social Team Leader We recognize that an important part of our impact comes from how we work with our local contractors and how they in turn interact with the community. Working with them to develop their employment practices and giving them training on social impact is another way in which we can have a positive impact in Georgia. Tax and tariff payments ($ million) Financial and economic contribution termination procedures, and disciplinary and grievance procedures. In 2012, we carried out an Profit tax payments WREP tariff payments We make a significant contribution to national tax audit of our security services provider Veziri Ltd. revenues, through tariff payments and profit tax to check their compliance with our social and local 50 payments linked to pipeline throughput: content requirements as articulated in the BTC Profit tax payments from all the BTC ESIA. Along with highlighting the contractor’s 40 business partners totalled $34.6 million in achievements in complying with the above 2012, compared with $33 million in 2011. requirements, the audit report also provides 30 Tariff payments by all WREP partners of a number of recommendations based on the $6.8 million were made to the Georgian audit findings. We monitor how the contractor is 20 government in 2012. implementing these findings throughout the year. We also make an important contribution to the We work with our contractors to develop their 10 value of Georgia’s exports: awareness of social risks and mitigations. We conducted 11 social awareness sessions, Government statistics show that our pipeline covering more than 100 contractor personnel 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 operations contributed approximately 9% of from a range of contractors in 2012, including the total value of service exports in 2012. those involved in catering, civil works and other Operational and capital expenditure ($million) We also invest to renew our own business in fields. The sessions, which target technicians Georgia: and others who work in the field, aim to build Capital expenditure Operational expenditure awareness of how important social impact is Our operational expenditure in Georgia _ even during regular operations. Guidance is 250 totalled $118 million in 2012 compared with provided on identifying potential impacts in $104.5 million in 2011. Capital expenditure advance and behaving appropriately in local 200 amounted to approximately $26.7 million in communities such as when there is an influx of 2012, compared with $19.5 million in 2011. non-local people to a community during a project. 150 Working with local contractors Social development We continue to work with local contractors In addition to the direct benefits created by our 100 where possible. In 2012, our payments to local business activities, we have long supported a companies totalled $75.8 million compared with wide range of community projects that help to 50 $54.7 million in 2011. Payments over the past build the fabric of Georgian society. five years are shown in the table below. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Several of these projects have involved the When contracting with suppliers, we include development of physical infrastructure such as provisions that require them to describe their the refurbishment of schools or community Payments to local companies ($ million) plans for increasing the number of local hires in facilities. We have, for example, helped to their workforce. We believe this will be a useful finance the construction of a municipal landfill 75 mechanism for raising technical and trade skills site in Rustavi for non-hazardous waste which is within the local economy. We review how well now being operated by the local authority. Other 50 a sample of our core contractors are performing projects involve human capacity building, such against these requirements. as working with youth groups or developing 25 We also audit our contractors’ employment civil society organizations by providing training. practices, examining issues such as recruitment Recent developments are described in the 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 practices, working conditions, redundancy and Society section of this report, on page 21. 12 How we operate BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Safety We are continuing to work to embed safety and operational risk management into the heart of what we do. Our goals We take systematic steps to deliver excellent business performance, safely and reliably. We identify and manage risks, and carry out training and exercises to prepare for an emergency. We aim to protect the health of employees, contractors, visitors and members of the local community who live or work near our operating sites. In this section Applying our OMS to govern our operations and drive safe and reliable performance. Working with key contractors to develop a safety leadership culture in their organizations. Information about crisis continuity management and occupational health. Supsa terminal Mass casualty medical emergency response exercise. Safety 13 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Our safety performance Our focus is on delivering safe, reliable and compliant operations. Protecting our people and plant, while delivering excellent performance with no major accidents, is a key priority. We are continuing to apply our operating Quarterly incident root cause analysis management system (OMS) at a regional level, to We investigate all incidents, to identify and govern our operations and drive safe and reliable implement lessons learned. We have also performance. As part of our ongoing work to established quarterly reviews of root cause achieve conformance with its requirements, we analysis, with the involvement of operations, undertake an annual assessment to check our maintenance, project, engineering and HSE performance against each of the requirements. leaders. The main root causes are analyzed and We put plans in place to close any gaps and we improvement actions agreed and tracked for set priorities for improvement, with the aim of further implementation through the action tracking achieving continuous reduction in the levels of risk system to ensure consistent and systematic we face and to drive continuous improvement incident reduction in BP Georgia. in performance. We have been audited against Kakha Shevardnadze OMS by the group audit team in 2011, which has Control of Work Deputy General Manager, led to action in specific areas recommended by In November, we carried out a Control of Work the auditors. This section describes our safety PERI performance and initiatives, which links to specific (CoW) gap assessment based on the updated BP group defined practice which sets out 12 elements elements within OMS. and provides a formal and consistent approach for Site visits are the most effective means of In December 2012, our revised Health, Safety, managing task-related risks for our employees and identifying and obtaining comprehensive Security and Environmental Policy was issued to contractors when carrying out work activities on information on the safe delivery of worksite BP employees and contractors. Our commitment behalf of BP. activities. Construction sites require constant to no accidents, no harm to people and no damage As part of the exercise, we conducted monitoring and observation to keep ahead of to the environment remains unchanged. pre-assessment site visits with the involvement safety issues. Safety performance of BP Georgia leadership and regional operations Through joint job site safety inspections teams as well as BP authorized people with In 2012, BP and its contractors worked 3.4 million and observation, we develop a useful and regional responsibility for CoW. man-hours and drove nine million kilometres with practical analysis of safety issues, along with no fatalities, no major accidents and no days away Using the regional assessment tool, we recommendations for remediation of findings. from work cases. demonstrated conformity with the practice’s The cooperative visits we undertake with BP requirements. We have developed an are designed to encourage site supervisors We had one recordable injury in 2012 (an incident improvement action plan for implementation at and raise their responsibility for safety. in which a contractor slipped and fell resulting in a local and regional level and will continue to work Inspections, conducted at either key events dislocated shoulder). We had six vehicle accidents towards continuous improvement with CoW or periodically, identify non-conformances in 2012, none of which were severe. This requirements. and check if specific tasks are covered by compares to nine vehicle incidents in 2011, two of risk assessments and method statements. which were classified as ‘severe’. Working with contractors They are also an effective incentive for staff to Every incident is carefully investigated to identify Our ability to be a safe and responsible operator promote safety culture on-site. its cause so that we can take the actions needed depends in part on the capability and performance We also find the safety leadership team to prevent it happening again. We encourage of our contractors. meetings, where different company our employees and our contractors to report We hold quarterly safety leadership meetings with representatives share good practices, safety near misses, and implement lessons learned our contractors, where we review incidents and findings and preventive measures, to be where possible to reduce the likelihood of similar lesson learned, highlight and deliver key messages, effective. All these contribute to enhancing incidents occurring in future. Fifty seven percent and share experience. We held two contractor experience, establishing good practices and of all the incidents that we and our contractors executive forums, where we focus on leadership enforcing HSE management systems. logged in 2012 were ‘near misses’, providing and help contractor executives develop effective opportunity to learn without actual losses. The key priority for us is conducting presafety leadership cultures in their organizations. We work assessment, outlining hazards and Assessing, prioritizing and managing risk engage contractors’ executives to visit our sites eliminating risks, thus taking good care of our and see how their teams are working. We had We review and update the BP Georgia risk register staff and the environment, which is positively two joint site visits with contractors’ executives on a quarterly basis. The purpose of these reviews reflected in the company’s operations. and examined repair and welding operations on is to bring various disciplines together to examine WREP, and civil construction work on BTC. These previous risk scenarios and identify new ones visits involved contractors’ executives discussing so that we can continuously improve prevention hazards and risk mitigations with site supervisors and mitigation processes. Our leadership is and workforce. Work practices, equipment fully engaged in the review process and we conditions and housekeeping standards are also systematically follow BP requirements in order to reviewed. A number of opportunities to make prioritize and manage risks consistently. improvements were identified and action plans developed. Outcomes from the discussions are shared with the wider BP contractor community at a contractors’ executive forum. 14 Safety BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Managing our contractors Our ability to conduct safe and reliable operations depends in part on the capability of our contractors. Recordable Injury Frequency (RIF) We also work with contractors’ ‘Performing We introduced a web-based journey management (per 200,000 hours) Authorities’ _ those in charge of work in the tool for contractors in 2012. It enables trips to field whose role is to deliver tasks according to BP sites and facilities to be better planned and 0.30 approved procedures and agreed risk mitigations. coordinated. The tool considers issues such as 0.25 Our leadership team held six meetings with road and weather conditions and aims to reduce managers, supervisors and performing authorities risks based on lessons learned from 2011, like 0.20 of 11 key contracted companies to ensure that preventing unnecessary trips in winter. 0.15 they understand how important their role is for our business and that they are empowered to stop Safety awareness campaigns 0.10 work which is unsafe. To learn from incidents and stop them from 0.05 happening again, we carry out regular awareness Our annual contractors’ safety award scheme campaigns for BP employees and contractors on 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 rewarded three contractor companies in 2012 that safety and major hazards. In 2012, these included: had shown exemplary performance: Snake and stinging insect awareness. CHC Global Operations International Inc. (our helicopter services contractor) in recognition Stair code safety. of their systematic compliance with aviation John Pipe safety requirements and active involvement in Winter driving. MQS Operations Manager emergency exercises. Indoor electrical safety. IDC Ltd in recognition of the accident-free Carbon monoxide (CO) awareness. execution of WREP integrity related projects As there were a number of carbon monoxide My initial reaction to our visit was a sense on the Aragvi river crossing and landslides of well-being and shared responsibility poisoning accidents in the region, we presented gabion retaining walls. CO detectors to more than 500 employees for with MQS becoming a part of the ‘One Team Approach’ where we all shared our Madohavagi+ LLC, a major driving contractor installation at home. viewpoints to come up with a common for BP in Georgia, in recognition of having no vehicle accidents in 2012 while driving more Process safety goal of ‘Safety First’. than three million kilometres. Alongside personal safety, we focus on Our drive to improve our operations, maintaining the integrity of our operating systems especially regarding our reputation for site Driving safety and processes by applying good design principles, safety, was given recognition. This has Driving safety continues to be one of the major engineering and operating and maintenance empowered me to continue our efforts to risks in Georgia as a result of large number practices _ process safety. improve our safety systems and control of kilometres driven by the BP and contractor of work. Our safety specialists support operations in workforce and the region’s hazardous driving raising awareness of process safety risks. We environment. We promote road safety in our include key process safety risks within employee business and support road safety initiatives in the induction, and on-site we encourage people to community. report process safety incidents. Management BP Georgia workers and contractors drove meetings include regular review of key process more than nine million kilometres in 2012 and safety performance indicators, many of which are there were six vehicle accidents, none of which ‘leading’ indicators which give an indication of the were categorized as ‘severe’. We systematically strength of our controls. Like many organizations implement the BP Driving Safety Standard and in the oil and gas industry, we are becoming more our ‘Road to Better Driving’ programme through systematic in our reporting of process safety continuous training and inspections both for BP performance. and contractors. Our actions to promote driving safety in 2012 included implementing BP requirements with contractors, defining an improvement plan and discussing the subject at a dedicated contractor driving safety standard workshop. Our Baku-based driving safety specialists audited a selection of our operations and those of nine contractor companies against BP requirements. The review highlighted a number of challenges, such as the need for contractors to improve and maintain the condition of some of their vehicles. We plan to conduct contractor driving audits every year as part of our annual driving improvement plan that takes account of past lessons. Our safety and transport departments monitor progress against the plan monthly. Meeting with contractors at a construction site. Safety 15 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Preventing accidents and oil spills We work to ensure that we and our contractors are prepared to respond effectively to accidents and oil spills. S&OR audit actions the response system. For example, we held a joint exercise with the state emergency response Good safety management requires actions for department involving mobilization of helicopters for improvement to be completed on time and search and rescue at our facilities. We also carried effectively. Following the group safety and out a multi-casualty exercise offshore at our Supsa operational risk audit of our sites in 2011, no major terminal, involving the handling and evacuation of findings were identified but some improvement five injured people from an offshore vessel and recommendations were made. An implementation the deployment of a multi-casualty trailer at the plan was developed and all actions due for slipway. These exercises identified opportunities implementation in 2012 were completed on time. for improving our response processes and develop BP Georgia’s First Challenge This means that 90% of all the required actions the competency of operations staff in handling have now been closed, with only 10% left for Graduate: Tornike Todria closure in 2013, as planned. This is testimony to complex emergencies. They also help to establish effective cooperation with national agencies and the hard work of those involved from different In September 2012, the BP Georgia health emergency response contractors. teams and disciplines, close monitoring and most and safety team welcomed Tornike Todria as importantly, systematically working as one team. A highlight of 2012 was our participation in a the first ever Challenge Graduate in Georgia, national scale major disaster response exercise a programme that recruits young individuals Crisis and continuity management within a given discipline in order to develop initiated by the Georgian government and led by competent and independent professionals with In 2012, we worked closely with regional and group NATO. Following planning meetings about our the potential to make a major contribution to operations and functional representatives to carry out role, we organized three pre-readiness oil spill BP’s long-term growth and future. a gap assessment between our existing approach response deployments on the BTC pipeline and Tornike, a 24 year old Georgian, graduated from to crisis and continuity management and the one at Lake Kumisi in collaboration with our oil the American Academy in Tbilisi in 2007 with requirements of the new BP group defined practice. spill response contractor NRC (National Response high grades and received full scholarship to As a result, we developed a BP Georgia crisis and Centre). In September, we participated in the study in the United States Military Academy at continuity management gap register and action plan. exercise, which involved representatives from West Point. In 2011, he graduated from there more than 30 countries. We had representatives with a Bachelor’s degree in management. We also developed and implemented a new in field command centres and on the pipeline emergency response plan covering BP Georgia Military academy gave Tornike insight into route where actual oil spill response deployments operational facilities. The new plan is simpler, more personal safety and risk. He recalls one of the took place at four locations. On completion, NATO specific and easier to fit to site requirements. On most important notions of all of his military highly commended our participation and awarded training – ‘Everyone is a safety officer’ – which completion and approval of the plan, rollout training acknowledgement certificates. means that everybody should make maintaining was carried out for people at all Georgia facilities, safe conditions and responsibility for their own with hard copies of the plan distributed. Health and wellness and others’ safety their primary goal. While in Crisis and continuity management training Good health is essential to having a well-motivated the US, Tornike was an active member of the community which included fundraising for The We carried out crisis, continuity and emergency workforce and can make a valuable contribution to American Cancer Society, organizing an annual response training for the various response teams good safety and operational performance. Special Olympics event in New York state, playing in Georgia. These included: Health risk assessment as a midfielder in the Academy football team, and being a member of ski and hunting clubs. Three-day on-scene commanders training for We carry out an annual health risk assessment and individuals within operations who could be use a BP tool called ‘Health map’ to identify and On his return to Georgia in 2011, Tornike was hired required to take on the role of the on-scene by Encotec as a project coordinator, and worked prioritize health hazards. This year, we also created on various BP projects. He became interested in commander during an emergency. a health risk register as a tool for identifying and career opportunities with BP and applied for the Training and an exercise for the Georgia managing health risks in BP Georgia and fed these Health and Safety Challenger position. country support and business continuity team into the BP Georgia major risk register. Tornike is now actively involved in the health in country, with a scenario based on elevated Our processes for maintaining employee health and safety team’s activities as part of his long political and security risks. are wide-ranging. Elements include fitness-for-task term development programme. He is currently assessments and health surveillance and a range assigned to the Western Route Export Pipeline Two-day major incident management training for key members of the Georgia incident of industrial hygiene programmes at sites. to learn about pipeline related hazards, and control and mitigation measures. He is coached management team. The training was followed Health programmes and processes by health and safety team leaders and other by six desktop exercise and individual We maintain a number of health programmes and team members. He is continuing his active assessment. involvement in community life while at BP – processes. In 2012, these included: having been a member of BP global health Emergency response exercises Industrial hygiene workplace exposure initiative ‘Run-A-Muck’ and playing for the assessments. We carried out a total of 151 exercises in 2012, Western Route Export Pipeline futsal team. in line with the BP Georgia emergency exercise First aid and medical preparedness reviews “It is a great pleasure to welcome Tornike to the plan. While these varied in scope, risk profile BP Georgia family. The health and safety team is and mass casualty exercises at the Supsa and participation, all were conducted safely and terminal and pump station 1. committed to supporting him in his professional recorded, with summaries communicated monthly, development and we would like to wish him all the Regular food safety reviews at operational best in his future career at BP”,says Dima Kalmikov, including lessons learned and improvement actions. Some exercises were carried out for the first time, sites, and an annual food safety audit. We also BP Georgia’s health and safety team leader. testing particular scenarios and the capability of regularly monitor tap water quality. 16 Safety BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Personal health and safety Good health of our employees makes significant contribution to good safety and operational performance. Marina Vashakidze Country Manager, NRC Our company, NRC, was given responsibility for the provision of oil spill response within the national-scale emergency exercise, in coordination with the BP Georgia incident management team. It was one of the most interesting and challenging emergency response exercises we have ever conducted in Georgia. The challenge was not particularly about the task of deployment since we have a great confidence in our capability, staff and equipment and have practiced numerous deployment strategies for years. It lay much more in the complexity of managing so many tasks simultaneously, including coordination and communication with government structures and third parties, fitting into the coordination centre’s incident command system, staying in compliance with our own and BP’s incident management procedures, and, of course, carrying out the actual Offshore emergency response exercise at the Supsa terminal. deployment of equipment and personnel at several oil spill response sites. It was the first An occupational health audit of our medical Participants started exercising daily and time that we had had to mobilize teams and service provider. entering their exercise minutes online. equipment from all oil spill response bases Occupational health programmes such as first The ‘10,000 Step Challenge’, which while remaining capable of responding to a aid management; fitness for task assessments; encourages participants to be active by taking real emergency. The exercise gave us the a skin surveillance programme for high-risk at least 10,000 steps every day and recording chance to identify areas for improvement, employees (such as those who have regular how far they have walked each day. and demonstrated the emergency response exposure to chemicals); and substance abuse readiness of BP in Georgia. We all played our A new ergonomics initiative (‘Remedy’), which management, which includes testing for role in strengthening national capabilities in examined the relationship between people, different types of substance use. complex disaster management. the things they do, the objects they use Annual calibration and certification of medical and the environments they work in. Proper equipment, carried out by an international attention to ergonomics improves comfort, external provider. productivity, reliability and well-being. To support our efforts, we used software tools Training is also a very important element in that use questionnaires, online assessments, promoting good health in the workplace. We training and awareness-raising to minimize delivered training courses in 2012 covering topics the risks that can arise in work environments, such as chemicals awareness; the use of personal such as repetitive strain injury. protective equipment (PPE); and health and safety incident record keeping. Our trained medical staff A healthy heart campaign. Employees were also undertook courses to broaden and refresh their provided with basic guidance to manage their skills. These included courses on the management heart health. Simple tests were completed of medical support in the event of a major incident, that employees can use to compare their Dr Alexander Antelava and on the provision of psychological support for managers and employees. year-on-year results. The assessment included questions on lifestyle as well as objective BP Georgia Health Advisor We also ran a number of specific health measurements such as weight, height and selected blood tests. campaigns in 2012: As one team, we value people and want them Seasonal campaigns on issues such as to be healthy. There’s nothing better than healthy The ‘Run-A-Muck’ Health Challenge campaign influenza, and cold and heat stress. We made habits and an active lifestyle in achieving good which aims to encourage fitness in an particular effort in 2012 to promote employee personal health. That’s why we promote this enjoyable and competitive manner. This year well-being by holding a number of internal to our employees _ to be fit and healthy at BP Georgia joined this group-wide initiative and external sporting competitions, such as in work and at home for years to come. for the first time, providing two teams, skiing and futsal. each comprised of up to ten employees. Safety 17 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Environment We take action to protect the natural environment, whether by fulfilling long-term plans or taking action to respond to emergencies. Our goals We manage our operations in accordance with ISO 14001 management system. We assess and monitor our environmental impacts to air, land and water and we work to continuously improve our performance. We work with our contractors to support compliance with our environmental standards. In this section Compliance with the ISO 14001 environmental management system. Working to minimize our environmental impacts. Ecological management activities and environmental improvement projects. Water monitoring in Supsa We carry out ballast water monitoring on our tanker in Supsa. 18 Environment BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Environmental management Our environmental management system, which is regularly tested and checked, helps us to plan and deliver on our environmental commitments. ISO 14001 and compliance The ESIA for the WREP was prepared in 2012. We continue to manage our operations in accordance It has identified a range of environmental with our ISO 14001 certified environmental impacts, including land-related effects in areas management system. The system was tested by where the pipeline needs to be re-routed. The an external audit in 2012 and recertified. assessment led to changes in the planned route so that cultural heritage and environmental The fourteenth post-financial audit of the considerations could be taken into account, independent environmental consultant acting on alongside engineering requirements. behalf of BTC lenders was undertaken in Georgia in 2012. These audits monitor compliance with Contractor management BTC environmental and social commitments, We work with contractors to support compliance captured within the operations environmental with our environmental standards. Our and social action plan and relevant management environment team works with our procurement plans. No non-compliances were identified. department to include environmental BP’s operating management system obliges us matters within contracts, and we set out the to be in compliance with all applicable health, environmental standards and practices that safety, security and environment requirements. we expect our contractors to follow. We train Compliance with our commitments is tracked contractor personnel on how to implement these Temporary storage of topsoil at a construction using a compliance task manager software and we are involved in approving their plans site. tool, through which we maintain, update and before they start work. We also monitor their assign specific commitments and ensure physical work on-site, and obtain site completion their implementation. We undertook further reports from them which indicate how work in 2012 to review, prioritize and allocate environmental requirements have been met. environmental tasks, covering existing items as Managing our impact well as carrying out an updated assessment of applicable national legislation. Waste management Environmental and social impact We continue to take steps to improve our assessments facilities for waste management. The environmental and social impact assessment We installed a new heavy waste shredder at the (ESIA) for the SCP Expansion project rigorously waste processing and recycling centre. It will identifies the baseline environmental conditions be used to reduce the amounts of waste wood, and the wide range of potential environmental hard plastic, used tires and air filters that have impacts from the project. These include emissions been stored since pipeline construction. In total, to air from the two compressor stations that will 11 containers of air filters will be shredded and be built _ one close to the border with Azerbaijan disposed to landfill; 16 containers of hard plastic and the other near Tsalka at an elevation of 1,720 and 251m3 of used tyres will be shredded for metres. The operation of the compressor stations further recycling. will give rise to greenhouse gas emissions, oxides We have constructed a new storage area of sulphur and nitrogen (SOx and NOx) from for waste chemicals at the central waste combustion and will generate noise and vibration accumulation area. This improvement project as well as visual intrusion. However, rigorous aims to provide for the long-term and safe mitigation actions defined in the ESIA process storage of waste chemicals. have resulted in these effects being classed as low to medium significance. View of construction site with earth works underway. Environment 19 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Managing our impact We take a systematic approach to minimizing the environmental impact of our activities in Georgia. Volume of oil spilled (litres) 30,000 25,000 20,000 15,000 10,000 5,000 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Area for storing waste from BP Georgia sites prior to final disposal. Emissions and discharge monitoring ratings of 54% for deciduous and coniferous We continue to monitor our emissions to air, as well saplings at selected locations. as monitoring aqueous discharges and noise levels. We also carried out ballast water monitoring We carry out regular monitoring in accordance from tankers in 2012. Monitoring reports found with a planned monitoring programme. We met that sanitary and water quality characteristics all government regulatory requirements in 2012 (hydrochemical, hydrophysical and biological) relating to emissions and discharges. However, were in compliance with the methodological we exceeded lender requirements in the area of requirements set out by the International aqueous discharge in 2012. After investigation, we Maritime Organization. From this, it was identified and took corrective measures to prevent concluded that the discharge of tested ballast re-occurrence. water into the Supsa port area had not led to the In partnership with the Georgia Energy introduction of alien forms or any other negative Efficiency Centre, we completed two projects impact on the local ecosystem. Waste shredder at waste processing and recycling which will act as offsets to our exceeding the centre. Environmental improvement projects nitrous oxide concentration limits specified in the environmental and social action plan We aim to ensure that any modifications to our committed to BTC lenders. The projects involved facilities are undertaken in a way that protects installing solar water heating systems in School the natural environment. In 2012, for example, 203 in Tbilisi for children who are deaf or have we ensured that work to build a new access road diminished hearing, and at the SOS Tbilisi to pump station 2 on the BTC pipeline protected Children’s village. A third project, installing a trees and bushes on Georgia’s Red List. Three 83Kte solar heating system and carrying out building options were assessed and the most favourable winterization at Tbilisi ‘Baby House’, is due for environmental option was selected which implementation in 2013. significantly reduced habitat loss compared with the route originally proposed. equity share direct Ecological management greenhouse gas emissions. We also ensured that a thorough and responsible We monitor levels of vegetative cover along approach was taken to reinstatement work the BTC/SCP pipeline right of way. We reduring the installation of fibre optic cable along planted species with high conservation value a 75 kilometre stretch of WREP. This involved within the areas designated for translocation; reinstating all temporary project sites including for eight species out of eleven the survival rate any extra land required for work. Each section of a minimum 75% has been achieved. We where trenching was carried out was backfilled monitor and control invasive species by applying and reinstated. Topsoil was re-applied on the mechanical control measures that suppress alien top of the route. All sites and area owners were species and support a continued succession correctly identified and steps were taken to process of native vegetation. The results of these confirm that owners were satisfied with the initiatives are regularly checked through internal reinstatement. No waste was left on any section verification and independent parties, including as waste was collected on a daily basis. review by the independent environmental consultant acting on behalf of the lenders. Eco-awards Survival rates for replanted woody species at nine We and our partners have committed to supporting selected locations are linked to many variables an eco-awards programme which has benefited such as the nature of the habitat, the level of from the support of a range of environmental adaptation of particular species, and conditions bodies, the government and other institutions. outside our control such as the weather and soil. The new government is currently considering its Monitoring in 2012 found average survivability plans for continuing with initiatives in this area. 20 Environment BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Society We aim to make sure that our socio-economic impact in Georgia is positive by running our operations responsibly and making investments that bring benefit to local communities and BP. Our goals We aim to build open and constructive relationships with the communities near our assets. We are helping to build local economic capacity by supporting agriculture, rural infrastructure and business enterprise. We strive to bring lasting benefit to Georgian society. In this section Good relationships with the communities form an essential part of working to mutual advantage. Our community development initiative helps to improve livelihoods and build local economic capacity. Our programmes making a tangible impact to social and economic wellbeing around the country. Milk processing facility Local women working at a milk processing plant, established with our support. Society 21 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Engaging communities We engage regularly with the communities near our pipelines because we want to maintain constructive relationships with them. Community consultation for the SCP expansion project in Tsalka. Lika Kvitsinashvili BP Community Liaison Officer We put lots of effort into delivering important messages to communities to ensure their safety and to protect the environment and the pipelines themselves. We strive to create an environment where the company is seen as a considerate neighbour who lives next door and listens to the community’s views, opinions and concerns. Regular engagement is vital to build an atmosphere of trust and understanding and a foundation of mutual care. Grievance resolution in 2012 Community liaison Responding to grievances Received Closed Our community liaison officers are in contact As part of our approach to engagement, 12 with local communities on a regular basis to stay we have a clear process for managing thirdabreast of local issues. They listen and respond party complaints. During 2012, we had three to concerns and reinforce important messages instances where elements of work were 10 such as those on safety and restrictions along the interrupted for short periods as a result of pipeline routes. Annually, we distribute a calendar community dissatisfaction. 8 to households which contains information about On WREP, heavy equipment movement safety near the pipelines. This year, it also included during maintenance works made a local road 6 information about the origin of oil and gas. temporarily impassable for local transport, We updated the information we maintain on which caused some complaints from the local 4 villages near the pipelines in the course of the community. The issue was resolved, work year to make sure we better understand the resumed shortly afterwards and we worked 2 issues that might arise during projects and with our contractor to take more caution when operations and to help determine how often performing road maintenance. In Tsikhisjvari, we should meet with village communities. We delays to the repair of a potable water pipe Community infrastructure Household infrastructure Inventory/compensation Land Other land issue Other social issues are well aware that ongoing maintenance and caused temporary disruption to local water small-scale projects can cause disruption, even if supply, leading to community dissatisfaction and it is smaller in scale than the impact that can arise brief work interruption. during construction. In 2012, we worked with damaged disagreed handback/reinstatement Residents of the village of Chivchavi near damaged communities to minimize the impact of several to PSG2 expressed dissatisfaction with our small-scale projects, including one to develop an contractor’s employment practices, wanting access road on BTC/SCP and WREP which was to see more employment from the local needed to install fibre optic cable along certain community. This resulted in traffic being stopped sections of the pipeline. around the camp over a period of approximately Engagement relating to SCP Expansion two days. We coordinated a response from the A major part of our work in 2012 involved engaging relevant departments in BP and addressed the with communities about the SCP Expansion community’s concern through discussions and project. As part of the environmental and social by tightening our processes for monitoring the impact assessment (ESIA), we held disclosure social performance of our contractors. As a meetings, four public meetings (in Tbilisi, Tsalka, result of this incident, we developed an action Rustavi and Akhaltsikhe), and contributed to the plan which will help us to identify and address assessment of options for locating the construction similar potential issues across our operations in camp and pipe laydown areas by considering issues Georgia. such as their proximity to settlements and potential For all complaints, we seek to respond as impact on communities. We distributed leaflets quickly and effectively as possible. In 2012, we containing information on the project and land received a total of 23 grievances, 21 of which issues at municipal, territorial and village levels. We were closed. circulated comment sheets to invite suggestions and questions from the public. 22 Society BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Supporting local enterprise and business development We are taking a range of steps in our Community Development Initiative (CDI) to help develop local economic capacity. The initiative is now entering its fourth phase. The activities within the programme include: CDI phase 4 implementation started in May 2012, Q: What was achieved? contracting two national NGOs as implementing Renewal of rural infrastructure. partners as per the programme’s nationalization Agricultural support. Farmers groups are strategy. The initiative built on the previous A: The strategies and approaches in CDI working collaboratively, with sharing of income phase, which has made a real difference to many phase 3 were driven by the aim of the and expenditure among group members. members of the community, highlighted below. project: to help communities become It involves planning and implementing increasingly able to implement and CDI phase 4 aims to deepen the positive joint activities and training processes. sustain self-help projects with minimal relationship between BP and communities along Demonstration farms are also arranged with external support and thereby improve the BTC/SCP pipelines route, by promoting individual farmers, attracting other interested their livelihoods and opportunities. The sustainable forms of social cooperation, improving members of the community to participate in programme therefore invited farmers agricultural production, and developing regional the learning process. and community groups to participate in a agro-businesses. To date: variety of projects including: Support for income generation through Nine rural infrastructure rehabilitation projects micro-credit: CDI enables financial credit to Capacity-building within local civil society have been completed. be made available to rural farmers by providing organizations. subsidized agricultural loans in several CDI 88 agricultural demonstration plots have been Infrastructure rehabilitation. communities. created. Agricultural development. Improving the capacity of Community Based 34 businesses, with 48 grant recipients, have The formation and support for farming Organizations (CBOs) to manage sustainable been established. groups or association and start-up community projects with better social 108 agricultural loans have been disbursed. businesses. cooperation. Some of the project accomplishments are Support for small scale business start-ups. Small business development summarized below: This includes included training in support of Following a tender in 2012, the Georgian 30 economic infrastructure rehabilitation business start-ups, focusing on business Organization of Scouts Movement was selected projects were undertaken. planning, understanding markets and the to implement a further two-year ‘Small business concept of the value chain; product and price, development project’. The programme will target Through the rehabilitation of irrigational product definition and tools for pricing; sales 116 villages and four Internally Displaced Persons channels and systems, it became and marketing. (IDP), camps in the east and 60 villages in the possible to irrigate 3,198 hectares of land Support for the establishment of social west of Georgia. The cross-cutting and the major in nine communities. enterprises _ in which business ideas component of the programme is funding and 68% of respondents reported an increase capacity building for start-up businesses and promoted by community-based organizations in their harvest of at least 20%, directly improving the wellbeing of households in those (CBOs) are supported. Their focus is to provide connected to rehabilitation activities. communities. In addition, it will support youth services required within their local community Better yields resulted in increased with the profits generated used to implement education in the IDP settlements by promoting household incomes with an average projects that will benefit the community life-long learning and respect for the natural increase of 22% in CDI east communities further. environment. and 20% in CDI west. 11 social enterprises were created. Nine of these have begun to operate successfully. 257 agricultural loans were disbursed to farmer through a subsidized loan scheme. 635 farmers received marketing training, with more managing better marketing of their produce. 78 entrepreneurs were given financial support to start up small businesses. Grant recipients have reported an average increase in income of approximately 28%. Our Community Development Initiative helps local farmers to increase crops. Society 23 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Our social programmes and initiatives We support various projects and organizations addressing social needs across Georgia. Youth capacity building The second component of the project focused on providing affordable residential loans for We completed implementation of the Youth energy efficient solutions, implemented by EBRD Capacity Building Programme (YCBP) for through its $6.6 million concessional credit line to WREP communities in 2012. The programme, two Georgian commercial banks, and a subsidy implemented by The Georgian Organization of the scheme of 15% of the purchase value (of energy Scout Movement, involved approximately 1,700 efficiency devices) funded by BP and co-venturers beneficiaries in 44 schools, and 40 teachers in to the amount of $0.2 million. In total, more than awareness raising, training and activities designed 700 loans were disbursed by both banks for the to develop the capacity of young people in their total amount exceeding $1 million. Approximately communities to cope with the environmental $160,000 of subsidies has been paid. challenges facing their communities and to Ana Bogveradze develop key competencies for lifelong learning. Renewable energy and energy Member of the Youth Group of We estimate that the programme indirectly efficiency in Georgian communities Zovreti public school benefited approximately 3,400 people in addition A new BP-funded project with the Energy Efficiency to the 1,700 direct beneficiaries. Some of the Centre aims to develop a number of energy project’s major achievements included: efficiency and renewable energy demonstration We have tried to remind people of the importance of environmental protection. Training 174 students on leadership skills, projects (about 15-20 in total) in various I think our attempt was efficient and our under the auspices of the Leadership and communities of Georgia, for the benefit of selected teamwork, discipline and motivation impressed World Scout Environment Programme. community buildings (kindergartens, hospitals, the population. School students were also Personal Development training was also other public buildings). The aim is to further fascinated by our presentation and took great provided to more than 500 students. Some promote energy efficiency by providing tangible interest in the issue. 40 teachers also received training in civic demonstration of the use of energy efficient education. devices (such as solar panels, micro-hydro power plants, biogas digesters) in everyday environments Organizing 544 small-scale environmental Giorgi Abulashvili projects. as well as contributing to CO2 emission reduction. Director, Energy Efficiency Implementing 60 micro-grant projects. Initiatives completed to date have involved the installation of solar water heaters in houses and Centre Georgia Holding two summer camps which school buildings for disadvantaged children, and highlighted best practices, lessons learned at the School for the Deaf in Tbilisi. Work has also BP has become more visible in the energy and action plans for sustainability, involving included the installation of building insulation, efficiency arena in recent years and there is 173 participants. the introduction of higher-efficiency stoves, now no surprise about their involvement in replacement lighting and new, more energy clean energy technologies and in supporting Energy efficiency in the community efficient windows and doors. In addition to these the more efficient use of energy. It is simply We completed the implementation of the practical steps, which improve comfort and part of their approach to environmental and Community Energy Efficiency Project in 2012, reduce energy use, the programme is carrying social responsibility. raising energy awareness and enabling the issue of out awareness-raising initiatives across Georgia. more than 700 subsidized energy efficiency loans. The focus of the first component of the Project in Georgia (which finished in June 2012), referred to as ‘Energy Bus’, was to: Increase awareness of different energy efficient and renewable energy solutions and provide practical demonstrations and training. Provide small loans to interested households through local banks. 63,000 Provide incentive fees to consumers. In total, in three years of its operation, about 63,000 people visited the bus. It made two full people improved their rounds across Georgia, visiting Tbilisi, Kutaisi, awareness of energy Batumi and other major cities, as well as small efficiency. towns and villages. We supported installation of a solar panel at a community kindergarten. 24 Society BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Partnership for safety We promote safety awareness through our programmes. Improving road safety in Georgia: The partnership has also worked to develop an educational programme to raise children’s the Partnership for Road Safety awareness of road safety and to help young BP Georgia has provided financial support to the people better identify and manage road-related not-for-profit Partnership for Road Safety since risks. The initiative covered 80 pilot schools 2008. The partnership promotes road safety in Georgia’s seven largest cities. Evaluations through education and advocacy in Georgia and showed that levels of knowledge about road has developed a wide range of relationships with safety increased significantly as a result of government, companies, the media and other the initiative. Work has continued in a civil society organizations in its work to reduce the programme to reduce the numbers of deaths number of deaths and injuries on Georgia’s roads. and injuries on roads among people under the George Glonti Campaigns have included promoting the use age of 12 by raising awareness and providing practical lessons at a specially developed road Impact Opportunities Manager, of seat belts in vehicles in Georgia. In 2010, legislation making seat belt use mandatory in safety centre. CARE International in Georgia was introduced. Independent research A further project _ ‘Be Visible _ Be Safe’ _ has the Caucasus has shown that seat belt use has increased sought to reduce the number of pedestrian dramatically, contributing to a fall in the number fatalities, implemented in Tbilisi, Kutaisi, Zugdidi of fatalities. In 2012, the organization won a and Batumi. Through the Community Development Prince Michael International Road Safety award in Initiative, BP has demonstrated its long-term recognition of the role it has played in building a commitment to creating sustained sociobetter road safety culture in Georgia. economic development in communities along the BTC and SCP pipelines. The programme creates an enabling environment, providing opportunities for people to benefit from high-quality, sustainable social investments. It contributes to positioning BP as a ‘good neighbour’ and partner, manifested in a change in the mindset of the pipeline communities from ‘you have to give us’ towards ‘we can do it together’. The resulting trust, capacities and experience need to be capitalised upon now, through transparent dialogue and relationship building with stakeholders. Irakli Izoria Director Partnership for Road Safety BP had made a great contribution to the successful work of the foundation. With their support, we have implemented projects to promote youth education in road safety, legislative work, and generally to increase the awareness of Georgian society and to change attitudes. We hope that BP will continue its support in future, the goal of which is to reduce the number of deaths and injuries on our roads. We support road safety awareness of children throughout Georgia. Society 25 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Civil society capacity building We work in partnership with a large number of organizations to help build the fabric of Georgian civil society. Promoting corporate responsibility Raising standards in partnership with We participate in the UN Global Compact Georgia international organizations Network which provides a forum for Georgian We also partner with international aid agencies companies to share best practice and advance and lenders, such as the International Finance the concept of corporate social responsibility in Corporation (IFC) and the European Bank for the business community. BP Georgia’s external Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). Having affairs director was elected chair of the Global worked previously with the IFC on an initiative to Compact steering committee in 2012 raise standards of corporate governance in Georgia, and we presented to a multi-stakeholder we have co-funded a three-year IFC project to forum to promote ‘CSR and the role of the public raise standards in the food processing industry, an sector’. important sector for domestic and export markets. Vakhtang Butskhrikidze NGO capacity development Supporting the EU-Georgia Business Chief Executive Officer, In parallel, we have taken steps to increase the Council TBC Bank role of Georgian non-governmental organizations We support the EU-Georgia Business Council (NGOs) in delivering the capacity building programmes we support. (EUGBC), which was established with a $300,000 TBC, one of the leading banks in Georgia, grant under its BP pledge agreement with the recognized the need for a contemporary project For example, within our Community government of Georgia, signed in October 2004. management methodology to meet timelines Development Initiative (CDI), we have worked The council works with other business councils and quality standards in an appropriate fashion. to develop the capacity of local civil society based in Georgia to promote trade and exports. The bank required assistance in project initiation, organizations to continue the programme. Members include the Georgian Chamber of resource management, quality control and Following a competitive tender, two local NGOs Commerce and Industry, the American Chamber process improvement to satisfy the demands of (Centre for Training and Consultancy and the of Commerce, the Federation of Georgian the market. Regional Development Association) have been Businessmen and the Association of Georgian selected to oversee the fourth phase of CDI, Exporters. We provided financial support to Since 2009, TBC has sent numerous which will run from 2012-15. EUGBC in 2012 totaling €30,000, comprised of our participants to the Project Management College to become more flexible and improve membership fee and an additional grant. processes for quicker, better decisionmaking about which new products should be brought to market. The training was so effective, however, that not only traditional project managers have attended the training programme but also other employees willing to finance it themselves. Four members of the board of directors have participated in the curriculum, including the CEO. In attending the College, the executives learned first-hand what they could expect from their direct reports, understood the challenges they faced and became familiar with the issues in adopting and applying the new techniques. Their participation contributed enormously to improved communication at all levels of the organization and helped establish a strong project management culture from the start. “The Project Management College has proved to be one of the best providers of project management disciplines in Georgia. Several of our middle managers are graduates from the college, which has resulted in better managed projects. We are grateful to BP for providing such a good opportunity.” Students at the graduation of the BP-funded Project Management College. 26 Society BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Supporting education We continue supporting education programmes and initiatives in the country. Maia Tevzadze IFC Advisory Services Despite its rich agricultural tradition, volumes of food imports into Georgia had doubled from 2005-09, from $87.8 million to $200 million, significantly outweighing exports. One of the reasons behind this was the lack of appropriate food safety standards in Georgia and the fact that local producers paid little attention to food safety issues. The goal of this IFC managed project was to increase the competitiveness of Georgian food producers by improving their food safety practices. BP and its co-venturers supported the project by providing $0.6 million co-funding over the project’s three years, alongside other financial backing from the Austrian Ministry of Finance. The initiative took action in the following areas: Facilitating access to markets for Georgian food processors by increasing awareness of food safety issues and solutions: surveys of food processors at the end of the project showed that much higher levels of awareness We are helping to raise food safety standards in Georgia in cooperation with the IFC. had been achieved and that more than 390 firms had improved their knowledge of food The Project Management College In 2012, we extended our support for the College safety standards. More than 1,180 individuals for two further years, providing additional funding had received food safety training through The Project Management College (PMC) was of $0.55million, with $0.13 million co-funding from the programme’s courses and conferences. established to benefit Georgian public or private the Free University of Tbilisi. A new curriculum in Piloting the implementation of a food sector organizations by improving project Programme Management has been introduced, safety management system to build local management capabilities. The courses provide a which is being offered exclusively to PMC alumni, food safety capacity: this was successfully Master’s Certificate from The George Washington representing a further progression route for PMC completed in four companies, leading to University (GWU) School of Business and a sound project managers. increased sales and investment. Overall, foundation for Project Management Professional investment of approximately $22.9 million (PMP) certification from the Project Management Supporting education was made against a target of $4 million. Institute (PMI). We have financed educational projects that have Improving food safety regulations In total, 194 students have studied during the been designed to make a quick impact, such as and building the capacity of Georgian College’s first three years, with 174 of them refurbishing school buildings, as well as longerregulators in line with international best graduating with Master’s Certificates, and 11 term initiatives that develop the capabilities of practice: recommendations were provided becoming PMPs. Students are drawn from senior students in leadership, advocacy and project for two food safety regulations that have to medium level managers from more than 100 management. Supporting education has long since been enacted. Training and capacity different organizations, ranging from private been an important element of our community building has also been provided to officials. companies, to NGOs, to international organizations development initiatives in Georgia. “BP’s support for this project in the food industry and the public sector. The third PMC graduation International School of Economics, Tbilisi is an excellent demonstration of the company’s took place in June 2012, where 55 students were commitment to broad-based economic and awarded Master’s Certificates. We continue to provide financial support to the social development in Georgia. BP and its International School of Economics in Tbilisi, which partners have recognized that the food industry aims to bring world-class teaching and research is an important sector for the Georgian economy methods to the study of economics to benefit and their contribution has been vital in helping the the South Caucasus Region. ISET had its seventh project to raise standards.” admission of students in 2012, from several different countries in the region. Society 27 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 BP Georgia in figures Data on our safety, environment, people and performance from 2008 to 2012. Performance 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total hydrocarbon throughput (mmboe) 281.4 349.7 346.5 313.8 300.7 Social investment ($ million)a 8.0 8.5 8.2 3.4 3.2 Safetybb Safety 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 BP employee fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 BP contractor fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 Days away from work cases (DAFWC)c – workforced 0 0 0 0 0 Days away from work cases frequency (DAFWCF) injury onlye – workforce 0 0 0 0 0 Recordable occupational illness and injuryf – workforce 5 3 0 1 1 Recordable injury frequency (RIF)g 0.26 0.17 0 0.07 0.06 Vehicle accidentsh 6 2 5 9 6 Total vehicle accident ratei 0.71 0.25 0.71 1.12 0.66 Hours workedj – workforce 3,873,410 3,507,005 3,108,395 3,066,299 3,400,626 Kilometres drivenk 8,503,842 8,120,198 7,077,498 8,055,182 9,152,233 Environment Environment l l 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Number of hydrocarbon spillsm 2 2 2 0 0 Volume of oil spilled (litres)m 4,715 5,520 25,454 0 0 Volume of oil unrecovered (litres)m 0 320 3,700 0 0 Direct carbon dioxide (CO2) (tonnes) 251,090 285,415 255,321 277,183 266,887 Direct methane (CH4) (tonnes) 147 311 325 339 315 Equity share direct greenhouse gas (GHG) (tonnes CO2 equivalent) 76,443 88,289 79,122 85,765 83,013 Sulphur dioxide (SOx) (tonnes) 88 102 90 78 79 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) (tonnes) 1,992 2,309 2,116 2,017 1,963 Non-methane hydrocarbons (NMHC) (tonnes) 72 1,206 1,204 1,212 1,166 Hazardous waste disposed (m3) 352 691 545 643.5 480.8 Non-hazardous waste disposed (tonnes)n 497 423 335 316 394.6 People People 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total BP Georgia headcount 536 405 398 438 490 Georgian nationals as % of BP Georgia headcount 93 95 96 95 94 Note: For the year ended 31 December 28 BP Georgia in figures BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Notes to figures a  Figures show BP and partner spending. They include ‘cash f  Recordable Occupational Illness and Injury: Two sets of The BP workforce vehicle was legally parked. out’ spending and support provided under the BTC grant criteria determine recordability, based on the Occupational The journey is to or from the driver’s home and and the BP pledge. For more information on BP pledge Safety and Health Administration. If a case meets any of normal place of work. and BTC Grant please see BP in Georgia Sustainability the listed criteria in either the general or specific, it must Minor wear and tear is the case (e.g. stone damage Report 2005 and BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2006, be considered recordable. to a windscreen, minor paintwork damage). respectively. General: Death; Day(s) away from work; Restricted work An incident is the result of vandalism or theft. b  Safety data shows performance for BP in Georgia as a or transfer to another job; Medical treatment beyond A company-provided vehicle is being driven on nonwhole, encompassing our in-country activities described in first aid; Loss of consciousness; A significant injury or work related activities (e.g. private business, leisure). this report (projects, operations (BTC, SCP, WREP, Supsa, illness diagnosed by a physician or other licensed health professional. i  Total Vehicle Accident Rate: the sum of all light vehicle, and operations support), administrative support, and Air all heavy vehicle and all mobile plant accidents per one BP). Specific: Needlestick and cuts from sharp objects that are contaminated with another person’s blood or other million kilometers driven. c  Days Away From Work Case (DAFWC): A work-related potentially infectious material; Medical removal under j Hours worked: The total hours worked by a reporting unit injury or illness which has either of the following government standards; Occupational hearing loss (current by members of the BP workforce. consequences: hearing test must show 10dBA shift from current baseline k  Kilometres driven: Total work-related kilometers travelled The member of the BP workforce could not have and total cumulative hearing loss must be 25dBA or more by BP operated or contractor vehicles. This includes all worked on any day after the injury or illness, above audiometric zero). work-related kilometres driven in hire/rental vehicles or irrespective of whether there was scheduled work. g  Recordable Injury Frequency (RIF): private vehicles. The member of the BP workforce comes to work BP: the total number of Recordable Injuries to BP l  All environment data relates to total BP-operated emissions even when a physician or other licensed health care Employees for every 200,000 hours worked by BP with the exception of ‘equity share direct greenhouse gas professional recommends that the individual stays at Employees in the same period. (GHG)’ emissions which shows the BP share of emissions home. Contractor: the total number of Recordable Injuries to from operations on an equity share basis. BP contractors for every 200,000 hours worked by BP d The BP workforce comprises all BP employees, all BP m  Hydrocarbon spill: Any loss of primary containment of contractors in the same period. contractors and all BP directors. one barrel (1 barrel = 159 litres = 42 US gallons) or more h  Vehicle accident: A work-related accident involving a motor e Days Away From Work Case frequency (DAFWCf): of liquid hydrocarbon. A loss of primary containment is vehicle that occurs on or off-road resulting in injury, or loss/ The number of injury DAFWCs to BP employees for every an unplanned or uncontrolled release of material from damage, or harm to the environment, whether this impacts 200,000 hours worked by BP employees in the same period. primary containment. BP and/or its contractor directly, or impacts a third-party. This The number of injury DAFWCs to BP contractors for every n Non-hazardous waste includes general waste such as is irrespective of whether the accident was preventable or 200,000 hours worked by BP contractors in the same household garbage, food-contaminated waste and other non-preventable. It excludes all accidents where: period. materials which cannot be recycled. BP Georgia in figures 29 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Independent assurance statement to BP managment This report has been substantiated by Ernst & Whether the sustainability data presented in 2. Are the data and statements regarding BP Young, the BP group auditors. The primary purpose the Report are consistent with the relevant Georgia’s sustainability performance contained of the report substantiation process is to test that business unit level data records. within the Report supported by evidence or the assertions, claims and data set out in the text explanation? In order to form our conclusions we undertook the regarding BP’s sustainability performance can be steps outlined below. We are not aware of any misstatements in supported by evidence. This process is intended to the assertions and data presented by BP give assurance about the report contents from an 1. Reviewed a selection of external media reports management within the Report regarding BP independent third party. Ernst & Young’s scope of and selected internal documents relating to the Georgia’s sustainability performance. work and their conclusions are provided below. sustainability performance of BP in Georgia in 2012 including the ESIA reports for the SCP Our independence Independent assurance statement to BP expansion and WREP replacement projects As auditors to BP p.l.c., Ernst & Young are required management 2. Reviewed the outcome of BP Georgia’s own to comply with the requirements set out in the BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 (the processes for determining the key issues to be Auditing Practices Board’s (APB) Ethical Standards Report) has been prepared by the management included in the Report. for Auditors. Ernst & Young’s independence of BP Georgia, who are responsible for the policies apply to the firm, partners and professional 3. Reviewed information or explanation about collection and presentation of information within staff. These policies prohibit any financial interests the Report’s sustainability performance it. Our responsibility, in accordance with BP in our clients that would or might be seen to impair data and statements. Whilst we reviewed management’s instructions is to carry out a limited independence. Each year, partners and staff are documentation to support the sustainability assurance engagement on the Report as outlined required to confirm their compliance with the data contained within the Report, we did not below, in order to provide conclusions on the firm’s policies. test the data processes for gathering, collating claims, data and coverage of issues within it. and reporting data at country or site level. We confirm annually to BP whether there Our responsibility in performing our assurance have been any events including the provision activities is to the management of BP p.l.c. only Level of assurance of prohibited services that could impair our and in accordance with the terms of reference Our evidence gathering procedures have been independence or objectivity. There were no such agreed with them. We do not therefore accept or designed to obtain a limited level of assurance events or services in 2012. assume any responsibility for any other purpose or on which to base our conclusions. The extent of to any other person or organization. Any reliance evidence gathering procedures performed is less any such third party may place on the Report is than that of a reasonable assurance engagement entirely at its own risk. (such as a financial audit) and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided. What we did to form our conclusions Ernst & Young LLP, Our assurance engagement has been planned and Our conclusions London performed in accordance with the International On the basis of our review and in accordance with May 2013 Federation of Accountants’ ISAE3000.1 the terms of reference for our work we provide The Report has been evaluated against the the following conclusions on the Report. Our following criteria: conclusions should be read in conjunction with 1 International Federation of Accountants’ the above section on ‘What we did to form our International Standard for Assurance Whether the Report covers the key conclusions’. Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of sustainability issues relevant to BP in Georgia Historical Financial Information (ISAE3000). in 2012 which were raised in the media, BP 1. Does the Report cover the key issues? Georgia’s own review of material sustainability We are not aware of any key sustainability issues, and selected internal documentation. issues relevant to BP Georgia which were Whether sustainability claims made in the raised in the media or the outcome of BP Report are consistent with the explanation and Georgia’s own materiality process that have evidence provided by relevant BP managers. been excluded from the Report. 32 30 Contents Independent assurance statement to BP managment BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Glossary BTC IDP Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline Internally Displaced Persons CBO IEC Community Based Organization Independent environmental consultant CDI IFC Community Development Initiative International Finance Corporation CO2 ISET Carbon dioxide International School of Economics at Tbilisi State DAFWC (f) University Days away from work case (frequency) Mmboe EDDF Million barrels of oil equivalent Emergency drain-down facility Mmscf EMS Million standard cubic feet Environmental management system NGO EU Non-governmental organization European Union PMC EUGBC Project Management College EU-Georgia Business Council PSG ESIA Pump station Georgia Environmental and social impact assessment SCP GHG South Caucasus Pipeline Greenhouse gas WREP HSE Western Route Export Pipeline (also known as the Baku-Supsa pipeline) Health, safety and environment Glossary 31 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012 Further resources BP communicates its non-financial commitments and performance at group, country and site levels online, as well as providing interactive tools for its website visitors. Group reporting Feedback Our website, www.bp.com/sustainability, is an We welcome feedback on this report. You integral part of our group sustainability reporting, can write to us at the address below, marked covering a wide set of issues and reporting on for the attention of the Communications and them in more depth. The website also includes External Affairs team, or send an e-mail to us at: detailed information about our environmental and bpgeosust@bp.com safety performance. BP Georgia, 24 S. Tsintsadze str, 0160, Tbilisi, BP Sustainability Review 2012 is available in Georgia. English, Mandarin Chinese, Russian and Spanish. Previous BP in Georgia Sustainability reports are www.bp.com/aboutourreporting available at www.bpgeorgia.ge Country and site reporting Acknowledgements We have published country reports on our Design: Besik Danelia, IB Design operations in Angola, Australia, Azerbaijan, Canada, Photographs: Gela Kavelashvili, Internews Germany, New Zealand, Southern Africa, Trinidad and Tobago and Turkey. We also maintain a library of site reports for more than 30 of our major operations. www.bp.com/countrysustainabilityreports Case studies Our case studies demonstrate our sustainability efforts in action around the world and provide insight into how our policies and practices can make a difference at the local level. www.bp.com/casestudies 32 Further resources BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2012
