SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS SOCIAL AND RESPONSIBLE KENDRION CSR REPORT 2012 Contents 1 Preface 2 Profile & Organisation 4 Kendrion at a glance 4 Key figures 6 Organisational structure This logo was introduced in 2012 for all Kendrion’s CSR communications. 9 CSR highlights 2012 This CSR Report is printed on 10 About this Report environmental friendly paper. 12 What we want 12 CSR mission and strategy 14 What we do 14 CSR board and activities 15 How we do it 15 Business ethics 18 Stakeholders 21 Products 23 Our staff 23 Labour standards 28 Health & safety 30 Environment 30 Energy & CO2 33 Materials and waste 36 Supply chain responsibility 38 Community investment Preface We are pleased to present Kendrion’s 2012 CSR Report to you. In publishing this second report we aim to demonstrate to our stakeholders that our commitment to sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility is of strategic importance to us. We want to contribute, within the scope of our possibilities, to a sustainable society. This means we must focus continually on our use of materials, our products that we develop for our customers, for instance in terms of emissions and energy savings, and the way in which we treat our employees. Global trends such as climate change, scarcity of resources, renewable energy and population growth also present Kendrion with opportunities and can, particularly in the longer term, create value for our stakeholders. I am pleased to report that almost all targets that we had set ourselves in this area were achieved in 2012. Thanks to the efforts of many employees across all our businesses. Sustained efforts are already underway to achieve new, realistic targets for this year. We will update you on these efforts in this report. Kendrion cannot work miracles by itself. We are keenly aware of the fact that further greening of our internal processes and of the chain will take time and effort. Wherever possible, Kendrion wants to work with its stakeholders and partners in the chain to achieve this. We hope that you will enjoy reading this report and appreciate our efforts. Piet Veenema, CEO Kendrion N.V. >> 1 Proﬁle & Organisation Development, manufacturing and marketing of high-quality electromagnetic systems and components z Listed company on NYSE Euronext’s Amsterdam Market Revenue: approximately EUR 300 million z 1,600 employees (including 100 temps) in 12 countries Industrial Magnetic Systems Industrial Drive Systems Passenger Car Systems Commercial Vehicle Systems Electromagnetic components Electromagnetic brakes and Project solutions for speciﬁc Individual energy-saving systems tailored to the individual needs of clutches for the industrial drive customer applications in the for commercial vehicles and offadvanced industries. technology. automotive and special vehicle highway applications. industries. Proﬁle k e n d r i o n n . v . , a solution provider, develops, manufactures and markets innovative high-quality electromagnetic systems and components for customers all over the world. Kendrion’s operations are carried out by four business units focused on speciﬁc market segments, namely Industrial Magnetic Systems, Industrial Drive Systems, Passenger Car Systems and Commercial Vehicle Systems. k e n d r i o n has leading positions in a number of business-to-business niche markets. Germany is Kendrion’s main market, although other countries are becoming increasingly important. Kendrion’s activities k e n d r i o n develops advanced electromagnetic solutions for industrial applications. These are used by customers all over the world in systems such as lifts, door-locking systems, industrial robots, medical equipment, electrical switchbox systems, diesel and gasoline engines, air-conditioning installations, motor cooling systems and beverage dispensers. Kendrion’s key customers include a.o. Bosch, Continental, Daimler, Delphi, Eaton, Evobus, Hyundai, Siemens and Yutong. Kendrion’s shares are listed on NYSE Euronext’s Amsterdam market. >> 2 kendrion csr report 2012 Mission k e n d r i o n is committed to being a leading international company that uses its existing know-how, innovative capabilities and commercial strengths to provide solutions to the company’s industrial and automotive customers. In doing so Kendrion intends to be a transparent, ﬂexible and reliable company where entrepreneurial zeal is combined with clear proﬁt targets. Kendrion seeks to further strengthen its position as a fast-growing high-tech company. Strategy k e n d r i o n ’s policy is focused on the creation of sustainable added value and the achievement of appealing return on investment for the company as a whole. This is based on a powerful focus on a number of selected operations and on proﬁtable growth achieved both organically and via acquisitions. Kendrion’s objective is to evolve from a European player into even more of a global player. Within this context, the USA, China and India are important countries for further growth. Kendrion intends to achieve this objective by building up and expanding its leading market positions in selected niche markets in terms of both revenue and added value. k e n d r i o n utilises its existing know-how, innovative capacity and commercial strengths to offer solutions to a wide range of customers, whereby the company shall focus on the further expansion in the ﬁelds of applications for electromagnetic systems and components. k e n d r i o n , characterised by its transparency, ﬂexibility and local entrepreneurship, is driven by challenging but realistic targets. In addition, Kendrion intends to be and remain a company that appeals to its employees, customers and shareholders. Kendrion is aware of the importance of sustainability and of Kendrion’s social responsibility, and for this reason the social and environmental standards governing all processes are continually being made more stringent. k e n d r i o n ’s spearheads are: z Niche market leadership in selected business-to-business markets; z Organic growth in the current operations; z Utilisation of synergy in and between the business units (locally but also internationally); z Balanced spread of the operations; z Targeted add-on acquisitions; z Enhancement of the innovative capacity; z Corporate Social Responsibility and sustainability. k e n d r i o n has always paid considerable attention to Mid-term Plans. The new Mid-term Plan 2013-2015, which continues as ‘Entering another league’, focuses in particular on strengthening Kendrion’s internal organisation to improve its leading position as component supplier in clearly deﬁned niche markets in the years ahead. More information about the new Mid-term Plan, ‘Entering another league’, is available on page 27 of the 2012 Annual Report. profile & organisation >> 3 Kendrion at a glance Key ﬁgures EUR million, unless otherwise stated Operations Revenue Net investments 2011 267.9 2011 13.5 2012 284.9 > 6% 2012 18.7 > 38% Operating result before amortisation (EBITA) 2, 3 Depreciation and amortisation 2011 30.7 2011 10.8 2012 22.3 > ( 27%) 2012 12.7 > 18% Operating result before depreciation and amortisation Solvency (total equity/balance sheet total) (EBITDA) 3 2011 40.0 2011 39.2% 2012 32.7 > (18%) 2012 44.8% > 12% Normalised net proﬁt 3 Working capital in % of revenue 4 2011 20.5 2011 11.8% 2012 13.6 > (34%) 2012 11.9% > 1% EBITA 2, 3/invested capital 5, 6 (ROI) Share information 2011 22.2% 2012 12.4% > ( 44%) Normalised net proﬁt per share (EUR) 3 2011 1.79 2012 1.16 > ( 35%) Other information In EUR, unless otherwise stated 2012 2011 2010 Number of shares x 1,000 at 31 December 11,655 11,492 11,316 Market capitalisation at 31 December, EUR million 186.5 189.6 164.1 Enterprise value (EV) EUR million 207.9 215.5 169.3 Highest share price in the ﬁnancial year 20.50 18.99 15.10 Lowest share price in the ﬁnancial year 14.80 13.25 8.82 Share price on 31 December 16.00 16.50 14.50 Average daily ordinary share volume 11,199 17,489 13,642 EBITDA multiple (over EV) 6.35 5.39 5.10 Result per share 1.55 (1.79) 1.47 Normalised result per share 1.16 1.79 1.30 Share price earnings ratio 13.79 9.27 9.93 >> 4 kendrion csr report 2012 Realisation of targets Organic growth 1 Solvency Free cash ﬂow 3, 7 Target > 10% per year Target not below 35% Target healthy free cash ﬂow in relation to organic growth in % of net proﬁt Actual (4.1%) Actual 45% Actual 71% Return on Sales 2, 3 (ROS) Ratio of interest-bearing debt Dividend distribution and EBITDA 3 Target > 10.0% Target < 3.00 Target between 35-50% of net proﬁt Actual 7.8% Actual 0.65 Actual 50% of normalised net proﬁt Return on invested capital 2, 3, 5, 6 Target > 17.5% Actual 12.4% EUR million, unless otherwise stated 2012 2011 Net proﬁt 18.0 (20.1) Organic growth 1 (4.1%) 20.7% Net interest-bearing debt 21.3 25.9 Net interest-bearing debt / equity (gearing) 0.21 0.28 Net interest-bearing debt 5 / operating result before depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) 3 0.65 (0.07) Operating result before amortisation (EBITA) 2, 3, 8 / net ﬁnance costs 6.6 15.3 Outstanding shares at year-end (x 1,000) 11,655 11,493 1 Organic growth is excluding revenue Kendrion (Shelby) Inc. 5 Net interest-bearing debt and invested capital is excluding Kendrion (formerly named FAS Controls, Inc.) in 2012. (Shelby) Inc. in 2011. 2 EBITA excluding amortisation related to acquisitions (part of other 6 Total invested capital is property, plant and equipment, intangible assets intangible assets). and current assets less the current tax liabilities, trade payables and other 3 Excluding EC ﬁne and a.o. acquisition expenses in 2011 and excluding payables. release earn-out Kendrion (Shelby) Inc. in 2012. 7 Before cash ﬂow relating to aquisitions. 4 Working capital and revenue are excluding Kendrion (Shelby) Inc. in 2011. 8 Financing costs excluding accrued interest EC ﬁne. kendrion at a glance – key figures >> 5 Kendrion at a glance Organisational structure Kendrion N.V.’s headquarter is in Zeist, the Netherlands. The company has operations in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, the Czech Republic, the UK, USA, China, Mexico, Brazil and India. Kendrion has a total of approximately 1,600 employees (including 100 temporary employees). Kendrion N.V. is a Dutch public company. Its shares are listed on NYSE Euronext’s Amsterdam market. Kendrion N.V. does not have a (central) works council. >> Business units Kendrion is a strongly focused company with one main objective: the development, manufacture and sales of innovative high-quality electromagnetic components and systems. The operations are organised into four market-focused business units: z Industrial Magnetic Systems: electromagnetic components tailored to the individual needs of advanced industries; z Industrial Drive Systems: electromagnetic brakes and clutches for the industrial drive technology; z Passenger Car Systems: project solutions for speciﬁc customer applications in the automotive and special vehicle industries; z Commercial Vehicle Systems: individual energy-saving systems for commercial vehicles and off-highway applications. Each business unit has a number of operating companies in various geographical locations. The organisation has implemented a decentralised structure to promote the company’s decisiveness. eur ope Industrial Magnetic Systems Subsidiaries Industrial Drive Systems Partners Passenger Car Systems Commercial Vehicle Systems Kendrion N.V. >> 6 kendrion csr report 2012 >> Management In 2012, Kendrion was managed by an Executive Board comprised of two members and was supervised by the Supervisory Board. The Executive Board was comprised of two Directors: the CEO, Mr Piet Veenema (57), and the CFO, Mr Eiko Ris (54). Mr Ris left Kendrion as per 28 February 2013. A proposal will be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on 15 April 2013, to appoint Mr Frank Sonnemans (51) as CFO for a four-year term. The Executive Board is supported by the Vice-President Automotive, the Business Unit Managers and the Chief Technology Ofﬁcer – together the Executive Committee. The Executive Board takes all signiﬁcant decisions concerning the strategy and direction of the electromagnetic operations as a whole including the allocation of resources to the individual operating companies. Kendrion strongly encourages motivated local entrepreneurship. The individual business units have a shared strategy and the Vice-President Automotive, the Business Unit Managers and the Managing Directors of the individual operating companies collaborate in a wide range of ﬁelds, such as engineering, project management, purchasing, production strategy, marketing and sales. A number of responsibilities are entrusted to Kendrion Group Services, such as ﬁnancing and cash management, reporting and controlling, taxation, risk management, corporate communications and investor relations, facility management, insurance, IT, human resources management, Corporate Social Responsibility, legal affairs and corporate governance. r e st of the world kendrion at a glance – organisational structure >> 7 >> Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board currently has four members. Mr S.J. van Kesteren (71) is the Chairman of the Supervisory Board since 2005. Mr Van Kesteren is a Dutch national. Mr R.L. De Bakker (62) was appointed a member of the Supervisory Board in June 2005. He is Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board. Mr De Bakker is a Dutch national. Ms M.E.P. Sanders (59) was appointed a member of the Supervisory Board in April 2005. Ms Sanders is a Dutch national. Dr H.J. Kayser (52) was appointed to the Supervisory Board during the Extraordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held in July 2009. Dr Kayser is a German national. The members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by the General Meeting of Shareholders on the recommendation of the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board has established two Committees, an Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee. The Committees are responsible for making the preparations for the decision-making by the Supervisory Board. The proﬁle of the Supervisory Board includes a statement (in part in view of the diversity provisions of the Netherlands Corporate Governance Code) that endeavours shall be made to achieve a mixed composition in terms of age and experience and that preferably at least one woman shall be a member of the Supervisory Board. These endeavours have been achieved. The Supervisory Board’s supervision extends to the Corporate Social Responsibility issues of relevance to the company. The Supervisory Board recognises the importance of Kendrion’s Corporate Social Responsibility and advocates a strong focus on the company’s social and environmental standards governing its processes, and the relationship between the overall strategy and sustainability. The Supervisory Board reviewed the achievements of 2012 and endorsed the CSR Board’s plans for 2013. The roles and responsibilities of the Executive Board, the Supervisory Board and its Committees and the General Meeting of Shareholders are in accordance with the relevant provisions of Dutch law, the Netherlands Corporate Governance Code and the Articles of Association of Kendrion N.V. More information on corporate governance, including the regulations of these corporate bodies, has been published on Kendrion’s website. O RG A N I S ATI O N A L CHA R T Supervisory Board Executive Board Kendrion Group Services Executive Committee Industrial Magnetic Systems Industrial Drive Systems Passenger Car Systems Commercial Vehicle Systems >> 8 kendrion csr report 2012 CSR Highlights 2012 z Low absenteeism rate of 2.6%; z Introduction of Management Development Plan for High Potentials; z Launch of Kendrion Academy; z Health & safety campaigns; z Introduction sponsor policy; z Special CSR edition of staff Magazine Magnetised; z Environmental awareness campaign; z Corporate community investment project started in India: scholarships for poor Indian students; z Supplier Code of Conduct introduced in all business units; z New combined heating and cooling systems put into use in Villingen, Germany; z Anti-corruption risk assessment executed; z Structural stakeholder dialogue initiated; z CSR data collection information system implemented; z New waste and recycling initiatives. >> 9 About this Report This CSR Report 2012 is the second CSR Report to be published by Kendrion. Kendrion had previously drawn up two UN Global Compact progress Reports which were published on the company’s website. Kendrion intends to publish an annual CSR Report within four months of the end of each ﬁnancial year. This Report is intended for all Kendrion’s internal and external stakeholders, including investors, societal organisations, ﬁnanciers, employees, customers, suppliers and other interested parties. The response to the 2011 CSR Report was favourable. In part, the format of this second CSR Report reﬂects comments on the ﬁrst report from investors, the Association of Investors for Sustainable Development VBDO and employees. The Report endeavours to provide a full and transparent insight into Kendrion’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) efforts. The Report reviews the results for the 2012 calendar year (in some instances in comparison with ﬁgures available for 2011), unless stated otherwise. The majority of the new targets formulated in this Report relate to the 2013 calendar year. This CSR Report encompasses all the Kendrion group’s member companies in 2012. Kendrion had one 51% participating interest, which company is also incorporated in the Report. In a number of instances the information provided in this Report relates solely to part of the operations. When this is the case, which is stated explicitly in the Report, this is due either to the operations not being carried out at all locations or to the lack of full information from other group companies at the time this Report was prepared. The contents of this Report, including the key issues, Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and targets formulated in the Report, were drawn up after comprehensive discussions with the Kendrion CSR Board (see page 14). These discussions, which gave consideration to the CSR issues of greatest relevance to Kendrion and assigned priorities, were based on the nature of the company and its operations, as well as the perceptions (when known) of stakeholders including investors, suppliers, customers and employees. The underlying wish was to formulate realistic, feasible targets for this reporting year that can be reﬁned incrementally in the coming years. In the course of 2012, an internal management information system was implemented, designed to provide for the collection and consolidation of relevant CSR information from all Kendrion’s operating facilities. This is required for the preparation of periodic internal and external Reports about the KPIs and the business units’ progress for submission to the CSR Board. We realise that the ﬁgures and data presented in this Report are not always fully comparable with those of other companies. There are two reasons for this. Companies do not always select the same KPIs or apply the same deﬁnitions for them. Secondly the nature and spread of Kendrion’s activities mean that one-on-one comparisons with other industrial companies are not easy to make. But where possible we have stated our own prior-year ﬁgures and data, so that internal progress is visible. We will investigate the possibilities for increasing external comparability. Other information used in this Report was collected from the existing management and ﬁnancial reporting systems. Any estimates or forecasts included in the Report are explicitly referred to as such. This CSR Report has not been reviewed by an external auditor. Kendrion will consider to call on the services of an external auditor after the full implementation of the company’s internal management system for the periodic collection and consolidation of the appropriate CSR information in 2013 again. >> 10 kendrion csr report 2012 This CSR Report, in combination with the 2012 Annual Report and the corporate website, has been compiled in accordance with the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and complies with GRI’s Level B requirements (self declared). The CSR Report and the accompanying GRI-index can be found on the corporate website (www.kendrion.com). Kendrion participates in the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation’s Transparency benchmark, which monitors the Netherlands’ 500 largest companies. In 2011, Kendrion ranked 137th, in 2012, Kendrion rose to rank 97. Kendrion is of the opinion that this is a good development and score in the light of the relatively small size of the company and the relatively short period in which the company has devoted structural, speciﬁc attention to CSR and transparency issues. More information about Kendrion and the company’s strategy, results and products is available from Kendrion’s website (www.kendrion.com). Kendrion’s 2012 Annual Report and 2012 Annual Magazine have also been published on the website. about this report >> 11 What we want CSR mission and strategy >> Sustainability mega forces and trends Some of the relevant major trends in the world are: z A rapid growth of world population, especially in emerging markets; z An increasing scarcity of natural resources; z The transition to more sustainable energy; z Urbanisation; z Climate change; z Increased transportation needs of people and goods; and z Scarcity of highly educated (technical) people. Some of these trends, such as the scarcity of natural resources, could in the longer term become a threat to the growth of Kendrion’s business and therefore need to be addressed in a timely manner. These trends also offer opportunities for Kendrion, however. Utilising such opportunities and using scarce energy and other natural resources in a responsible way will, in the long run, make an essential contribution to the creation of value for all Kendrion’s stakeholders. CSR and sustainability play therefore an important role in the Kendrion strategy. >> CSR mission It is Kendrion’s mission that Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and sustainability are intrinsic, integral elements of Kendrion’s local operations. For Kendrion, CSR means conducting business with consideration for climate effects and energy sources, with a feeling for people and the environment, and on the basis of a responsibility for the chain in which the company operates. This form of entrepreneurship pivots on the creation of multiple value – and consequently not just Proﬁt, but also People and Planet. >> CSR strategy Kendrion has formulated the following general CSR strategy, based on its mission, overall strategy and the mega trends listed above. Sustainability is at the core of many of the company’s products and innovations. Kendrion and its highly motivated staff exploit the speciﬁc expertise and experience available within the company as a means of increasing safety and substantially reducing emissions and fuel consumption. Kendrion is inspired by the desire to secure a sustainable and ‘green’ environment for generations to come, fully appreciating and assuming its responsibility for achieving this objective. Kendrion endeavours to reduce waste and make efﬁcient use of energy, and encourages the company’s employees to make continual organisational and technical improvements to environmental procedures. During the design phase and technical planning Kendrion takes due account of the consequences for the environment. This relates not only to the reduction of harmful emissions and the achievement of a lower environmental impact, but also to the retention of the company’s good reputation. As a company Kendrion bears a social responsibility that necessitates attention to environmental issues when assessing processes. Transparency and chain responsibility are important issues for Kendrion. Kendrion attaches great importance to good relationships with the company’s customers, employees, suppliers, other business partners and the communities where Kendrion is active. Cooperation and consultations are essential if Kendrion is to fulﬁl its ambitions. >> 12 kendrion csr report 2012 As a ﬁrst step, the CSR Board organised a number of workshops with the support of an external CSR consultant, with a view to translating the general strategy into speciﬁc targets and initiatives. The key issues for Kendrion’s own business processes were identiﬁed by reference to the nature of Kendrion’s activities and Kendrion’s potential impact and inﬂuence in the chain in the near term and the long term. Next, maximally speciﬁc targets and KPIs were formulated for those key issues. The key issues, KPIs and targets were discussed and endorsed by the Executive Committee and the Supervisory Board, and are evaluated annually on the basis of the results achieved and where necessary adjusted as proposed by the CSR Board. >> Key issues The key issues for Kendrion’s business processes, also considering the major trends, include: z Environment (energy and emission reduction); MA GNETISING GIR LS’ DAY z Supply chain responsibility; z Labour standards (including, but not limited to health & safety); In spring 2012, eleven very interested, technically z Community investment; inclined girl students from in and around z Business ethics; and Eibiswald, Austria visited our local plant. z ‘Green’ products. Our Managing Director Martin Kollmann welcomed the girls, introduced Kendrion and told them what >> Ambition they could expect from this Girls’ Day 2012. Kendrion wants to pursue sustainability at an even more strategic level. In other Naturally, he also informed them about job words, how can Kendrion align its core business and products more closely with opportunities at Kendrion. A tour around the sustainability in terms of its use of materials, its footprint and product proposition grounds showed the girls how electromagnets in its markets. And equally, how can the company maximise its CSR effectiveness are made. With some help the girls produced and achieve the greatest impact with its limited capacity and resources. In addition, their own electromagnetic based application, Kendrion would like to prepare for integrated reporting guideline initiatives. with which they could play a very special game Kendrion will start to explore these possibilities in 2013. This will of course take of ninepins. At the end of an exciting day the girls time and it is not possible at present to state when the results of these studies will were in for a surprise when they received the be available. The outcome of these studies will provide a basis for deﬁning further ninepins games as a present from Kendrion to long-term targets at a strategic level. take home. what we want – csr mission and strategy >> 13 What we do CSR Board and activities >> Installation CSR Board At the beginning of 2011, Kendrion felt a need to structure the CSR activities further and to expand these activities. The Executive Committee decided to give further shape to Kendrion’s CSR activities, by appointing a CSR Board. The Board was chaired by the CFO in 2012. The Board’s other members are representatives from all business units. The Board’s work is coordinated by Kendrion’s Corporate Secretary. The CSR Board currently consists of a total of nine members, who are presented throughout this Report. Mr Piet Veenema, CEO of Kendrion N.V., is the new sponsor of the CSR Board on behalf of the Executive Committee. >> Objectives The objective of the CSR Board is to coordinate, communicate, enthuse and accelerate. The CSR Board is empowered to structure and plan all Kendrion’s CSR activities. The Board also perceives its duties as including the provision of transparent information about the stipulated CSR targets to the employees and external stakeholders, to communicate the progress in the achievement of the targets to them and to inform them about the actions taken to further their achievement. The Board endeavours to make the employees aware of CSR and to generate their enthusiasm for addressing CSR issues within the context of their day-to-day work and responsibilities. This will result in increased CSR efforts with the ultimate objective of increasing the added value for Kendrion, the employees, the environment and society. >> Activities The CSR Board met seven times in 2012. The CSR Board gave further consideration to the CSR themes of greatest relevance to Kendrion and jointly adopt a number of realistic targets for 2012 and 2013. A number of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) have been deﬁned as speciﬁcally as possible and are used to assess the extent to IN T ER NATIO NAL HR MEETI N G which these targets are achieved. A number of targets are of a qualitative rather than quantitative nature. Kendrion intends to give shape to CSR in a practical, realistic and The ﬁrst international HR meeting took place in relevant manner. Villingen, Germany on 16 and 17 October 2012. All staff members working in the HR departments all over the world came together and got to know each other personally during an intensive workshop. Part of the workshop was devoted to CSR topics such as diversity and employee satisfaction. >> 14 kendrion csr report 2012 How we do it Business ethics Target 2012 Result Ambition 2013 z Risk assessment bribery ✔ Achieved Development compliance & corruption risks workshop >> Governance – internal codes and procedures Code of Conduct Kendrion has implemented a Code of Conduct in its organisation that applies to all Kendrion staff. The principles and best practices established in this Code reﬂect the main values that need to guide Kendrion’s staff in the performance of their duties, and the actions they need to take in a variety of circumstances and situations. The core themes include market position, authorities, corporate social responsibility, accountability in general, and the obligation for due care regarding safety and health, the environment, and social interests. Kendrion promotes compliance with the Code of Conduct by continually bringing the Code to the attention of (new) managers and staff in their own language. The contents of the Code of Conduct are derived from the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. A number of German operating companies have incorporated the Code of Conduct in their employees’ contracts of employment following the requisite consultations with the local works councils. Whistleblower’s Charter Kendrion attaches great importance to the organisation’s compliance with the Code of Conduct. Employees who observe a (suspected) irregularity are encouraged to enter into discussions with those directly involved or with their supervisor. When this is not feasible or fails to achieve results, then they may make use of the procedure laid down in the Whistleblower’s Charter. The Whistleblower’s Charter offers Kendrion’s employees an opportunity to report irregularities or suspicions of irregularities to the management without jeopardising their (legal) position. Any such report gives cause to an internal investigation which is carried out under the responsibility of the Executive Board and in accordance with a standard procedure. In 2012, no irregularities were reported within the context of the Whistleblower’s Charter. >> AB&C policy Kendrion is committed to combating corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. Corruption obstructs or impedes economic development and results in an unequal distribution of wealth. In addition, involvement in corruption can result in damage to and the loss of the reputation of Kendrion, the management and employees. Kendrion’s Code of Conduct devotes speciﬁc attention to this issue. The Code of Conduct states that employees and managers shall always implement sound business practices. They are not allowed to request or suggest, seek or offer, accept or pay any form of bribe in either monetary or any other form. All payments Kendrion makes, either directly or indirectly or currently or subsequently, relating to a customer order may beneﬁt solely the relevant customer and no other parties other than legitimate intermediaries. The same rules, in reverse, are applicable to the parties who mediate in contracts on Kendrion’s behalf for the purchase, procurement, manufacture or assembly of products. Any irregularities may be reported pursuant to the Whistleblower’s Charter. No irregularities were reported in 2012. Although in the strict sense there were no issues of fraud or corruption, in 2012 Kendrion had to immediately dismiss one manager who contravened the internal regulations concerning the way business assets are handled. As a result of this case, Kendrion has taken additional measures in the operating company concerned to prevent any recurrence of this in future. >> 15 The policy stipulating the provision of the Code of Conduct and Whistleblower’s Charter to all employees in their individual language remains in full force. >> Risk assessment In view of the importance of combating corruption and the increasing attention to its prevention in the relevant legislation and from the investigative authorities, the company has decided to adopt an even more proactive approach to bringing the employees’ attention to this issue, in particular in those countries in which Kendrion is active and corruption is frequent. An AB&C policy (anti-bribery & corruption policy) was implemented at the end of 2011. This policy has resulted in measures including the performance of further risk analyses and due diligence of business ethics when entering into new business relations. The legislative systems in the various countries where Kendrion operates require that Kendrion takes appropriate measures to combat the risk of corruption. One of these measures is the performance of risk analyses. For this reason Kendrion carried out such an analysis in late 2012 and early 2013, by means of interviews with all key managers from all of the countries where Kendrion operates. The issues discussed included country-speciﬁc risks, the market situation, selection of and relations with suppliers, due diligence before entering into business relationships, the giving and receiving of gifts, internal controls, internal culture, competition and sanctions regimes. No abuses have come to light. The outcomes of the risk analysis are currently being processed, and a number of recommendations will be made, including the organisation of a compliance workshop for managers. In this way Kendrion remains active in further eradicating the risks of corruption. However, these measures do not provide any guarantee that no cases of corruption will arise. If there is any case of fraud, or any suspicion of fraud, then Kendrion will respond appropriately via the investigation protocol we have developed for this purpose. The company has planned to develop a compliance workshop in the course of 2013. >> Other internal regulations Within this context, Kendrion has also appointed Conﬁdential Counsellors whom employees can contact to make conﬁdential reports of (suspicions of ) irregularities. Employees can also discuss dilemmas with these counsellors. Quality, environmental management and safety systems The quality, environmental management and safety systems are usually combined For me, it is essential to do business honestly in one system that forms the basis for the implementation of many projects. and transparently in every respect, with due Virtually all Kendrion’s operating companies comply with the most stringent quality regard for people and the environment. and safety requirements. Kendrion’s environmental management systems used by Not because of rules and regulations, but these operating companies comply with the ISO 14001 standard. because I ﬁrmly believe this produces the best results for everyone. Regulations to prevent insider trading It is a pleasure to contribute to this together Kendrion has implemented internal regulations to prevent insider trading. These with the members of the CSR Board and many regulations govern the Supervisory Board, Executive Board, Innovation Board, the others within the company, and to work Vice-President Automotive, Business Unit Managers and their Controllers, and a towards a culture in which this has become number of other employees. In addition, the Executive Board and the Supervisory second nature. Board are governed by restrictions on trading in other listed companies. Kendrion has also designated a number of consultants afﬁliated with the company as insiders. Kendrion’s Compliance Ofﬁcer is entrusted with the supervision of compliance with the regulations. WIJGERT GOOIJER THE NETHERLANDS – C O M PA N Y S E C R E TA R Y / C S R C O O R D I N ATO R KENDRION N.V. >> 16 kendrion csr report 2012 Rules and Regulations Kendrion employs Rules and Regulations and Letters of Representation. The Rules and Regulations constitute rules of behaviour governing all Kendrion Managing Directors. All Kendrion companies are requested to sign a Letter of Representation report once a quarter and pursuant to a bottom-up procedure. In signing this letter each Managing Director and Controller conﬁrms that the ﬁnancial information they have reported is correct and complete. An audit programme supports the ﬁnancial reporting cycle. These measures will further reduce the risk of fraud and corruption within the company. Risk management framework Kendrion has implemented a structured risk management framework which encompasses the various elements of risk management and the relationship between these elements. The framework extends to Strategic & Business Risk Management, Operational Risk Management, Financial Reporting Risk Management and Compliance & Regulatory Issues. The quality of the risk management framework is founded on integrity, business ethics and the staff’s expertise, the management style and the manner in which powers and responsibilities are delegated and monitored. The risk management process is based on the generally-accepted COSO Enterprise Risk Management Framework. Comprehensive information is available in the 2012 Annual Report, pages 33-41. >> Compliance Kendrion did not receive any ﬁnes or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with the legislation and regulations in 2010, 2011 or 2012. There were no legal actions relating to unfair competition, cartel or monopoly practices in 2010, 2011 or 2012. On 16 November 2011, the General Court of the European Union in Luxembourg delivered its judgement in the case brought by Kendrion N.V. against the ﬁne imposed on 30 November 2005 by the European Commission in the amount of EUR 34 million for infringement of the EC Treaty by its former subsidiary Fardem Packaging B.V., established in Edam, the Netherlands. The General Court ruled that the ﬁne is to be upheld in full. The judgement of the General Court has hardly any impact on the operational activities of Kendrion and does not inﬂuence its ability to meet its ﬁnancial covenants and obligations. Kendrion N.V. has decided to lodge an appeal with the Court of Justice of the European Union. In the opinion of Kendrion N.V., such an appeal has a serious chance of success. On 5 February 2013, an oral hearing was held before the court in Luxembourg. The advice of the Advocate General will be published at the end of May 2013. Hopefully, the ﬁnal verdict will come before the end of this year. Kendrion wishes to emphasise that Fardem Packaging B.V. operated as an independent enterprise at all times. Kendrion N.V. itself had no involvement in prohibited agreements. Kendrion complies with the applicable statutory and regulatory requirements and treaties and individual social and environmental agreements. Kendrion joined the UN Global Compact in 2009. how we do it – business ethics >> 17 How we do it Stakeholders Stakeholders’ dialogue Target 2012 Result Ambition 2013 z Start-up CSR dialogue with ✔ Achieved Dialogue with extended group investors of (potential) investors z Communication campaign for ✔ Special CSR edition Continuous communication ﬂow employees and management Magnetised, posters and presentations >> General Transparency and chain responsibility are important issues for Kendrion. Kendrion attaches great importance to good relationships with the group’s customers, employees, suppliers, other business partners and the communities in which Kendrion is active. Cooperation and consultations are essential if Kendrion is to fulﬁl its ambitions. Kendrion intends to engage in transparent communications in a manner in which the company carries out CSR activities. Kendrion is convinced that a good dialogue with the various stakeholders will be conducive to the achievement of continual progress. Exchanges of ideas, the involvement of business relations in the implementation of initiatives and the utilisation of the experience and networks of others will further the implementation and integration of Kendrion’s CSR policy within the company. The selection of stakeholders was partly based on questions such as who might be positively or negatively affected by the organisation's decisions or activities, who can help the organisation address speciﬁc impacts, who can affect the organisation's ability to meet its responsibilities and who in the value chain is affected? On behalf of the Executive Board, the CFO in particular was involved in various forms of stakeholder dialogue. Important means of furthering the achievement of these objectives include an up-to-date CSR section on Kendrion’s website and the publication of this annual CSR Report in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines (more information is available at www.globalreporting.org). COM MUNIC ATIO N IS K EY Kendrion focused extensively on communication in 2012, both internally and One of the 2012 issues of the staff magazine externally. Read more on this below. Magnetised was fully devoted to CSR. >> Customers and suppliers A substantial number of Kendrion’s customers are major Tier 1 or 2 suppliers and OEMs in the automotive sector or other large industrial companies. Some of these customers have implemented company Supplier Codes of their own. Kendrion complies with their requirements, including their quality and environmental requirements, by an ample margin. This is also revealed by the many audits conducted by the customers. Kendrion holds continual discussions with the company’s customers about the results from these audits. Kendrion started to provide more insight into the company’s CSR efforts to its customers. Accordingly, we highlighted our CSR policy in a wide range of material published in the course of 2012, such as brochures, presentations and other correspondence. CSR was also discussed during the regular contacts with a selection of Kendrion’s key customers. The customers we consulted on our CSR strategy largely responded favourably. >> 18 kendrion csr report 2012 The efforts undertaken in the chain are appreciated. The degree of interest in this subject differs from customer to customer. Compared to know-how, product properties and pricing, sustainability sometimes does not yet have a major role in their own business processes, but its importance is growing. Kendrion intends to assume even more responsibility for the chain in which the company operates. In 2013 the business units will engage in constructive dialogue with several important customers to discuss the CSR efforts in more detail. Kendrion successfully introduced a Supplier Code of Conduct at many of its suppliers in 2012. The goal for 2013 and following years is to fully integrate this Supplier Code of Conduct in supplier selection, and to continue our dialogue with suppliers on their performance in this area, with a view to jointly pursuing improvements if necessary. >> Management and employees Kendrion regards its employees as the company’s greatest asset. Kendrion makes major investments in the development, training, health and safety of its employees. These themes are also discussed frequently with the works councils active in a number of operating companies. The support of Kendrion’s CSR policy by the company’s employees and their enthusiastic cooperation is of essential In recent years, dealing sustainably with the importance. In 2012 the new CSR plans were discussed with representatives of the environment and resources and dealing fairly works councils of the German locations, with a focus on the employees and the with each other has increased in importance intention to conduct an employee survey. The plans were welcomed in this forum. in all areas in an attempt to manage existing social and environmental problems. Posters were also developed in 2012 for Kendrion’s production locations, drawing Poverty, raw material consumption and climate attention to the importance of energy savings or providing health tips. change are global topics which require a quick solution. However, despite the magnitude of As in past years Kendrion devoted continual attention to CSR issues in the these tasks, it is clear that every one of us can Magnetised international staff magazine in 2012 and will continue to do so in 2013. make a contribution both professionally and A special CSR edition of Magnetised was issued in the summer. It is available for privately. viewing on Kendrion’s website under News/Staff magazine Magnetised. Kendrion Working in the CSR team has motivated me to had intended to develop a CSR intranet page offering employees more information do something actively about these problems about the company’s CSR policy, the many CSR activities and tips in 2012. because even ‘little’ things count. In my private This was not achieved. This target is set again. life, for example, I have switched to a green electricity supplier, I only use energy-saving The company’s largest plants and most of its staff are located in South Germany. As light bulbs and, since very recently, I actively a result, and in part due to the relevant German legislation, the majority of the CSR keep ﬁt at a gym thanks to Kendrion’s health initiatives have been or are being taken in this region. However, Kendrion is of the management. intention to ensure that all its companies all over the world make a contribution to In my professional life, I am now more CSR. For this reason presentations have been held for almost all management conscious about how I use resources. teams in the countries in which Kendrion is active. The objective was to ensure that Even quite simple things, such as switching each Kendrion company continuously takes new initiatives, for example relating to off the monitor during longer breaks or in the energy conservation, business ethics or health programmes. This has been well evening, or switching off the printer during received, although the number of new initiatives differ from plant to plant due to holidays, all help to save energy. local (economic) circumstances and business priorities. BEATE HERMANNSTÄDTER GERMANY – M A R K E T I N G C O O R D I N ATO R I N DUSTRIAL DRIVE SYSTE MS how we do it – stakeholders >> 19 >> Investors Sustainability is also becoming an increasingly important issue for Kendrion’s ﬁnanciers, both shareholders and providers of loan capital. Kendrion intends to conduct an open dialogue with these ﬁnanciers. After our ﬁrst CSR Report was issued in 2012, we conducted talks with Delta Lloyd, one of our major shareholders, and Rabobank, one of the banks in our bank consortium. We presented our strategy, key issues and objectives, and also discussed their own CSR policy in connection with investments. These parties welcomed the increased focus on sustainability and CSR within Kendrion. One of the recommendations was to aim for even greater cooperation in the chain and in industry in general, which would enable us, as a relatively small player, to exert greater inﬂuence on processes, for instance in the area of substitution of materials and recycling, as well as sustainable energy sources. These action points have been incorporated in the deﬁnition of the key issues for Kendrion in 2013 and beyond. Kendrion maintains good relations with the Dutch Association of Investors for Sustainable Development (VBDO – Vereniging van Beleggers voor Duurzame I’L L B E BACK O N TIM E I N P R O STEJO ˘ V Ontwikkeling), with which it discusses developments in the ﬁeld of sustainability from time to time. Kendrion greatly appreciates this relationship. During a ceremony in the Kolár̆ovy Sady Park in Prostĕjov (Czech Republic) on 22 June 2012 Kendrion has given a presentation at the CSR Communication and Reporting Kendrion handed over a so-called ‘Pr̆ijdu Vc̆as’ seminar, which was organised by Royal HaskoningDHV, VBDO and GRI and took clock as a sponsor gift to the local community. place at the AEGON head ofﬁce in the Netherlands. The I’ll be back on time project aims to support the >> Local communities safety and protection of children in playgrounds Kendrion is active in a number of countries in which, in a general sense, the where most of the clocks are installed. The clocks standard of living, working conditions and human rights exhibit room for have a button that can be pressed in case of improvement. Kendrion endeavours to make a modest contribution to these danger or emergency, bringing the police swiftly to improvements by means of including (mostly small scale) local community the scene. We are very pleased that our company investment programmes. Kendrion appreciates the importance of good contacts participated in the project which contributes to with the local authorities. These contacts are important for reasons including the better protection for our children. safety of the production facilities, accessibility, ties with the employees and the enhancement of local communities. In 2012, a corporate community project was started in India. More information about stakeholder engagement is enclosed in the various sections of this Report. >> 20 kendrion csr report 2012 How we do it Products Sustainability is at the core of many of the company’s products and innovations. Kendrion and its highly motivated staff exploit the speciﬁc expertise and experience available within the company as a means of increasing safety and substantially reducing emissions and fuel consumption. Kendrion is inspired by the desire to secure a sustainable and ‘green’ environment for generations to come, fully appreciating and assuming its responsibility for achieving this objective. Kendrion installed an internal CSR Board, which coordinates action plans to further improve the sustainability of the company, its internal processes and supply chain in 2013 and the coming years. These improvements will also extend to a more strategic level (see also pages 28 and 29 of the 2012 Annual Report for more information). >> Market trends The product portfolios of the business units are tailored precisely to the current trends in Kendrion’s customers’ markets (which are also based on the major worldwide trends described on page 12), i.e. motor management, downsizing, switchable units, high speed, health care, comfort, safety, fuel efﬁciency and the reduction of CO2 and other emissions. This enables Kendrion to create added value as well as competitive advantages for its customers in a changing landscape governed by increasingly stringent standards in the ﬁeld of emissions and safety. The majority of Kendrion’s products play a critical role in the systems and products of the company’s customers and end users, including systems and products such as lift braking systems, vehicle clutch systems, industrial robots, medical equipment and fast trigger solenoids for high voltage circuit breakers. For this reason quality and functionality are essential for all Kendrion products. This is in turn the reason why many projects have a lead time of a number of years, when large amounts of time and funds are invested in the development and testing of products in cooperation with the customer. Kendrion is renowned for the company’s technological know-how, innovative strength and high quality. Speciﬁc protocols have been implemented for dealing with quality issues raised by customers. Since becoming a member of the CSR Board, Kendrion agrees on guarantee schemes with the company’s customers. The I am more sensitive than I used to be to company’s suppliers also undergo comprehensive screening to verify compliance energy, health and environmental topics. with Kendrion’s stringent quality standards. The urgent need to do something together Despite the stringent internal and external quality standards for our products, it can is becoming increasingly clear. Everyone can accomplish something either privately or never be completely ruled out that quality problems may arise. If there are within the company. The installation of a solar complaints from our customers, we choose to always ﬁrst solve the problem that system at home, for example, helps us to save has arisen. If the quality problem has arisen due to a shortcoming in our own 1,500 litres of heating oil each year and reduce production, Kendrion accepts its responsibility for this. Kendrion has taken out CO2 emissions. Small everyday things have a substantial product liability insurance with recall cover. huge impact if everyone does them. ‘CSR starts on a personal level for each of us’ >> Green logo In 2013 we are carrying out investigations into whether a green logo can be introduced for one or more products of our business units. Key aspects of this are that the right criteria are adopted, and that a transparent system is introduced that tests our products against these criteria before a green logo is assigned. The VO L K E R B U H L possible introduction of a green logo must not only take place for marketing GERMANY – SALES MANAGE R reasons; it also has to be apparent to customers and other third parties that the I N DUSTRIAL MAG N ETIC SYSTE MS products in question provide a clear added value in the area of sustainability. >> 21 Optimised cooling High Torque of gensets permanent magnet brake Gensets, machines used to generate electricity, require a The new Kendrion permanent magnet brake type is ideal considerable amount of fuel to drive the generator and for servomotor applications and helps reduce the losses cool the engine. Kendrion’s new generation fan clutches in the magnetic circuit. For the same axial force the are perfect for use in gensets with outputs ranging from magnet volume can be decreased by about 23%. As a 20 kW to 1,200 kW and substantially reduce fuel result, energy savings can be achieved by reducing the consumption, noise and CO2 emissions. nominal power of the built-in coil by approximately 20%. Thanks to the reduced number of revolutions per minute This brake design provides a larger friction radius which (rpm), the operating costs of Kendrion’s fan clutch are in turn generates a higher torque. This means downsizing generally much lower. The clutch is suitable for use in can save up to 30% material costs. What’s more, the lower power plants, cranes (RTG, Straddle Carrier) and inertia of the armature system makes motors more construction machinery. dynamic while consuming less energy when accelerating. Linear actuator Power-saving holding magnet for driver assistance systems for fire doors Car manufacturers equip their products with more and Door holding magnets are used to keep ﬁre doors open more technology, assisting the driver with fuel-saving or closed in the event of a ﬁre or other emergency. innovations such as speed limit recognition and gear shift Door holding magnets are more and more used as part indicators. In line with this development, Kendrion has of addressable loop systems which include detectors, developed a smart linear actuator for applied intuitive sounders and other controller modules. While traditional human machine interfaces. Extensive prototype testing magnets need to be continuously supplied with current to has shown that reductions in fuel consumption and CO2 keep the doors open, Kendrion now introduces a totally emissions are indeed possible. With its special design, new concept: the permanent door holding magnet. the hybrid actuator needs less expensive resources like This holding magnet does not consume any energy at all, rare earth and copper than conventional solutions while which saves costs and the environment. A short batterydelivering a better performance. driven current impulse is all it takes to actuate the magnet and close the ﬁre doors. >> 22 kendrion csr report 2012 How we do it Our staff – Labour standards Target 2012 Result Ambition 2013 z CSR targets in bonus for CEO ✔ Achieved CSR targets in bonus for and CFO Executive Committee z Employee survey Employee survey postponed Employee survey pilot in Markdorf, Germany >> Introduction Kendrion’s Human Resources (HR) policy is decentralised, and local management bears the responsibility for the local HR policy within the speciﬁed guidelines. A number of duties are coordinated at a central level. These duties primarily relate to the (senior) management, a group of about 40 managers and to increase recruitment opportunities. Kendrion takes many initiatives to promote itself as an appealing employer in the region, such as publications in regional newspapers and magazines, as well as open days for schoolchildren, family days, and the provision of traineeships. Kendrion also organises fairly regular meetings for its retired employees. Those of us working in Human Resources beneﬁt particularly from a number of the Kendrion, like many other companies, was affected by a shortage of skilled topics dealt with by the CSR Board. engineers. However, the company took innovative countermeasures to resolve this problem. In 2012, Kendrion began to reach appropriate candidates via new Nowadays, when searching for qualiﬁed staff, recruitment channels such as social networks. Kendrion was also active in crosswe look more and more at the question of work-life balance, health management, border recruitment and successfully cooperated in an initiative with the Federal diversity, staff development and employee State of Baden-Wurttemberg (Germany), the location of the heart of several of satisfaction not forgetting the areas of Kendrion’s engineering centres. environmental management and awareness and the company’s social commitment. I am In 2012, Kendrion’s operating companies further extended their regional activities very pleased that we have been able, intended to enhance their appeal as local employers. The companies’ presence at speciﬁcally as a result of our CSR activities, to develop the existing foundations even further, schools and universities and their PR activities were intensiﬁed. such as free health checks in Asia, but also a globally harmonised staff development One important event was the international HR meeting held in October 2012, which process. I have noticed that although we are was attended by HR colleagues from all locations and offered them the ﬁrst already very active in the social area, at the opportunity to meet each other in person. Issues discussed at this meeting same time there is a lot still to be done – and included diversity and staff satisfaction. this starts on a personal level for each one of us. >> Bond with the employees Kendrion’s success is determined by the quality of both the company’s organisation and employees. An explicit strategy and, on the basis of the strategy, feasible and challenging targets, open and honest labour relations and short lines of ANDREAS HERZFELD communication create a strong bond between Kendrion and its employees. GERMANY – TEAM LEADE R HR KENDRION (DONAUESCHINGEN/ Many operating companies have implemented career development and training ENGELSWIES) GMBH programmes designed to improve their staff’s knowledge and skills. Employees >> 23 receive guidance in forms such as annual performance appraisal interviews. Kendrion’s corporate magazine ‘Magnetised’, for all staff, is published three times a year. >> Remuneration Kendrion offers its employees good terms of employment that are in line with the market and are always assessed against local benchmarks. A bonus scheme has been implemented for the management that is based on the company’s performance (operating result and free cash ﬂow) and on individual long-term and short-term performance targets. Kendrion has implemented a share scheme for senior management. CSR was not a criterion included in the CEO and CFO bonus schemes in the years up to 2011. However, as from 2012 nonﬁnancial individual performance targets for the improvement of Kendrion’s CSR have been set for both the CEO and CFO. The targets for 2012 have been met. The Supervisory Board of Kendrion has decided (provided this is approved by the General Meeting of Shareholders on 15 April 2013) that from 2013, for both the short-term and the long-term bonus, a considerable proportion of the non-ﬁnancial performance criteria will consist of CSR and sustainability targets. The precise criteria of the bonus schemes of the CEO and CFO will not be made public because of their competitive sensitivity. The fact that such targets now form an important component of the bonus scheme reﬂects the importance that the Supervisory Board and the Executive Board attach to this. CSR performance criteria have not been incorporated in the senior management’s remuneration system up to 2012, as Kendrion is of the opinion that this is feasible solely following the full implementation of an internal management system for the collection and evaluation of CSR information. From 2013, CSR and sustainability targets are also included in the bonus scheme of the members of the Executive E F F OR T AND R EL A X ATI O N Committee. Kendrion wants its employees to enjoy their work, >> Social policy and to enjoy working with their colleagues. Kendrion is and wishes to remain a conscientious and reputable company. Kendrion Team-building activities play an important part intends to be a versatile and ﬂexible company for its employees, a company where in this respect. pleasure in entrepreneurship is combined with clear result targets. Kendrion’s HR policy endeavours to ensure that the composition of the company’s personnel, including the lower and middle management, reﬂects the geographical spread of Kendrion’s operations. Kendrion attaches importance to the creation of diversity in nationalities, cultures and gender. This diversity also promotes intercultural experience, which is highly compatible with the current internationalisation trend. It is important that Kendrion is a versatile company which reﬂects society. For this reason any form of preference or discrimination must be taboo. >> 24 kendrion csr report 2012 Personnel: key figures 2012 2011 Total number of employees at 31 December 1,630 1,629 Number of women in permanent employment 559 571 Number of men in permanent employment 838 801 Number of employees with a ﬁxed-term contract 233 257 Number of temporary employees (FTE) 90 162 Number of permanent and temporary employees at 31 December (FTE) 1,632 1,695 Number of direct employees (FTE) 790 809 Number of indirect employees (FTE) 752 725 Average age of women 42.8 41.0 Average age of men 40.5 40.0 Average age of all employees 41.5 40.4 Average number of years’ service 10.3 9.4 Average rate of absenteeism per employee (%) 2.6 2.9 Wage costs per FTE (EUR) 46,584 48,035 Training costs (as a % of wage costs) 0.9 0.7 >> Training and management development The quality of the management is assured by internal and external training programmes, and solely highly educated managers are recruited. Good management is of essential importance to the future, and for this reason Kendrion assigns high priority to management development. The corporate management development programme is supported by the Kendrion Executive Programme, a customised, international modular teaching programme in which the company collaborates with the Rotterdam School of Management. Each year two modules of three days are organised. The subjects covered by the programme are communication and leadership, sales and marketing, strategy, production and logistics, HR and project management. The programme also constitutes an important platform for exchanges of experience between the (senior) management, and for the further expansion of collaboration between the various operating companies. More than 20 managers graduated in the years up to 2012 inclusive. Almost every year a group of non-ﬁnancial managers follows a course in ﬁnance. This course, which is also customised, covers issues of importance to Kendrion, such as risk management, sales, investment decisions and planning and control. In addition, the various business units have implemented training programmes at all levels in the organisation. A new and special programme for selected high potential managers started in 2012. The development of the managers is followed by means such as annual performance appraisal interviews where the managers’ targets and duties are reviewed and the managers receive feedback on their performance. In addition, managers participate in an individual development assessment. Other employees are also offered opportunities to follow relevant courses and training programmes. These employees discuss their training wishes and options with their direct supervisors once a year. An evaluation carried out on the completion of courses or training programmes reviews whether the study met expectations. Certiﬁed training agencies are engaged whenever possible. Consequently, the employee training offered by the company is based on an individual approach. Villingen’s Passenger Car Systems business unit (Germany) documents this process in full. The process was rolled out to other business units and plants in 2012. how we do it – our staff – labour standards >> 25 Kendrion intends to strike out in new innovation directions. The measures implemented to promote innovation include the foundation of the Kendrion Academy in 2012. The Academy aims to further enhance the company’s innovative capacity, spread technical knowledge among our employees and strengthen our ties with universities. >> Staff satisfaction Annual staff-satisfaction surveys are conducted pursuant to the plans of the Passenger Car Systems business unit in Villingen, Germany and Eibiswald, Austria. These surveys are based on the staff’s labour performance (as determined by factors including bonus payments and overtime), participation in social events, the absenteeism rate and the percentage of employees terminating their contract of employment. Staff satisfaction 2012 2011 2010 Points (maximum 100 points) 93.75 87.50 93.75 A pilot project scheduled for 2012 to review the examination of staff satisfaction on a more individual basis, including the individual’s work/life balance, was postponed until 2013 and will be done in our plant in Markdorf, Germany. Should this pilot project be a success then a further rollout could take place in consultation with the relevant works councils. >> Work life balance Kendrion continues to implement a wide range of measures that are not only beneﬁcial to Kendrion but are also intended to guarantee the retention and satisfaction of the company’s talented and ambitious professionals. One important DR WILH ELM BIND ER DAY element of these measures is the work-life balance: the combination of professional and personal life in an effective, productive and healthy manner. Kendrion was proud to give account of its CSRKendrion intends, whenever possible, to promote the company employees’ related efforts at the Dr Wilhelm Binder Day on achievement of an appropriate balance between their jobs and family lives. 22 November 2012 in Villingen, Germany, which was attended by more than 300 customers and >> Diversity, discrimination and human rights other contacts. Kendrion’s Code of Conduct expressly states that the company does not tolerate discrimination by gender, race, religious denomination, remuneration or any other means when hiring new staff or in dealings with staff in positions of equal importance. Kendrion promotes the formation of a workforce and lower and middle management that reﬂects the composition of the local population as closely as possible. The company’s home market, Germany, and also the USA, have, in particular, implemented detailed and stringent anti-discrimination legislation. The German legislation includes the appointment of Anti-discrimination Ofﬁcers, who can be consulted by employees with questions or concerns or who are the subject of discrimination. Kendrion strives to create a corporate culture that does not tolerate discrimination. No reports were made to these Anti-discrimination Ofﬁcers in 2011 or 2012. Kendrion attaches importance to the achievement of diversity in nationalities and cultures. This diversity promotes intercultural experience that is highly compatible with the current internationalisation trend. In 2012, Kendrion had employees of at least 35 nationalities. >> 26 kendrion csr report 2012 Approximately 35% of all Kendrion’s employees is women. The number of women in management positions of the company’s operating companies is however relatively low. Kendrion advocates the appointment of more women to company management positions as the company is convinced that this will ultimately lead to more balanced considerations and improved processes and results. When recruiting staff for management positions, Kendrion expressly endeavours to search for women by means including intensive contacts with universities. However, the number of women who are following or have followed a technical education and are available for management positions in the company is low. This is a problem confronting many high-tech companies, in particular in Germany, which cannot readily be addressed by Kendrion in autonomy. Kendrion is also closely following the political developments in this issue at both a national and European level. New legislation has entered into force to provide for the balanced participation of men and women in the management and supervision of ‘large’ public and private limited liability companies. Balanced participation is deemed to exist when at least 30% of the seats are held by men and at least 30% by women. Kendrion’s Executive Board and Supervisory Board do not achieve this gender balance. The imbalance in the Executive Board is in part due to the limited number of members. The selection process for a new CFO did not identify any women who ﬁtted the proﬁle drawn up by the Supervisory Board. 25% of the seats on the Supervisory Board are held by women (1 out of 4), a proportion in accordance with the existing proﬁle. Although Kendrion attaches great importance to diversity and intends to increase the percentage of women in the company’s senior management, Kendrion is of the opinion that continuity in and the relevant experience of the members of the existing Supervisory Board is currently of greater importance than taking the opportunity offered by the two scheduled (re)appointments to increase the number of women. >> Employee representation Works councils or employee representatives that have been installed at Kendrion’s largest operating companies in Germany, the Czech Republic and Austria are, in accordance with the local labour legislation, involved in a wide range of employment, health & safety and social issues. About 70% of all Kendrion employees are represented by these works councils and employee representatives. Collective bargaining agreements govern the terms and conditions of about 60% employment of Kendrion’s employees. Stringent requirements are also imposed on labour relations in countries and states in which collective bargaining agreements or written contracts of employment are not customary. In general, Kendrion has a good relationship with the works councils and the trade unions, although on occasion difﬁcult issues need to be discussed. >> Human rights Kendrion’s Code of Conduct explicitly stipulates that the company should respect fundamental human rights and, more concrete, that Kendrion has to protect local employees for possible human right abuses and that Kendrion shall not tolerate human rights abuses within its sphere of inﬂuence. In the Code of Conduct it is also described that Kendrion shall not employ child labour or prisoner labour and that the company shall not make use of any other form of forced or compulsory labour. The Code of Conduct prescribes compliance with the relevant legislation. Local (HR) managers shall ensure that Kendrion complies with this principle when hiring new employees. Kendrion has not received any reports of any human rights abuses in 2010, 2011 or 2012 within the company or at its suppliers. >> Dilemma The uncertainty concerning the future economic situation and the volatility in the markets mean Kendrion is forced to be ﬂexible, also when it comes to labour costs. For this reason, Kendrion has attempted to maintain a core of temporary employees, and to build ﬂexibility into contracts, so that changing circumstances can be responded to quickly. There is a tendency among the German government, trade unions and employees towards more certainty for employees. Kendrion is searching for the optimum situation, taking due regard of all interests. how we do it – our staff – labour standards >> 27 How we do it Our staff – Health & safety Target 2012 Result Ambition 2013 Accidents Decrease number of accidents ✔ Partly achieved Decrease number of accidents and LTI rate and LTI rate Absenteeism Keep on same low level ✔ 2.6% (2011: 2.9%) Keep on same low level Health Health awareness campaign ✔ Achieved Continuation campaign Kendrion regards a healthy and safe working environment as one of the rights of its employees. Kendrion’s quality, environmental management and safety systems are usually combined in one system which forms the basis for the implementation of many projects. Virtually all of Kendrion’s operating companies comply with the ARE YO U FIT? most stringent quality and safety requirements. The requirements laid down by the ISO 14001 standard (applicable to eight of the larger plants) include the The health of our employees is important to us. appointment of safety ofﬁcers and the periodic training of employees in health Raising awareness helps. A health campaign was & safety issues. started in 2012, supported by posters. >> Accidents / Lost-Time-Injuries Kendrion’s continual attention to the safety of the production processes has enabled the company to keep the number of accidents limited in the past years. The total number of accidents and Lost-Time-Injuries (LTI) at Kendrion in the last years was: Accidents 2012 2011 Number of accidents 46 37 LTI (days) 323 359 No fatal accidents have occurred in 2010, 2011 and 2012. Kendrion’s objective is to achieve a further reduction in the total number of accidents. The achievement of this objective will be furthered by an evaluation of the cause of every accident to review the feasibility of implementing improvements in safety procedures, working methods and production lines. >> Absenteeism 2012 2011 Absenteeism rate 2.6% 2.9% Kendrion’s overall absenteeism rate was 2.6% in 2012, which is very low for the company’s type of industrial operations and geographical spread (average: 5%). The objective is to retain the rate at approximately the same level in future years. A low absenteeism rate is indicative of healthier employees and an agreeable >> 28 kendrion csr report 2012 working environment. A lower rate also results in less stress for the colleagues of employees on sick leave and lower costs for the company. Kendrion shall also endeavour to achieve this objective by adopting an individual 'W OR K IN PR O GR E SS' approach. When the absenteeism rate of speciﬁc departments or employees is EIBISWALD, AUSTRIA 2012 relatively high Kendrion conducts individual discussions with those directly involved and implement measures designed to ensure that the employees recover CSR has become part of my daily business, as quickly as possible and return to work. and if you go through every stage of the production with your eyes open, you can >> Health programmes see how much potential still exists. Many Kendrion companies have implemented programmes to promote their The following activities have already been employees’ health. A variety of plants that account for approximately 70% of all implemented: Kendrion’s employees are offered a free weekly basket of fresh fruit and mineral ✔ Toxic hazardous materials have been water. Three of Kendrion’s plants in Germany that account for almost half of all replaced by substitutes. Kendrion’s employees are offered free stop smoking courses. Kendrion shall ✔ Installation of a variable speed compressor, promote the roll-out to other plants in the coming years. This is also the case with which has an integrated heat recovery an initiative in which employees are offered an opportunity to receive an inﬂuenza system reducing electricity and heating costs. vaccination during working hours. ✔ Installation of lighting loops allowing the lighting to be adapted to shift operation. In 2012, employees at various plants in Germany and China (Suzhou) were able to ✔ Installation of compressed air loops participate in an annual health day that offered them a general health check (blood allowing every machine to be included pressure, diabetes, etc.). Other examples of measures include training courses individually in the compressed air supply designed to avoid back complaints, ergonomic advice and grants to attend a gym at network. various locations. In addition to the aforementioned initiatives, Kendrion also ✔ Introduction of 5S method allowing us to improve safety, operating sequences, frequently organises social events such as sport activities and parties designed to tidiness/cleanliness and the quality of the strengthen the relationships with and between its employees. These programmes product. will be continued in 2013. Our plant in Austria will launch a ‘healthy food’ ✔ Installation of information boards in campaign. production to provide employees with information about: quality, safety, environmental protection and production. ✔ Project 2013 ‘Optimisation of ofﬁce workplaces’ aim: to reduce energy consumption and paper consumption. ✔ ‘Kendrion is becoming smoke-free’ campaign (lung function test, health impacts of consuming tobacco, monthly meetings and support). ✔ Annual employee satisfaction survey (‘treasure hunting at Kendrion’) and implementation of any measured resulting from the survey. ✔ ‘KENNI’ employee suggestions for improvement scheme. J O S E F P O R TA AUSTRIA – PRODUCTION MANAGER KENDRION (EIBISWALD) GMBH how we do it – our staff – health & safety >> 29 How we do it Environment – Energy & CO2 CO2 emission reduction of biggest European plants Target 2012 Result Ambition 2013 z > 3% absolute emission 1.3% absolute emission > 10% absolute emission reduction reduction reduction z > 3% emission reduction 5.6% emission per million > 10% emission reduction per million turnover turnover increase per million turnover >> General As a company Kendrion bears and want to bear a (social) responsibility that necessitates attention to environmental issues. Involvement, both now and in the future, is of great importance. Kendrion endeavours to reduce waste and make efﬁcient use of energy, and encourages the company’s employees to make continuously organisational and technical improvements to environmental HAVE YO U SAVED TO DAY ? procedures. An awareness campaign was started in 2012, Kendrion considers a healthy and safe working environment part of the rights of supported by posters reminding employees of the its employees. Within Kendrion, the quality, environmental and safety systems are importance of saving energy on the shop ﬂoor. usually combined in one system that forms the basis for the implementation of many projects. Virtually all Kendrion’s operating companies comply with the most stringent quality and safety requirements. >> ISO certification Kendrion’s environmental management systems at eight plants comply with the ISO 14001 standard. The preparations for the award of this certiﬁcation included mapping the potential environmental impact of the relevant plant’s operations. The ISO 14001 certiﬁcate conﬁrms that the plant complies with all the relevant environmental legislation. A number of annual environmental targets are also set for each of these plants. This system includes the appointment of a number of Safety Ofﬁcers and the organisation of training programmes to increase the employees’ awareness of environmental issues. All procedures are laid down in writing. Audits of the system are conducted at regular intervals. Eleven of Kendrion’s plants have been awarded ISO EN 9001 certiﬁcation. Six plants have been awarded ISO TS 16949 certiﬁcation. ISO EN 9001 lays down general requirements for the company’s quality management system, while ISO TS 16949 has been developed speciﬁcally for the automotive industry and imposes the most stringent requirements on suppliers. At least two plants will complete the certiﬁcation process for ISO 14001 in 2013. These are the operating companies in Brazil and IDS in Villingen, Germany. Preparations are also underway for ISO 15001 certiﬁcation, a new energy standard, for several German plants. >> 30 kendrion csr report 2012 >> Production process The environmental risks associated with Kendrion’s production processes are generally relatively low. The processes require the use of relatively few substances with a potential environmental impact. >> Energy consumption The energy consumption programme (targets for energy consumption and the relevant progress reports for the years to 2012 inclusive) focused on the company’s ﬁve plants in Germany, the plant in Austria (Eibiswald) and the plant in the Czech Republic (Prostejov). Since 2012, information has been collected about other plants and reviewed with the local management to assess targets for the relevant plant. New Group targets, including the other plants, will be set for the period after 2013. The consumption of power, fuel oil and natural gas in 2010, 2011 and 2012 can be presented as follows: Energy consumption 2012 2011 2010 Power kWH 11,604,604 12,194,528 11,333,342 Fuel oil ltr 106,529 127,724 109,094 Natural gas m3 552,775 409,685 385,950 Energy consumption per EUR million turnover 2012 2011 Δ % (2012/2011) 2010 Power kWH 51,279 51,238 (0.1) 57,530 Fuel oil ltr 471 537 (12.3) 554 Natural gas m3 2,442 1,721 41.9 1,959 >> Investments In 2011 and 2012, Kendrion invested more than EUR 1.5 million in energy-efﬁcient systems for the largest European plants. These investments include the installation of a new combined heating and cooling system that provides both the power required for the production lines and the necessary heating in the winter and cooling in the summer. Several further, smaller projects in various plants are in progress. In combination, these projects will result in relatively substantial energy and CO2 savings. An example is the implementation of energy and air pressure metering systems per production line in Eibiswald, Austria. We worked hard in 2012 to reduce energy consumption in and around the work place, for instance by switching off the stand-by mode of computers and equipment and a conscious use of aircosystems. Posters and other tools were developed to help achieve this. The target was at least 3% in 2012 and more than 10% in 2013 per EUR million turnover. The target for 2012 has not been achieved. This is due to the fact that the new combined heating and cooling system in Villingen, Germany, was not yet operational for the whole of 2012. As the new system uses natural gas, it is only logical that the consumption of natural gas increased in 2012. Furthermore, a relatively bigger part of the turnover in the relevant plants was produced in the clean rooms of our Passenger Car Systems business unit. Production in these clean rooms requires more energy than in any other facility. Finally, the average temperature in Europe was lower than in the year before. Given the current developments we are, however, convinced that we will reach the overall target for 2013. >> Reduction targets for emissions The CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) from the company’s ﬁve plants in Germany, the plant in Austria and the plant in the Czech Republic can be presented as follows: CO2 emissions 2012 2011 Δ % (2012/2011) 2010 Absolute emissions t 5,548 5,618 (1.3) 5,655 Relative emissions t / million turnover 24.5 23.2 5.6 32.8 how we do it – environment – energy & co2 >> 31 E NER GY AND CO 2 R ED U C TI O N The target speciﬁed for the four largest plants in Germany stipulates an at least CUT TING D O W N ON EN ER G Y 10% reduction of CO2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2 pursuant to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) per EUR million revenue in 2013. A number of supplementary investment ‘I feel my main duty is to create awareness proposals have been submitted to provide for the achievement of this target. about our energy consumption and the related costs’ We managed to keep absolute CO2 emissions on a comparable level to 2011. This is reasonable considering the increased consumption of energy as explained above. I started an inventory of the heating and power systems in use, of our present energy Our relative CO2 emission increased because of a lower turnover in the plants in consumption and future needs. On the basis of question. Given the measures taken, we are convinced that the overall targets for these facts I explored possible solutions, 2013 will be reached. brought the costs into focus and managed the implementation of a new Combined Heat and Energy scans to be carried out at other Kendrion plants in 2013 may result in Power (CHP) system: ‘We spent about EUR 1 deﬁning more comprehensive targets for the reduction of their energy consumption million on energy here. By generating heat and power with an integrated system we now save and CO2 emissions for the period after 2013. 15% in costs and reduce our CO2 emissions by 15% as well. At the same time we increase our Data relating to indirect CO2 emissions and other emissions are not being collected reliability because we have doubled the at present. systems. This guarantees continuity.’ >> Transport Advantages It is opportune to reduce travel and transport movements wherever possible. The Kendrion plant in Villingen, Germany uses In most cases, our customers are responsible on the basis of agreed Incoterms the heat it generates for heating and climate for the transport of our products. In that sense we have no direct inﬂuence on this. control purposes in winter and for cooling We do intend to gradually green our (moderate) own car ﬂeet in Germany from purposes in summer. The running time of the 2013. The lease car scheme applicable in Germany, in the ﬁrst instance, will be system is ten years, the return on investment three years. Heinz Jankowski: ’We are now reviewed to achieve further greening of the car ﬂeet. The number of videolooking at other locations, such as conference options will also be expanded to reduce travel. We currently do not Donaueschingen, Engelswies and Markdorf. collect data on travel and the associated indirect emissions. After that we will successively visit all Kendrion plants worldwide. We follow the same Biodiversity >> procedure everywhere, but naturally we decide For as far as is known Kendrion does not have any locations adjacent to protected on different solutions depending on local circumstances and requirements. So far we areas or areas of high biodiversity. have always chosen to install a locally adapted CHP system because of its many advantages.’ Some of the land (and the groundwater) on the site of the Kendrion (Shelby) Inc. plant in Shelby, North Carolina, USA, became polluted by the operations of its legal Awareness predecessors. Work is currently in progress on the implementation of a clean-up Huge systems, high costs, big investments. and control programme at the site. This programme is being carried out under the But, says Heinz Jankowski, energy reduction is responsibility and management of one of Kendrion (Shelby) Inc.’s former owners not just a company responsibility. It all starts and in close cooperation with the local environmental authorities. An external study with such simple things as closing windows, has not revealed any hazards to public health. An external study has also switching off lights and turning down the central heating: ’And that is within everybody’s established that the company's current operations are not polluting for humans or reach. It’s all just a matter of becoming aware of the environment. what each one of us can do individually.’ HEINZ JANKOWSKI GERMANY – FACI LITY MA NAG E R KE N DR ION G ROUP S E RVICE S >> 32 kendrion csr report 2012 How we do it Environment – Materials and waste Target 2012 Result Ambition 2013 z Streamline waste data ✔ Achieved for biggest Set group targets for reduction collection on group level European plants and substitutions, start study replacement permanent magnets, smaller projects (cell phones collection, paperless ofﬁce concepts) In 2012, Kendrion used the following raw materials in the manufacture of the company’s products: Consumption of materials (in tons, best estimate) 2012 2011 Copper 1,550 1,600 Steel 1,200 1,000 Aluminium 400 300 Permanent magnets 40 25 The increased amount of steel and aluminium used is attributable to the growth in the group’s revenue, including at Kendrion (Shelby) Inc. The increase in permanent magnets is due to higher volumes of (partly new) parts that contain permanent magnets. Kendrion also procures machined parts. Machined parts, which are comprised of a large number of components, are the main raw material. The steel content in these machined parts is estimated to account for about 30% of the cost. The remainder is comprised of the added value provided by the supplier. A special project to reduce the amount of copper used in each part of certain applications has been launched at one of our business units. >> Rare earth metals In some of Kendrion’s products, permanent magnets are used. Permanent magnets contain a number of what are referred to as rare earth metals. These metals are not referred to as ‘rare’ because they are so scarce – they are more abundant than copper – but because of the small quantities of economically extractable resources. Kendrion is primarily exposed to Neodym and Dysprosium, metals which are also used in products such as mobile telephones, electric cars (rechargeable batteries) and wind turbines. China is currently still the producer of more than 90% of the world’s rare earth metals. China has conducted a restrictive export policy in recent years, in part due to the national demand for these metals. This has resulted in a shortage in the international market and, in turn, in extremely sharp price increases in 2011. Western companies are currently (re)opening mines and starting production. However, the dependency on China will remain for several years. Mining and reﬁning rare earth metals are both difﬁcult and highly energy-intensive. Moreover, they are often further complicated by the mining and reﬁning by-products that cause environmental pollution. A paradox lies in the fact that, for reasons including climate change and the need for alternative sources of energy, for example the use of wind turbines and electric cars is being encouraged whilst these products actually exacerbate the shortage of rare earth metals and the environmental pollution caused by their extraction. Unfortunately, the recycling of rare earth metals is still in its infancy. >> 33 Kendrion does procure most of its needs via brokers and traders and not directly from the Chinese producers. Unfortunately, Kendrion’s relatively small position in this market does not enable the company to exert a great inﬂuence on the processes. However, when possible Kendrion does endeavour to limit the company’s dependency on these metals by seeking alternative techniques or products. The company shall also endeavour to limit its dependency on the Chinese producers when this is feasible. Permanent magnets are used in two business units: Industrial Drive Systems and Commercial Vehicle Systems. In the Commercial Vehicle Systems business unit, a project has been started to replace the permanent magnets with another technique for some applications. The project is still in the test phase, so no deﬁnitive answer can be given to the question of whether and when this will lead to a reduction in the use of permanent magnets. In the Industrial Drive Systems business unit, ideas are being developed for more studies into the replacement of permanent magnets in its products. >> Critical materials In 2013, further ideas will be developed on the strategic level concerning the possibility of reducing the use of certain potentially critical or expensive materials, or materials with a relatively high environmental or health impact, or replacing them with other materials. Speciﬁc examples are the substitution of certain sprays or cleaning agents in the production process. It should be noted that based on our current assessment, not many critical materials are used except those referred to in My work on the CSR Board gives me the this section. opportunity to participate actively at interdivisional level in environmental issues. Waste >> Kendrion aims to minimise waste, with a view to its environmental and cost impact. I am speciﬁcally responsible for the topic of All Kendrion companies which have been awarded ISO 14001 certiﬁcation keep waste management and recycling. records of their production and processing of waste, such as oil, cleaning agents, Waste arises as result of our products and inks, toners and packaging materials. Internal instructions at these companies are production processes. The materials include for issued for the safe use of materials and the separated collection and disposal of example scrap metal, packaging and plastic waste. The companies work solely with certiﬁcated waste processers. In some waste, printer cartridges and paper. instances materials such as empty toner cartridges are supplied to charitable organisations. As part of the certiﬁcation process, each year new waste reduction We log and record each of these types of waste so that we have a clear overview. After this, we measures must be implemented, and measures that reduce the use of dangerous can carry out targeted reductions and identify goods are externally audited. Those measures can differ from plant to plant. potential savings. Although they do not have a major impact on the amount of waste due to the The Kendrion philosophy is to operate as relatively low quantities used, a number of small-scale initiatives were taken in sustainably as possible and therefore to 2012 to reduce the consumption of printing ink and paper. These measures were achieve a positive contribution to very easy to implement and play a role in creating the employees’ awareness of the environmental conservation which extends well beyond the statutory requirements. need to reduce waste. We worked hard in 2012 to streamline data and the data base on waste and hazardous substances. This process takes time. As a result, the I really enjoy being able to help shape these data for the largest European plants are now processed and reported on a uniform processes. basis. The objective is to gradually roll out this system across the entire group. W O L F G A N G M AY E R GERMANY – H E A D O F Q U A L I T Y D E PA RTM E N T COMME RCIAL VE H ICLE SYSTE MS >> 34 kendrion csr report 2012 In 2013, in cooperation with the relevant managers, it will be reviewed how Kendrion can optimise the use and recycling of materials, and the reduction of waste and waste costs even further. A further study will be conducted at two local operating companies to develop a ‘paperless ofﬁce’ proposition. In addition, we will team up with an external party to collect employees’ old mobile phones in order to enable the materials they contain to be recycled. Kendrion’s products are often integrated in larger systems by Tier 1 or 2 suppliers or OEMs. Partly for this reason, it is not possible for Kendrion to determine what proportion of the materials used is recycled. If recycling is at all possible for such systems, it does not relate to the parts supplied by Kendrion. Nor is Kendrion able to inﬂuence this in any way. However, Kendrion supports broader consultation in the chain on the possibility of developing new recycling options. >> Water Kendrion requires little water for its products processes. For this reason the company has decided, for the timebeing, not to collect water consumption data for these reports or to formulate separate reduction targets. W AT E R F O R T H E V I L L A G E Some time ago Kendrion Linnig India observed that the 700 students of the local primary school had no provision at the school for drinking water. Kendrion India approached the Principal of the school, evaluated the facts and decided to provide the water tank that was needed. Employees from Kendrion Linnig India from all levels were involved in this initiative – from evaluating the genuineness of the requirement and the procurement of the water tank to the installation of the water tank on the top ﬂoor of the school. In this way we could help satisfy a basic need of the students from the local community. how we do it – environment – materials and waste >> 35 How we do it Supply chain responsibility Target 2012 Result Ambition 2013 z Introduction Supplier Code ✔ Achieved z Roll-out Supplier Code of of Conduct for › 10 of 25 most Conduct important suppliers per z Start up CSR discussions with business unit › 5 suppliers per business unit >> Supplier Code of Conduct Major customers in the industrial sector or automotive industry regularly request Kendrion to sign their Supplier Code of Conduct. The customers introduce these codes with the objective of giving more shape to the chain’s responsibility for Corporate Social Responsibility. Kendrion also wishes to play a signiﬁcant role in the chain in which the company is active. However, in many instances Kendrion is a relatively minor link between, for example, the copper and steel suppliers and the customers. As a result, Kendrion’s sphere of inﬂuence is sometimes limited. Nevertheless, Kendrion has decided to develop an in-house Supplier Code of Conduct. This Code of Conduct will request suppliers to assume their responsibility for issues including the environment, human rights, working conditions and fair trade. The suppliers will also be requested to introduce rules of this nature further My involvement in the CSR Board has become in the chain whenever possible. A copy of the Kendrion’s Supplier Code of Conduct an important part of my work for Kendrion. is available on Kendrion’s website. It makes me very happy and proud to be a member and to contribute in this way to a Kendrion has set a target stipulating that the Supplier Code of Conduct shall be better world. introduced in all business units during the course of 2012. All new suppliers will be Being in charge of the sustainable advancerequested to conform with the code by means of including the incorporation of the ment of our supply chain, I can report that we Supplier Code of Conduct in Kendrion’s standard procurement terms and have successfully introduced a Supplier Code conditions. The 2012 target stipulated that at least 10 of the 25 most important of Conduct. Our Supplier Code of Conduct suppliers of each of the four business units shall have accepted Kendrion’s Supplier describes a holistic approach that covers issues Code of Conduct. This target has been achieved. This particularly concerned such as respect for the environment and human German or other European suppliers. Around 80% of the main suppliers have rights as well as the rejection of child labour and discrimination. Consequently, we ask our signed the Supplier Code of Conduct. There are no known cases of suppliers suppliers to assume responsibility themselves deliberately not wishing to sign the Code of Conduct, and no abuses have come to in a similar way further down the chain. light as a result of the request to sign it. Another project that I personally consider to be both outstanding and very promising is the It is intended to roll out this Supplier Code of Conduct0 to all suppliers within the scholarship initiative that Kendrion is launching Group in 2013. in India. I am convinced that this initiative will enable us to offer good opportunities and beneﬁts not only to the stipendiaries themselves but also to their communities as a whole. BERTRAM HEIMGARTNER GERMANY – H E A D O F C O M M E R C I A L D E PA RTM E N T COMME RCIAL VE H ICLE SYSTE MS >> 36 kendrion csr report 2012 Some guidelines of our Supplier Code of Conduct We expect our suppliers to recognise human rights and ensure that they are not involved in human rights abuses. The minimum employment age may not be below the age established for completing compulsory education and under no circumstance be below 15. Any form of exploitation and employment under harmful working conditions for juvenile workers is prohibited. In terms of engagement (hiring), employment as well as remuneration, our suppliers must ensure that nobody is discriminated based on sex, age, race, religion, social background or other factors. Our suppliers shall provide their employees with a safe and hygienic workplace without health hazards. Our suppliers shall carry out continuous measures to reduce the use of resources and improve energy efﬁciency. Waste and emissions must be checked, reduced to a minimum and appropriately transported and disposed of. Our suppliers must declare not to tolerate any form of corruption or bribery, or to engage in this in any manner. CHAIN R E ACTIO N Each and every business activity of our suppliers must be subject to the rules Whether the issue is human rights, scarcity of raw of fair competition. The relevant antitrust laws and laws against unfair materials or the environment, we are convinced competition are to be observed. that cooperation in the chain will deliver the best possible result. >> Supplier selection and audits The extent to which a potential supplier addresses CSR, environmental issues and business ethics plays a role, in addition to standard criteria such as product quality, in the ultimate selection of suppliers. Kendrion also conducts incidental supplier audits to review whether the suppliers continue to comply with the required standards. Audits that result in unsatisfactory assessments can, in the extreme case, result in the termination of the relationship with the relevant supplier. These audits did not as yet encompass CSR issues. However, an audit which reveals that a supplier does not comply with the Supplier Code of Conduct gives cause to a meeting to review means of achieving rapid improvements. For 2013, the aim is to make compliance with the Supplier Code of Conduct a component of supplier audits, at a minimum of ﬁve suppliers per business unit, in a more structured way. Initially this takes the form of drawing up an inventory. Through open discussion, the state of affairs at these suppliers will be discussed and any difﬁculties will be identiﬁed. Where possible, an action plan will be formulated together. h ow w e d o i t – s u p ply c h a i n r e s p o n s i b i l i t y >> 37 How we do it Community investment Target 2012 Result Ambition 2013 z Start corporate project ✔ Scholarship project for poor Increase number of students, in India students started with help of our employees z Introduction of sponsor ✔ Achieved policy >> General Kendrion intends to engage in community investment efforts as a means of promoting development and beneﬁting local stakeholders. An appropriate approach to community investments can help in establishing mutually-beneﬁcial relationships between Kendrion and its local stakeholders and in contributing toward long-term improvements in the quality of life of local communities in a CRE ATING EQUAL O P PO R TU N I TI E S manner that is both sustainable and supports the company’s business objectives. The signing of a Memorandum of Understanding At present, the local management bears the responsibility for determining the with the College of Engineering in Pune, India, degree to which Kendrion companies are involved in community investment marked the start of the Kendrion corporate projects, as they are in the best position to determine the optimum means of community project which aims to enable poor providing local communities any necessary support. young people in India to get an education. The photo shows Mr. Sameer Deshmukh, MD >> Sponsoring of Kendrion Linnig India (third from left), and Kendrion carried out more than 30 sponsoring activities in 2012, including the Dr. Anil Sahasrabudhe, Director sponsoring of local Red Cross organisations, support for a number of scientiﬁc of COEP (fourth from left). activities, education for children, cultural and music events, art expression and local sports clubs. Kendrion promotes interaction with the company’s environment by means of including initiatives such as ‘Girls days’ and open days for schoolchildren and family days at the biggest plants in Germany. Kendrion also organises regular meetings for its retired employees. Kendrion introduced a sponsor policy for all local operating companies in 2012 that can assist managers in reaching appropriate decisions on these investments. The objective is to arrive at more strategic choices with an impact and to link to strategic issues relating to the business, such as education. An increasing participation of the employees, many of whom originate from the local communities, will then be of importance. >> Corporate community investment project Kendrion is active in a number of countries which are developing rapidly but still exhibit substantial inequalities in the inhabitants’ standards of living and opportunities. Kendrion does not neglect these issues. One example is India, where Kendrion began a greenﬁeld operation in Pune in 2011. We are convinced that especially economic activity can contribute greatly to further growth. >> 38 kendrion csr report 2012 Kendrion has assessed the feasibility of a project to enable deprived young people in India to follow a technical education. As a result, a memorandum of understanding has been signed between Kendrion and the College of Engineering in Pune. The college is an autonomous institute of the government of Maharashtra, the province where Pune is located. Scholarships will be granted to poor students of the Electrical, Electronics or Mechanical Engineering faculty who have good study results and an interest in electromagnetism. At least half of the selected students should be female, as girls and women are at an even bigger structural disadvantage. The selected students will also have the opportunity to do summer internships at our plant in Pune. The intention is to offer some of them a job after graduation. This project will be coordinated locally by our Plant Manager Sameer Deshmukh. The ﬁrst students have been selected. Fundraising activities for this project will be organised by and for our employees in the group. Kendrion strives to increase the number of scholarships each year. We are glad that we can contribute to the developments of these students. >> Support of local economies Kendrion offers its employees good terms of employment which are always assessed against local benchmarks. Kendrion has implemented a local sourcing strategy when the nature of the products and the quality of the suppliers permit procurement in the region. Kendrion has not introduced a speciﬁc policy for the recruitment of (some of ) the senior management from the local community. However, the local management must possess extensive knowledge of the local market conditions, culture and language. For this reason, in many instances the ideal manager will have been born or living for a long time in the region in which Kendrion’s company is located. Although their actual indirect economical impact is difﬁcult to quantify, Kendrion’s products do make a contribution to the development of the local infrastructure in the regions in which the company’s plants are located and/or supply their products. For example, the company supplies important components for high-voltage power grids, cars, buses and trucks, high-speed trains and off-road vehicles. Kendrion has not received any signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance from the authorities. However, in certain instances Kendrion companies do receive grants from local Enjoyment in my work, responsibility, working authorities for substantial investments in production equipment and personnel. well with others and opportunities for The authorities are prepared to grant these subsidies since these investments are development are important to me, and I ﬁnd indirectly beneﬁcial to the local economy and employment where the companies these things at Kendrion. are located. I'm pleased that I can contribute to ensuring that my colleagues can enjoy these beneﬁts >> Dilemma as well, including through my role on the Sometimes, because of commercial conditions or market developments, the CSR Board. decision has to be taken to make some employees who work in a local operating company redundant. In a small number of cases, the closure or relocation of production facilities may be necessary. The employment opportunities in the communities concerned can then be reduced, with all the inevitable impact of this. WILMA STUIVER Kendrion therefore does not take such decisions lightly, and always takes them THE NETHERLANDS – E X E C U T I V E A S S I S TA N T with due regard for the applicable local social regulations and circumstances. KENDRION N.V how we do it – community investment >> 39 Contact information Any questions or comments about this report or Kendrion’s CSR activities can be raised with: Mr Wijgert Gooijer Coordinator CSR Board Kendrion Utrechtseweg 33 3704 HA Zeist, the Netherlands P.O. Box 931 3700 HA Zeist, the Netherlands Telephone: + 31 (0) 30 699 72 50 Fax: +31 (0)30 695 11 65 E-mail: wijgert.gooijer@kendrion.com Organisation Wijgert Gooijer and Wilma Stuiver Concept and realisation C&F Report Amsterdam B.V. >> 40 kendrion csr report 2012 UN Global Compact Kendrion joined the UN Global Compact in September 2009. The UN Global Compact is the world’s largest network initiative that unites companies, UN organisations and civil society in support of ten principles encompassing human rights, labour, the environment and sound business practices. Kendrion endorses these principles. This is a further example of Kendrion’s objective of being a company that all stakeholders can be proud of, in particular regarding the company’s social and ethical principles and the manner in which these principles are implemented in everyday practice. The Ten Principles The UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption enjoy universal consensus and are derived from: z The Universal Declaration of Human Rights z The International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work z The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development z The United Nations Convention Against Corruption The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of inﬂuence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption: Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Kendrion N.V. Utrechtseweg 33 3704 HA Zeist P.O. Box 931 3700 AX Zeist The Netherlands Telephone +31 (0)30 699 72 50 Fax +31 (0)30 695 11 65 E-mail info@kendrion.com www.kendrion.com
