Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2012 to June 2013 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact Reporting period: July 2012 to June 2013 Roland Berger Strategy Consultants GmbH 1 CommuniCation on Progress for the un global ComPaCt Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2012 to June 2013 About Roland Berger Strategy Consultants Roland Berger Strategy Consultants, founded in 1967, is one of the world's leading strategy consultancies. With 2,700 employees working in 51 offices in 36 countries worldwide, we have successful operations in all major international markets. The strategy consultancy is an independent partnership exclusively owned by about 250 Partners. We consider corporate responsibility a strategic business approach. From our consulting experience we see that it has gained relevance for international companies in recent years as it reconciles economic, social and environmental success. As a global company, we live up to our social responsibility by treating our employees, clients, suppliers and the environment responsibly. We are a social community made up of different people from many nations with diverse backgrounds and outlooks. As a business, we're also a part of a community – namely, the society in which we work. For further information: www.rolandberger.com/company/corporate_responsibility/ About this report This report illustrates how Roland Berger Strategy Consultants GmbH, as the German pillar of our group, is working to bring the Global Compact to life in our consulting operations. This Communication on Progress is our first report after becoming a member of the UN Global Compact in the summer of 2012. The following report is therefore mainly intended to describe the current status, rather than past develop­ment. The upcoming pages describe what we have established so far and what we plan for the future, by setting goals related to the ten principles of the Global Compact. This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Glopal Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents. 3 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2012 to June 2013 HUMAN RIGHTS 7 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment, implementation and goals LABOR STANDARDS 11 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment, implementation and goals ENVIRONMENT 15 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment, implementation and goals ANTI-CORRUPTION 19 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment, implementation and goals Our CEO's declaration 5 Responsible business 6 The origin of our goals 23 Community interaction 24 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2012 to June 2013 Our CEO's declaration of continued support Roland Berger Strategy Consultants is committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our company's strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. This letter underscores our intent to endorse these principles within our sphere of influence. In the following report, we describe our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles in our core business activities and beyond, as being a corporate citizen. We take our corporate responsibility seriously and live up to its demands each day by treating our employees, clients, suppliers and environment responsibly. We also give back to the community by way of numerous different activities. We believe that it lies in our own interest to act responsibly and practice good corporate citizenship. Our understanding of ethical behavior toward our stakeholders is reflected in our primary policy document: the Code of Conduct. This code applies to every employee in the company and offers guidance for our decisions and professional behavior in our work. I am pleased to confirm our continued support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Prof. Dr. Burkhard Schwenker CEO, Roland Berger Strategy Consultants GmbH 5 CommuniCation on Progress for the un global ComPaCt | July 2012 to June 2013 decreasing influence Core puBliC Supply Community business poliCy & CHain inteRaCtion aCtiVities adVoCaCy responsible business Many of the issues that the United Nations Global Compact addresses are explicitly covered by German and EU law, which companies based in Germany must observe. As a German company, Roland Berger Strategy Consultants GmbH does so too. But we go further, proactively taking steps in line with the guidelines set out by the Global Compact. By introducing our Code of Conduct in 2004, Roland Berger established general rules for ethical behavior in our business conduct. This document is a formal element of every employment contract and we expect our employees to comply with it. Our compliance management system encompasses all tools and mechanisms that define and implement the principles and values of our organization, including the guidelines of the Code of Conduct. Thus, it allows us to uphold them in our strategic and operational business. The code was designed to meet the specific demands faced by Roland Berger Strategy Consultants. It provides guidance for behavior in our dealings with clients, colleagues, suppliers and competitors. Our Code of Conduct is built on the pillars of confidentiality and safety, professional integrity, personal conduct and corporate responsibility. It covers issues such as data security, intellectual property rights, insider information, respectful conduct, recruitment standards, health and safety at work, human rights and environmental protection. Our Code of Conduct covers the four areas that the Global Compact describes. Roland Berger is taking many actions that build on the ten principles set out by the Global Compact, as described in the following report. find the latest version of our Code of Conduct here: > www.rolandberger.com/media/pdf/roland_berger_Code_of_conduct_ employees_20121115.pdf 6 Human Rights 7 Commitment >> P rinciple 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and implementation >> P rinciple 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. goals Our commitment Roland Berger Strategy Consultants explicitly supports the protection of human rights. We emphasize this support in our primary policy document, the Code of Conduct. We are committed to ensuring that we as a company, as well as our employees as individuals, respect and uphold human rights in every way. Current status of implementation Our commitment to protect all human rights is not only anchored in our Code of Conduct, but also enacted in the form of various established processes and control mechanisms. HUMAN RIGHTS Upon joining Roland Berger, every consultant is introduced to the topic of ethical behavior at the consultants' kick-off seminar. Additionally, an e-training session about the Code of Conduct is compulsory for all employees and freelancers/subcontractors. Designed as a refresher course, these training sessions aim to foster awareness of the issue. Any non-cooperation with this training is reported to the Compliance Officer, who will act accordingly. In the event of a human rights violation, employees can communicate their information to the Compliance Officer through a number of channels – including a confidential whistle-blowing hotline. We are proud to say that to date no human rights violations have been reported. HEALTH AND SAFETY We care about the well-being of all our employees. Thus a comprehensive network of health and safety measures is in place, to address issues such as stress resilience. Roland Berger employees are encouraged to make full use of their annual vacation days. For our managers a trust-based vacation policy has been implemented to ensure sufficient relaxation time. The office Friday policy stipulates that consultants should spend Fridays at their local offices, instead of with the client. In addition, to deal with potential situations of high pressure, a stress management seminar is offered as part of the regular seminar curriculum. On top, we introduced the Team Barometer tool two years ago to monitor any unhealthy team atmosphere as well as situations of extraordinary stress and pressure. To ensure the health and safety of our employees we perform annual workplace inspections. At these occasions we make sure that the rooms and office equipment meet the highest ergonomic standards. Should any employee ever have a concern or special needs we promise to take action to meet their requirements. 8 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2012 to June 2013 Occasionally it is necessary for our employees to travel to high-risk countries. There are several control mechanisms in place to identify these critical countries and assess the risk of traveling there. International SOS constantly provides us with information. In case an employee intends to travel to a high risk country, an internal information system for our Global Head of Human Resources and a de-escalation system for our Executive Committee are implemented. Additionally, the respective Managing Partner is notified. Should travel to a high-risk area be deemed crucial and feasible, we provide all the means necessary to make the trip as safe as possible. Since we are a service provider, our supply chain is usually less confronted with human rights SUPPLY CHAIN issues. Our employees all work for us of their own choosing and are all of legal age. The preven­ MANAGEMENT tion of forced or compulsory labor and child labor is not explicitly phrased in our internal guide­ lines so far, mainly because German legislation addresses and enforces a respective corporate behavior. The elimination of these issues is of course a very important topic that must not be disregarded. Our Human Resources department and the Compliance Officer are not only designated, but well equipped to deal with any situation regarding human rights at Roland Berger Strategy Consultants. Goals We are committed to continuously improving and expanding our actions in the field of human rights protection. > By mid-2014 we plan to increase the rate of successfully completed e-trainings about the Code of Conduct to 65%. > We will introduce yearly written confirmations from all Partners concerning adherence to the Code of Conduct. > In order to further embed respect for human rights within our company, we plan to revise the Code of Conduct during the next reporting period to better take them into account. > To ensure the well-being and health of our Partners, a concept will be developed to check their health status on a regular basis. 9 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2012 to June 2013 Our partner for Making travel safer We provide our International SOS is the world's leading global healthcare, medical assistance and travel security provider. Since 2008 they have been helping Roland Berger Strategy Consultants clients with excellent make all travel to high-risk countries as safe as possible. We are provided with up-to-date consulting services and detailed information on worldwide security issues multiple times per day. This allows us to assess the risk of traveling to a certain region. and International SOS helps us do so Should traveling to a high-risk country be deemed necessary and feasible, International SOS provides training for the traveler to make their trip as safe as possible. This training is in a way that ensures designed to prepare the traveler for any situations they may encounter while abroad and our employees' show them how to deal with them appropriately. If an employee is already on location we can keep them updated on the situation. In the event of an emergency on site, a specially trained well-being. Security and Crisis Task Force is in place to react with maximum efficiency to avoid employees being put at risk. We are fortunate enough to only infrequently require International SOS' emergency support. This support is not necessarily related to life-threatening situations in high-risk countries and emergency evacuation; it also includes medical advice. For instance, during the influenza (swine flu) epidemic in 2009, we worked closely together to ensure that none of our employees were at risk of infection, and that those who were at risk were prepared for the situation at hand in the best possible way. 10 labor Standards 11 Commitment >> P rinciple 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; implementation >> P rinciple 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; >> Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and >> P rinciple 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment goals and occupation. Our commitment We are committed to providing our employees with a work environment that is open, friendly and non-discriminatory and that is fully in accordance with German legislation, our Code of Conduct and the Global Compact. Current status of implementation PRODUCT Everyone at Roland Berger Strategy Consultants is dedicated to our three corporate values: RESPONSIBILITY excellence, entrepreneurship and partnership. These values are an imperative for each of us, and they determine our thoughts and actions. As a result, we undertake continuous efforts to improve our personal skills and professional know-how in our consulting teams. EDUCATION AND To provide our clients with best possible consulting services we offer our employees a broad DEVELOPMENT educational program with a vast range of both mandatory and optional seminars. These seminars include topics such as methodology, soft and leadership skills or individual coaching. Currently consultants partake in 5-6 days of compulsory training per year. Support staff typically have 2-3 days of training per year. By sponsoring Master, MBA and doctoral programs we enable our employees to pursue their academic interests. We also offer a sabbatical to enable employees to follow their own interests beyond Roland Berger's day-to-day operations. Our common understanding of quality and performance for our clients and the way we all work together is reflected in a climate of equality, respect, openness and constructive feedback. Sophisticated evaluation mechanisms are installed: regular project assessments (both top-down and bottom-up) allow employees to voice their opinions on all matters. An additional leadership assessment is held annually. The results of this anonymous feedback have a direct impact on the individual supervisors' remuneration. In 2012 the participation rate in these bottom-up assess­ ments has been strong: 74% of consultants and 52% of the support staff participated. DIVERSITY Outstanding management consultants are more than just brilliant analysts and strategists. Above MANAGEMENT all, they are strong and creative personalities from a variety of backgrounds. Diversity and nondiscrimination lie at the heart of our Code of Conduct and are thus part of our business and personal behavior. We acknowledge and value the differences among our workforce, clients and business partners and consider them an opportunity. 12 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2012 to June 2013 For all employees in Germany, the Equal Treatment Act (Allgemeines Gleichbehandlungsgesetz, AGG) is part of their contract. To reiterate the importance of this topic all new employees are required to participate in an e-learning course. Additionally several processes have been installed to ensure equal treatment of all employees. In order to intensify the co-operation, Roland Berger is strategic partner of several international RECRUITING business schools whose students have particularly diverse backgrounds. Thus, these partnerships PRACTICES also strengthen our diversity approach. Our entire recruiting process of addressing, identifying and selecting new employees is based on talent, performance and potential. Our promotion system is likewise based on transparency, performance evaluation and merit. State-of-the-art methodology is applied to ensure an impartial and skill-based decision-making process. The remuneration of our employees is linked strictly according to their rank level within the company. Employees are rewarded for their work performance. Hence, the remuneration process is transparent. Our International Staff Exchange Program was also designed to foster diversity at the work­ place. In 2012, 80 employees participated in the exchange program and 18 different countries were involved. Cross-country networking beyond the day-to-day work is enhanced by events like our international kick-off-meetings or our development program for high performers: the Challenge Club. The diversity of our employees is also reflected by the array of nationalities represented in our offices. In 2012, Roland Berger in Germany had employees from 31 countries. Currently 23.4% of Roland Berger employees in Germany are female. 11.8% of consultants and 8% of consultants in management positions are women. In order to make consulting more attractive for women we conduct special recruiting events, have implemented measures to improve work and family life balance and we have a special mentoring program for female consultants in place. Through our membership in the Charta der Vielfalt we express how much we value diversity. The company's continuous efforts to create a better work-life balance for our employees – men WORK-LIFE and women alike – is expressed by the certification berufundfamilie . BALANCE We are proud to be ranked among the top 3 employers in our industry in Europe. This reflects how the efforts we undertake to create the best possible work environment bear fruit. Goals It is our ambition to further live up to internationally accepted labor standards and build the diversity of our employees. > Key part of this strategy is to increase the number of female consultants in Germany to 15% by the end of 2015. > Regarding the seminar program we want to maintain the current level of training days per employee and continuously provide up-to-date and relevant courses, using effective and highquality teaching methods. > Additionally we will increase the total number of e-learning courses offered. > We strive to keep the high level of participation rates for the leadership assessment constant for the consultants and increase it by 5% for the support staff. > We would like to maintain or even increase the number of participants in the International Staff Exchange Program. > By 2014 we will have implemented seminars on intercultural competence, which will be part of the regular curriculum. 13 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2012 to June 2013 Our efforts for an employeefriendly workplace Attracting, retaining and developing female consultants Our intention is to get women to view our profession as positively as men do. Our experience has been that mixed consulting teams work the best and we aim to have more women at all functional levels. To boost the number of female consultants at Roland Berger Strategy Consultants, we encourage interaction and networking among female colleagues. Thus, we assign each newcomer an internal coach – an experienced colleague who knows what she's talking about. These mentorships are designed to better support female consultants manage the day-to-day challenges. Fostering diversity at Roland Berger We are convinced that businesses stand to profit from a diverse workforce. For Roland Berger Strategy Consultants, diversity has always been an integral part of our values and our success. To further emphasize our dedication to promoting employee diversity, Roland Berger was among the first signatories of the German diversity declaration Charta der Vielfalt in 2007, launched by BP Europa SE, Deutsche Bank and Deutsche Telekom, under the patronage of German chancellor Angela Merkel. Since then, more than 1300 signatories from private companies and public institutions Finding a good work-life balance have acknowledged the value of diversity and Harmonizing career and family in the consulting world is not always easy. That is why declared their intention to create a working we foster a family-friendly corporate culture that takes family needs into account. The environment that is free of prejudice. company works to find solutions that satisfy men and women alike – whether it's a temporary reduction in working hours or the option to work from home when a child is ill. Furthermore, we offer our employees support in arranging childcare. Since 2005, for the third time in a row, we successfully passed the nonprofit Hertie Foundation's berufundfamilie audit® – a manage­ment tool designed to promote a family-friendly HR policy. 14 ENVIRONMENT 15 Commitment >> P rinciple 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; implementation >> P rinciple 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and >> P rinciple 9: encourage the development and diffusion of goals environmentally friendly technologies. Our commitment Roland Berger Strategy Consultants as a professional services company is certainly less exposed to environmental issues, as our product does not have a direct ecological impact. Nevertheless, we believe that within our corporate responsibility we have an obligation toward the environ­ ment. Hence, in our operations we consider environmental protection part of our duty and are committed to contributing our fair share to this important matter. We strive to minimize our negative ecological influence, even though, compared to other elements of the Global Compact, environmental protection is not as central for us. Current status of implementation ECOLOGICAL FOOTPRINT The greatest impact on the environment is indisputably created by the traveling of our consultants. Working on our clients' premises and having physical meetings is inherent to our consulting business. Yet still we aim to keep our carbon footprint small by following a number of steps: our travel guidelines, binding for all Roland Berger employees in Germany, are intended to encou­ rage cost-conscious, environmentally aware and efficient travel for the benefit of our clients, our company and the environment. As possible modes of transportation Roland Berger employees can choose between plane, train, lease car, rental car or public transportation. Despite these varied options employees are encouraged to always select the most cost-effective, time-efficient and environmentally friendly transportation. For travel routes with high-speed connections, the train is our preferred means of transport. In addition, depending on consultants' seniority, the number of weekly flights is limited and travel above that limit requires the supervisor's approval prior to booking. Furthermore, we are expanding our environmental travel management program by encouraging telephone and video conferencing. All German offices utilize state-of-the-art video conferencing devices and our consultants can request an individual equipment set for their laptops. To help our employees be as environmentally conscious in their individual behavior as possible, both in and out of the office, we provide them with Eco Tips via our intranet. To reduce our environmental impact at the German offices a number of processes have been put in place. For instance, in our central purchasing we select products that meet environmental standards or have relevant certificates. We give preference to regional suppliers of food and beverages in order to reduce the amount of carbon emissions caused by processing, packaging and transport. Furthermore, we separate trash, such as paper, batteries or other electronic waste 16 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2012 to June 2013 to facilitate the recycling process. We constantly strive to minimize our paper consumption and use FSC certified paper in all offices in Germany. As shown in the table below we aim at reducing our energy consumption. Office buildings 2011 [kWh] 2012 [kWh] Berlin 110,350 90,200 Dusseldorf 137,339 133,100 Frankfurt 126,272 120,155 Hamburg 63,423 63,797 Munich 1,190,347 1,129,288 Stuttgart 45,524 50,000* Total consumption: 1,673,255 1,586,540 * Estimate, final figures of energy consumption are not yet available. At all our sites environmentally friendly electricity is used and we seek to rent offices that are especially energy efficient. Our office building in Frankfurt for example is certified with the LEED® Gold standard. Goals Based on our current commitment to the environment we wish to increase our action in this field and achieve more positive impact. > In order to decrease the number of flights and encourage the use of less environmentally damaging means of transport, we plan to establish further internal guidelines and incentivize an environmentally friendly travel behavior of our employees. > By 2014 we plan to introduce a carbon emissions related lease car policy, designed to reduce the carbon emissions produced by our employees' car fleet. > When renting new office buildings in Germany we will select real estate certified by the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Nachhaltiges Bauen (DGNB e.V.) – the highest standard for green buildings. > Additionally we plan to implement LED lighting in our new offices in Munich, Düsseldorf and Berlin, in order to create a more energy efficient work environment. 17 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2012 to June 2013 Our contribution to saving the planet, one step at a time We are convinced that with our The world has turned green. We are experiencing a revolution, perhaps as profound as the industrial revolution, which altered consulting teams and their knowevery facet of life as it was known and understood. This time ledge in the relevant areas, we around, belching smokestacks are not part of the mix, but windmills, battery-run cars, energy-efficient appliances, and and our clients will successfully recycling systems are. Business is experiencing a tectonic shift. tackle the challenges of reduAs consultants we seek to offer our clients the best possible solutions for any situation they may be confronted with, including cing environmental impact now their environmental impact. Energy efficiency, carbon footprint and in the future. and sustainability are becoming increasingly important to our clients. With our consulting know-how in green tech, e-mobility and sustainable products, we have built a strong position of expertise in these areas. For example the Roland Berger global Green Team of 40 partners from our international network put together their experience from projects and their analyses of trends, markets, and technologies, condensing their insights into the issues of solar energy, wind energy, green transformation and e-mobility. 18 ANTICORRUPTION 19 Commitment >> P rinciple 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. implementation goals Our commitment As a leading strategy consultancy Roland Berger Strategy Consultants is committed to operating with a clear conscience and speaking out against any and every form of unethical behavior. Thus we assert our opposition to corruption, extortion and bribery within our company or by outsiders. Current status of implementation Our Code of Conduct conveys a clear understanding of ethical behavior and guides us in our day-to-day business decisions. To prevent any abuse all payments to freelancers or Senior Advisors are made via bank transfer, without exception. Furthermore, contracts for all Roland Berger freelancers have been standardized and their payment is controlled via proApproval , a newly introduced tool for avoiding disproportionate remuneration. During our annual audit the contracts for Senior Advisors and all related payments are subject to strict scrutiny. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY To avoid potential conflicts of interest amongst clients' teams a steering body and strict guidelines in the form of Chinese walls are in place. All employees must adhere to binding confidentiality rules, in accordance with both their employment contract and our Code of Conduct. Our clean desk policy is regularly checked in our German offices. E-learning courses are compulsory for all employees, to keep them aware of the issue. Just like employees, freelancers also must adhere to our Code of Conduct and partake in the refresher trainings. DATA SECURITY We treat all our clients' non-public information in strict confidentiality and keep proprietary and confidential information secure at all times. To ensure utmost security in all our electronic communications, our information and communication equipment – IT infrastructure, hardand software – fulfills highest security and technology standards. We operate our own IT security for business communication, using encrypted notebooks and secure Blackberry smartphones allowing for e-mail encryption. Furthermore, all Roland Berger employees have to know and comply with our IT User Policy which is part of the company's Code of Conduct and as such also subject of regular e-trainings. The IT User rules cover issues like password and access control, data protection, installing and using IT-equipment, using e-mail and the Internet, mobile working or the protection against malware. We do not use public cloud programs, such as freeware provided by Yahoo!, Google or Skype for our business communication. 20 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2012 to June 2013 Goals Even though no incidents of corruption, extortion or bribery have been brought to the attention of our Compliance Officer, the prevention of corruption is very important to us and accordingly we have set ourselves a number of shortand medium-term goals to make strides in the right direction. > We will develop a process for carefully screening the ethical standards of our (new) clients – in line with Money Laundering Law, and especially in countries with high corruption rates. > We will expand and professionalize our whistle-blowing system. > We will establish a detailed policy for giving and receiving gifts. 21 CommuniCation on Progress for the un global ComPaCt | July 2012 to June 2013 our tools for highest Consulting QualitY and PerformanCe prorelation Contact knowledge bases Contact (Corporate intranet) management protraining Proposal proClient after sales sales profile/proskills docuknowledge bases men(Corporate intranet) tation delivery proCaP profile/proskills Project promis proeValuation team barometer rbpoint to ensure continuous improvement throughout the entire consulting rbpoint is the Roland Berger project management tool. it is a selfprocess a set of tools and measures are implemented at Roland developed software program for professional project monitoring that Berger Strategy Consultants. throughout the lifecycle of our relationenables a close check of internal and external project processes. ship with the clients we have standardized processes in place. For the management of our know-how and the training and development of promis is our project management information system (e.g. manageour people we use diverse efficient instruments. all these tools and ment of actual budget, controlling reports, project accounting, etc.). instruments are designed to provide our clients with best possible consulting services. proClient logs clients' opinions about our consulting work. after each project, clients are asked to complete a detailed questionnaire prorelation is our Customer Relationship management (CRm) tool. covering all aspects of project work. these evaluations are entered it helps us maintain the relationships with our (target) clients by into our system and compared with other projects. these feedbacks collecting and administering relevant client data. help us to continuously improve our work. knowledge bases (Corporate intranet) represent Roland Berger's protraining is our training program designed to systematically knowledge management. the Corporate intranet is the gateway to develop professional skills and ensure excellent performance in the internal speeches, studies, articles and more. Knowledge Bases are day-to-day business. structured intranet-based repositories of reusable documents (proposals, discussion papers, tools, etc.) with multiple search possibilities, team barometer is a feedback tool at the team level that creates easy and flexible management of access rights by owners and transparency concerning the project situation and the mood in the increased security through consistent usage tracking. team. Results are discussed constructively to assure a positive and efficient project experience. profile/proskills are our worldwide employee data management systems. they document the personal skills, education, career path proeValuation is our internal tool to manage the yearly performance and project experience of each consultant. Both play a key strategic of each employee. this is assessed twice a year through talks with role in helping to staff assignments to guarantee that our clients' supervisors and internal surveys on performance quality. projects are managed by consultants with the best profile fit. proCaP is an internal capacity planning tool. it facilitates requests for consultants, supports the staffing process and helps us keep projects within budget. 22 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2012 to June 2013 The origin of our goals Summarizing the described implementation status in the four areas we at Roland Berger Strategy Consultants GmbH see ourselves in a strong starting position for the first Global Compact Communication on Progress. Nevertheless, we still strive to constantly improve ourselves in our core business activities with respect to our corporate responsibility. Thus, the goals we have set are: Global Compact area / issue Goal Deadline Page UN Global Compact Increase the rate of successful e-trainings June 2014 p. 9 about the Code of Conduct to 65% UN Global Compact Introduce yearly written confirmations December 2014 p. 9 from all Partners concerning adherence to the Code of Conduct Human Rights Include human rights more into the June 2014 p. 9 Code of Conduct Human Rights / Regular health checks for our Partners December 2014 p. 9 health and safety Labor Standards / Increase the number of female consultants December 2015 p. 13 diversity in Germany to 15%. Labor Standards / Maintain the current level of training days and June 2013 p. 13 education and development offer high level courses and teaching methods Labor Standards / Increase the total number of e-learning June 2013 p. 13 education and development courses offered Labor Standards Keep the high level of participation for the leadership December 2014 p. 13 assessment concerning consultants and increase it by 5% for support staff Labor Standards / education and Maintain the number of participants in the International June 2014 p. 13 development / diversity Staff Exchange Program Labor Standards / diversity Offer of a seminar on intercultural competence December 2014 p. 13 Environment Establish internal guidelines and incentivize December 2014 p. 17 environmentally conscious travel with our employees Environment Introduce a carbon emission related lease December 2014 p. 17 car policy Environment Rent new offices with high standards June 2014 p. 17 for green building Environment Implement LED lighting in our new offices December 2014 p. 17 Anti-corruption Careful screening of our (new) clients' December 2014 p. 21 ethical standards Anti-corruption Expand and professionalize our June 2014 p. 21 whistle-blowing system Anti-corruption Establish a detailed policy for giving December 2014 p. 21 and receiving gifts 23 CommuniCation on Progress for the un global ComPaCt | July 2012 to June 2013 decreasing influence CoRe puBliC Supply CommunitY BuSineSS poliCy & CHain interaCtion aCtiVitieS adVoCaCy Community interaction As a company Roland Berger Strategy Consultants GmbH is dedicated to fostering the goals of the United Nations Global Compact beyond our core business activities. Accordingly we give back to society at large in several different ways. Our corporate citizenship activities are designed to cultivate the exchange of ideas, provide a catalyst for societal development and promote new perspectives. We believe that we as people do best when we combine our expertise and skills in a common venture. With our support for pro bono projects at nonprofit organizations and our encouragement of our employees' volunteering commitments, we have established a wide range of corporate citizenship formats. for more information visit: > www.rolandberger.com/company/corporate_responsibility/management_and_ principles/society.html education it lies at the heart of our social commitment Education is a human right. Education is a requirement for a self-determined and fulfilling life in dignity. Education can balance out social inequality. Education ensures that citizens participate in society and can assume responsibility. Education makes it possible for young people to tap the potential that lies within them. It enables them to hone their talents and improve their performance. Education corresponds to the essence of our own values as a company: entrepreneurship, partnership and excellence. That is why education is so important to us. 24 Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact | July 2012 to June 2013 Education by Empowerment The motto of our volunteering initiative As an employer, Roland Berger encourages the commitment of our employees to doing good, whether it is during official working hours or in their free time. So we support and offer our staff volunteering opportunities on an individual basis or in groups. As part of the Education by Empowerment initiative, which was launched in early 2012, our own employees in Germany work with the scholars of the Roland Berger Foundation. Our preferred partner for the Education by Empowerment initiative in Germany is the Roland Berger Foundation. Established in 2008 by Honorary Chairman Prof. Dr. h.c. Roland Berger and endowed with EUR 50 million, the Foundation is committed to building greater equality of opportunity in society. The foundation pursues two goals: human dignity and education – both for greater equality of opportunity. Thanks to our employees' volunteering efforts, we introduce gifted but underprivileged scholars to a world of experience they would otherwise not discover through school. RB Knowledge Insights , for example, is a volunteering format in which Roland Berger employees from our Competence Centers organize mini-seminars and outings with scholars of the Foundation that reflect our experts' specialties. In the past, diverse events have been organized on different topics such as Telecommunications, IT and the Internet , Aviation and Aircraft Technology , Stock Exchanges and the Financial Crisis and Renewable Energy . Furthermore, in order to strengthen team spirit, Roland Berger employees and the young scholars undertake a scavenger hunt in their home town or take part in other leisure activities together. Beyond these volunteering activities, we support nonprofit organizations with our consulting know-how in pro bono projects. We have always had a strong commitment to this philosophy and will continue to demonstrate our dedication in the future. © Roland Berger Stiftung / Astrid Schmidhuber For more information visit: > www.rolandberger.com/company/corporate_responsibility/education_by_ empowerment.html > www.rolandbergerstiftung.org 25 CommuniCation on Progress for the un global ComPaCt | July 2012 to June 2013 roland berger strategy Consultants a Strategic partner of the World economic Forum networking to address global challenges Roland Berger Strategy Consultants maintains strong relationships with global institutions and international bodies, such as the World Economic Forum (WEF). As a Strategic Partner of the Forum we support their mission of improving the state of the world. We act and take part in this far-reaching and high-profile platform that combines the spirit of entrepreneurship with social responsibility to address global and regional challenges. As a Strategic Partner, we contribute content, participate in panel discussions, engage in session debates and help develop new ideas for topics where we can share and expand our expertise. In our role as Strategic Partner of the WEF, Roland Berger places particular emphasis on the Young Global Leaders (YGL) – a community that unites young enterprising people from all over the world and a myriad of disciplines and sectors. As the sole Lead Partner, we support the development of the world's most extraordinary leaders on a pro bono basis. In addition to strategic advice, we provide project management, research, marketing and toolboxes, and we assist in several different task forces and initiatives. for more information visit: > www.rolandberger.com/company/network/Partner_of_World_economic_forum.html > www.meet-the-ygl.com/home/home.html 26 Point of contact: Barbara Stahl Manager Corporate Responsibility E-mail: Barbara.Stahl@rolandberger.com Phone: +49 69 29927-6209 Roland Berger Strategy Consultants 2013, all rights reserved www.rolandberger.com
