Annual Sustainability Report 2012 Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção S.A. (QGEP) is the only privately-controlled Brazilian company operating in the country’s pre-salt exclusion area. We were the first company in the Queiroz Galvão Group to go public in Brazil, and are proud of our operational safety record as well as our corporate responsibility and socio-environmental achievements. This report provides a detailed look at QGEP and its industrial sector, as well as information on the projects, challenges and opportunities the company realized in 2012. Additionally, a timeline available at www.qgep.com.br charts the trajectory of QGEP and gives a history of oil exploration in Brazil. 2 CORPORATE PROFILE Corporate profile GRI 2.1 | 2.3 | 2.5 | 2.6 | 2.7 | 2.8 3 QGEP uses leading industry tools to help manage its operational safety requirements, socio-environmental impacts and employee welfare commitments QGEP Participações S.A. is part of the QueiThe company has one producing asset, the roz Galvão Group. The company was formed Manati Field, which is located in the Camamuin 2010 when the then Queiroz Galvão Óleo e Almada Basin, off the coast of Bahia. QGEP Gás S.A. (QGOG) spun off its oil and gas exholds a majority (45%) stake in the project’s ploration and production-related activities consortium, as well as a long-term contract from drilling services (whereby OGOG retained with Petrobras (the Field’s operator) to purits operations in providing platforms, supplychase the natural gas produced. In 2012, the ing rigs and other services). As the controlling Manati Field was one of Brazil’s largest producshareholder in Queiroz Galvão Exploração e ing assets, with average daily production of 6.1 Produção S.A., QGEP Participações S.A. was million cubic meters. designed to focus on the exploration and production segment. In addition, QGEP took on the Revenue from the Manati Field provides the challenge of becoming the Group’s first publicCompany with robust, predictable cash flow, ly-traded company by listing its shares on the which allows QGEP to invest in exploration BM&FBovespa Novo Mercado, the segment of and development. In 2012, QGEP made prothe Brazilian stock exchange reserved for comgress in various strategies, particularly those panies with the highest standard of corporate related to the development of the Atlanta governance, in February 2011. Field, where contracts for an Early Production System were awarded in 2012. A team of 91 QGEP owns the concession rights to nine Exploprofessionals manages the company’s activiration Blocks in the Santos (SP), Campos (RJ), ties at QGEP headquarters in Rio de Janeiro Jequitinhonha (BA) and Camamu-Almada (BA) (RJ) and its office in Salvador (BA). Basins. Among Brazilian companies it was a pioneer in qualifying as an A operator, which allows it to carry out every type of exploration in Brazil, from onshore to ultra-deep water. QGEP has the largest production of any privately-controlled domestic company in its sector, based on annualized barrels of oil equivalent per day production figures from Agência Nacional de Petróleo, Gás Natural e Biocombustíveis (ANP). 4 CORPORATE PROFILE Competitive One of the company’s most promising prospects advantages is Carcará, located in Block BM-S-8 in the pre-salt exclusion area of the Santos Basin, though this asset is still in the exploratory phase. In 2012, • High quality, balanced drilling at Carcará identified a 471-meter column and diversified portfolio of high quality oil. This project is expected to go into production later in this decade. • Strategic partnership with Petrobras Since inception, QGEP has maintained highest standards in operational safety, environmen• Strong balance sheet: tal management, social responsibility and the substantial cash flow health and well-being of its employees. To help and zero debt manage these initiatives, it has adopted an In• Highly qualified technical team tegrated Management System (IMS) which follows the principles behind the International Or• The experience and reputation ganization for Standardization (ISO) and ANP’s of the Queiroz Galvão Group, Technical Regulation for Operational Security which has been active in the Management Systems (SGSO). oil and gas sector for over thirty years KEY INDICATORS (IN R$ MILLIONS, UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED) 2012 2011 Gross operating revenue 586.1 372.0 Net operating revenue 462.3 289.0 Operating income 40.0 36.9 Earnings per share (R$) 0.31 0.36 Shareholders’ equity 2,227.8 2,175.8 Investments in environmental protection 1 1.6 9.5 Reserves (millions of barrels of oil equivalent) 56.8 70.2 Gas production (millions of m3) 2 1,011 675 1. Lower in 2012, as there were no operations during the year. 2. Includes QGEP’s 45% equity stake in the Manati Field. 5 Organizational guidelines Mission To operate with GRI 4.8 | Global Compact Principles 1, 6 and 10 safety, in an ethical and sustainable Vision manner, in the exploration and To grow consistently production of oil in order to be among and gas, obtaining the three largest results and Brazilian companies contributing to the producing oil and development of the gas by 2020, and areas where we to be recognized operate, respecting by society for the needs of all its transparent our stakeholders. and responsible management. Message from the president and CEO GRI 1.1 | 1.2 Demand from the residential and service secHowever, this sector always entails a certain tors pushed up electricity consumption in Bralevel of risk. We offset this risk with our diverzil by 3.5% in 2012, which led to a 7% increase in sified asset portfolio, a focus on safety and domestic gas production. At QGEP, this higher dedication to evaluating new projects. Our demand translated into increased production transparency also strengthens the company’s at the Manati Field, where average daily prorelationship with the market by enhancing duction of 6.1 million cubic meters made it the our credibility. country’s largest producing Field in 2012. In 2012, we delivered excellent results for the In 2012, QGEP focused primarily on preparing year, thanks to the positive performance of the and structuring its projects in development, Manati Field, where natural gas production avstudying new market opportunities and working eraged 6.1Mm3 per day. For the full year, we to meet the operational challenges of the composted net revenue of R$460 million, record ing years. The company has a healthy financial operating cash flow of R$254 million and net position, with zero debt and robust cash flows, income of R$82 million. The outlook is positive while a portion of the proceeds from the 2011 for 2013 and beyond. IPO remain available for strategic investments. One of the disappointments of the year was the We use highly skilled professionals and the top Ilha do Macuco well, where drilling did not find technology available so that these new operaany potentially productive zones. This type of tions will be successful and take our company situation is part inevitable in our industry, and to the next level in Brazil’s oil and gas industry. we look forward to developing other assets. 7 QGEP uses the most sophisticated technology available, and invest in research and in our highly We also acquired a participating interest in Block qualified team BM-C-27 in the Campos Basin in 2012. This acquisition reinforces QGEP’s strategy to expand members so that our and diversify its exploration portfolio through high quality assets. The entry in the Campos Banew operations are sin, which is Brazil’s largest oil producing area robust and add value to our portfolio and whose Blocks are operated by Petrobras, will leverage our operations considerably. We also finished our drilling for the Carcará well, in Block BM-S-8 in the Santos Basin, and the restant focus on respect and transparency for all sults were promising. In 2013 we plan to start stakeholders, operational safety and environdrilling wells in the Atlanta Field, where QGEP mentally sound operations, based on the ten is the operator, with oil production expected to principles of the Global Compact, to which we begin by early 2015. The volumes in place in this are a signatory. area, which includes the Oliva Field, are 2.1 billion barrels of oil equivalent. Its location in the We are confident that we are ready to continue pre-salt exclusion area demonstrates the sucto execute on our proven strategy, which crecess of QGEP’s strategy in acquiring this asset ates value for all of society and contributes to and consequently diluting our business risks. the country’s development. Best regards. We are also preparing to drill pre-salt targets in this zone, which is expected to begin in 2014. Our operational advancements, combined with the values of the Queiroz Galvão Group and the continued support of our Board of Directors, have allowed us to implement our growth strategy. This approach puts a conLINCOLN RUMENOS GUARDADO CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Message from the chairman GRI 1.1 | 1.2 QGEP’s performance in 2012 was characterized by dustry, and this contribution will increase, when investments to identify and develop new assets. the Carcará in Block BM-S-8 goes into producThis effort was an important step to take full adtion in 2018, as planned by the operator. vantage of opportunities for growth, particularly in the pre-salt exploration prospects.Through our opThis is a transformational discovery for QGEP, as erations in the deep waters of the pre-salt zone, we the data obtained from drilling proved a 471-mefurther developed our technical expertise and proter column of high quality oil, making it the largmoted efficiency and safety in all our operations. est column yet found in the pre-salt area. This data, coupled with the experience of the operaWorldwide growth in oil and gas production has tor, allow us to estimate that the reserves for this been achieved through technological advances discovery have a high flow potential. that make it easier to search for and identify hydrocarbon reserves.These innovations therefore In Block BS-4, where we are the operator, we reduce the risk and uncertainty inherent in the expect to begin producing oil in early 2015 business model. Thanks to the pre-salt discovfrom the Atlanta Field through an early proery, Brazil has taken on a key role in the internaduction system. Our team has focused on tional oil industry, and is expected to double its achieving a higher recovery factor for the well, oil production by 2020, based on current figures. as well as offloading systems, making use of QGEP is already contributing to the national inthe natural gas and lower production costs. 9 “One of our key goals is to develop technological innovations that will allow us to take full advantage of our assets” One challenge that QGEP is already overThis harmonious blend of skills and strategies coming is the training of skilled labor for is helping us to make meaningful progress these new operations. We use our successful towards fulfilling our vision of becoming one staff management model, which is based on of Brazil’s leading oil and gas companies by transferring skills and knowledge from our 2020, with a market-leading level of transparexperienced, recognized professionals to our ency and management responsibility. younger team members to create a pool of world-class professionals to develop our various assets. Our corporate structure and governance policies represent another differentiating factor. QGEP complies with the rules of the Novo Mercado, the BM&FBovespa’s highest governance standards level. The strength and reputation of the Queiroz Galvão Group, which has 60 years of experience in key industries such as construction, steel and energy complements this ANTÔNIO AUGUSTO DE transparency and accountability. QUEIROZ GALVÃO CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD About this report GRI 2.9 11 For this Report QGEP has adopted Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines and continued its alignment with the Global Compact to provide transparent information to its stakeholders For the second consecutive year QGEP is publishThe information reported herein describes the ing its Annual Sustainability Report, following the Company’s projects, challenges and results for guidelines and indicators of the Global Reporting 2012. The economic and financial data covers the Initiative (GRIG-3.1). The Company adopted these entire Company, while the environmental data reguidelines in order to provide accurate informafers only to those Blocks where QGEP acts as the tion to our stakeholders and facilitate comparioperator. Significant variations in the quantitative sons with previous years. QGEP’s application data are mostly due to changes in the company level of the GRI guidelines is now at the ‘B’ level operatorship of different assets. For example, in and includes oil and gas sector indicators as well 2011, QGEP operated Block BM-J-2, but ceased as rigorous checks from the GRI. GRI 3.2 | 3.3 | 3.13 operations that year. In 2012 the Manati Field, which is operated by Petrobras, was QGEP’s only In 2011 QGEP became a signatory to the Global producing asset. When information pertains to Compact, a United Nations initiative that brings only part of the operations, the limit of the scope together companies seeking to align their opis indicated. GRI 3.1 | 3.6 | 3.7 | 3.8 | 3.10 | 3.11 erations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, The financial statements which accompany this labor practices, and the environment and antiReport, as well as the accounting data presented corruption measures. Our actions related to throughout the text, are in accordance with Inthese principles as well as improvements and ternational Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) new initiatives implemented in 2012 are outand have been audited by Deloitte Touche Tohlined throughout the report. The correlation matsu Independent Auditors. The selection of between the GRI and the Global Compact is topics covered in the report was based on the also presented in the Cross-Reference table, for material developed in 2011. GRI 3.9 comparison purposes. In this Report the acronym QGEP refers to QGEP Participações S.A. and its subsidiary Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção S.A. 12 ABOUT THIS REPORT The 2012 QGEP Annual Sustainability Report is available in online and PDF versions, in Portuguese and English. For questions or comments, please contact the Company at qgep@qgep.com.br. MATERIALITY MATRIX Various GRI 3.5 | 4.14 | 4.15 | 4.17 In order to be transparently accountable to its stakeholders (including local communities, civil society, customers, shareholders, capital stakeholders providers, suppliers, employees, labor unions were consulted and government agencies) Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção S.A. met with representaduring the tives from these relevant groups to determine preparation of the subjects to be covered in this publication. this Report The materiality matrix undertaken in 2011 (which appears in the 2011 report at www.qgep.com.br) defined the materiality of information incorporated into that year’s report and subsequently used to improve the management of the company. Changes in the management of these criteria are highlighted in this year’s report, including the addition of new GRI indicators. With respect to the clarity and timeliness of this information, this report focuses on initiatives in 2012 and provides context for those readers who are not familiar with the oil and gas sector. RELATÓRIO ANUAL DE SUSTENTABILIDADE 2012 13 Contents 16 Corporate governance 24 Strategy 30 Operations 46 Socio-environmental 62 Financial performance performance Glossary 68 Financial Statements 74 GRI Cross-Reference Table 124 Corporate information 136 Credits 136 16 Corporate governance GRI 4.1 17 The Company is traded on the BM&FBovespa Novo Mercado and the principles of transparency, fairness and full disclosure are fundamental to its management practices Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção S.A. is tices by being a member of the BM&FBovespa the only company in the Queiroz Galvão Group Novo Mercado, the section of the Brazilian which is publicly traded. Its management folstock exchange reserves for companies with lows the Group’s high standards of corporate the highest standard of corporate governance. governance and its solid ethical foundation. The Company also applies the 10 principles of The corporate governance of Queiroz Galvão the Global Compact in its governance practices. Exploração e Produção S.A. is overseen by QGEP Participações S.A., and complies with The company’s corporate governance structure the transparency, disclosure, fairness and coroversees investment decisions and monitors the porate responsibility guidelines of the Brazilian Company’s relationship with its stakeholders, enInstitute of Corporate Governance (IBGC). The suring continuous value creation and sustainable Company also complies with best market pracbusiness development. 63% 7% 30% Queiroz Galvão S.A. FIP Quantum1 Shares issued and outstanding 100% QGEP Participações S.A.2 Investment fund whose portfolio is managed and administered by Oliveira Trust Servicer S.A. Queiroz Galvão 1 The shareholders of FIP Quantum are also the shareholders of the holding company. FIP Quantum Exploração e shares area are distributed in exactly the same proportion as those of the holding company. 2 Direct holding company of QGEP, which incorporated Manati S.A. in 2012. The chairman of Produção S.A. the Board of Directors of Queiroz Galvão Participações S.A. is also a member of the Board of Directors of Queiroz Galvão S.A. 18 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Additionally, any decisions taken by the Board GRI 4.3 of Directors on transactions with related parties, as defined by applicable legislation, must The Board of Directors consists of seven membe approved by the Company’s independent bers, two of whom are independent (repreboard members. GRI 4.6 sentatives of minority shareholders). All Board members are elected at the Company’s Annual QGEP’s corporate governance is constantly General Meeting. The Board’s responsibilities evolving. One of the advances made in 2012 include setting the Company’s long-term stratewas the implementation of performance-linked gies and policies, as well as overseeing the manremuneration policy for directors. The criteria agement of the Executive Board. Each member that affect this remuneration will be linked to serves a two-year term, with the possibility of a set of financial and performance indicators, re-election. Consistent with the corporate govand subjected to continuous monitoring by the ernance requirements of the Novo Mercado, the Board of Directors. GRI 4.5 chairman of the Board of Directors is not a member of the Executive Board. QGEP does not have Total remuneration for board members and direccommittees linked to the Board, but is considertors in 2012 reached R$2.1 million, and was paid ing implementing this practice. GRI 4.2 by QGEP Participações S.A. The Board of Directors received R$843,000, while R$1.2 million was Employees and shareholders rely on the Inallocated to the Executive Board. Total remuneravestor Relations department to forward sugtion for directors last year was R$14.7 million, regestions and requests to the Board. Minority ceived through the Queiroz Galvão Exploração e shareholders also have direct contact through Produção S.A. subsidiary, of which 20% was for the Contact IR channel, which is available on fixed pay, 42% for variable pay, 26% for complethe Company’s Investor Relations website. Durtion bonuses or change of position, and 12% was ing the year there were no specific requests related to a stock-based compensation. made to the Board, while the majority of inquiries made to the IR function related to the QGEP also has a stock option purchase plan. For distribution of dividends, the QGEP portfolio, the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 it grantgrowth prospects and stock performance. In ed 1,568,958 options (or 0.59% of the Company’s 2013 the Company will be studying various opshare capital) to directors and advisors to purtions related to creating a direct communicachase common shares. This policy maximizes tion channel for Minority Shareholders to reach the quality of management by helping QGEP to board members. For more information about attract, motivate and retain qualified managers, the Board, please see the Company’s Bylaws at and to align the interests of the Company with www.qgep.com.br/ir. GRI 4.4 those of its shareholders. In keeping with the Corporations Act, the members of the Board of Directors are not allowed to vote at any shareholders’ meeting, or undertake any transaction or business in which they have a conflict of interest with the Company. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 19 GRI 4.9 Policies enacted by the Board of Directors •R  emuneration Policy: based on the • Trading Policy: establishes rules for development and retention of employees. the trading of securities issued by QGEP by QGEP is studying the adoption of a profit employees to ensure the practice of good and results sharing plan based on social, conduct and to prevent insider trading. environmental, economic, financial and operational criteria. • Market Risk Management Policy: formalizes measures for the mitigation of •D  isclosure of Material Act or market risks, such as interest rate risk. Fact Policy: manages the disclosure of clear information to investors through QGEP communication channels and leading newspapers, and prohibits any practice of unfair disclosure of results and strategic actions. One of the main goals to be achieved by 2014 At the 8 meetings it held in 2012, the Board apis to create a series of internal events to ensure proved the Company’s quarterly and annual fiBoard members are continuously engaged nancial statements, Code of Ethics (which was with the issue of sustainability. This initiative created in 2011), and the purchase of shares to includes establishing a selection policy for the bolster the stock option program. The Board Board of Directors to clearly assess potential also monitored the Company’s budget and exBoard members’ qualification. GRI 4.7 | 4.10 ecuted changes in the QGEP Executive Board. The Board members had a 98% participation rate in Board meetings during the year. MEMBERS OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS* Antônio Augusto de Queiroz Galvão Chairman Ricardo de Queiroz Galvão Vice-Chair Maurício José de Queiroz Galvão Member José Augusto Fernandes Filho Member Leduvy de Pina Gouvêa Filho Member José Luiz Alquéres Independent member Luiz Carlos de Lemos Costamilan Independent member * More information on the members of the Board of Directors is available at www.qgep.com.br/ir. EXECUTIVE BOARD The Executive Board is responsible for conOne of the ducting the business of the Company and advances made implementing the policies and guidelines established by the Board of Directors. Its four in 2012 was the members are appointed by the Board of Direcimplementation tors for a two-year term, with the possibility of of a performancere-election. In 2012 the then director of Exploration, Lincoln Rumenos Guardado, assumed the linked remuneration position of CEO as part of a succession process policy for directors which began in 2011. Sergio Michelucci, formerly manager of Exploration Projects, became the new director of Exploration. For more information about the Executive Board, please see the Company’s Bylaws at www.qgep.com.br/ir. EXECUTIVE BOARD MEMBERS Lincoln R. Guardado Chief Executive Officer Sergio Michelucci Director of Exploration Paula Costa Corte-Real Financial and Investor Relations Director Danilo Oliveira Production Director ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 21 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE Executive Board HSW Legal Management Management Business Processes and Management Organization Management Communication and Sustainability Coordination Exploration Department Production Department Finance and Investor Relations Department Geological Data Investor Relations Drilling Management Acquisition Management Management Regional Studies and Logistics Management Controller Management Portfolio Management Geophysical and Geological Human Resources Reservoir Management Development Management Management Exploratory Projects Project Coordination Finance Management Management Administration Management 22 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INVESTOR RELATIONS QGEP’s relationship with shareholders and inGRI 2.10 vestors is based on the highest levels of transHighlights parency and is managed by the Investor Relations (IR) team. Its activities are governed by of the year various policies, including the Material Act or Fact Disclosure and Securities Trading Policies. The Company also seeks at all times to meet the interests of all shareholders in a fair and Recognition non-discriminatory manner. A public meeting held by QGEP in December of 2011 was listed In 2012 the IR team participated in 163 meetings as one of Sao Paulo’s top 10 fair with shareholders and investors plus 16 conferand meetings of the year by The ences in Brazil and abroad, bringing it into conAssociation of Capital Markets tact with over 800 investors. Additionally, the Analysts and Investment team held a public meeting in conjunction with Professionals – Apimec SP. An Apimec SP, at which QGEP officers disclosed Apimec SP jury assessed 136 results and expectations for the business. meetings held during the year, and made its selections based A redesign of the company website is planned on feedback from the investment for 2013. IR and institutional content will be inprofessionals who attended tegrated, modernizing the site and making it aceach meeting. cessible to all stakeholders. This initiative is the result of analyses carried out to evaluate the Transparency perception of investors and their satisfaction In May 2012 QGEP sponsored and with the tools QGEP makes available to them. participated in the Rio Investors Day event, which brought together senior executives from leading public companies, domestic and international investors, as well as representatives of the federal, state and municipal governments. QGEP also sponsored the event in 2011. QGEP’s goal is to include clauses on human rights in 100% of its agreements and contracts by 2014 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 23 HUMAN RIGHTS GRI 4.8 | Global Compact Principle 1, 6 and 10 In 2011 the QGEP Code of Ethics was developed in partnership with Company employees. The Share price Code is not a strict set of rules and procedures, but rather it expresses the commitment of our performance staff members to the Company, based on six principles: professional development; particiShare price at December 31, patory management; ethics and transparency; 2012: R$13.12 results and meeting challenges; the promotion of well-being; and a commitment to sustainaMarket value: R$3.5 billion bility. The Code is available at www.qgep.com. br in the About Us section. Learn more on page 67. To disseminate the Code to employees, the Company conducted internal marketing initiatives and discussions on ethics during Workplace Accident Prevention Week (SIPAT). Approximately 70% of our employees took part in these initiatives and discussions. Our respect for human rights is also demonsigned in 2012, two included human rights elstrated by our commitment to the United Naements. The Company’s goal is to include hutions Global Compact, and to the National man rights clauses in all agreements and conCompact for the Eradication of Slave Labor, tracts by 2014. GRI HR1 which was created by the Ethos Institute for Corporate Social Responsibility, the InternaIn supplier relations, QGEP has always includtional Labor Organization (ILO) and Repórter ed human rights provisions in its contracts. Brasil, an NGO. GRI 4.12 During the year, 65.38% of signed contracts contained elements related to health, environMajor investment contracts involving fixed asment and safety, environmental permits, worksets worth more than R$200,000 (or equivaing conditions and payroll and tax obligations. lent) adhere to International Financial ReportOf 26 supplier contracts, 17 contained clauses ing Standards (IFRS), and contain clauses on human rights. GRI HR2 regarding compliance with labor conditions, work related accidents, life and personal injury insurance, environmental protection and social responsibility. Of the four contracts 24 Strategy 25 New opportunities and strategic partnerships will combine to improve QGEP’s production processes QGEP is based on the expansion of its portfolio practices. Major operational goals during this and the maturing of its assets. To accomplish this period include the development of the Atlanta we will intensify our search for new opportunities Field, and further ahead, the Carcará discovery. and exploration projects in Brazil, particularly in emerging and producing basins. The Company The Company’s investment capacity is a key elealso seeks to strengthen strategic partnerships ment in the implementation of this strategy. Esthat contribute to risk mitigation and add to our timated capital expenditures (Capex) on equipknowledge of production processes of the exploment and facilities for 2013 and 2014 are R$155 ration and production chain. million and R$360 million, respectively. In subsequent periods QGEP plans to increase investQGEP’s goal is to be one of the top three oil and ment in order to continue the development of the gas producers in Brazil by 2020, and to always adAtlanta Field and to drill exploratory wells in the here to transparent and responsible management Campos, Santos and Camamu-Almada basins. QGEP – NET CAPEX QGEP – NET CAPEX (US$ MILLION) (US$ MILLION) 360 360 8 78 55 22 40 155 78 155 Other BM-C-27 5 282 BM-CAL-5 BM-CAL-12 45 70 45 10 BS-4 (Early Production BS-4 (Exploratory) 25 System Development) 62 BM-J-2 110 Development BM-S-8 70 25 Exploration BM-S-12 2013 2014 2013 2014 26 STRATEGY STRATEGIC RISK MANAGEMENT Risk assessment is carried out by a working group comprised of employees from various GRI 1.2 | 4.11 | Global Compact Principle 7 Company areas, which seeks the advice of market experts and reports to the Executive Board QGEP’s risk management is based on the Marand Board of Directors. ket Risk Management Policy approved by the Board of Directors in 2011. This document esWith respect to the blocks it operates, the Comtablishes the measures the Company must take pany uses best industry practice methodologies to mitigate exposure to market risks that are such as Preliminary Risk Analysis (PRA) and not inherent to oil and gas exploration and proHazard and Operability Study (HAZOP). In addiduction, including foreign exchange risk. It also tion, periodic inspections of third-party contracsets the conditions and limits for the use of detors are conducted, including assessments of rivatives, which can only be used for hedging. Management Practice No. 12 of ANP Resolution ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 27 Main risks No. 43/07 (Operational Security Management System – SGSO), a technical regulation which managed by QGEP establishes requirements for identifying and analyzing risks that could result in any such incidents. • Future drilling programs may not be carried A new incident management structure based out, or may not produce commercially viable on the Incident Command System (ICS) is quantities or qualities of oil or gas. planned for 2013. Additionally the company is • Oil and gas exploration and production analyzing the possibility of setting up a specific involves risks such as spills, explosions in committee for monitoring and managing other pipelines and exploration wells, and risks in coming years. geological and environmental disasters. • QGEP is not an operator in most of its blocks, For more information, please see the Reference which limits its capacity to control Form at www.qgep.com.br/ir in the section for exploration activities, development Notices and Minutes/Documents submitted to deadlines and associated costs, or the rate the Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commisof production from a successful project. sion (CVM). • The loss or dismissal of senior management or exploration and production personnel may INTANGIBLE ASSETS impair future success. Intangible assets managed by QGEP are viewed • Projects are subject to delays and budget as strategic assets which are fundamental to overruns, which can adversely affect the success of our projects and business. Accurrent and future operations. cordingly, the Company continually invests in • Global prices and the demand for crude oil initiatives that add value to these assets. and natural gas may fluctuate due to factors beyond the Company’s control. BRAND • The oil and natural gas industry is subject The unique history and growth of the Queiroz to strict federal government regulation Galvão Group over the past 60 years enhancand intervention. es QGEP’s reputation. The Group’s success• Changes in the exchange rate between the ful practices in sectors such as construction, US dollar and the Brazilian real can affect concessions, energy, real estate, agribusiness items denominated in dollars or whose price and steel have been transferred to oil and gas in reais is indexed to, or strongly influenced exploration and production. This is just one of by, their price in foreign currency. the factors that allows the QGEP brand to represent strength, responsibility and reliability. Additionally, QGEP’s activity in the capital markets and good governance practices enhance the Company’s reputation for transparent disclosure and responsible stakeholder relations. 28 STRATEGY of its staff. In addition to establishing an opendoor policy, in 2012 QGEP launched an intranet with an ombudsperson channel available at Contact Us. These initiatives reinforce the com260 pany’s commitment to transparency and the values expressed in its vision and mission. PROMOTING INNOVATION million Constant investment in new methodologies, tools and processes for exploration and the operating of wells is essential to effectively barrels of oil in manage the uncertainty inherent in our busirecoverable volume ness. We promote the development of innoconstitute the Atlanta Field vative technologies by participating in sector committees and seminars, and by maintaining a constant dialogue with the market and QGEP’s participation in trade fairs and events the scientific community. The Company is conalso strengthen the Company’s brand. In 2012 stantly meeting and overcoming new technical QGEP, in partnership with other Queiroz Galvão challenges. At the Atlanta Field, for example, Group companies in Construction and Oil and the challenge for QGEP is to bring together a Gas. QGEP also took part in Rio Investors Day, range of technologies to explore the first ultraand the Rio Oil & Gas Expo and Conference, Latin deep water field for 14º API gravity heavy oil America’s leading industry conference. The Comin friable sandstone. The different equipment pany also contributed to Good Social Responnecessary to extract this oil has already been sibility Practices, a document published by the used separately. QGEP has assembled a highly Brazilian Institute of Oil, Gas and Biofuels (IBP) skilled technical team to manage their joint use. and launched at Rio Oil & Gas Expo. To increase efficiency and effectiveness, the Company plans The extraction and production of heavy oil to redesign its offices and websites in 2013. is more complex and costly than for light oil, making it a challenge for many companies. To HUMAN CAPITAL correctly assess a project’s economic viability For QGEP the development of its staff involves requires tools and technology which have been both recognizing their previous experience, successfully tested on these heavy oil reserves. and developing innovative new talents. To ensure the development of this model and to maintain a work environment conducive to getting the best from every employee, QGEP invests in the development and training of all ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 29 The Atlanta Field is operated by QGEP and has In addition to discovering new reserves, QGEP a production potential of about 260 million seeks to develop previously discovered rebarrels of recoverable oil. By overcoming the serves with unusual characteristics in oil qualexploration challenges in this type of pioneerity or geological structure, which were not deing project, QGEP and its partners will demonveloped due to technical limitations. Through strate the effectiveness of the integrated use of this project we estimate that over a thousand technology for drilling and completing wells. indirect jobs will be created, plus a further hunThe process will also provide valuable informadred direct outsourced jobs. tion about the behavior and productivity of this reservoir and production plant, to the benefit of the entire oil and gas sector. Operation 31 In 2012 the Company strengthened its planning of new project development by preparing for the next round of ANP bids Oil and gas exploration involves highly sophisThe discovery of new oil and gas deposits in ulticated geological and geophysical methods tra-deep water (at depths greater than 1,500 meand drilling techniques, which require the inters) in the Santos, Campos and Espírito Santo herent risk to be properly managed. Accordingbasins is a new frontier for oil and natural gas. ly, the oil and gas sector invests in the research The development of the pre-salt layer has estaband development of advanced techniques for lished a new position for Brazil in the internaexploration, drilling and production. tional oil and natural gas market by increasing the country’s proven reserves and doubling its However, it is still not possible to ascertain the exproduction capacity by 2020, through US$400 act size of the reserves. Estimates of oil and gas billion in investments. quantities are projections based on geological information and measurement techniques, and are In 2012 Queiroz Galvao Exploração e Produção classified as proven (high level of confidence), strengthened its activities in planning, project probable (medium) or possible (low) reserves. structuring and studying new opportunities. Its only asset currently in production is the Manati Field, in which the Company holds a 45% stake, and which is operated by Petrobras. In the past few years its investments have been focused on the development of exploration and projects, including the acquisition of seismic data to study areas to be acquired via farm-ins, and to prepare for the next round of the ANP bids. 32 OPERATION Offshore E&P How the offshore oil exploration process works duration of operation Concession contract: AUCTION or FARM-IN Geological and geophysical data interpretation Hydrophones Choice of drilling site Data Exploratory acquisition drilling 0 Water layer 1,000 Post-Salt 2,000 layer 3,000 Salt 4,000 layer 5,000 Pre-Salt 6,000 layer 7,000 Riser Cap rock Safety valve Oil saturation (BOP) er saturatio Reservoir rock Wat n Casing Drilling Source rock column Bit ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 33 Post-Salt layer Pre-Salt layer Discovery Profiling Reservoir type: Reservoir type: Turbidite siliciclastic Microbial carbonates sandstone Age: Age: Upper Cretaceous/ Aptian Tertiary >20 <100 million years >112 <125 million years Production ANP notification Approximately 30 years Can be renewed Port Indication of oil and gas: Electrical, radioactive and acoustic data gathering FPSO vessel Immediate 1 to 2 weeks Discovery evaluation plan 1 to 5 years Shuttle tanker Formation test Short duration: 72hr Long duration test Long duration: 6 months to 1 year Evaluate reservoir, oil flow and terminal Declaration of Development commerciality plan 6 months 34 OPERATION DISTRIBUTION OF PROVEN OIL RESERVES Oil – In 2012, the world’s proven oil reserves 5.8% stood at 1.6 trillion barrels, according to the Africa 3.6% most recent information published by the ANP. Asia-Pacific 7.4% Over the past 2 years global consumption grew Europe and Eurasia by 1.5% per year, reaching 85 million barrels per day in 2012. 11.9% North America 64% 1991 Middle East Total 7.2% South and Central America 1,032,700 million barrels 7.6% Africa 3.2% Asia-Pacific 8.1% Europe and Eurasia 55.1% 18.2% North America 2001 Middle East Total 1,267,400 7.8% million barrels South and Central America 8.0% Africa 2.5% Asia-Pacific 8.5% Europe and Eurasia 13.2% 48.1% North America 2011 Middle East Total 19.7% 1,652,600 South and million barrels Central America Source: BP Statistical Review of World Energy, June 2012. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 35 In Brazil, production remained stable at two TOTAL OIL RESERVES IN BRAZIL (IN MILLIONS OF BARRELS) million barrels of oil equivalent per day, while reserves were 1.5 billion barrels. Pre-salt exploration accounted for 217,000 barrels of oil 5% equivalent (boe)/day of this total. Additionally, Onshore: 1,576.30 about 200 exploratory wells were drilled in Brazil in 2012. 95% Offshore: 28,505.50 Source: Agência Nacional de Petróleo, Gás Natural e Biocombustíveis (ANP). Gas – At the end of 2012, according to industry AMOUNT OF OIL REFINED IN BRAZIL figures, the world’s natural gas reserves totaled (IN MILLIONS OF BARRELS OF OIL EQUIVALENT) 208.4 trillion cubic meters. 714.6 666.5 672.4 687.0 640.1 640.8 645.2 657.8 654.7 606.8 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 Source: Agência Nacional de Petróleo, Gás Natural e Biocombustíveis (ANP). 36 OPERATION GLOBAL DISTRIBUTION OF PROVEN NATURAL GAS RESERVES 7.2% 4.0% Central & North America South America 7.2% Africa 7.1% 32.6% Asia-Pacific 1991 Middle East Total 41.8% 131.2 trillion Europe & Eurasia cubic meters 4.6% 4.2% North America Central & South America 7.8% Africa 7.7% Asia-Pacific 42.1% 2001 Middle East Total 33.7% Europe & Eurasia 168.5 trillion cubic meters In Brazil, natural gas reserves totaled 450 billion cubic meters. In Brazil, natural gas production reached 25 billion cubic meters in 2012. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 37 5.2% North America 3.6% Central & South America 7.0% Africa 8.0% Asia-Pacific 38.4% 2011 Middle East Total 37.8% Europe & Eurasia 208.4 trillion cubic meters Source: BP Statistical Review of World Energy June 2012. NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION IN BRAZIL (IN MILLION BARRELS OF OIL EQUIVALENT) 152.5 163.6 145.3 136.8 133.9 112.1 112.2 115.0 107.5 100.0 Source: Agência Nacional de Petróleo, Gás Natural e Biocombustíveis (ANP). 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 38 OPERATION ASSET PORTFOLIO GRI 2.2 | OG1 SANTOS BASIN BM-S-12 Status: under. Water depth: 470 m. Camamu Basin Fluid: oil. Jequitinhonha Basin Consortium: QGEP – 30%; Petrobras (operator) – 70%. Year of discovery: 2008. Campos Basin Total expenditure: R$172 million in Santos Basin exploration costs (as of December 31, 2012). Performance in 2012: exploratory Santos Basin drilling at the Ilha do Macuco well did not find potentially producRJ tive zones. The consortium asked the ANP to revise the Company’s SP Ilha Grande Evaluation Plan carried out on the Guarujá Ilha Bela well, which had been Rio Paranapanema Atlanta drilled four years earlier, so that a Oliva Drill Stem Test (DST) could be conducted. The consortium is awaiting PR the response from the ANP. Once Paranaguá Rio Paraná approved, the project for reenterBM-S-8 ing the well, expected in 2014 has a planned investment of approxiPorto de Itajaí mately US$25 million. SC BM-S-12 Next steps: the consortium plans to continue its monitoring and preparation activities ahead of drilling at Ilha Bela in 2014. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 39 BM-S-8 BS-4 Situation: under exploration/evalSituation: under development. uation. Water depth: 1,550 m. Water depth: 2,025 m. Fluid: oil. Fluid: oil. Consortium: QGEP (operator) – 30%; OGX – 40%; Barra EnerConsortium: QGEP – 10%; Petrogia – 30%. bras (operator) – 66%; Petrogal – 14%; Barra Energia – 10%. Year of discovery: Atlanta (2001) and Oliva (1993). Year of discovery: Bem-Te-Vi Expense forecasts: US$45 million in 2013, US$78 million in 2014 (2008), Biguá (2011), Carcará (2012). for the EPS, plus US$80 million for the Piapara project. Performance in 2012: during the year Performance in 2012: the Company is at an advanced stage of QGEP completed its Carcará explornegotiations related to hiring equipment to meet the planned atory drilling to a depth of 6,671 mescheduled for the development of assets including the Atlanta ters at BM-S-8, the largest Block in post-salt oil Field, which has 14º API. The volume of recoverable the Santos Basin. Evaluations to-date oil at Atlanta is estimated at 260 million barrels of oil equivalent show a significant column of at least (boe), based on an estimated recovery factor of 17%. Block BS-4 471 m of oil at 31º API, with more also includes the Oliva Field, for which the Company submitted a than 400 m in microbial carbonates. Development Plan in 2012, as well as the Piapara prospect. QGEP invested US$35 million drilling the Carcará well. In October the Next steps: in 2H2013 and full-year 2014 two horizontal wells will consortium asked the ANP to revise be drilled at the Atlanta Field. These wells are important steps the Evaluation Plan of the Bem-Te-Vi towards integrated production in the Atlanta Field. This drilling prospect due to the positive results is expected in the Early Production System (EPS), which is deobtained from the Carcará well. The signed to evaluate the data which will be used to establish the Company is currently awaiting the dimensions of the final project. First oil is expected by 2015, with ANP’s response. full-scale development in 2017/18. QGEP also plans to start drilling the Piapara prospect in the first half of 2014. Contracts are Next steps: the consortium plans currently being negotiated and finalized with various suppliers to start drilling a Carcará extenfor drilling and other equipment. sion well in 2013. The Guanxuma prospect will be drilled in 2014. 40 OPERATION Campos Basin Rio Itabapoana RJ Rio Paraba do Sul C-M-122 Campo dos Goytacazes C-M-146 C-M-145 Lagoa Feia CAMPOS BASIN BM-C-27 (C-M-122, C-M-145, C-M-146) Performance in 2012: in November 2012 the Company signed an agreement with Petrobras Situation: under exploration. to acquire a 30% stake in the Block, and is currently awaiting approval from the ANP on the Water depth: 50 m. transfer of participation rights. The Block has a discovery in the post salt, Guanabara, for which Fluid: higher probability of wet gas. an Evaluation Plan was issued. Consortium: QGEP – 30%; Petrobras (operator) Next steps: preparation for drilling a well in the – 70%. Guanabara Profundo prospect in 2014. Year of discovery: 2011. Expenditure forecast: US$55 million to be spent in 2014. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 41 Rio de Contas Jequitinhonha Basin Ilhéus JEQUITINHONHA BASIN Caramuru/ Paraguassu BM-J-2 Situation: under exploration. Water depth: 50 m. Canavieiras BM-J-2 Fluid: gas or oil. Consortium: QGEP (operator) – 100%. Total expenditure: US$70 million spent in 2011. Capex for 2013 is estimated at US$70 million. Performance in 2012: drilling of the Alto de Canavieiras prospect was interrupted in 2011 at a depth of 2,540 m due to IBAM-mandated rules on drilling (learn more in Biodiversity, in the Socio-Environmental performance section). Next steps: the Company resumed drilling at the Alto de Canavieiras prospect in July 2013, and expects to reach a final depth of 4,700 m in the third quarter. 42 OPERATION Salvador Camamu-Almada Basin Canal do Tapero CAMAMU-ALMADA BASIN BM-CAL-12 (CAL-M-312, CAL-M-372) BM-CAL-5 Situation: under exploration. Rio de Contas Water depth: 1,600 m. BM-CAL-12 Ilhéus Fluid: oil. Consortium: QGEP – 20%; Petrobras (operator) – 60%; EP Energy – 20%. Year of discovery: as of December 21, 2012 no wells had been drilled in this Block. Total expenditure: US$40 million, to be spent in 2014. Performance in 2012: QGEP plans to start drilling its first well in this deep water Block in 2014, targeting the CAM#01 prospect. According to international consulting firm Gaffney Cline Associates (GCA), hired by QGEP to certify the reserves, the prospect presents medium, unrisked prospective resources estimated at 77.7 million boe, consisting of 91% oil and 9% associated gas. Its depth is 2,700 m. Activities in 2012 included applying to IBAMA (Brazil’s environmental protection agency) for an environmental license, which is expected to be received in 2014. Next steps: drilling of the CAM#01 prospect to start in 2014. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 43 Salvador Camamu-Almada Basin Canal do Tapero CAMARÃO NORTE FIELD BM-CAL-5 Situation: under development. Rio de Contas Fluid: gas. Consortium: QGEP – 45%; Petrobras (operaIlhéus tor) 35%; Panoro* – 10%; Brasoil – 10%. Year of discovery: 2001. BM-CAL-5 Performance in 2012: this asset is in the process of unitization with the adjacent Block. The Situation: under exploration. Camarão Norte Field extends to the Camarão Field, which is wholly owned by EP Energy. Water depth: 500 860 m. Producing reservoirs are the same as for the Manati Field. The consortium plans to start deFluid: oil. veloping the North Camarão Field after completing the unitization. Consortium: QGEP – 27.5%; Petrobras (operator) – 72.5%. Next steps: the North Camarão Field will be developed at the start of the decline of proYear of discovery: Copaíba 2008 duction at the Manati Field, which is scheduled for 2017/2018. Total expenditure: US$22 million, to be spent in 2014. * In June 2013 Panoro’s equity stake was acquired by Geopark. Performance in 2012: the evaluation plan at Copaíba plan is ongoing. The consortium is curCamamu-Almada Basin rently in the process of renewing the environmental license for drilling. Contingent resources of this oil discovery are estimated to reach 17.9 Salvador million boe, consisting of 89% oil and 11% associated gas. The consortium relinquished the Canal do Tapero Jequitibá prospect, another discovery made in the Block, to the ANP in 2012, as the volume Camarão Norte was insufficient to warrant development. Next steps: an additional well to evaluate the Copaiba discovery, to be drilled in 2014. Rio de Contas Ilhéus 44 OPERATION Camamu-Almada Basin Salvador Canal do Tapero Manati MANATI FIELD Situation: in production. Water depth: 35 m. Rio de Contas Fluid: gas. Consortium: QGEP – 45%; Petrobras Ilhéus (operator) – 35%; Panoro* – 10%; Brasoil – 10%. ACCIDENT PREVENTION Year of discovery: 2000. QGEP works constantly to assess and reduce the risks inherent in its activities. Key to this is the prePerformance in 2012: the Manati Field, vention of accidents. The Company analyzes the one of Brazil’s largest producing naturisks of each activity to be undertaken and sets ral gas Fields, produced an average high standards of safety which all suppliers must of 6.1 Mm3 in 2012. In October 2012, comply with. The Company seeks to work with Gaffney, Cline & Associates certified its suppliers and partner firms that are recognized 1P reserves at 19.7 billion cubic meters in the industry for their strong safety records. In of natural gas, with 2P and 3P reserves 2012, drilling in Block BM-J-2 was shut down and of 20.5 billion and 22 billion cubic meno drilling was carried out in the Atlanta Field, ters of natural gas, respectively, as of where QGEP is the Operator. As a result, accident December 31, 2011. The field had been prevention and health awareness activities were in operation for five years as of Decemfocused on the administrative areas. The Health, ber 31, 2012 and has historically been Safety and Environment (HSE) area has developed able to produce an average of approxia procedures manual that is now available on the mately six million cubic meters of gas Company intranet. The manual will subsequently per day, depending on market demand. will be printed and distributed to employees and contractors prior to operations. Next steps: scheduled maintenance was carried out in the second quarGoals for 2013 include the implementation of a ter of 2013, resulting in a production new incidents management structure, based on shutdown of 20 to 30 days. Despite the Incident Command System (ICS). About 35 this maintenance, average producstaff members will be trained in the system. ICS tion was 5.0Mm3 in the quarter. In methodologies are used internationally to prepare 2014, a gas compression plant will planning and resource management processes be constructed at the Field. This will for incident management. GRI EN14 | Global Compact Principle 8 reduce average daily production to 5.0-5.5Mm3 in 2014, with production returning to 6.0Mm3 in 2015. * In June 2013 Panoro’s equity stake was acquired by Geopark. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 45 SocioEnvironmental performance GRI 4.13 | EN26 | Global Compact Principle 8 47 QGEP made several investments directed to multiple projects in environmental protection initiatives Respect for the environment and involvement tions of the ANP’s Operational Safety Managein community development are fundamental to ment System (SGSO). The Policy is available QGEP’s business. Even before starting operain the Environment and Safety section of the tions, the Company continuously evaluates its QGEP website (www.qgep.com.br). impacts on local communities and works to reduce risks to a minimum. QGEP also works alongside such institutions such as the Brazilian Institute of Oil, Gas and These processes begin with the impact matrix Biofuels (IBP), the National Petroleum Industry developed as part of the Environmental ImOrganization (Onip) and the Federation of Induspact Study and the Environmental Impact Retries of the State of Rio de Janeiro (FIRJAN) to port (EIS/EIR). These documents are prepared address issues of social and environmental rein compliance with the Oil and Gas Industry sponsibility. In its relationship with the public, Requirements of the Brazilian Environmental QGEP’s focus is on operational and environmenand Renewable Natural Resources Institute tal safety and transparency. In order to achieve (CGPEG/IBAMA). QGEP’s activities are always its goals, the Company uses the most advanced based on ethics, good corporate governance technology in its operations, making safety the practices and respect for the environment. We highest priority. In terms of transparency, QGEP strive to always contribute to the development works diligently to keep the channels of dialogue of communities adjacent to our operations. open and strives for continuous disclosure of information through outlets such as town-hall The Company’s practices utilizes the Integrated meetings, letters and press releases. Management System (IMS), which implements the guidelines of QGEP’s Integrated ManageIn 2012 we invested R$1,628,914.22 in enviment System Policy. The IMS includes environronmental protection and mitigation initiamental, health, safety and operational aspects. tives including the Beach Monitoring Project It is based on internationally-recognized princi(BMP), the Fisheries Catch Monitoring Project ples such as those of the International Organiza(FCMP), the Fishing Compensation Plan (FCP). tion for Standardization (ISO) and Occupational During the period, QGEP incurred no fines or Health and Safety Assessment Services (OHpenalties resulting from non-compliance with SAS). The IMS also meets the technical regulaenvironmental laws. GRI EN28 | EN30 | Global Compact Principle 8 48 SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 371km BIODIVERSITY 2 GRI EN13 | Global Compact Principle 8 Environmental licensing for the exploration and production of oil and natural gas is subare covered by Block ject, among other requirements, to prior preparation of environmental impact studies (such BM-J-2, in which QGEP as EIA/Rima), as well as the implementation holds a 100% equity stake of mitigation measures or environmental compensation for impacts caused on biodiversity. These studies, which also include impacts during operations and at the time of their completion, are also part of the Activity Deactivation QGEP implements Plan, which establishes the actions to be taken socio-environmental after the operations come to an end. Although initiatives to strengthen all of the Company’s projects rely on feasibility studies and deactivation plans, QGEP has yet its relationships with to carry out a shutdown for any of its projects. local communities MAIN IUCN RED LIST AND BRAZIL CONSERVATION LIST SPECIES WITH HABITATS IN AREAS AFFECTED BY OPERATIONS, BY LEVEL OF EXTINCTION RISK GRI EN15 Species Brazil IUCN Southern right whale Endangered Low Fin whale Endangered Threatened Humpback whale Vulnerable Lesser concern Loggerhead turtle Vulnerable Threatened Green turtle Vulnerable Threatened Hawksbill turtle In danger Vulnerable Olive turtle Endangered Vulnerable Leatherback turtle Endangered Critically endangered Whale shark Vulnerable Vulnerable Nurse shark Vulnerable Insufficient data Black petrel Vulnerable Vulnerable Spectacled petrel Endangered Vulnerable Red-billed tropic-bird Vulnerable Lesser concern Orange-billed tropic-bird Vulnerable Lesser concern Royal tern Vulnerable No register ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 49 In the environmental analysis of BM-J-2, speFISHING COMPENSATION PLAN cies of benthic and nektonic plankton were GRI SO1 identified, many of them found on Brazil’s List of Endangered Species and the IUCN Red List The impact area of our operations with Block (see table on page 48). BM-J-2 reaches shallow waters which are home to extensive fishing activity. Accordingly, the Block BM-J-2 currently has an area of 371 company has developed a Fishing Compensasquare kilometers (100,726.36 hectares) and is tion Plan which meets Ibama requirements for part of a coastal marine biome. The area of difishing compensation. Implementation of the rect influence is in the municipalities of Ilheus, FCP has involved investments in infrastructure Una, Canavieiras and Belmonte, in the Brazilian and safety for communities in the municipalistate of Bahia. The Marine Extractive Reserve of ties of Ilheus, Una, Canavieiras and Belmonte Canavieiras is part of this region and is adjacent in southern Bahia. These communities engage to four national parks: Descobrimento, Marinho in fishing activities typical of coastal areas, on dos Abrolhos, Pau Brazil and Monte Pascoal. the outer continental shelf and upper embankUnder the environmental operating license, acment areas. GRI SO9 tivities in this region can only take place outside the area’s restriction period due to the presence Through the plan, QGEP has built up a working of turtles and of the very unlikely possibility of partnership with these communities in two areas: an oil spill reaching the Abrolhos area. GRI EN11 | EN12 fishing safety and strengthening the Canavieiras Extractive Reserve (RESEX). Through the partQGEP continued proactively with its socio-ennership, the Ilhéus area communities (Ponta do vironmental projects underway in the region Ramo, Ponta do Mamoã, Ponta da Tulha, Curuthroughout 2012, even though work was susrupe, Olivença, Barra de Itaípe and Mojiquiçaba) pended in Block BM-J-2 in September 2011. The began receiving restored fishing vessels and nauFishing Compensation Plan, Beach Monitoring tical safety equipment in 2012. In the community Project and Fisheries Catch Monitoring Project of San Miguel, we provided office facilities for the all help improve relations with communities. GRI Fishermen and Shellfish Collectors Association EN14 | Global Compact Principle 8 | OG4 (APESMAR). Our efforts in the RESEX area will result in providing the construction and renovation of offices and other facilities for community associations in 2013. GRI EC8 | EC9 | SO10 This process is already in its final stages in Acuípe, an indigenous fishing community in the region of Ilhéus. Local residents decided to work with the Company to build a community center, which is currently awaiting the approval from Funai (Brazil’s National Indian Foundation). 50 SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 51 QGEP is preparing a document specifically adEight monitors chosen from local communities dressing the issue of relations with indigenous work in the region’s major fishing ports to colcommunities, as its operations are situated lect primary data on the main types of fishing near the tribal lands of the Tupinambás de Olcarried out in the impact area. In 2012 QGEP iniveira (being created), Mata Medonha, Coroa vested R$359,530.24 in this initiative. Vermelha Jaqueira, Imbiriba, Barra Velha and Águas Belas. HR9 | OG9 | OG10 The continuous monitoring of fisheries catches allows us to compile a solid and reliable fishing BEACH MONITORING PROJECT database, which also includes seasonal variaThe Beach/Beaching Monitoring Project (BMP) tions of fishing activity and characteristics of monitors the records of beached marine life in fleets operating in the region. From analysis the municipalities of Ilhéus, Una, Canavieiras of these records we can evaluate catches and and Belmonte (BA) before, during and after drillspecies composition, as well as the main types ing operations, and promotes rescue and rehaof fishing which are conducted throughout the bilitation of wildlife whenever possible. In 2012, year. After an annual cycle is completed, the QGEP invested R$307,198.59 in this initiative. data allow us to make temporal analyses, and correlate the catches of the year with oceanoThe support base of the BMP is located in Oligraphic and other variables. This helps us idenvença, in the municipality of Ilhéus (BA), and tify seasonal patterns and/or common trends was in operation throughout 2012. It is staffed among in the local fishing industry. by experienced biologists and veterinarians who are able to care for beached animals in the region and carry out monitoring and information campaigns when appropriate. During the year, 42 animals were rescued on the region’s beaches, more than half of them turtles. Other animals included birds such as the Brazilian lapwing, black petrel and, penguins. FISHERIES CATCH MONITORING PROJECT The FCMP is an important tool for understanding the dynamics of local fisheries and the influence we have on catches in Ilhéus, Una, Canavieiras and Belmonte (BA) before, during and after drilling operations. QGEP maintained the project in 2012, ensuring a continuous flow of data on the main types of fishing carried out in the region. Through the FCMP, information is periodically relayed to the monitors and the fishing community, allowing fishermen to learn the results of the project in which they are participating. 52 SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS Our R&D work also includes studies related to QGEP seeks to encourage the development of the involvement of the estuarine community. scientific capital and maintain a constant diaLocal leaders, associations and institutions inlogue with academia. The Company interacts terested in the impact of our exploration work with industry groups such as the Social Recontributed valuable insights on the producsponsibility and Health, Safety and Environtion process and social organizations. All this ment Committees of the Brazilian Institute of environmental research is made available to loOil, Gas and Biofuels and attends seminars to cal communities, which helps further develop learn about new studies and tools in socio-enthe local residents’ knowledge of their region. vironmental exploration and production. In October 2011, QGEP carried out an integrated Our oil and gas exploration, development and biogeochemical study (PETROTECMANGUEproduction contracts contain a clause whereBASUL) in partnership with the Federal Univerby 1% of the annual gross revenue from high sity of Bahia (UFBA). This study was conducted production Fields is invested in research and on mangroves in southern Bahia to develop apdevelopment. In 2012 the Company invested plicable technological processes for the remediR$2,874,135.51 in R&D, and expects to have ination of these environmentally sensitive areas. vested a total of R$5,742,165.34 by the end of 2014 (values adjusted as of 2011). From the knowledge gained from its research, QGEP seeks to structure its activities and adapt its projects to mitigate potential risks at each stage. In addition to preventing situations that could result in contamination, the company intends to use its R&D to test bioremediation-related methods and procedures for any potential environmental problem arising from accidents due to exploration, production and transportation of oil in the mangrove ecosystems of these areas. GRI EN29 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 53 Three of the four sampling stages are now comOur partnership with Fundação Coppe/UFRJ, plete. By July 2013 the Jequitinhonha Basin which began in September 2011, includes studies should receive a Socio-Environmental Sensitivito classify and monitor ecosystems in the coastal ty Certificate, which will define those areas most region of Una, Canavieiras and Belmonte (BA). sensitive to oil spills. As part of the requirements for this certificate, research is being carried out In 2012, satellite images were processed and on soil use and cover, river dynamics and water analyzed in order to map land use, vegetation, flows in the region, as well as wind, meteorogeomorphology, topography and detailed dilogical and oceanographic conditions. mensions of rivers in the coastal lowlands, as well as the coastline of the study area. These reThe results generated by these studies are periodsults help improve the quality of hydrodynamic ically disclosed in partial technical and scientific modeling by giving a better local spatial scale. reports and will be integrated into a database and final document that will be presented at the end Models have been implemented to create reof the research. The physical, chemical (organic gional environmental marine and meteoroand inorganic), biological and socio-economic logical simulations, as well as marine climate parameters of the areas studied, and the results simulations for the project’s impact area. The of bioremediation tests performed, will also approject is currently compiling the information pear in specific technical documents such as paproduced from each of the two major research pers in national and international publications, areas: environmental computer modeling and undergraduate research, graduate monographs, remote sensing. The integrated analysis of the masters’ dissertations and doctoral theses. results obtained by these two major areas of research will be of fundamental importance Our environmental modeling also includes analfor the spatial-temporal understanding of the ysis of the influence of climate change on the sensitivity of coastal ecosystems to oil spills in region, from scenarios constructed by the Interthe impact area. governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). This will be the first time that the local impact of climate change in the region will be analyzed. 54 SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ENERGY QGEP’s administrative offices in Rio de Janeiro and Salvador consume energy directly from local utility providers. During our operational activities, the maritime unit and vessels involved use their own diesel generators. GRI OG3 GRI EN3 DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GJ)* 2012 2011 Rio de Janeiro office 488.37 377.55 Salvador office 27.56 26.37 Total 515.93 403.92 *Electricity consumption supplied by local utility providers. Includes electrical appliances, office lighting and central air conditioning. There were no exploration operations in 2012. EMISSIONS GRI EN16 | EN17 In QGEP’s In 2012 QGEP consolidated its emissions calculation process and adhered to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). This organization, creoperations, ated 12 years ago in the UK, brings together over 700 investors who hold US$87 trillion in assets. It encourages emissions management by companies worldwide, including the 80 Brazilian firms that participate in the CDP’s annual environmental studies emissions report. identify the impact of the QGEP’s goal for 2013 is to prepare its emissions activities and propose report by hiring specialized consultants, and cut mitigation measures office energy consumption per employee by 10%. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 55 GRI EN16 | EN17 GHG EMISSIONS (TCO2E) SCOPE 11 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 32 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 CO2 7.65 0 7.37 6.38 296.99 10,857.07 CH4 0 0 0 0 1.75 0.94 N20 0 0 0 0 0.87 0.47 Total 7.65 0 7.37 6.38 299.61 10,858.48 1. The measurement of scope 1 began in 2012. 2. Scope 3 is lower as there were no exploration operations in 2012. WASTE AND EFFLUENTS GRI EN2 | EN22 | Global Compact Principles 8, 9 QGEP has developed a waste management In 2012, QGEP’s office generated 2.3 metric tons plan consistent with the guidelines and best of recyclable waste, 12.6% of which were plastics, practices established by IBAMA’s Oil and Gas and 87.4% of which was paper and cardboard. Oversight Unit (CGPEG). Waste production was not significant in 2012, as there were no The company purchased 4,769.7 metric tons of exploration operations. As a result, waste propaper (for office use), 95% of which (4,578.4 mt) duction came only from QGEP’s administrawas recycled paper, while the remaining 5% tive offices. There was no transport of hazard(191.3 mt) was white paper. ous waste and no spills occurred. TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE, BY TYPE AND METHOD OF DISPOSAL* Weight (metric tons) Consumption of recycled materials Disposal 2012 2011 Paper, cardboard, plastic, glass, scrap metal Recycling 2.3 32.41 Non-hazardous waste Disposal 2012 2011 Common waste and wood Landfill 0.0 14.13 Hazardous waste 2012 2011 Used lubrication oil Rerefining 0.0 26.97 Fluorescent lamps Decontamination and recycling 0.0 0.022 Health waste Incineration 0.0 0.063 Waste contaminated with oil or chemicals Incineration 0.0 24.58 Oily water Treatment plant 0.0 16.33 TOTAL 2.3 67.97 * 2011 data include BM-J-2 operations and QGEP offices. 2012 data include only QGEP offices, as there were no offshore operations during the year. 56 SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE QGEP’s offices in Rio de Janeiro and Salvador EMPLOYEES GRI 4.16 are situated in commercial centers that use the To produce a healthy working environment local water supply and do not have independent QGEP bases the relationship with its employmeters. Wastewater is discharged into the public ees on partnership, transparency and building sewage system. GRI EN21 | Global Compact Principle 8 motivation, to promote diversity and innovation we support a constant exchange of experiences In Rio de Janeiro QGEP has selective collection between talented young employees and those for paper and plastic waste. In 2012 we produced who are well established in their careers. and recycled 292 kg of plastic and 2,029 kg of paper and cardboard, all of which was sent to The personal and career development of emwaste collecting facilities for recycling. Discarded ployees is achieved through training. The Comlight bulbs and fluorescent tubes are in tempopany subsidizes 80% to 100% of employee exrary storage at QGEP offices and will be reported penses on educational courses and workshops. when they are disposed of. In 2012, R$718,000 was invested in external training. In addition, senior employees shared During 2012 there were no operations in Block their knowledge with the new employees BM-J-2. However, we conducted an evaluation through internal courses and presentations. of the procedures used in the 2011 operations, This initiative will be continued in 2013. particularly in relation to solid waste and industrial effluent management. We analyzed the QGEP did not reach its target of investing R$1.7 critical services provided by transporters and million in training. This was because not all vathe end-disposal management and audits of cancies were filled and there was a significant solid waste and industrial effluents by potenchange in the portfolio (Campos Basin) which tial new end-disposal managers. The results of involved substantial operational demands. these actions can only be evaluated at the end Even so, the company had a 2.77% ratio of of the BM-J-2 drilling program, planned for the training hours in relation to total hours worked. second half of 2013. For 2013 the goals are to invest R$1 million and improve this ratio. Environmental studies identify the impact of QGEP’s operations and propose mitigation STAFF PROFILE measures. The Pollution Control Project (PCP) Of QGEP’s 91 staff members, 72 are employed is an initiative based on CGPEG/DILIC/IBAMA directly by the company, while the remainder Technical Note No. 1/11, and is designed to adcomprises 13 subcontractors, 4 interns and 2 equately manage the waste produced by operexecutive officers. ations. Each activity has a specific waste management plan that assesses the best options for final disposal, with an emphasis on reuse or recycling. GRI EN26 | Global Compact Principle 8 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 57 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES, 2012 2011 BY FUNCTIONAL LEVEL AND GENDER GRI LA1 Men Women Men Women Executive* 3* 1 3 1 Management 8 5 6 5 Leadership/Coordination 8 4 9 3 Technical/Supervision 10 3 5 4 Administrative 12 20 9 18 Operational 0 0 0 0 Subcontractors 9 4 8 3 Apprentices 0 0 0 0 Trainees 0 0 0 0 Interns 2 2 0 0 Total 52 39 40 34 * Two executive officers are statutory. NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES, BY 2012 2011 TYPE OF CONTRACT AND GENDER* Men Women Men Women Fixed time 0 0 0 2 Variable time 39 33 29 29 Total 39 33 29 31 * All employees work a full workday. NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES, 2012 2011 BY REGION AND GENDER Men Women Men Women Southeast 49 38 38 33 Midwest 0 0 0 0 Northeast 3 1 2 1 North 0 0 0 0 Total 52 39 40 34 58 SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE GRI LA2 | Global Compact Principle 6 ADMISSIONS TERMINATIONS TURNOVER TURNOVER INDICATORS* (NUMBER) (NUMBER) RATE (%) 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Total 16 35 4 3 4.17 10.00 By gender Men 10 19 0 3 0.00 20.00 Women 6 16 4 0 8.06 3.33 By age Under 30 5 9 2 2 12.50 16.67 30 50 4 16 2 1 2.78 7.14 Over 50 7 10 0 0 0.00 0.00 * All hirings and terminations in 2011 and 2012 occurred in the Southeast region. Statutory directors were not included in the turnover calculation. HEALTH AND SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE employee has been made responsible for safety All employees are covered by a collective barat this location. This employee participates via gaining agreement with Brazil’s Oil Workers conference call in CIPA meetings. As there were Union (Sindipetro). Among the provisions laid no exploration operations during the year, CIPAs down in this agreement are clauses related to were not set up in the operational areas. periodic examinations, safety standards, communication in case of accidents and the use of In 2012 the Environmental Risks Prevention a uniform and Personal Protective Equipment Program (PPRA) completed its first year of (PPE). The employment contract also confirms operations. Its achievements included worked QGEP’s compliance with its Integrated Manon meeting goals in health care, ergonomics, agement Policy. GRI LA6 | LA9 maintenance of the office environment and monitoring water quality. During the period we QGEP’s Internal Accident Prevention Commisalso held the second Workplace Accidents Presion (CIPA) operates on a by-location basis. The vention Week (SIPAT), which included simulatCIPA ensures the participation of Company emed emergency evacuations, safety briefings at ployees in safety decisions. Its president is apour head office and firefighting team training. pointed by QGEP management, while the vice president is chosen by employees. GOVERNMENT GRI 4.16 The oil and gas sector is regulated by the AgênThe CIPA in Rio de Janeiro is made up of 6 emcia Nacional de Petróleo, Gás Natural e Biocomployees who were elected by direct and secret bustíveis (ANP), a federal agency responsible ballot among the employees, and another 6 for the implementation of the National Energy who were chosen by senior management. The Sector Policy for Petroleum, Natural Gas and office in Salvador does not have a CIPA, as it has Biofuels. The ANP auctions the concessions, fewer than the minimum number of employees authorizes the activities of the companies in required under Labor Regulating Standard No. the sector and supervises their compliance 5. To comply with this particular standard one with these rules and applicable directives. It is ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 59 also a reference center for information on the CUSTOMERS AND SOCIETY industry and keeps a complete and up-to-date GRI 4.16 | OG1 database on the sector, promotes studies and research and widely publicizes any findings In addition to being a strategic partner in the opand official estimates. eration of the Blocks, Petrobras is QGEP’s main customer. Through a long-term contract, QGEP The federal government may impose temposells 100% of the gas produced in the Manati Field rary currency exchange restrictions on the sector to Petrobras. Condensate, a by-product of natural whenever there is a considerable imbalance in gas, is sold by QGEP to Dax Oil Refino S.A. GRI 2.7 Brazil’s balance of payments, or for reasons that may indicate a potential imbalance. This type of QGEP always acts responsibly and in a particiintervention may impair or prevent the converpatory manner to involve the community in the sion of dividends, profit distribution or revenue. activities developed in the Blocks where it works as an operator, and in the implementation of QGEP also structures its management to monitor projects that contribute to local development. It and respond to – in a timely and effective manner is part of the Social Responsibility Committee of – the demands of regulatory bodies such as the the Brazilian Institute of Oil, Gas and Biofuels, ANP and IBAMA, the guidelines of which have a and attends seminars to learn about new studdirect influence on the Company’s activities. ies and tools in socio-environmental responsibility, exploration and production. 60 SOCIO-ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE PROGRAMS AND PROJECTS The exhibition Portinari: Art and Environment was Viva Volleyball Project also shown at the Rio+20 United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development held in June Since 2011 QGEP has been supporting the Viva 2012 in Rio de Janeiro. Set up in the Armazém Volleyball project in fishing communities in the da Popularização on the Rio waterfront, the show area influenced by Block BM-J-2. In 2012 the prowas visited by the Miriam Belchior (Brazil’s minject included 200 children aged 7 to 14 in 2 centister of Planning, Budget and Management), and ers (Canavieiras and Campinhos), with weekly Marco Antonio Raupp (minister of Science, Techsports classes as well as socio-instructional nology and Innovation). During their visit QGEP monitoring and an activities interchange. Credistributed 7,500 activity books for children aged 4 ated in 1999 by the Brazilian Volleyball Confedto 10, 3,000 memory games for children and adoeration and managed by the Instituto Viva Vôlei, lescents, 300 teaching books and 50 Queiroz Galthe project is designed to reduce truancy, keep vão-Portinari calendars for public school teachers. children away from crime and drugs and help develop children’s personal characters. Between these various events, a total of about 80,000 children saw the exhibit. The exhibition Publicity for this project has also produced meanwas also put on in the Casa da Ciência in Rio de ingful benefits. An internal campaign involving Janeiro between September and December of 66 employees saw the donation of 106 pairs of 2012. In 2013 the exhibition will be held in mushoes to the children involved. In 2011, media exnicipalities in the state of Rio de Janeiro which posure on a televised sports program led to volare in the area of direct influence of the Block unteer medical assistance being provided to treat BS-4 activities. There will also be a launch of a special needs child who was one of the particithe new Portinari Project site, which is one of pants. In 2012 the Ilhéus (BA) center for the Viva the project’s first partnerships with QGEP. The Volleyball project was closed, but the Canavieiras redesigned website provides broad, easy acand Campinhos centers remain in operation. cess for students and teachers to view and learn more about the painter’s work. Portinari Project: Art and Environment Winter Clothing Drive QGEP has been a sponsor and partner in the Portinari project, which promotes the work of The Winter Clothing Drive took place in late auBrazilian artist Candido Portinari, since 2010. tumn. To maintain QGEP’s volunteer spirit, we The Portinari Exhibition: Art and Environment invited all employees to contribute by donatincludes 28 prints of the painter’s works, with ing warm clothing and blankets. A total of 88 images of Brazil’s landscapes and plant and people from teams in Atlanta and Carcará were animal life. The goal is to encourage thought involved in the campaign, and 981 items were on the need to preserve the environment. The collected and sent to the Children’s Health Asexhibition has been shown in several cities in sociation, which QGEP has supported since the southern Bahia. institution was founded. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 61 Financial performance 63 QGEP’s net revenues in 2012 reached R$462.3 million, due to the production capacity of the Manati Field and demand from Brazil’s thermal power plants After recording GDP growth of 7.5% in 2010, BraInflationary pressures remain a cause for conzil’s performance has been below expectations, cern. At the end of 2012 the exchange rate was slowing to 2.7% in 2011 and 0.9% in 2012. The R$2.05 to the US dollar, compared to R$1.87 slowdown experienced in 2011 was due to variin 2011. The market consensus is that the exous negative global factors and a downward change rate will remain steady between R$2.00 credit cycle. The Central Bank of Brazil reduced and R$2.10 in the medium term. the Selic interest rate to a record low 7.25% in 2012, down from a peak of 12.5% in 2011. Despite In the oil sector 2012 was marked by uncertainsluggish economic growth, the IPCA consumer ties and market worries, such as a slowing globprice index closed 2012 above the government’s al economy that resulted in oil demand growth 4.5% target at 5.84%, compared to 6.5% in 2011. forecasts to be consistently revised downward, In this same period electricity and oil consumpas well as volatility in oil price movements. The tion rose 6.1%. price for Brent Crude price held up and closed the year at US$111 a barrel, averaging US$112 In the second half of 2012 Brazil’s economy for the period, a record price for this commodity. gained traction and the pace of annual growth rebounded to around 4.5%. Increased consumption appears to be leading the initial recovery, but the resumption of investments in infrastructure will ultimately provide greater sustainability to the growth outlook for 2013. 64 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION 2012 2011 CHANGE (%) (IN R$ MILLIONS, UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED) Net income 82.50 92.10 (10.50) Depreciation and amortization 82.90 53.60 54.70 Financial Expenses/Revenues (82.50) (84.40) 2.20 Income tax and social contribution 40.00 29.10 37.70 EBITDA1 123.00 90.50 35.90 Write-offs of sub-commercial and dry wells 162.10 13.20 N/A EBITDAX 2 285.10 103.60 175.10 EBITDA margin3 (%) 26.60 31.30 (15.00) EBITDAX margin4 (%) 61.70 35.90 72.00 Net debt 5 (952.30) (1,098.50) 13.30 Net debt/EBITDAX (times) (3.34) (10.60) 68.50 1. Earnings before interest, income tax and social contribution, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is not a financial measure according to Accounting Practices Adopted in Brazil, International Accounting Standards or International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). It should not be considered in isolation or as an alternative to net profit, as a measure of operating performance or as an alternative to operating cash flow as a measure of liquidity. Other companies may calculate their EBITDA differently. Additionally, EBITDA presents limitations that hinder its use as a measure of our profitability, as it does not consider certain costs inherent in the business, which could significantly affect our net results, such as financial expenses, taxes and amortization. QGEP uses EBITDA as an additional measure of operating performance. 2. EBITDAX = EBITDA + write-down of dry or non-commercial wells. 3. EBITDA divided by net income. 4. EBITDAX divided by net income. 5. Net debt includes total debt, including loans, current and long-term financing and derivatives, less cash, cash equivalents and investments. Net debt is not recognized under Accounting Practices Adopted in Brazil, IFRS, US GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles), or any other such accounting principles. Other companies may use different means to calculate net debt. OPERATING RESULTS For 2012, G&A expenses were R$63.3 million, For full year 2012, net revenues were R$462.3 million, a above the R$59.5 million reported in 2011. The 60.0% increase over FY11, reflecting full production capacity reported amount for 2012 includes R$54.9 milat the Manati Field in 2012 and strong demand from Brazil’s lion in personnel expenses compared to R$43.9 thermal power plants. Operating costs totaled R$182.8 milmillion in 2011. The major part of this variation lion in 2012, compared to R$128.7 million in 2011. was related to the increase in personnel for operatorship at Block BS-4. On the other hand, part of these administrative expenses, R$13.1 OPERATING COSTS million, was allocated to this project, where (IN US$ MILLIONS) QGEP holds 30% of this amount and the remainder 70% is related to the partners of the block that reimburse expenses to the operator. 182.8 The remaining R$16.4 million in G&A expens11.5 es were linked to prior and current year profit 5.9 128.7 9.8 sharing costs and change in management. 2011 10.4 35.8 3.0 expenses included R$23.1 million in incentive 2.0 22.7 Maintenance costs compensation linked to the successful comple81.9 Special participation tion of the Company’s IPO. 44.0 8.2 49.1 2.3 1.5 53.1 R&D 1.1 0.9 2.5 9.0 Royalties 6.6 15.2 20.4 37.5 37.9 Depreciation 12.0 13.3 Production costs 4Q11 4Q12 2011 2012 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 65 Total exploration expenditures for 2012 amountBALANCE SHEET/ ed to R$177.0 million, the bulk of which was a CASH FLOW HIGHLIGHTS R$125.5 million write-off for Block BM-S-12 and Cash is invested in dedicated funds and fixed R$36.6 million related to the return of the Jequitiincome assets, all in reais. The cumulative averbá discovery to the ANP. For full year 2012, net age yield of the portfolio at December 31, 2012 financial income was R$82.5 million compared was 101.3% of the CDI rate and approximately to net financial income of R$84.4 million in 2011. 96% of the funds have daily liquidity.The investment distribution is shown in the graph below. QGEP has a tax incentive for a partial reduction in the income tax payable. An amount Accounts receivable at the end of 2012 were equal to the fiscal savings obtained must be R$92.8 million, whereas accounts payable were allocated to a profit reserve account, booked R$32.5 million at 2012 year end. For full year under Shareholders’ Equity, and cannot be dis2011, accounts receivable and payable were tributed as dividends to the shareholders. R$76.1 million and R$292.5 million, respectively. In the end of 2011, accounts payable includUnder the federal government’s Lei do Bem ed R$243.1 million related to the acquisition of scheme, Queiroz Galvão Group companies also 30% interest in Block BS-4. have access to tax credits by developing programs in cultural heritage conservation areas The Company had no debt at the end of 2012. and sponsoring sports. The Company received As previously reported, in the second quarter total tax incentives of R$47.0 million in 2012, of 2012 the Company eliminated its debt, folcompared to R$25.1 million in 2011. GRI EC4 lowing the total repayment of the BNDES and BNB loans linked to Manati Field development. The Company had record operating cash flow of R$254.3 million for full year 2012 compared to R$194.2 million in FY11. DISTRIBUTION OF INVESTMENTS Further information on QGEP’s 2012 financial performance is available through the Company’s Investor Relations website at www.qgep.com.br/ir. 5% 9% Votorantim HSBC 17% Government securities 10% Itaú 16% BNB 13% Caixa Econômica 14% 16% Bradesco Banco do Brasil 66 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE VALUE-ADDED STATEMENT (R$ THOUSAND) GRI EC1 ITEM DESCRIPTION 2012 2011 Revenue Net sales plus revenue from financial investments and disposal of assets. 691,534 898,777 Wealth distribution Operating expenses Payments to suppliers and non-strategic investments. 365,257 669,472 Salaries and employee benefits Total payroll. 41,377 33,478 Government Gross tax. 200,467 131,290 Payments to capital providers of capital (ex. shareholders) Voluntary contributions plus investments in the Community investments 11,889 entire community, including donations. Accumulated wealth Investments and financings (wealth produced less wealth distributed) 1 – Revenue Sum of items 1.1 to 1.3 691,534 898,777 Includes ICMS (goods and services circulation tax) and IPI (excise tax on indus1.1) Sales of goods, products and services 586,833 372,403 trialized products) on gross revenue or gross sales. 1.2) Provision for doubtful debts Reversal/Constitution Constitution/write-down of provision for doubtful debts. Includes values not considered part of the company’s primary activities, 1.3) Non-operating such as earnings or losses on the write-down of assets, and gains 104,702 526,374 or losses on the write-down of investments. 2 – Inputs acquired from third parties (including ICMS and IPI) Sum of items 2.1 to 2.4 365,257 669,472 2.1) Raw materials consumed Included in the cost of goods sold. 2.2) Cost of goods and services sold Not including expenses on own personnel. 228,475 100,991 Acquisitions and payments to third parties. For cost of goods, 2.3) Materials, energy, outsourced services materials and services sold, and energy consumed, ICMS and IPI 120,597 561,300 is included at time of purchase, whether recoverable or not. 2.4) Loss/Recovery of assets Market value of inventory and investments. 16,186 7,181 3 – Gross added value Difference between items 1 and 2 (1-2) 326,276 229,305 4 – Deductions Item 4.1 82,919 53,606 4.1) Depreciation, amortization and depletion Expenses recorded in the period. 82,919 53,606 5 – Value-added produced by the company Difference between items 3 and 4 (3-4) 243,357 175,699 6 – Value-added received in transfer Sum of items 6.1 and 6.2 110,721 153,276 6.1) Equity accounting result Includes amounts received as dividends on investments, valued at cost. 6.2) Revenues Includes all revenues, regardless of origin. 110,721 153,276 7 – Total value added for distribution Sum of items 5 and 6 (5+6) 354,079 328,975 8 – Value-added distributed Sum of items 8.1 to 8.5 354,079 328,975 8.1) Personnel and charges Holiday and year-end bonus pay, FGTS pension, food, transportation. 41,377 33,478 Includes INSS (social security) contributions, income tax, 8.2) Taxes, charges and contributions 200,467 131,290 social contribution and all other taxes. 8.3) Interest and rent Expenses and interest on loans and financings. 29,767 72,070 8.4) Interest on capital and dividends Amounts paid or credited to shareholders. 8.5) Retained profit/loss for the year Includes profits allocated to profit reserve. 82,468 92,137 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 67 The main year-on-year changes in the Valuekerages. At the end of 2012, 13 of the analysts had Added Statement are due to two factors. Firstly, BUY recommendations and three had NEUTRAL the Company increased the number of employrecommendations on the Company. The stock’s ees in preparation for future operations in Block average target price was R$17.40. BS-4. Secondly, production at the Manati Field generated higher income, and consequently the During 1H12, exploratory drilling at the Ilha do Company paid a higher amount of taxes. Macuco well (BM-S-12) did not find any potentially productive zones, which affected QGEP’s CAPITAL MARKETS asset portfolio. This change was reflected on the Representing a market value of R$3.5 billion, share price performance in the period. On the QGEP’s stock price (Ticker: QGEP3) was R$13.12 other hand, in 2H12, the Carcará discovery (BS-8) at the end of 2012, down 20.5% from December and the performance of the Manati Field drove the 31, 2011. Nonetheless, QGEP was the best pershare price up at a faster pace than its main peers. forming oil and gas stock listed on the Bovespa based on price performance in the second half of The payment of dividends to shareholders is en2012, with an average financial volume of R$9.3 shrined in QGEP’s Bylaws and the provisions of million and an average daily volume of approxithe Corporations Act. To help ensure the Compamately 1,700 trades. ny’s financial sustainability, dividend payments can only occur after the financial reserves reach In January 2012, the Company was also selected 20% of the Company’s share capital. As QGEP is for inclusion in the Brazil Index (IBrX), which tracks in an investment phase, most of its profits are the BM&FBovespa’s Top 100 companies in terms reinvested in its business, which minimizes the of negotiability. During the year, the support of amount allocated to dividends. Company manthe Company’s stock was further espoused by the agement proposed allocating R$783.45 in manaddition of one sell-side analyst, amounting to 16 datory dividends, which represents 0.001% of sell-side analysts that cover QGEP, representing adjusted net profit after allocation to the Legal both domestic and international banks and broReserve, or R$0.000003 per common share. SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE: QGEP AND PEERS, 2012 QGEP Peer 1 Peer 2 Peer 3 BOVESPA 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 jan-12 feb-12 mar-12 apr-12 may-12 jun-12 jul-12 aug-12 sep-12 oct-12 nov-12 dec-12 68 Glossary RELATÓRIO ANUAL DE SUSTENTABILIDADE 2012 69 GLOSSARY 8. Associated gas: Natural gas which is pro1. 1P or proven reserves: Amount of oil or gas duced along with oil. from known reservoirs which, after analysis of geological and engineering data, can be esti9. Basin: Depression in the earth’s crust where mated with reasonable certainty of being comsedimentary rocks accumulate, and which may mercially recoverable at a given date, under be oil and/or gas bearing. existing economic and political conditions and using existing technology. 10. Barrel of oil equivalent: Barrels of equivalent oil per day. 2. 2C: Contingent resources are those estimated to have equal chances of being reached or 11. Barrel of oil or bbl: One stock tank barrel exceeded. is the standard measure of oil volume, and is equal to about 159 liters. 3. 2P: Reserves are the sum of proven and probable reserves, which is equivalent to a best 12. Bbl/day: Barrels per day. Method of expressestimate scenario. ing the relative density of an oil or derivative. 4. 3C: Contingent resources are those estimat13. Block(s): Part(s) of a sedimentary basin, ed to have a high degree of uncertainty. with a polygonal surface defined by the geographic coordinates of its vertices and indeter5. 3P: Reserves are the sum of proven, probminate depth, where oil and natural gas exploable and possible reserves, which is equivalent ration or production activities take place. to the highest estimate scenario. 14. Boe (barrel oil equivalent): Measurement of 6. Agência Nacional de Petróleo, Gás Natural e volume of gas converted to barrels using a conBiocombustíveis (ANP): Brazil’s regulatory body version factor in which 1,000 m3 of gas is equal for the oil and natural gas sector. to 1 m3 of oil/condensate (energy equivalent) and 1 m3 of oil/condensate equal to 6.29 barrels. 7. API: Method of expressing the relative density of an oil or derivative. The API (American 15. Boed field: Area which includes the horizonPetroleum Institute) gravity scale, measured in tal projection of one or more reserves containing degrees, varies inversely to relative density: the oil and/or natural gas in commercial quantities. degree of API gravity is greater when the oil is lighter. Oils with an API degree greater than 30 16. Bpd: Barrels per day. are considered light, between 22 and 30 degrees API, are average, below 22 degrees API are heavy, while an API degree of less than or equal to 10 is extra heavy oil. The higher the degree of API, the greater the market value of the oil. Water depth is 401-1,500 m. 70 GLOSSARY 17. Brent dated: Published daily by Platts Crude 23. Contingent resources: Quantities of oil, Oil Marketwire, it is the price of physical cargo condensate and natural gas that are potentially of Brent crude oil leaving the Sullom Voe termirecoverable from known fields, but which at nal in Great Britain, 7 to 17 days after the clospresent are not considered to be commercially ing date. recoverable due to one or more contingencies. 18. CCOS: Commercial Chance of Success. 24. Crude oil: Oil which has yet to be processed at a refinery. 19. Commercial Prospects: Potential mapped by geologists and geophysicists to determine the 25. Deep water: Qater depths of 401-1,500 meters. commercial viability of an oil or natural gas field that is ready to be drilled. 26. Discovery: Any find of petroleum, natural gas or other hydrocarbons, minerals and mineral re20. Completion: After completing a well for serves in a concession, regardless of quantity, qualproduction the hole is lined with steel pipes ity or commercial prospects, which is confirmed and encased by a layer of cement to prevent by at least two detection or evaluation methods leaks or the collapse of its walls. A special bit (as defined by the ANP concession agreement). To then drills holes through the steel and cement, be considered commercial, a discovery must preallowing liquid from oil or gas bearing areas sent positive market returns on an investment for to flow into the well. Another smaller diameter its development and production. pipe (the production column) is used to bring these liquids to the surface. A set of valves 27. Downstream: Activities involving the refinknown as a Christmas tree is fitted to the welling of crude oil, natural gas processing, transhead to control production. portation and oil marketing/distribution. 21. Concession: State grant for the right to ac28. E&P: Exploration and Production. cess a particular area for a specified period of time, and allowing certain rights for the hydro29. EBITDA: Earnings before interest, taxes, decarbons discovered to be transferred from the preciation and amortization expenses. country in question to the concession company. 30. EPC: Engineering, Procurement and Con22. Condensate: Liquid present in natural gas struction. Describes a company or group of produced from gas fields, which is separated companies responsible for the implementation and kept in a liquid state under normal presof the various phases of a project, involving sure and temperature conditions. materials procurement, contracting services and physical construction. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 71 31. Exploration success rate: Number of exresult in high permeability reservoirs, which ploratory wells where commercial oil and/or have a high potential for oil and sand producgas reserves are found in relation to the total tion. The primary requirement for identifying frinumber of exploratory wells drilled and evaluable sandstone is the definition of its geological ated over a specific period, typically one year. deposition model, which allows us to choose the best technique for containing the sand from the 32. Farm-in and farm-out: Process of partial or reservoir being explored. total acquisition of concession rights held by another company. The company that is acquiring 37. Fuel oil: A heavy fraction obtained from pethe concession rights is in the process of a farmtroleum distillation. Widely used as industrial fuel in, and the company that is selling the concesin boilers, ovens etc. sion rights is in the process of a farm-out. 38. Gas lift: A method used in various types 33. FOB: Freight (or free) on board, meaning of pumping to artificially lift the oil. The liquid that the seller pays for transportation of the is lifted by injecting a pressurized gas into the goods. production column, through valves located close to the producing interval. The gas mixes 34. Formation: Group of rocks or minerals that with the oil which reduces the oil’s density and have specific similar characteristics of compomakes the reservoir pressure sufficient to lift sition, age, origin or other properties. the oil to the surface. 35. FPSO: Floating Production Storage Offloading. 39. GCOS: Geological Chance of Success. 36. Friable sandstone:The friability of sandstone 40. Gross contingent resources: Total continis directly related to the forces of compression, gent resources. or the type of cementation and dissolution of the grains at the contact points. Cementation is 41. Ibama: Brazilian Institute of the Environthe predominant factor in determining the conment and Renewable Natural Resources. solidation of a sandstone. The most common cements are quartz, calcite (calcium carbonate) 42. IGP-DI (General Price Index): Calculated and dolomite (magnesium carbonate). The cemonthly by the Getulio Vargas Foundation, it menting agent reduces the porosity and permeis one of Brazil’s most widely used consumer ability by filling the pores of the rock formations, price and inflation metrics. so that confined environments with a low occurrence of cementing minerals will commonly 72 GLOSSARY 43. In situ: Amount of oil or gas originally con50. Non associated gas: Gas from reservoirs that tained in place in any reservoir, before production. contain little or no oil. Non associated gas from reservoirs that are not connected with any known 44. Installed capacity: A project’s capacity, as source of liquid petroleum is known as dry gas. authorized by the ANP. 51. Offshore: A location or operation on or un45. Liquefied natural gas (LNG): Natural gas der the sea. in a liquid state under a given surface pressure and temperature. Obtained in the field separa52. Oil: The portion of existing oil in the liquid tion processes, in natural gas processing units phase in the original conditions of the reservoir or in pipeline transfer operations. and which remains liquid in the conditions of temperature and pressure surface. 46. Liquefied petroleum gas (LPG): A mixture of high vapor pressure hydrocarbons which are 53. Onshore: A location or operation on or unseparated from natural gas using special proder the land. cess units and stored a liquid state under special conditions on the surface. 54. OPEC: Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries. Its members are Algeria, In47. MMm3/day: Millions of cubic meters per day. donesia, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates and Venezuela. 48. Natural gas: Any hydrocarbon or mixture of hydrocarbons that remain in gaseous state in 55. Operator: A company legally designated to dinormal atmospheric conditions, extracted directrect and execute all operations and activities in a ly from oil or gas reservoirs, including wet, dry, concession area, under the provisions of the agreeresidual and rare gases. ment between the ANP and the concessionaire. 49. Net contingent resources: The company’s 56. Petroleum: Any liquid hydrocarbon in its natushare of the contingent resources. ral state, such as crude oil or condensate. 57. Possible reserves: Possible reserves are those additional reserves which analysis of geoscience and engineering data indicate the less probability to be recovered than probable reserves. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 73 58. Probable reserves: Are the quantities of oil 64. Reserves: Amounts of oil or gas anticithat, through analysis of geoscience and enpated to be commercially recoverable through gineering data, estimate that have the same the implementation of development projects in chance (50%/50%) to be reached or exceeded. known fields, at a given date and under specified conditions. 59. Prospective resources: The amount of technically and economically recoverable oil. 65. Reservoir: Sedimentary rocks in the subsurface with sufficient porosity and permeabil60. Proven reserves: Amount of oil or gas from ity to store and allow the flow of fluids/hydroknown reservoirs which, after analysis of geocarbons contained in its pores. logical and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty of being commercial66. Riser: Vertical conduit of a subsea oil well to ly recoverable at a given date, under existing transport oil or gas to a surface drilling facility. economic and political conditions and using existing technology. 67. Shallow water: Water depths of 400 meters or less. 61. PRMS: Petroleum Resources Management System. 68. Ultra-deep waters: Water depths of over 1,500 meters. 62. Rating: Risk classification or evaluation. 63. Recoverable volume: Volume of oil, expressed in basic conditions, which can be obtained as a result of the production of a reservoir, from the initial conditions until its abandonment, through the best alternative indicated by the technical-economic studies performed until the time of evaluation. 74 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial statements ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 75 Management Report Dear Shareholders: Specifically, We hereby present the Management Report and Con• Strong demand from Brazil’s thermal power plants solidated Financial Statements for the fiscal year enddrove high production levels in our Manati gas Field, ed December 31, 2012. where we produced an average of 6.1 MMm³ of natural gas per day in 2012, after reaching 6.7 MMm³ and 6.6 QGEP ended 2012 with significant positive momenMMm³, in the second and third quarter, respectively; tum, posting double-digit increases across key finan• We concluded the drilling at the Carcará well in Block cial metrics in the fourth quarter, including revenues, BM-S-8 and data obtained thus far has been encourEBITDAX and net income. At the same time, we made aging. These data obtained from drilling, along with important progress on a number of key operations the Operator’s experience in the area allow the Conthat will drive future growth. sortium to estimate a high potential flow rate from reservoirs in the Carcará well region. The ConsortiThroughout the year, we executed effectively on our um has submitted a revised Evaluation Plan to the strategy of building a diversified oil and gas exploANP and plans to drill an extension well during the ration and production company that is known for its 2H13, where it will perform a drill stem test; highly skilled technical team, its high quality asset • QGEP received ANP approval for the development portfolio and its strong balance sheet. As we review of the Atlanta Field at Block BS-4, where we are the 2012 performance and our outlook for 2013 and beoperator. This asset offers important production and yond, we believe that our investment thesis as a wellcash flow potential to QGEP over the medium-term balanced Company positions us well for future growth. and provides the Company with both pre and postWe derive significant operating cash flow from our salt potential; 45% ownership in Manati Field, Brazil’s largest produc• We successfully negotiated a farm-in agreement for ing natural gas field, and our operations at the Atlanta the BM-C-27 Concession at Campos Basin, which Field, where drilling will begin later this year, will supalready has one identified pre-salt prospect, Guaport the continuity of our operational cash flow over nabara Profundo, in an area that will also provide the near-term. On the exploration side, we have severus with valuable geological knowledge for potential al partnership interests, including two operatorships in future projects in the region; blocks with both pre-salt and post-salt exposure. This • As of this writing, we are in final discussions to secure diversification combined with our strong net cash poa rig to finish drilling the Alto de Canavieiras prospect sition gives QGEP the flexibility required to effectively (JEQ#1) at Block BM-J-2 in the Jequitinhonha Basin, navigate evolving market conditions. considered an emerging basin. We have 100% ownership interest here, where the main targets are pre-salt Our advancements in 2012 have laid the foundation reservoirs that will be explored in the near term. for QGEP’s continued progress in the periods ahead. 76 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In 2012, QGEP retained its position as one of the fipreciate your interest and recognition of the value nancially strongest independent oil and gas compaand potential that QGEP represents in Brazil’s oil and nies in Brazil. We ended the year with record cash gas industry. 2013 looks to be a promising time for flow from operations of R$254 million and cash and the Company, and we look forward to updating the liquid investments of R$952 million. This positions us market on our progress. well as we participate in the 11th ANP Bidding Round, which is scheduled to take place in May of this year. OPERATIONAL ASSET The round will offer 289 blocks, in 11 basins, totaling 155.8 thousand square kilometers, with the majority MANATI FIELD located in frontier exploration areas. Given the flexWith a 45% net interest, QGEP has the majority ownibility afforded by our balance sheet, we expect to ership in the Manati Field, one of the largest nonparticipate in the event analyzing the opportunities in associated producing gas fields in Brazil. The Field, a diligent and prudent manner in order to further exlocated in the Camamu Basin, is operated by Petropand and diversify our asset portfolio. bras. At December 31, 2012, the Field contained 3P reserves of 56.8 million boe of natural gas and conOn April 25, 2012, we announced that José Augusto densate net to QGEP (GCA Certified Reserves as of Fernandes would step down as CEO of QGEP, after 16 December 2011 excluding 2012 production). years of leading all the E&P operations of the Queiroz Galvão Group. Mr. Fernandes remains involved with Production from the Manati Field, as outlined in the QGEP as a member of the Board of Directors while historical profile below, accounts for all of QGEP’s revthe CEO position was assumed by Lincoln Rumenos enues and operating cash flow. QGEP is part of the Guardado. Mr. Guardado has worked in the oil and consortium that owns the production facilities, includgas business, both domestically and internationing the platform, pipeline and gas treatment plant, ally for over 35 years and has previously served as which helps to keep operating costs low at the Field. QGEP’s Director of Exploration. In November, 2012, QGEP’s Board of Directors nomiDAILY AVERAGE GAS nated Mr. Sergio Michelucci Rodrigues as the ComPRODUCTION (MM m3 per day) 6.6 6.7 6.6 6.7 pany’s new Director of Exploration and he continued 5.9 6.1 to implement our exploration growth strategy. Mr. 5.6 Michelucci has more than 30 years working at the sec5.2 tor, including 35 years at Petrobras where he served 4.7 in numerous technical and management positions 4.1 4.2 and has worked in a variety of sedimentary basins in 3.5 Brazil, as well as in other countries. The achievements of 2012 could not have been accomplished without the expertise and commitment of our management team, operating executives, employees and the support of our stakeholders. We ap1Q10 2Q10 3Q10 4Q10 1Q11 2Q11 3Q11 4Q11 1Q12 2Q12 3Q12 4Q12 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 77 DAILY AVERAGE CONDENSATE 2011. Despite sluggish economic growth, the official PRODUCTION (m3 per day) IPCA consumer price index closed above the govern110.4 108.8 109.4 ment’s 4.5% target at 5.84% in 2012, compared to 6.5% 107.2 99.6 101.5 in 2011. However, in this scenario the 6.1% growth of the 92.1 power energy and oil derivatives is a highlight. 89.3 77.9 72.9 In the second half of 2012, the economy gained trac63.6 tion and Brazil’s growth pace rebounded to around 4.5%. An improvement in consumption appears to 46.6 be leading the initial recovery, but the resumption of capex and infrastructure will ultimately provide more sustainability to the growth outlook for 2013. Ongoing inflationary pressures still remain an area of concern. 1Q10 2Q10 3Q10 4Q10 1Q11 2Q11 3Q11 4Q11 1Q12 2Q12 3Q12 4Q12 At the close of 2012, the exchange rate stood at R$2.05/ US$, compared to R$1.87/US$ in 2011. Market consensus is that the exchange rate will be held around R$2 RECENT CORPORATE DEVELOPMENTS – R$2.10 to the dollar for the foreseeable future. • QGEP created an offshore structure to support activities in the Atlanta Field, where QGEP is the operaDespite uncertainties worrying the market in 2012, intor. These activities relate to acquisitions, budgeting, cluding the deceleration of the global economy which construction, purchases, sales and the leasing of caused world oil demand growth forecasts to consistmaterials and equipment used for exploration and ently be revised downward and volatility in oil price production in the area. In November 2012, Atlanta movements, Brent Crude price held up and closed the Field B.V. (AFBV) was established and QGEP Nethyear at US$111, averaging US$112 for the period, a erlands B.V. (“QGEP Netherlands”) was created in record year for Brent price. January, 2013. QGEP Netherlands is a wholly owned subsidiary of Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção CAPEX and has a 30% participating interest in AFBV. In 2012, QGEP incurred expenditures for explora• On November 30, 2012, Manati S.A. was incorporattion activities in the amount of R$87.0 million, which ed into Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção S.A., mostly included R$53.3 million for drilling at Block its wholly owned controller. BM-S-8 and R$26.1 million related to block BM-S-12. In addition, R$12.7 million were incurred in expenECONOMIC AND SECTOR OVERVIEW ditures on development of oil and gas in progress Since posting a 7.5% GDP growth rate in 2010, Brazil’s mainly related to Block BS-4. In the same period, performance has been below expectation, slowing to R$125.5 million were written-off related to the Ilha 2.7% in 2011 and 0.9% in 2012. The deceleration experido Macuco well in Block BM-S-12, including investenced in 2011 was the result of several negative global ments made in 2011 and 2012. factors and a downward credit cycle. The Central Bank reduced the SELIC, Brazil’s basic interest rate, to a record low 7.25% in 2012, down from a peak of 12.5% in 78 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The expected breakdown of future CAPEX is outFINANCIAL RESULTS lined below: The following financial statements correspond to the Company’s consolidated financial information for the CAPEX NET TO QGEP CAPEX NET TO QGEP year ended December 31, 2012. (US$ million) (US$ million) 360 360 Some percentages and other figures included in this performance report were rounded to facilitate pres8 55 entation and therefore may present slight differences 78 in relation to the tables and notes presented in the 22 quarterly information. In addition, for the same rea40 son, the totals presented in certain tables may not reflect the arithmetic sum of the preceding figures. 155 155 78 282 BM-S-12 5 45 70 BM-J-2 Below are major financial highlights for the fourth 45 BM-S-8 282 10 BS-4 (EXPLORATORY) BS-4 (DEVELOPMENT EPS) quarter and full year ended 2012: 25 BM-CAL-12 62 BM-CAL-5 110 Development 70 BM-C-27 Exploration 25 OUTROS 2013 2014 2013 20142014 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION (R$ million) 4Q12 4Q11 ∆% 2012 2011 ∆% Net Income (Loss) 47.3 23.8 98.8% 82.5 92.1 -10.5% Amortization and Depreciation 20.8 15.5 33.5% 82.9 53.6 54.7% Expenses Income/(Financial) (16.0) (25.3) 36.7% (82.5) (84.4) 2.2% Income tax and social contribution 9.2 6.1 51.5% 40.0 29.1 37.7% EBITDA(1) 61.3 20.1 204.9% 123.0 90.5 35.9% Write-offs of sub commercial and dry wells 1.0 N/A 162.1 13.2 N/A EBITDAX (2) 62.2 20.1 209.9% 285.1 103.6 175.1% EBITDA Margin(3) 52.8% 24.2% 118.4% 26.6% 31.3% -15.0% EBITDAX Margin (4) 53.7% 24.2% 121.9% 61.7% 35.9% 72.0% Net Debt (5) (952.3) (1,098.5) 13.3% (952.3) (1,098.5) 13.3% Net Debt/EBITDAX -3.34 -10.60 68.5% -3.34 -10.60 68.5% (1)  e calculate EBITDA as profit before taxes and social contributions, net financial results and amortization expenses. EBITDA is not a financial measure according to Brazilian GAAP or International Reporting Norms (IFRS). It should also W not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net income, as a measure of operating performance, or as an alternative to operating cash flow as a measure of liquidity. Other companies may calculate EBITDA differently than us. Furthermore, EBITDA has limitations which inhibit its usefulness as a measure of our profitability as it does not consider certain costs inherent in our business, which could significantly impact our net results, such as financial expenses, taxes and amortization. EBITDA is utilized by us as an additional measure of our operating performance. (2) EBITDAX= EBITDA + exploration expenditures with sub commercial and dry wells. (3) EBITDA divided by net revenue. (4) EBITDAX divided by net revenue. (5) Net debt corresponds to total debt, comprising current and long-term loans and financing and derivative financial instruments, less cash and cash equivalents and investments. Net debt is not recognized under Brazilian GAAP, U.S. GAAP, IFRS or any other generally accepted accounting principles. Other companies may calculate net debt differently. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 79 OPERATING RESULTS Net revenues for 4Q12 were R$116.0 million, a 39.6% expenses, R$13.1 million, was allocated to this proincrease over 4Q11, resulting from higher producject, where QGEP holds 30% of this amount and the tion at the Manati Field. For FY12, net revenues were remainder 70% is related to the partners of the block R$462.3 million, a 60.0% increase over FY11, rethat reimburse expenses to the operator. flecting full production capacity at the Manati Field in 2012 and strong demand from Brazil’s thermal The remaining R$16.4 million in G&A expenses were power plants. linked to prior and current year profit sharing costs and change in management. 2011 expenses included Operating costs were relatively stable in the 2012 R$23.1 million in incentive compensation linked to fourth quarter at R$49.1 million compared to R$44.0 the successful completion of the Company’s IPO. million for the same year-ago period when production levels were substantially lower. For FY12, operatEXPLORATION EXPENDITURES ing costs were R$182.8 million, which included R$11.5 Total exploration expenditures in 4Q12 were R$8.0 million in maintenance costs compared to R$128.7 million and pertain to the acquisition, processing and million in 2011. analysis of seismic data, drilling plans, licensing and environmental studies and write-off of costs associOPERATING COSTS ated with noncommercial wells and non-operating re(US$ million) 182.8 serves, among others. These costs are mainly related to activities at Blocks BM-S-12, BM-C-27, BM-CAL-12 11.5 5.9 and BM-S-8. Total exploration expenditures for 2012 9.8 128.7 amounted to R$177.0 million, the bulk of which was a 35.8 R$125.5 million write-off for Block BM-S-12 and R$36.6 10.4 3.0 2.0 million related to the return of the Jequitibá discovery 22.7 to the ANP, both which were largely incurred in the 81.9 second quarter of 2012. 49.0 44.0 53.1 8.2 2.3 1.5 2.5 Maintenance Costs R&D NET FINANCIAL INCOME 0.9 1.1 9.0 6.6 Special Participation 15.2 20.4 37.5 37.9 Royalties In 4Q12, the Company generated net financial income Depreciation 12.0 13.3 Production Costs of R$16.0 million compared to R$25.3 million in 4Q11 2013 2014 2013 2014 due to lower interest rates. Net financial income for the quarter included the net effect of R$18.0 million in financial income and R$2.0 million in financial exGENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES penses. For full year 2012, net financial income was G&A expenses were R$18.4 million in 4Q12, R$6.6 R$82.5 million compared to net financial income of million higher than reported in 4Q11. For 2012, G&A R$84.4 million in 2011. expenses were R$63.3 million, above the R$59.5 million reported in 2011. NET INCOME The Company’s net income was R$47.3 million in The reported amount for 2012 includes R$54.9 million 4Q12, a 98.8% increase over 4Q11 levels as a result of in personnel expenses compared to R$43.9 million in improved production volumes from the Manati Field 2011. The major part of this variation was related to and lower exploration expenditures. For full year 2012, the increase in personnel for operatorship at Block QGEP reported net income of R$82.5 million, which BS-4. On the other hand, part of these administrative included exploration expenditures of R$177.0 million 80 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CAPITAL MARKET related principally to unsuccessful exploration activiRepresenting a market value of R$3.5 billion, QGEP’s ties at Block BM-S-12 and the return of the Jequitibá stock price (Ticker: QGEP3) was R$13.12 at the end of discovery to the ANP. For 2011, the Company reported 2012, down 20.5% from December 31, 2011. Nonethenet income of R$92.1 million. less, QGEP was the best performing oil and gas stock listed on the Bovespa based on price performance in BALANCE SHEET /CASH FLOW HIGHLIGHTS the second half of 2012, with an average financial volume of R$9.3 million and an average daily volume of CASH (CASH, CASH approximately 1,700 trades. EQUIVALENTS AND INVESTMENTS)) At the end of 4Q12, the Company had a cash balance In January 2012, the Company was also selected for and net cash position of R$952.3 million. inclusion in the Brazil Index (IBrX), which tracks the BM&FBovespa’s Top 100 companies in terms of negoCash is invested in dedicated funds and fixed income tiability. assets, all in reais. The cumulative average yield of the portfolio at December 31, 2012 was 101.3% of the During the year, the support of the Company’s stock CDI rate and approximately 96% of the funds have was further espoused by the addition of one sell-side daily liquidity. analyst, amounting to 16 sell-side analysts that cover QGEP, representing both domestic and international ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE/PAYABLE banks and brokerages. At the end of 2012, 13 of the Accounts receivable at the end of 2012 were R$92.8 analysts had BUY recommendations and three had million compared to R$99.1 million at the end of NEUTRAL recommendations on the Company. The 3Q12, related to gas sales to Petrobras; Accounts paystock’s average target price was R$17.40. able were R$32.5 million at 2012 year end, up 6.1% from 3Q12. For full year 2011, accounts receivable and DIVIDENDS payable were R$76.1 million and R$292.5 million, reThe Company’s bylaws set forth the following rules spectively. In the end of 2011, accounts payable infor distributing its profits: cluded R$243.1 million related to the acquisition of 30% interest in Block BS-4. • 5% (five percent) of the net income in each fiscal year will be allocated to the legal reserve until it reaches DEBT 20% (twenty percent) of the Company’s capital stock; The Company had no debt at the end of 2012. As • Shareholders are guaranteed the minimum dividend previously reported, in the second quarter of 2012 of 0.001% on income, as set forth in Brazilian Corpothe Company eliminated its debt, following the total rate Law, after 5% of net income from the year have repayment of the BNDES and BNB loans linked to been allocated to the legal reserve until that reserve Manati Field development. reaches 20% of the Company’s capital stock; and • Any remaining balance of net income from the year will OPERATING CASH FLOW be allocated in accordance with the decisions made at The Company had operating cash flow of R$69.2 milthe Company’s Annual Shareholders’ Meeting. lion in 4Q12, 73.9% higher than in 4Q11, resulting from record operating cash flow of R$254.3 million for full year 2012 compared to R$194.2 million in FY11. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 81 HUMAN RESOURCES QGEP is supported by a skilled team of operating execuing group of QGEP employees, most of which have been tives and technical personnel with vast experience in the trained by Queiroz Galvão Group. At the close of 2012, oil and gas sector, both in Brazil and abroad. Our growing the Company had approximately 85 total employees, team of professionals possesses skillsets ranging from including QGEP employees and third-party workers, a the areas of geology, geophysics and reservoir engineer42% increase compared to our 2011 workforce. Our oping to production and drilling. Most held senior roles at erations are conducted according to the highest perforPetrobras and have played active roles in major discovmance standards and we remain committed to the safety eries in several Brazilian basins, including the Manati, and welfare of all of our employees. Garoupa, Marlim, Albacora and Roncador Fields. Our administrative and financial team round out the remainBelow is an overview of our technical team: YEARS OF EXPERIENCE SCHOLARSHIP 47% 31% 34% 38% From 11 to 20 years Until 10 years MBA M.Sc. 16% 13% 16% 6% More than 30 years PhD B.Sc. More than 20 years BACKGROUND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY QGEP’s activities are firmly rooted in ethical principles, sound corporate governance and respect for the environment. We strive to be among the top E&P compa50% 50% nies considered as the best companies to work for in Ex. Petrobras Other Companies Brazil. Our goal is to encourage social responsibility initiatives, job creation, the engagement of services and business operations deemed among the best in terms of integration and excellence. QGEP is committed to acting safely and responsibly in order to minimize the environmental impact of its activities and to benefit the local communities in the areas surrounding its operations. 82 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Throughout 2012, we continued to work on three imthe Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Through dialogue portant social and environmental projects in the regions with several QGEP stakeholders and an online survey, spanning from Ilhéus to Belmonte, located in the south the Company was able to identify key issues that were of Bahia, areas under direct influence of Block BM-Jtop-of-mind for each particular group. Additionally, the 2, which QGEP owns 100% stake and is the operator. Company conducted an internal audit of its Integrated The Fishing Boat Arrival Monitoring Project aims to colManagement System and the results will be used to lect information on fish boat arrivals based on primary implement improvements in the Company’s standards, data concerning the region’s main fishing activities. The goals and targets, while also ensuring the highest levproject, which has been in operation for a year and a els of safety, environmental and health management. half, has most recently been able to contribute applicable information to those involved with Brazilian fishRELATIONS WITH THE ing surveying, as well benefit those in the neighboring INDEPENDENT AUDITORS communities. QGEP also maintained its support for the The Company’s policy regarding its relationship with Beach Monitoring Project (BMP), whereby experienced the external auditors in the provision of services not biologists and veterinarians supporting the population, related to financial statements auditing is supportas well as conducting the necessary monitoring aced by principles that safeguard their independence. tivities and informative campaigns. The Company also These principles are based on the belief that auditors made the first deliveries associated with the Fishing should not audit their own work, nor exercise manaCompensation Plan. The project determined compensagerial functions, advocate on behalf of their clients or tions based on the open dialog with the traditional comprovide any professional services that could be conmunities identified in this municipalities. sidered restricted under current regulations. In addition to these environmental projects, QGEP Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Auditores Independentes also continued its support of educational, cultural and were engaged by QGEP Participações S.A. to provide sports incentive programs, including Viva Vôlei, and financial statements auditing services related to its fiin 2012 oversaw the operations of two sports centers, nancial statements and those related to its subsidiarone in Canavieiras and the other in Campinhos, both ies for the fiscal year 2012. Our independent auditors located in the State of Bahia. Furthermore, the Compadid not perform any other professional services for ny maintained its partnership with the Portinari Project the Company, other than the financial statements auand presented the “Portinari para Todos” (“Portinari dit of the Company and its subsidiaries. for All”) project at the UN Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20), with educators conducting workshops that were attended by over 80,000 children. In keeping with our commitment to transparency and corporate governance, the company published its Rio de Janeiro, March 13, 2013. first Annual Sustainability Report for fiscal year 2011, which was in accordance with the guidelines set by QGEP Management ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 83 Independent Auditor’s Report on the Financial Statements 84 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 85 Balance Sheet At december 31, 2012 (In thousands of Brazilian reais – R$) Parent company Consolidated Note (BRGAAP) (BRGAAP and IFRS) 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 ASSETS CURRENT ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents 4 665 2,705 871,322 1,021,951 Short-term investments 4 80,947 130,479 Accounts receivable 5 92,769 76,140 Inventories 6 9,403 5,362 Recoverable taxes 9.1 35,698 20,698 Dividends receivable 10.2 2,428 2,716 Others 107 100 9,924 3,477 Total current assets 3,200 5,521 1,100,063 1,258,107 NONCURRENT ASSETS Restricted cash 8 24,231 60,968 Recoverable taxes 9.1 430 167 Deferred income tax and social contribution 9.3 5,800 Investments 10 2,224,776 2,170,498 Property, plant and equipment 11 773,188 869,425 Intangible 12 536,130 535,205 Others 51 Total noncurrent assets 2,224,776 2,170,498 1,333,979 1,471,616 TOTAL ASSETS 2,227,976 2,176,019 2,434,042 2,729,723 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 86 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Parent company Consolidated Note (BRGAAP) (BRGAAP and IFRS) 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 LIABILITIES AND NET EQUITY CURRENT LIABILITIES Suppliers 101 83 32,517 26,652 Trade accounts payable 265,895 Borrowings and financing 13 51,992 Taxes payable 9.2 37 28 23,795 24,438 Payroll and related taxes 41 32 11,712 1,453 Related party transactions 7 0 113 85 500 Provision for research and development 9,020 6,035 Other obligations 12,654 18,383 Total current liabilities 179 256 89,783 395,348 NONCURRENT LIABILITIES Borrowings and financing 13 51,565 Provision for abandonment 15 116,462 107,047 Total noncurrent assets 116,462 158,612 NET EQUITY Capital stock 23 2,078,116 2,078,116 2,078,116 2,078,116 Legal reserve 10,510 6,387 10,510 6,387 Investment reserve 165,873 87,529 165,873 87,529 Stock options 23 12,197 3,731 12,197 3,731 Share held in treasury 24 (38,899) (38,899) Total net equity 2,227,797 2,175,763 2,227,797 2,175,763 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET EQUITY 2,227,976 2,176,019 2,434,042 2,729,723 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 87 Statement of Income For the year ended december 31, 2012 (In thousands of Brazilian reais – R$) Parent company Consolidated (BRGAAP) (BRGAAP and USGAAP) Note 01/01/2011 01/01/2012 01/01/2011 01/01/2012 to 12/31/2011 to 12/31/2012 to 12/31/2011 to 12/31/2012 (resubmmited) NET REVENUE 16 462,306 289,007 COSTS 17.1 (182,801) (128,722) GROSS PROFIT 279,505 160,285 OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSES) General and administrative expenditure 17.2 (2,839) (3,565) (63,285) (59,547) Equity method 10 85,179 95,289 Oil and gas exploration expenditure 18 (176,978) (56,620) Other net operating 779 (7,261) INCOME FROM OPERATIONS BEFORE FINANCIAL INCOME 82,340 91,724 40,021 36,857 FINANCIAL INCOME, NET 19 128 413 82,477 84,354 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 82,468 92,137 122,498 121,211 Deferred Income tax and social contribution 9.3 (5,800) 2,939 Current Income tax and social contribution 9.3 (34,230) (32,013) NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR 82,468 92,137 82,468 92,137 NET INCOME PER SHARE – BASIC AND DILUTED 23 0.31 0.36 0.31 0.36 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 88 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statement of Comprehensive Income For the year ended December 31, 2012 (In thousands of Brazilian reais – R$) Parent company Consolidated (BRGAAP) (BRGAAP and IFRS) Note 01/01/2012 01/01/2011 01/01/2012 01/01/2011 to 12/31/2012 to 12/31/2011 to 12/31/2012 to 12/31/2011 Net income for the year 82,468 92,137 82,468 92,137 Other comprehensive income Comprehensive income of investees recognized by the equity method Total comprehensive income for the year 82,468 92,137 82,468 92,137 Owners of the Company 82,468 92,137 82,468 92,137 Non-controlling interests The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 89 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Net Assets For the year ended December 31, 2012 (In thousands of Brazilian reais – R$) Income reserve Capital reserves Shares Propposal Capital Legal Investment Stock Retained Note held in for additional Total stock reserve reserve options earnings treasury dividends BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 2010 620,417 1,780 106 622,303 Capital increase: resolution of the Board 1,317,460 1,317,460 of Directors of February 7, 2011 Capital increase: resolution of the Board 197,619 197,619 of Directors of March 2, 2011 Net income for the year 92,137 92,137 Appropriation of profit for the year: Legal reserve 4,607 (4,607) Investment reserve 87,529 (87,529) Minimum mandatory dividends (1) (1) Dividends paid (106) (106) Stock option 3,731 3,731 Cost of share issue (57,380) (57,380) BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 2011 2,078,116 6,387 87,529 3,731 2,175,763 Net income for the year 82,468 82,468 Appropriation of profit for the year: Legal reserve 4,123 (4,123) Investment reserve 78,344 (78,344) Minimum mandatory dividends (1) (1) Stock option 8,466 8,466 Shares held in tresury 24 (38,899) (38,899) BALANCE AT DECEMBER 31, 2012 23 2,078,116 10,510 165,873 12,197 (38,899) 2,227,797 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. 90 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Statements of Value Added For the year ended December 31, 2012 (In thousands of Brazilian reais – R$) Parent company Consolidated Note 01/01/2012 to 01/01/2011 to 01/01/2012 to 01/01/2011 to 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 REVENUES 691,534 898,777 Gas sales 16 586,053 372,020 Other revenues 779 383 Revenues related to own assets of construction 11 104,702 221,084 Acquisition of exploratory concession 12 305,290 INPUTS ACQUIRED FROM THIRD PARTIES 718 1,677 365,257 669,472 (including Tax – ICMS, IPI, PIS and COFINS) Gas production and service costs 228,475 100,991 Material, energy and other service 718 1,677 120,597 561,300 Others 16,186 7,181 GROSS VALUE-ADDED (718) (1,677) 326,276 229,305 DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION AND EXHAUSTION 82,919 53,606 NET VALUE-ADDED PRODUCED BY THE ENTITY (718) (1,677) 243,357 175,699 VALUE-ADDED RECEIVED IN TRANSFER 85,308 95,711 110,721 153,276 Equity income and dividends 10 85,179 95,288 Financial income 19 129 423 84,135 153,276 Monetary/Exchange variation 26,586 TOTAL VALUE-ADDED TO BE DISTRIBUTED 84,590 94,034 354,079 328,975 VALUE-ADDED DISTRIBUTION Personnel Personnel 1,766 1,462 39,253 32,668 Benefits 5 1,258 540 Charges and fees 866 270 Others 1,771 1,462 41,377 33,478 TAXES Federal 340 327 99,654 64,441 State 55,134 42,109 Municipal 30 29 ANP (bonus e royalties) 17.1 45,649 24,711 340 327 200,467 131,290 PAYMENT OF THIRD PARTY CAPITAL Interest 10 3,356 20,421 Rentals 1,074 578 Bank charges 11 98 447 2,570 Monetary/Exchange variation 24,890 48,501 11 108 29,767 72,070 SHAREHOLDERS Net income for the year 23 82,468 92,137 82,468 92,137 82,468 92,137 82,468 92,137 DISTRIBUTION OF VALUE ADDED 84,590 94,034 354,079 328,975 The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 91 Statements of Cash Flow For the year ended December 31, 2012 (In thousands of Brazilian reais – R$) Parent Company Consolidated (BRGAAP) (BRGAAP and IFRS) Note 01/01/2012 to 01/01/2011 to 01/01/2012 to 01/01/2011 to 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Net income for the year 82,468 92,137 82,468 92,137 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities: Equity method 10 (85,179) (95,289) Depreciation and amortization 11/12 82,919 53,606 Deferred income tax and social contribution 9.3 5,800 (2,939) Financial charges and exchange rate (gain) loss on borrowings and financing 13 2,648 17,431 Provision for guarantees – return of the blocks (10,555) Reduction of fixed assets and intangibles 11 118,463 14,067 Stock option plan 23 3,731 8,466 3,731 Provision for income tax and social contribution 9.3 34,230 32,013 Provision for research and development 2,985 1,034 Financial instruments derivatives (308) Exchange rate on Trade accounts payable acquisition of the exploration block 19 (22,773) 40,259 Exchange rate on provision for abandonment 19 9,415 11,962 (Increase) decrease in operating assets: Trade accounts receivable (16,629) 5,867 Recoverable taxes 9.1 (15,263) (19,491) Other assets (7) (2,157) (10,438) (6,593) Increase (decrease) in operating liabilities: Suppliers 18 54 5,865 6,852 Taxes payable 9.2 9 28 2,653 (2,602) Interest paid 13 (3,075) (19,059) Income tax and social contribution paid (37,526) (27,555) Related parties 7 (113) (547) (415) (680) Other liabilities 9 (13) 4,539 5,043 Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (2,795) (2,056) 254,332 194,219 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Restricted cash 8 36,737 49,603 Short term investments 4 49,532 (130,479) Payment of investment 10.2 (1,463,061) Payment of property, plant and equipment 11 (104,702) (221,084) Payment of intangible 12 (244,498) (305,290) Dividends received 10.2 39,655 5,000 Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities 39,655 (1,458,061) (262,931) (607,250) CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Capital increase 23 1,515,079 1,515,079 Cost of share issue 23 (57,380) (57,380) Shares held in treasury 24 (38,899) (38,899) Payment of financing 13 (103,130) (159,836) Payment of dividends 23 (1) (106) (1) (106) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (38,900) 1,457,593 (142,030) 1,297,757 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (2,040) (2,524) (150,629) 884,726 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2,705 5,229 1,021,951 137,225 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 665 2,705 871,322 1,021,951 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (2,040) (2,524) (150,629) 884,726 As notas explicativas anexas são parte integrante das demonstrações financeiras 92 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Notes to Financial Statements For the year ended December 31, 2012 (Amounts in thousands of Brazilian reais – R$, unless otherwise stated) 1. OPERATIONAL CONTEXT Operational History QGEP Participações S.A. headquartered at Almirante On November 30, 2012, the indirect subsidiary Manati Barroso Avenue, 52 room 1.301 – Centro (“QGEPP” SA (“Manati”) was incorporated by Queiroz Galvão or the “Company”) was incorporated on March 9, SA Exploração e Produção (“QGEP”), its parent com2010 under the name Latina Participações S.A., subpany (Note 2.4). sequently changed to QGEP Participações S.A. on September 2, 2010, and remained dormant until such Information about the Group date, when Queiroz Galvão Óleo e Gás (“QGOG”) transferred to QGEPP 100% of its investment in QueiAs at December 31, 2012, the Group holds interests roz Galvão Exploração e Produção S.A. (“QGEP, which in nine E&P concessions located in offshore Brazilbecame a fully owned subsidiary of QGEPP. ian continental margin, of which three are located in the Camamu – Almada basin (BCAM-40, BM-CAL-5 The principal objective of QGEPP is to hold interand BM-CAL-12, this include CAL-M-312 and CAL-372 ests in companies that are focused on the exploraBlocks), one in the Jequitinhonha basin (BM-J-2), one tion, production and sale of oil, natural gas and their in Campos basin (BM-C-27 and this include C-M-122, byproducts, whether as a partner or shareholder, or C-M-145 and C-M-146 Blocks) and four in the Santos through other types of forms of association with or basin (Coral, BM-S-12, BM-S-8 and BS-4). QGEP operwithout separate legal identity. ates Block BM-J-2 and BS-4, with all other blocks being operated by Petrobras. The E&P business is regulated by the Brazilian Oil, Natural Gas and Biofuel Agency (“ANP”). The compaBCAM-40 and BS-4 concessions are under production ny and its wholly owned subsidiary are referred to in and development phases, respectively, and all other this Financial Statements as “the Group”. under exploration phase. In BCAM-40 are located Manati and Camarão Norte fields, and under producOn November 4, 2012, was constituted Atlanta Field tion and production development phases, respectiveB.V. (“AFBV”), headquartered in Rotterdam, Netherly. In BS-4 Block are located Atlanta and Oliva fields lands, and the objective is purchase, sale and rental of and are under developing production. The Coral Field materials and equipment to be used for the explorais disabled. BM-CAL-5, BM-S-8, BM-S-12 and BM-Ction, development and production of oil and gas. On 27 concessions are under discovery evaluation plan, December 31, 2012 the Company hadn’t transactions while concessions BM-CAL-12 and BM-J-2 are in the and accounting effects affecting the consolidated fifirst exploratory period. nancial statements (disclosure only). The main operation consists in acquisition and lease of equipment to The concession agreement for C-M-122, C-M-145 and be used in the oil and gas industry. C-M-146 blocks (BM-C-27) acquired on October 10, 2012 from Petrobras, is in transfer process, subject to ANP approval. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 93 The Manati Field was developed through the drilling The individual Financial Statements present the inof six wells, installed with Wet Christmas Trees (WCT). vestment in subsidiaries under the equity method of They produce for a fixed production rig (PMNT-1) that accounting, according to Brazilian law. Thus, the Indipumps gas along a 24” pipeline, approximately 125 vidual Financial Statements are not considered to be km long, to the Geologist Vandemir Ferreira treatment in accordance with IFRS, which explicitly states that station, which stabilizes and condenses the gas. such investments should be reported in the individual financial Statements of the Parent Company at their In the third quarter of 2011, the drilling of the prospeccost or at fair value. tus Alto de Canavieiras relating to BM-J-2 block, was temporarily interrupted due to the condition of the As there is no difference between the consolidated environmental license issued by IBAMA that restricts shareholders’ equity, and consolidated Income Statedrilling activities at certain periods of the year at this ment assigned to the Company’s shareholders, listed location. The environmental license is valid until June in the Individual Financial Statements prepared in 2013. The Company plans to return to exploratory acaccordance with IFRS and the accounting practices tivities in the first semester of 2013. adopted in Brazil and the shareholder’s equity and Income Statement in the Parent Company, issued in 2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES accordance with accounting practices adopted in BraThe significant accounting policies applied in the zil, the Company opted for presenting these Financial preparation of the individual and consolidated finanStatements as one, side by side. cial statements are described below: 2.2. BASIS OF PREPARATION 2.1. STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The financial statements have been prepared on the The consolidated financial statements of the Comhistorical cost basis except for certain properties and pany comprise: financial instruments that are measured at fair values, as explained in the accounting policies below. Histori• The consolidated financial statements been prepared cal cost is generally based on the fair value of the conin accordance with International Financial Reporting sideration given in exchange for assets. Standards (“IFRSs”), issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”), which are conThe summary of principal accounting policies followed sistent with accounting practices adopted in Brazil, by the Company is as follows: identified as “Consolidated (“IFRS and BRGAAP”); and 2.3. BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION AND INVESTMENT IN • The individual financial statement of the parent comSUBSIDIARIES pany has been prepared in accordance with accountThe consolidated financial statements include the fiing practices adopted in Brazil, identified as “The nancial statements of the Company and its subsidiarParent Company – BRGAAP. ies. Control is achieved where the Company has the power to govern the financial and operating policies The accounting practices adopted in Brazil comprise of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. those included in the Brazilian Corporate Law and the Accounting Pronouncements Committee – CPC and In the individual financial statements of the Company, approved by the Brazilian Securities Exchange Comfinancial reporting of the subsidiaries is recognized mission (CVM). by the equity method. 94 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The income of subsidiaries acquired, alienated or inand its subsidiaries. All related parties transactions, corporated during the year are included in the conbalances, income and expenses are full eliminated on solidated statements of income and comprehensive consolidated financial statements. income from the effective date of acquisition, alienation and incorporation as applicable. Company’s ownership interests in subsidiaries When necessary, adjustments are made to the finanOn December 31, 2012, the Company’s financial statecial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accountments include the financial information of its subsidiing policies into line with those used by the Company ary, direct and indirect, listed below: Percentage of Country operation 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 shareholding – % Control QGEP Brazil Direct 100% 100% AFBV Netherlands Indirect 100% 2.4. INCORPORATION MANATI S.A. On November 30, 2012 the indirect subsidiary Manati balances were eliminated. This process did not generwas incorporated by Queiroz Galvão SA Exploração ate goodwill. e Produção (“QGEP”). The net assets incorporated in the amount of R$612,352 was paid in QGEP, therefore, The following tables show the balance sheet and inrecorded as capital stock of this company. Additioncome statement of Manati pre-incorporation for the peally, because of incorporation, receivable and payable riod ended November 30, 2012: Balance Sheet Total current assets 270,156 Total current liabilities 48,630 Total non current assets 510,930 Total non current liabilities 120,104 Total net equity (net assets) 612,352 Total assets 781,086 Total Liabilities 781,086 Income statement NET REVENUE 422,294 COSTS (160,875) GROSS PROFIT 261,419 OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSES) (15,106) INCOME FROM OPERATIONS BEFORE FINANCIAL INCOME 246,312 FINANCIAL INCOME, NET (1,142) INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX AND SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 245,170 Deferred Income tax and social contribution 3,787 Current Income tax and social contribution (41,289) NET INCOME OF ELEVEN MONTHS 207,668 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 95 2.5. SEGMENT INFORMATION The Management conducted an analysis and conIFRS 6 allows the Management defines the accountcluded that QGEPP operates with a single segment, ing policy for recognition of exploration assets in being Exploration and Production (E&P) of oil and exploration of mineral reserves. Management has gas. Additionally, net sales revenue is substantially defined the accounting policy for exploration and derived from transactions with Petrobras in Brazil. evaluation of mineral reserves considering the criteria that represent the best judgment aspects of business Summary of significant accounting policies: environment and reflect more adequately financial and equity position. The main accounting principles 2.6. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS adopted are: Are held in order to cash commitments for short-term and consist of the balance of cash, bank deposits in • Rights of exploration concession and signing bonus cash and short-term investments with highly liquid are recorded as intangible assets; and insignificant risk of changes in value. • Drilling costs of such viability assessments were not concluded remain capitalized on fixed assets until the 2.7. INVENTORIES conclusion. Exploratory costs of all production wells Represented by materials and supplies acquired from and of successful exploration wells related to ecothird parties, to be used in exploratory drilling camnomically viable reserves are capitalized while nonpaign. Inventories are recorded for lower value of viable (“dryhole”) are recorded directly in income on cost and net realizable value. The inventories costs account for oil and gas exploration expenditures. are determined by the average cost method (Note 6). • Other exploration expenses not related to the signing bonus are recorded in the income statement in 2.8. CURRENT AND NONCURRENT exploration expenditure for oil and gas extracting ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (costs related to acquisition, processing and interCurrent and noncurrent assets and liabilities are pretation of seismic, drilling campaign planning, listated at realizable value and/or settlement amounts, censing studies, payment for occupation and retenrespectively. Inflation adjustments, changes in extion area, environmental impact and others). change rates, income earned and charges incurred, • For farm-in transactions the Company have conwhen applicable, are recognized on a pro rata basis tracts that support partner for financial expenses to the balance sheet date. for exploration who proceeded the selling participation in exploration blocks (“Farmor”) and/or “carry.” 2.9.  EXPLORATION EXPENSES, DEVELOPMENT AND These committed expenditures are reflected in the PRODUCTION OF OIL AND GAS (FIXED ASSETS, INfinancial statements when their progress for future TANGIBLE AND EXPLORATION EXPENDITURE FOR exploration expenditure. OIL AND GAS) For exploration, development and production exProperty, plant and equipment represented by natural penditure of oil and gas, the Group, for accounting gas exploration, development and production assets practices adopted in Brazil, uses accounting princiin the Manati field are recorded at cost and amortized ples in line with international standards IFRS 6 “Exunder the unit-of-production method, in which the ploration for and evaluation of mineral resources”. charge for the year is based on the ratio between the annual volume produced and the total proved reserve of the producing field. Proved reserves used to calcu96 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS late amortization in relation to the monthly produc• Sufficient data exist to indicate that, although a detion volume are estimated by external geologists and velopment in a specific area is likely to proceed, the petroleum engineers in accordance with international carrying amount of the exploration and evaluation standards and reviewed annually or when there is an asset is unlikely to be recovered in full from successindication of significant change. Nowadays, expenses ful development or by sale. related Manati field are being amortized, for being the only Field in production at the moment. The future liability for decommissioning of the production area is recorded based on information proFixed assets are recorded to acquisition cost, includvided by the field operator and based in revised esing interest and other financial charges of loans used timates by Management when it is the operator, and in the formation of qualifying assets less accumulatfully recorded at the time of declaration of commercied depreciation and amortization. ality for each field, as part of costs related assets (fixed assets) and a corresponding provision for abandonThe gain or loss arising from the sale or alienation of ment recorded in liabilities, support future expenses property, plant and equipment is determined by the (Note 15). The provision for abandonment is reviewed difference between the residual value of the asset and annually by Management, adjusting the values assets any income received on disposal and is recognized in and liabilities already accounted. Revisions in the calthe results for the year in which the event occurred. culation basis of the estimates expenses are recorded as cost of assets and exchange differences found are The Group records expenditure on acquisitions of exploallocated directly in income statement. ration concessions as intangible assets, which principally includes the signature bonus related to licensing rounds 2.10. IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS to obtaining concession for oil or natural gas. These are In accordance with CPC 01 (“Redução do Valor Rerecorded at acquisition cost, adjusted, as applicable, to cuperável dos Ativos”), and criteria defined in note recoverable value and amortized under the unit of pro2.9, the Company annually reviews the carrying valduction method in relation to proved reserves. ues of its property, plant, equipment, intangible and other non financial assets to determine whether there Management conducts an annual qualitative assessis any indication that those assets are impaired, or ment of its oil and gas exploration assets to identify when significant events or changes in circumstances events or circumstances which may be indicators of indicate that the carrying amount may not be recovimpairment, such as the following: erable. When applicable, if there is loss, arising from situations in which the asset’s carrying amount ex• The period for which the Company has the right to ceeds its recoverable amount, defined as the higher explore in a specific area has expired or will expire in value between the asset’s value in use and value of the near future, and is not expected to be renewed; net asset sale. If the book value exceeds the recover• Substantive expenditure on further exploration for able value, this loss is recognized in the income for and evaluation of mineral resources in a specific the year. area is neither budgeted nor planned by the Company or its partners; QGEPP’s management did not identify changes in cir• Exploration and evaluation in a specific area have cumstances, evidence of technological obsolescence not led to the discovery of commercially viable or other indication that property, plant and equipment quantities of reserves or resources and the Compaitems used in operations might be impaired, and conny has decided to discontinue such activities in that cluded that for the year ended December 31, 2012 the specific area; recognition of an impairment provisions for its propANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 97 erty, plant and equipment was not required, except for efit in 2008. The amounts allocated to income and will the derecognition of assets which showed no potensubsequently are allocated to the earnings reserve in tially producing areas, as described in note 18. equity under tax incentives, for the indirect subsidiary Manati, until the date to be incorporated by QGEP. 2.11. BORROWINGS AND FINANCING The formal transfer of the benefit, due to the incorBorrowings and financing are initially recognized poration (note 2.4), is in progress with SUDENE. Acwhen funds are received at fair value net of any transcording Decree No. 64,214/69, QGEP is eligible for the action costs. Then, are measured at amortized cost, benefit for succession pursuant to the incorporation including charges, interest pro rata temporis, inflation of its wholly owned subsidiary Manati. adjustments and exchange differences contractually incurred up to the balance sheet date. 2.16. PAYMENT ARRANGEMENTS BASED ON SHARES Equity-settled share-based payments to employees, 2.12. PROVISION FOR JUDICIAL LAWSUITS services are measured at the fair value of the eqThe provision for tax, civil and labor risks consists of uity instruments at the grant date, as described in the risks which settlement is probable based on the Note 23iii). opinion of Management and external legal advisors, and values are recorded based on estimated costs of The fair value determined at the grant date of the the outcomes of these processes. Contingent risks asequity-settled share-based payments is expensed on sessed as “possible loss” are disclosed by Managea accelerated basis over the vesting year, based on ment but not recognized (Note 14). the Company’s estimate of equity instruments that will eventually vest, with a corresponding increase 2.13. REVENUE AND EXPENSE RECOGNITION in equity. At the end of each period, the Company Revenues and expenses are recognized on the acrevises its estimate of the number of equity instrucrual basis. Sales revenue is recognized when ments expected to vest. The impact of the revision of the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the original estimates, if any, is recognized in profit the counterparty. or loss such that the cumulative expense reflects the revised estimate, with a corresponding adjustment to 2.14. INCOME TAX AND SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION the equity-settled employee benefits “Stock Option”. Income tax and social contribution are calculated and recorded based on the effective rates prevailing at the 2.17. SHARES HELD IN TREASURY balance sheet date. Deferred taxes are recognized for Equity instruments which are reacquired (share held temporary differences taxes losses and negative bain treasury) are recognized at cost and deducted from sis of social contribution, only up to the amount that equity. Any gain or loss is recognized in the income realization is considered probable by Management. statement in purchase, sale, issue or cancellation of Group equity instruments. Any difference between 2.15. TAX INCENTIVES book value and counter entry is recognized in other As the Company’s subsidiary QGEP is located in the capital reserves. region under the jurisdiction of the Northeast Development Authority (SUDENE), it is entitled to income tax relief of 75%, calculated on its operating profit during a ten-year period. QGEP was granted this ben98 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2.18. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS nancial assets with fixed or determinable payments Financial assets and liabilities are recognized when a and fixed maturity dates that the Company has the entity of Group becomes a party to the contractual procontractual obligation, the positive intent and ability visions of the instrument. to hold to maturity. Subsequent to initial recognition, held-to-maturity investments are measured at amorFinancial assets and financial liabilities are initially tized cost using the effective interest method less any measured at fair value.Transaction costs that are directly impairment. The Group has restricted cash classified attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets in this category. and financial liabilities are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabili2.19.3. Loans and receivables ties, as appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial ascosts directly attributable to the acquisition of financial sets with fixed or determinable payments that are not assets or financial liabilities at fair value through profit quoted in an active market. Loans and receivables are or loss are recognized immediately in profit or loss. measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment. 2.19. FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets are classified into the following Interest income is recognized by applying the effecspecified categories: (i) financial assets “at fair value tive interest rate, except for short-term receivables through profit or loss” (FVTPL), (ii) ‘held-to-maturity’ when the recognition of interest would be immaterial. investments, (iii) “available-for-sale” (AFS) financial The Group has accounts receivable and bank deposassets and (iv) ‘loans and receivables’. The classifiits (cash equivalents) under this class. cation depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial 2.19.4. Impairment of financial assets recognition. All regular way purchases or sales of fiFinancial assets, except those designated at fair value nancial assets are recognized and derecognized on a through profit or loss, are valued using impairment trade date basis. Regular way purchases or sales are indicators at the end of each reporting period. Impairpurchases or sales of financial assets that require dement losses are recognized if, and only if, there is oblivery of assets within the time frame established by jective evidence of impairment as a result of one or regulation or convention in the marketplace. more events occurred after the initial recognition of the asset, with an impact on the estimated future cash 2.19.1. Financial assets at flows. fair value through the profit or loss Includes financial assets maintained for negotiation For all other financial assets, objective evidence of (ie acquired mainly for sale in the short term), or desimpairment may include: ignated at fair value through profit or loss. Interest, monetary correction and exchange rate changes aris• Significant financial difficulty of the issuer or ing from the valuation at fair value are recognized in obligor; or income as financial income or expenses as incurred. • Breach of contract, in the form of default or delinThe Group has cash equivalents (CDB’s, debentures quency in interest or principal payments; or committed and exclusive investment funds) and • It becoming probable that the borrower will enter short-term investments classified in this category. bankruptcy or financial re-organization; or • The disappearance of an active market for that fi2.19.2. Investments held-to-maturity nancial asset because of financial difficulties. Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative fiANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 99 For financial assets carried at amortized cost, the costs and other premiums or discounts) through the amount of the impairment loss recognized is the difexpected life of the financial liability, or (where approference between the asset’s carrying amount and the priate) a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on present value of estimated future cash flows, disinitial recognition. counted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. 2.20.2. Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognizes financial liabilities when, the For financial assets carried at cost, the amount of the Company’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or impairment loss is measured as the difference bethey expire. tween the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future cash flows discounted 2.21. FUNCTIONAL CURRENCY at the current market rate of return for a similar finanThe functional currency of QGEPP and its subsidicial asset. Such impairment loss will not be reversed ary used in preparing the financial statements is the in subsequent periods. currency of Brazil – real (R$), being the one that best reflects the primary economic environment that the The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced Company operates and how its managed. by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where This definition of functional currency was based on the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an analysis of the following indicators, as described in allowance account. When a trade receivable is conthe technical pronouncement CPC 02: sidered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts • Currency that most influences the prices of goods previously written off are credited against the allowand services; ance account. Changes in the carrying amount of the • Currency in which they are earned or invested suballowance account are recognized in net income. stantially on the resources of financial activities; • Currency in which are normally accumulated 2.20. FINANCIAL LIABILITIES amounts received from operating activities (sale of Financial liabilities are classified either as “Financial oil products). liabilities at fair value through profit or loss” or “Other financial liabilities”. The Group has no financial li2.22. VALUE ADDED STATEMENT (“DVA”) abilities at fair value. The purpose of this statement is to disclose the wealth created by the Group and its distribution during a cer2.20.1. Other financial liabilities tain reporting period, and is presented as required Other financial liabilities (including borrowings) are by the Brazilian Corporate Law, as an integral part of measured at amortized cost. its individual financial statements, and as additional disclosure of the consolidated financial statements, The effective interest method is a method of calculatsince this statement is not required by IFRSs. ing the amortized cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest expense over the relevant period. The statement of value added was prepared using inThe effective interest rate is the rate that exactly disformation obtained in the same accounting records counts estimated future cash payments (including used to prepare the interim financial information and all fees and points paid or received that form an inpursuant to the provisions of CPC 09 – Statement tegral part of the effective interest rate, transaction of Value Added. Firstly, this statement presents the 100 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS wealth created by the Group, which is represented by cash flows from investing activities primarily include revenues (gross sales revenue, including taxes thereacquisitions and disposals of investments, deposits on, other revenues and the effects of the allowance and withdrawals and judicial payments and receipts for doubtful accounts), inputs acquired from third pararising from the sale of fixed assets. Cash flows from ties (cost of sales and purchases of materials, electric financing activities covered primarily include paypower and outsourced services, including taxes levments and receipts relating to loans and financing ied at the time of the purchase, effects of losses and obtained, derivative financial instruments and payrecovery of assets, depreciation and amortization) ments of dividends and interest on capital. and value added received from third parties (equity in earnings (loss) of subsidiaries, financial and other 2.24. NET INCOME PER SHARE income). The second part of the statement of value Calculated based on price weighted average numbers added presents the distribution of wealth among perof total ordinary shares (Note 23 ii). sonnel, taxes, fees and contributions, lenders and lessors, and shareholders. 2.25. NEW AND REVISED STANDARDS AND INTERPRETATIONS ISSUED AND NOT YET ADOPTED 2.23. STATEMENT OF CASH FLOW) Standards, interpretations and amendments to existThis statement is prepared according to CPC03 (R2)/ ing standards issued by the CPC and IFRS with effect IAS7 through the indirect method. The Company classifrom January 1, 2012 had no impact on the Compafies as cash and cash equivalents balances of cash imny’s financial statements. The standards listed below, mediately convertible into cash and highly liquid investrelated to the Company, were published and are manments (typically with maturities less than three months) datory for accounting periods beginning on or after subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. January 1, 2013 or in subsequent periods. Cash flows are classified in the statement of cash The Company did not early adopted the following flows, depending on their nature: (i) operating activinew and revised pronouncements and interpretaties, (ii) investing activities, and (iii) financing activitions, relating to its operations, already issued but not ties. Operating activities include primarily collections yet in effect: from customers and related parties, and payments to suppliers, staff, taxes and financial charges. The Applicable to fiscal years Pronouncement or interpretation Description beginning on or after IFRS 7 Financial Instruments – Disclosure January 1, 2015 IFRS 9 Financial Instruments – Measurement and Classification July 1, 2013 IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements January 1, 2013 IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements January 1, 2013 IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities January 1, 2013 IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement January 1, 2013 IAS 16 Property, Plant and Equipment January 1, 2013 IAS 19 Employee Benefits January 1, 2013 IAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements January 1, 2013 IAS 28 Investments in Associates January 1, 2013 IAS 32 Financial Instruments – Presentation January 1, 2014 IAS 34 Interim Financial Statements January 1, 2013 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 101 The Company’s management will assess the impacts 2.26. EFFECTS OF CPC 23 – ACCOUNTING POLICIES, CHANof the adoption of these pronouncements and interGES IN ESTIMATES AND CORRECTION OF ERRORS pretations on the financial statements, which will be The effects of reclassification on the income stateadopted when they become effective. ment made by management in the balance of December 31, 2011 based on CPC 23 – Accounting Policies, CPC has not issued the pronouncements and amendchanges in accounting estimates and correction of erments related to new and revised IFRSs presented ror are presented below. previously. Due to the commitment of CPC and CVM remain updated group of standards issued based on Consolidated income statement: the updates made by IASB, it is expected that these pronouncements and amendments be issued by CPC and approved by CVM when they become effective. 2011 2011 (originally (Resubmitted) presented) NET REVENUE 289,007 289,007 COSTS (128,722) (128,722) GROSS PROFIT 160,285 160,285 OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSES) General and Administrative Expenditure (64,096) (59,547) Equity method Oil and gas exploration expenditure (52,071) (56,620) Other net operating (7,261) (7,261) INCOME FROM OPERATIONS BEFORE FINANCIAL INCOME 36,857 36,857 FINANCIAL INCOME, NET 84,354 84,354 INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION 121,211 121,211 Deferred Income tax and social contribution 2,939 2,939 Current Income tax and social contribution (32,013) (32,013) NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR 92,137 92,137 Management, after analysis of the nature of certain 3.  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGMENTS AND costs and expenses incurred on the fourth quarter of KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY the year ended on December 31, 2011, understood to In applying the Group’s accounting policies described apply the reclassification, for better presentation in in Note 2, management must make judgments and the oil and gas expenditure line in relation to taxes in develop estimates regarding the carrying values of seismic acquisition, which are associated with exploassets and liabilities for which are not easily obtained ration activity. from other sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience and These reclassifications have no impact on other fiother factors deemed relevant. Actual results could nancial statements presented. differ from these estimates, when its effective realization in subsequent periods. 102 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The main estimates used refer to record the effect Management believes that the chosen valuation techof the provision for tax, civil and labor, deprecianiques and assumptions used are appropriate in detion of fixed assets and intangible assumptions for termining the fair value of financial instruments. determining the provision for abandonment and decommissioning of areas, expected realization of tax 3.2.2. Fixed assets and intangible assets credits and Other assets, provision for income tax As described in Note 2.9, Management reviews annuand social contribution and the valuation of financial ally the estimated useful life of fixed assets at the end instruments and determining the fair value of derivaof each year. During the period, the Management contive financial instruments, including financial assets cludes that useful life for fixed assets was adequate held to maturity. and adjustments were not required. The estimates and assumptions are reviewed con3.2.3. Deferred income tax and social contribution tinuously. The effects of revisions to accounting estiThe Group records deferred tax assets related to tempomates are recognized prospectively. rary differences arising between the accounting bases of assets and liabilities and the tax bases. Deferred tax 3.1. KEY JUDGMENTS IN APPLYING ACCOUNTING POLICIES assets are recognized to the extent that the Group expects to generate sufficient future taxable income based 3.1.1. Held-to-maturity financial assets on projections and forecasts prepared by management. The management has reviewed the Group’s heldSuch projections and forecasts statements include sevto-maturity financial assets in the light of its capital eral assumptions related to the Group’s performance, maintenance and liquidity requirements and have exchange rates, volume of production and other rates confirmed the Group’s positive intention and ability and factors that may differ from current estimates. to hold those assets to maturity. The carrying amount of the held-to-maturity financial assets is R$24,231 on According to current Brazilian tax law, there is no December 31, 2012. More details about these assets deadline for the expiry of tax losses. However, the acare described in Note 8. cumulated tax losses can be compensated only up to 30% of annual taxable income. 3.2. KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY Below, are the main assumptions about the future 3.2.4. Provision for tax, civil and labor judicial lawsuits and other key sources of estimation uncertainty used The provision for tax, civil and labor risks is recorded which can lead to significant adjustments in accountand/or disclosed unless the possibility of loss is coning amounts of assets and liabilities in the next period: sidered remote by our legal advisors. These contingencies are arranged in notes of the financial statements 3.2.1. Valuation of financial instruments (Notes 2.12 and 14). The Group uses valuation techniques that include inputs that are not based on observable market data to The booking of the provision for tax, civil and labor estimate the fair value of certain types of financial inrisks on a particular liability on the financial statements struments. Note 22 provide detailed information about is made when the value of the loss can be reasonably the key assumptions used in the determination of the estimated. By their nature, contingencies will be solved fair value of financial instruments, as well as the dewhen one or more future events occur or fail to occur. tailed sensitivity analysis for these assumptions. Typically, the occurrence of such events not depends ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 103 on our performance, which hampers the realization of for each field, as part of the costs related assets (fixed precise estimates about the precise date on which such assets) and a corresponding provision for abandonevents are recorded. Assessing such liabilities, particument recorded in the liabilities, claims that such fularly in the uncertain legal environment in Brazil, and ture expenses (Note 15). other jurisdictions involve the exercise of significant estimates and judgments of management regarding The methodology for calculating this provision conthe results of future events. sists in estimating on the date of the financial statements how much the Company would disburse with 3.2.5. Amortization of fixed and intangible assets and proabandonment and decommissioning of their producvision for abandonment and dismantling of areas tion areas. The estimated amount of the provision is The estimates of proved reserves and probable reindexed in foreign currency U.S. dollar. serves are periodically evaluated and updated. The proved and probable reserves are determined by usThe provision for abandonment is reviewed annually ing techniques which are generally accepted geologiby Directors by adjusting the values assets and liacal estimates. The calculation of reserves requires the bilities. Revisions in the calculation basis of the estiCompany to assume that positions of future condimates of expenditure are recognized as cost of assets tions are uncertain, including Oil futures exchange and exchange differences found are allocated directly rates, inflation rates, availability of licenses and proto income. duction costs. Modifications in some of these assumptions could have a significant impact on proved Exploration expenditure (expenses on successful reserves and probable reserves recorded. drilling or evaluation) and signing bonus are capitalized and maintained according accounting practices The estimated volume of reserves is the basis for calas described in Note 2.9. The initial capitalization of culating the portion of amortization and its estimated expenses and maintenance is based on qualitative useful life is a major factor to quantify the provision judgment of Management and viability is confirmed of abandonment and dismantling of their areas if by the exploration in progress activities and operathere is a write-down of fixed assets. Any changes in tions planned by the committee of the consortium. estimates of the volume of reserves and in the life of assets linked to them may have significant impact 3.2.6. Provision for profit sharing on depreciation charges, in the financial statements The profit sharing paid to employees (including key as cost of Products sold. Changes in estimated useful personnel) is based on achievement of performance life may have a significant impact on estimates of the metrics, financial and quality, individual goals of emprovision for abandonment (Note 2.9), of its recovery ployees, determined annually. This provision is set after the write-down of fixed assets and of impairmonthly and is recalculated at the end of the year ment analysis. based on the best estimate of the achieved goals as set out in the annual budget process. The future liability for decommissioning of the production area is recorded based on information provided by the operator of the field and based on estimates of Directors when it is the operator, and fully recorded at the time of declaration of commerciality 104 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS a) Cash and cash equivalents Parent Consolidated 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 Cash and bank deposits 7 51 3,562 758 CDBs and debentures 658 2,654 150,732 106,553 Exclusive investment fund (*) 717,028 914,640 Total 665 2,705 871,322 1,021,951 Cash and cash equivalents are concentrated in Banks The portfolios of investment funds, on December 31, Certificates of Deposit (CBD) and repurchase agree2012 are composed of exclusive titles and balances ments (with debentures as guarantee) and shares of demonstrated below: exclusive investment funds, possessing immediate liquidity and profitability indexed to the Interbank Product 2012 2011 Deposit Certificate (CDI) rate, without impacts to the Committed (debentures and bonds) 210,604 220,579 CDB/CDI (post-fixed) 506,424 694,061 principal and earnings when redeemed. Tittles classified as cash and cash equivalents 717,028 914,640 b) Short-term investments Letters of Treasury Financial (LFT) 29,611 130,479 Financial Letters (Votorantim, Bradesco, Itaú and CEF) 51,336 Consolidated Titles classified as short term investments 80,947 130,479 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 Exclusive investment fund (*) 80,947 130,479 5. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE Total 80,947 130,479 The Manati has a long term contract from 2007 (maturity until July/2030) to supply a minimum annual The average return of, cash equivalents and short volume of gas to Petrobras, for a price in reais, that is term investments was equivalent to 101.3% of the CDI adjusted annually based on contractual index. Selic, accumulated year ended on December 31, 2012. The balances of accounts receivable relate primarily to (*) Composition of exclusive investment funds transactions of sale of gas with Petrobras, which historically have no defaults or delays. There was an alThe Company has a multimarket exclusive investlowance for doubtful accounts because the accounts ment fund that applies exclusively in shares of fixed receivable balance is comprised only of balance with income funds, backed by public, indexed to Selic, and average collection period of approximately 40 days. private securities indexed to the rate of CDI. 6. INVENTORIES Consolidated 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 Inventories 9,403 5,362 Composed by materials needed to carry out exploratory drilling campaign. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 105 7. RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS Balances and transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries have been eliminated in consolidation and are not presented in this note. Information on transactions between the Company and other related parties is detailed below: Parent Consolidated 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 Liabilities – current Accounts payable – QG S.A (a). 58 Accounts payable – QGOG (b) 85 325 Accounts payable – BS3 S.A. 117 Accounts payable – QGEP 113 Total 113 85 500 Consolidated The Company do not offer post-employment benefits, 01/01/12 01/01/2011 long-term benefits and/or benefits of employment to 12/31/12 to 12/31/12 contract cancellation, except retirement benefit plan Income as described in Note 26. General and administrative expenses (b) 962 2,750 Financial expenses (a) 194 1,177 (a) R efers to financial charges of loans from BNB/BNDES. These loans were fully paid in May 15, 2012 as 8. RESTRICTED CASH described in Note 13. (b) D ue to provide of administrative services rendered by QGOG to QGEP and Manati. The costs incurred were allocated between the companies based on the efforts required for each corporate activity, with a maturity of 35 Consolidated days. In case of delay in settlement, interest of 1% will be charged. 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 Abandonment fund (a) 24,231 11,379 7.1. MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION Term investments – accelerated depreciation 2,142 BNB and BNDES loans (b) Includes fixed remuneration (wages and salaries, vacaTerm investments – account reserve (c) 47,447 tion, 13th salary and pension), social contributions (contriTotal Restricted cash 24,231 60,968 butions to Social Security – INSS, FGTS, and others), the (a) The abandonment fund is represented by investments held for the payment of the allowance for noncompliance of variable remuneration and stock option plan of key perManati Field (drop-out fund – see Note 15) and are fully applied in Banco Bradesco. The average fund profitability was equivalent to 9.19% for the year ended December 31, 2012 (11.71% year ended December 31, 2011). (b) Financial applications for which they are transferred every month, funds from the purchase and sale of natural gas, sonnel in the administration is presented as table below: assuming production of Manati field excess the estimated monthly amount produced, according to contract, and equal to 50% of this surplus production multiplied by the sales contract price within the month. The loans were fully paid on May 15, 2012 and with financial investments held in the restricted cash Financing Contract. Parent (c) Other financial assets of the subsidiary QGEP were composed of financial balances that are part of the package of securities transferred to BNB and BNDES as a result of the funding for development of the Manati Field (reserve account). The 01/01/2012 01/01/2011 loans were fully paid on May 15, 2012 and with financial investments held in the restricted cash Financing Contract. to 12/31/12 to 12/31/11 Short term benefits 2,074 1,690 9. TAXES Consolidated 9.1. RECOVERABLE TAXES 01/01/2012 01/01/2011 to 12/31/12 to 12/31/11 Consolidated Short term benefits 14,362 5,356 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 Stock option plan 5,012 2,221 Prepaid income tax and social contribution 5,168 978 Income tax (WIT) on short-term investments (*) 13,258 19,514 In addition to the compensation mentioned above, Recoverable taxes 16,581 during the year ended December 31, 2011, the comOthers 1,121 373 Total 36,128 20,865 pany recognized an amount of R$13,712 relating to bonus of the process of IPO for the Directors, as apCurrent 35,698 20,698 proved in the minutes of meeting of Board of DirecNon current 430 167 tors (“RCA”), at March 28, 2011. (*) Credits refers to a semiannually charging system of income tax on the profitability of the investments funds, called “come cotas”. The amount is calculated based on both lower tax rate of each fund type (percentage of 20% for short-term funds and 15% for long term funds). 106 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 9.2. TAXES PAYABLE Parent Consolidated 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 State VAT (a) 4,468 5,006 Income tax and social contribution 6,301 IRRF 37 28 644 343 Taxes on revenue (PIS/COFINS) (a) 12,709 9,395 Royalties (b) 3,130 2,453 Special participation (c) 2,581 865 Others 263 75 Total current 37 28 23,795 24,438 (a) Taxes on the sale of natural gas produced in the Manati field. (b) The Company pays royalties to the ANP on gas produced in the Manati field, as described in Note 20. (c) The special participation provided for the gas produced in the Manati field, as described in Note 20. 9.3. RECONCILIATION OF INCOME TAX AND SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION EXPENSES IN INCOME Parent Consolidated 01/01/12 01/01/11 01/01/12 01/01/11 to 12/31/12 to 12/31/11 to 12/31/12 to 12/31/11 Income before income tax and social contribution 82,468 92,137 Income before income tax and social contribution 122,498 121,211 Statutory rates 34% 34% Statutory rates 34% 34% Income tax and social contribution expenses Income tax and social contribution expenses (28,039) (31,327) (41,650) (41,212) at statutory rates at statutory rates Adjustment of taxes at effective rate: Adjustment of taxes at effective rate: Shareholders’ equity 28,961 32,398 Tax incentives (a) 43,720 24,035 Tax losses not recognized (a) (922) (1,071) Tax losses not recognized as tax credits (b) (16,628) (4,681) Provision for tax credits on December 31, 5,800 Deferred income tax and social contribution 2011 (c) Current income tax and social contribution Non deductible expenses (a) R efers to 100% of the tax losses and carry forward of QGEPP. On December 31, 2012, QGEPP had tax losses and (Income not taxable): negative social contribution in total of R$63,307 (R$60,696 at December 31, 2011), and QGEPP does not record deferred tax assets for income tax and social contribution arising from tax losses of income tax or negative Permanents (d) (29,214) (196) social contribution bases because there is no recovery of profitability until the current date for their activities still in the exploratory stages and development. Temporary (2,058) (7,019) Income tax and social contribution (40,030) (29,073) Deferred income tax and social contribution (5,800) 2,939 Current income tax and social contribution (34,230) (32,013) (a) Tax incentive calculated on the operating profits of the Manati operations (Note 2.15). (b) On December 31, 2012, QGEP had tax losses in amount of R$71,211 and negative basis of social contribution in total of R$91,169 (R$39,003 on December 31, 2011), and QGEP does not record deferred tax assets for income tax and social contribution arising from tax losses of income tax or negative social contribution bases because there is no recovery of profitability until the current date. (c) On December 31, 2012, Management, as considered in Note 3.2.3, reviewed the constitution of deferred income tax arising from temporary differences recorded in accounts, and recorded a provision for non-realization of this deferred income tax. (d) Refers to the deferral of taxation on profits in a public company contract, mixed economy company. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 107 10. INVESTMENTS 10.1. COMPOSITION The following, are presented the details of the Company’s subsidiaries at year ended: Participation capital Place of incorporation Participation Name of subsidiary and total voting detainees – % and operation Direct Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção S.A. Brazil 100% Indirect Atlanta Field B.V. (*) Netherlands 100% (*) Without operation until December, 31 2012. 10.2. EQUITY METHOD INVESTMENTS 10.3. INFORMATION ABOUT SUBSIDIARIES Data on investment and financial information for cal• Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção S.A. culating the equity pick up on direct subsidiary QGEP, is as follows: Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção S.A. (“QGEP”) was incorporated on October 16, 2009 under the name Number of ordinary shares 191,352,711 Chania Participações S.A., subsequently changed to Direct shareholding 100% Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção S.A. on May 14, 2010, and was dormant until July 2, 2010 when R$ Capital stock 2,042,553 QGOG subscribed to the capital of QGEP with the Shareholders’ equity 2,224,776 above net assets of its E&P segment. With this, QGEP Net income 85,179 became a fully owned subsidiary of QGOG. Assets 2,433,271 Liabilities 208,495 The principal objectives of QGEP are exploration Net revenue 40,012 for oil and gas, production and trade of oil, natural gas and their derivatives, and investment in other Changes in investments in direct subsidiary of QGEP entities substantially focused on related activities, presented in financial statements is as follows: Such investments may be as partner, shareholder or through other forms of association with or without R$ separate legal identity. Balance at December 31, 2011 2,170,498 Stock option plan 8,466 Intermediary dividends (a) (36,939) • Atlanta Field B.V. Minimum mandatory dividends (2,428) Equity (b) 85,179 The Atlanta Field BV (“AFBV”), a wholly owned subBalance at December 31, 2012 2,224,776 sidiary of Queiroz Galvão Exploration and Produc(a) Intermediary dividends was distributed based in reserve investments balance on December 31, 2011, as approval on Extraordinary General Meeting, as described below, and QGEPP purpose is repurchase of shares in tion (“QGEP”), is a privately held Dutch company treasury and subsequently meet the Plan for Stock option (Notes 23 and 24 iii): and is engaged in the acquisition, budgeting, conApproval date Amount paid struction, purchase, sale, rental, lease or charter of Extraordinary General Meeting 06/05/2012 6,284 Extraordinary General Meeting 08/16/2012 13,315 materials and equipment to be used for the exploExtraordinary General Meeting 09/13/2012 5,490 ration and exploitation of the Concession Area and Extraordinary General Meeting 11/15/2012 11,850 Total 36,939 also acquire, manage, operate equipment, including (b) The result obtained by the subsidiary for the year ended December 31, 2012. equipment recorded to support the activities of the Company. On December 31, 2012 this subsidiary do not have operations and accounting effects. 108 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 11. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT Consolidated Depreciation 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 and Depreciation amortization Cost and Net Net rate % amortization Corporative segment Furniture and fixtures 10% 672 (120) 552 593 Vehicles 20% 826 (192) 634 532 Improvement in third parties properties 20% 1,346 (413) 933 1,141 Computers – Hardware 20% 1,066 (282) 784 880 Advances for fixed assets acquisition 635 635 Subtotal 4,545 (1,007) 3,538 3,146 Upstream segment Expenditure on exploration of natural resources in progress (i) 296,920 296,920 327,917 Expenditure on exploration of natural resources (ii) (iii) 16,844 (12,121) 4,723 6,353 Expenditures on development of production oil and gas in progress (iv) 14,097 14,097 1,362 Expenditure on the development of oil and gas production (iii) 805,667 (351,757) 453,910 530,647 Subtotal 1,133,528 (363,878) 769,650 866,279 Total 1,138,073 (364,885) 773,188 869,425 (i) Expenditure on exploration in progress is not amortized until the completion of the exploration process. (ii) Refers to discovery and delimited wells of the Manati field, which is already on operation. (iii) The proved reserves used to calculate amortization (in proportion to monthly production volume) are estimated by external geologists and petroleum engineers in accordance with international standards. These estimates are revised annually or when there is evidence of significant change, see Note 20(b). The effects of any such changes in reserves on depreciation or amortization are recorded prospectively and do not affect charges in previous periods. (iv) Expenditure on development in progress is not amortized because awaiting start production. Consolidated Expenditure Corporate on Expenditure Expenditures Cost Expenditures spending exploration on exploration on development on development Total on fixed of natural of natural of oil and gas of oil and gas assets resources resources in progress in progress Balance at 12/31/2011 3,533 327,917 16,844 1,362 802,178 1,151,834 (+) Additions of the year 1,405 87,073 (a) 12,735 3,489 104,702 (-) Write-off year (393) (118,070) (b) (118,463) Balance at 12/31/2012 4,545 296,920 16,844 14,097 805,667 1,138,073 (a) Main additions refers to BM-S-8 in the amount of R$53,384 and BM-S-12 in the amount of R$26,050 ,that includes expenses with drilling services. (b) Reductions refers to Ilha do Macuco well (BM-S-12 block) in amount of R$81,513 and Jequitibá prospect (BM-CAL-5) in amount of R$36,557. Corporate Expenditure on Expenditures on Depreciation and asset exploration development Total Amortization depreciation amortization amortization Balance at 12/31/2011 (387) (10,491) (271,531) (282,409) (+) Additions of the period (620) (1,630) (80,226) (82,476) Balance at 12/31/2012 (1,007) (12,121) (351,757) (364,885) ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 109 12. INTANGIBLE Consolidated Cost Amortization 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 Acquisition of exploration concession (i) 529,399 529,399 529,399 Signing bonus (ii) 4,364 4,364 4,364 Others 2,895 (528) 2,367 1,442 Total 536,658 (528) 536,130 535,205 (i) On June 1, 2011, the subsidiary QGEP signed with Shell Brasil Petróleo Ltda. (“Shell”) a purchase and sale agreement regarding the right to participate in the block BM-S-8, located in the offshore Santos Basin in the total amount of R$278,692 (US$175,000). The transfer of rights of participation of Shell to QGEP was approved by ANP in December 2011. The consortium formed by Petrobras (operator), QGEP, Petrogal and Barra Energia. The payment of 10% of the value, in amount of R$27,687 (US$17,500) for the acquisition was held on June 15, 2011 and the other 90% in amount of R$247,732 (US$157,000) of the acquisition were paid on July 15, 2011. On August 16, 2011, the subsidiary QGEP signed with Shell Brasil Petróleo Ltda. (“Shell”) a purchase and sale agreement regarding the right to participate in the fields Atlanta and Oliva (BS-4), located in the offshore Santos Basin in the total amount of R$250.707 (US$157,500). The consortium formed by Petrobras, Chevron and Shell (operator). On February 16, 2012, ANP approved the transfer of 30% of concession rights, as the operation of Atlanta and Oliva fields (BS-4) to QGEP. The payment of 10% of the value (US$15,750) for the acquisition was held on August 18, 2011 and the other 90% (US$141,750) of the acquisition were paid on March 2, 2012, paying all amount in accounts payable on December 31, 2011. (ii) On December 31, 2012, the signing bonus in the amount of R$4,364, corresponds to expenditures for the acquisition of exploration rights from ANP which are not being amortized yet, as it refers to the concession areas in exploratory phase. The composition of this balance is available for consultation in Note 20. Consolidated Cost Acquisition Signing of exploration Software Total bonus concession Balance at 12/31/2011 529,399 4,364 1,442 535,205 (+) Additions for the period (i)/(ii) 1,368 1,368 (-) Write-off period (iii) (443) (443) Balance at 12/31/2012 529,399 4,364 2,367 536,130 13. BORROWINGS AND FINANCING Borrowings and financing are intended primarily to fiThe process considered as a possible loss was not acnance exploration and evaluation projects and/or decrued in the financial statements is the result of the Tax velopment of oil and natural gas reserves, and capital Foreclosure fine imposed on Assessment Notice No. expenditures normally incurred for drilling and other 2006-007365/TEC/AIMU-0343, issued on 11/12/2006. services related to the Company’s operations, and The offense relates to breach of condition determined were fully paid in May 15, 2012. Below is the moveby the Environment Institute (IMA), resulting in eroment for the year ended December 31, 2012. sion and siltation of streams, when the installation of the pipeline between the cities of Guaibin and São Balance on 12/31/2011 103,557 Francisco do Conde, whose fine, updated, is R$518. (-) Payment of principal (103,130) Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção S.A. (“QGEP”) (+) Interest charged 2,892 successor by merger of Manati S.A. may be responsi(-) Payment of interest (3,075) (-) Term compliance bonus (244) ble for 45% of any contingency, in proportion to their Closing balance on 12/31/2012 participation in each concession contract and may involve repair damage and environmental responsibility. 14. TAX, CIVIL AND LABOR JUDICIAL LAWSUITS Through an agreement made on October 28, 2010, Management, based on the opinion of its external lethe Company has agreed to indemnify QGOG for any gal counsel, has concluded that there are no lawsuits claims related to E&P activities that may be imputed for which the likelihood of an unfavorable outcome for to that Company. In compensation, on January 18, the Company is probable; therefore no provision for 2011, the Company signed a contract with Constelloss on such risks has been recognized in this interim lation and QGOG Overseas, Ltd. (“Constellation”), financial information. whereby those companies were required to compen110 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 17. COSTS AND GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENDITURE sate for losses accruing in respect of all existing liabilities and contingent risk not related to E&P that will 17.1 COST be allocated to the Company. Based on the opinion Consolidated of outside legal counsel of QGOG and Constellation, 01/01/12 01/01/11 the Company concluded that there are no probable to 12/31/12 to 12/31/11 cases of loss, hence no provision was recorded in the Extraction costs (49,437) (47,983) period presented in the interim financial information. Royalties and special participation (45,649) (24,711) Research and development (5,859) (2,973) 15. PROVISION FOR ABANDONMENT Amortization and depreciation (81,856) (53,055) The estimated cost for abandonment, informed by Total (182,801) (128,722) operator, was reviewed for the year ended December 31, 2012, and approved by the consortium, accord17.2 GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENDITURE ing to notes 2.9 and 3.2.5. This provision reflects the Parent estimated expenses to be incurred, including but not 01/01/12 01/01/11 limited to: (i) plugging of wells, and (ii) removing proto 12/31/12 to 12/31/11 duction equipment. Payroll (2,111) (1,751) Services from third parties (336) (485) Changes in the provision for abandonment for the Insurance (35) (865) year ended on December 31, 2012: Taxes and fees (10) (136) Advertisements and publications (198) (262) Consolidated Associations (134) (6) Balance on 12/31/2011 107,047 Other expenses (15) (60) Exchange differences 9,415 Total (2,839) (3,565) Balance on 12/31/2012 116,462 Consolidated 01/01/12 01/01/11 16. NET REVENUE to 12/31/12 to 12/31/11 Payroll (a) (54,860) (43,888) Consolidated Services from third parties (8,167) (4,495) 01/01/12 01/01/11 Insurance (832) (958) to 12/31/12 to 12/31/11 Taxes and fees (930) (1,347) Gross revenue 586,053 372,020 Advertisements and publications (1,167) (907) Tax on revenue (PIS) (9,402) (6,019) Sponsor (1,709) (763) Tax on revenue (COFINS) (43,312) (27,723) Shared services (1,224) (1,955) State VAT (ICMS) (54,870) (42,026) Depreciation (1,063) (485) Discounts contractual reduction (16,163) (7,245) Maintenance (1,072) (453) Total deductions (123,747) (83,013) Other expenses (5,086) (4,296) Net revenue 462,306 289,007 E&P allocating projects (b) 12,825 Total (63,285) (59,547) (a) The amount in December 31, 2011, includes the amount of R$23,070 related to the payments to directors, managers, officers and employees (including directors, managers, officers and employees of the subsidiary QGEP) for an incentive compensation tied to the completion of the IPO. This incentive compensation was the total value of 1,523% of the primary offering, as approved on the Minutes of Meeting of Board of Directors (“MBD”) of March 28, 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2012 was recorded R$13,1 and refers to profit sharing. (b) This amount refers for the expenses related to BS-4 Block, which the Company is the operator with 30% interest, with the remainder related to their partners. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 111 18. OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION EXPENDITURES 19. FINANCIAL INCOME, NET The oil and gas exploration expenditure is related to Parent the purchase, processing and interpretation of seis01/01/12 01/01/11 mic data, drilling campaign planning, licensing and to 12/31/12 to 12/31/11 environmental impact studies, costs of dry wells or Interest on short-term investments 129 423 costs related to commercially unviable reserves, and Financial expenses (1) (10) similar costs. From the balance of R$176,978 on DeMonetary variation Total 128 413 cember 31, 2012, R$162,133 refers to derecognition exploration expenses of Ilha do Macuco dry well Consolidated (R$81,513 from fixed assets and R$44,045 from in01/01/12 01/01/11 come) and Jequitibá (R$36,557 from fixed assets to 12/31/12 to 12/31/11 and R$619 from income) located in the BM-S-12 and Interest on short-term investments 84,135 153,276 BM-CAL-5, respectively, which showed no potentially Interest on borrowings and financing and finan(3,356) (20,421) cial expenses (a) producing areas. From the balance of R$56,020 on Exchange rate changes net: December 31, 2011, R$13,165 is related to exploration Borrowings and financing 1,204 expenses of the well 1-SP-80 located in block BM-SDerivative financial instrument (b) (11,490) 76, which did not show potentially producing areas, Provision for abandonment (9,415) (11,962) as already reported to the market and R$29,584 refers Accounts payable – Atlanta and Oliva (BS-4) (c) 22,773 (40,121) seismic of new acquisitions. Others (170) 2,378 Total 82,477 84,354 (a) Net of R$244 for compliance bonus as provided in the loan agreements and financing. (b) In 2011, the Company contracted derivative instruments, NDF’s (Non Deliverable Forwards) in amount of US$70,000, and the objective was reducing exposure in the dollar relative to reais, regarding the acquisition of 30% of block BS-4. On March 2, 2012 the Company paid additional 90% of acquisition price and derivative instruments (NDFs) was settled on the same date. (c) As described in Note 12, reflects the effect of exchange rate changes on liabilities arising from the acquisition of BS-4 Block. 112 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 20. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION a) Rights and obligations with the ANP The Group owns concessions for exploration and production of oil and natural gas in the following blocks: Stage Basin Block/Field Concession date Equity interest % Petrobras (operator) 35 Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção 15 Disabled Santos Coral 09/15/2000 Panoro Energy 35 Brasoil 15 Petrobras (operator) 35 Camamu Manati Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção 45 08/06/1998 Development and BCAM-40 Camarão Norte Panoro Energy 10 production Brasoil 10 Petrobras 40 Santos Atlanta and Oliva BS-4 08/06/1998 Barra Energia 30 Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção (operator) 30 Petrobras (operator) 72.5 Camamu Almada BM-CAL-5 09/28/2001 Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção 27.5 CAL-M-312 Petrobras (operator) 60 Camamu – Almada CAL-M-372 11/24/2004 Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção 20 El Paso 20 Petrobras (operador) 70 Campos BM-C-27 (*) 11/26/2003 Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção 30 Exploration Petrobras (operator) 70 Santos BM-S-12 08/29/2001 Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção 30 Petrobras (operator) 66 Petrogral 14 Santos BM-S-8 09/15/2000 Barra Energia 10 Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção 10 Jequitinhonha BM-J-2 09/02/2002 Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção (operator) 100 (*) In process of tranfer to QGEP of 30% of participation The table below shows the commitments assumed under the Group’s current portfolio of interests in oil and natural gas exploration and production projects: PEM Area retention rate per km2 guarantee Year of Signatures (Amounts in Brazilian reais) Block/field Área km2 Royalties (QGEP %) contract bonds MM R$ Exploration Development Production Manati 2000 75,650 7.5% 100.00 200.00 1,000.00 Camarão Norte 2000 16,470 7.5% 100.00 200.00 1,000.00 Coral 2000 43,915 8.5% 200.00 400.00 2,000.00 BM-S-12 2001 1,596 2,058,720 10% 435.52 871.04 4,355.20 BM-CAL-5 2001 1,146 341,700 10% 152.43 304.86 1,524.30 BM-J-2 16.2 2002 855 742,051 10% 174.43 348.86 1,744.30 CAL-M-312 2.2 2004 205 745,851 10% 239.00 478.00 2,390.00 CAL-M-372 9.3 2004 562 745,031 10% 239.00 478.00 2,390.00 BM-S-8 2000 2.432,2 10% 396.02 792.04 3,960.20 BM-C-27 2003 257,888 10% 610.61 1,221.22 6,106.10 Atlanta and Oliva (BS-4) 2000 199.6 7.8% 200.00 400.00 2,000.00 Total 27.7 4,364 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 113 As at December 31, 2012, QGEP has undertaken to per• Special participation – The special participation proform the Minimum Exploration Program (“PEM”) of the vided for by Article 45, III, of Law No. 9,478/97 sets concessions described in Note 1, which comprises the out financial compensation due by oil and natural drilling of two (2) exploration wells, one in BM-J-2 Block gas production concessionaires in the case of a large and one in BM-CAL-12 (CAL-M-372 Block), both schedproduction volume or high profitability, as defined uled for completion in 2013 and 2014, respectively. The in the regulating Decree. This is paid for each field in commitment comprise: (i) drilling of a well in BM-CAL-5, a given concession area as from the quarter in which scheduled for the end of 2014, (ii) a drilling of a well, persuch field starts production. During the year ended forming a formation test and a long-term contingent test December 31, 2012 were accrued R$9,869, and these in BM-S -8, (iii) drilling of a well in BM-C-27, scheduled for charges are recorded in the income statement as op2014 and (iv) reentry and possible deepening and evaluaerating costs special participation, of which R$2,581 tion of well 1-SCS-13, BM-S-12. BM-J-2 Block was started remains on accounts payable. in 2011, but environmental restrictions at certain times of • Payment for concession area occupation and rethe year, had to be temporarily interrupted about 2,540 tention – During the exploration, development and feet deep, leaving about 2,160 meters over the be drilled. production stage the company incurred retention payments of R$211 recorded in the statement of The subsidiary QGEP S.A. holds 45% of the Manati field, comprehensive income as operating costs. which started production in January 2007, and has decommissioning obligations. As at December 31, 2012, b) Information on reserves (not audited by independthe provision for abandonment is R$116,462 (Note 15). ents auditors) The following payments of Government profit parThe net proved gas reserves of subsidiary QGEP in ticipation and third-party royalties are covered by Manati field were prepared in accordance with the criQGEP’s agreement with the ANP: teria set out by the FASB – Accounting Standards Codification ASC 932 Extractive Industries – Oil and Gas. • Royalties – equivalent to 7.5% (Manati field) of the higher of the benchmark price or the sales revenue, These reserves are the estimated quantities of gas payable from the start of production of the concesthat, based on geological analysis and engineering insion area. During the year ended December 31, 2012 formation, can be estimated with reasonable certainty were charged R$35,780 royalty on the production under defined economic conditions, established methof the Manati field in the year, of which R$3,130 reods of operation and prevailing regulatory conditions. mains accrued on that date. These charges are recorded in the income statement as operating costs. The estimate of reserves is subject to uncertainties, and therefore changes in such estimates may occur as knowledge is increased based on new information collected. 114 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The estimated gas reserve is as follows: QGEP not require any initial outlay for participation in the blocks. QGEP will carry some of the costs of Total field reserve drilling in the prospectus Guanabara Deep. The exploMMm3 (unaudited) ration investments for QGEP are estimated in US$55 Estimated proved reserve at December 31, 2012 (a) 11,987 million (R$112,393 on December 31, 2012). (a) Based on estimates of the Company’s petroleum engineers. The table below summarizes our contractual obligaThe proved reserve was estimated based on the certitions and commitments at December 31, 2012: fied reserve in 2011, less annual production. c) Guarantees R$ thousands Payments due by period On December 31, 2012, the Group has guarantees Total 2013 2014 through letters of credit and warranty insurance, by BS-4 89,773 55,491 34,282 the ANP in amount of R$27,898 for the Minimum ExC-M-122, C-M-145 and C-M-146 Blocks 112,393 112,393 ploration Programs established in the concession Total 202,166 55,491 146,675 contracts areas of exploration. 21. COMMITMENTS 22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS On 31 December 2012 the Group had contracts with a) General Considerations suppliers that involve services of technical advisory, supply of materials and supplies and equipment operThe Company’s financial instruments include cash ation with various maturities to campaign exploratory and cash equivalents, short-term investments, reblock BS-4 in an amount of approximately R$89,773. stricted cash, trade accounts receivable, suppliers, borrowings and financing (only December 31, 2011) On November 7, 2012, the subsidiary Queiroz Galvão and related parties. Exploração e Produção S.A. signed an agreement with Petrobras for 30% of rights on the exploration The Company has no options, swaptions, swaps with and production, related to participation in the PAD of non-exercise option, flexible options, derivatives embedthe prospectus which includes the Guanabara block ded in other products, structured transactions with deC-M-122, C-M-145 and C-M-146, (part of the concesrivatives or “exotic derivatives”.The Company does not sion of BM-C-27) in Campos Basin. Petrobras will conduct derivative transactions for speculative purposes remain as operator with 70% interest in the blocks. reaffirming its commitment to conservative financial The transfer of 30% participation to QGEP is subject management policy, in relation to its financial liability, or to ANP approval. The agreement with Petrobras of cash and cash equivalents position. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 115 b) Categories of financial instruments Level 1 – The “inputs” are determined based on prices in an active market for identical assets or liabilities 31/12/2012 at the measurement date. Additionally, the Company Parent Consolidated should have opportunity to negotiate this price in an RegisteFair RegisteFair active market and can’t be adjusted by the Company. red value value red value value Financial assets Held to maturity Level 2 – The “inputs” are other than prices as deterRestricted cash (i) 24,231 24,231 mined by Level 1 that are observable for the asset or Borrowings and receivables: liability, either directly or indirectly. The “inputs” in Cash and bank deposits 665 665 154,294 154,294 Level 2 include prices in an active market for simiTrade account receivables (ii) 92,769 92,769 lar assets or liabilities, prices in an inactive market Fair value through income for identical assets or liabilities, or “inputs” that are Cash equivalent (iii) 717,028 717,028 observable or can corroborate the observation data Short-term investments (iii) 80,947 80,947 from a market by correlation or other means for subFinancial instruments derivatives (i) stantially the entire portion of the assets or liabilities. Financial liabilities Suppliers (ii) 101 101 32,517 32,517 Level 3 – The “inputs” are those unobservable from Related Parties 85 85 little or no market activity. These “inputs” represent the best estimates of the Company’s management on CPC 40/IFRS 7 defines fair value as the value/price that how market participants would assign value / price would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer of these assets or liabilities. Generally, assets and lia liability in an ordinary transaction between marabilities are measured using Level 3 pricing models, ket participants at a date of their measurement. The discounted cash flow, or similar methodologies that standard clarifies that fair value should be based on require significant judgment or estimation. the assumptions that market participants use when an attribute value/price to an asset or liability and estabThe fair values of financial instruments estimated by lishes a hierarchy that prioritizes the information used management were determined as follows level 2: to develop those assumptions. The fair value hierarchy gives more reason to available market information (ie, (i) Balance refers to amortized cost, as described in observable) and less reason to information regarding Note 2.19. the data without transparency (ie, unobservable data). (ii) The values related to the balances of receivables and Additionally, the standard requires that the compapayables also have no significant differences to their ny considers all aspects of risks of non-performance fair values due to the turnover of receivables/paya(“nonperformance risk”), including the Company’s bles in of these balances being less than 60 days. own credit, to measure the fair value of a liability. (iii) The fair value measurements are obtained by observable variables for assets and liabilities, directly CPC 40/IFRS 7 establishes a three level of hierarchy (that is, as price) or indirectly (coming from prices). to be used in measuring and disclosing the fair value. An instrument categorization in the fair value hierarchy based on the lowest level of “input” significant for its measurement. Below is shown a description of three levels of hierarchy: 116 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS c) Liquidity Risk d) Credit risk The Company manages liquidity risk by maintainCredit risk is minimized because the Company’s sales ing adequate reserves, and approved credit lines for are made primarily to Petrobras. (95.4% period ended funding of loans as it considers appropriate, through December 31, 2012 and 96.3% period ended Decemthe continuous monitoring of expected and actual ber 31, 2011). Regarding the concentration of business, cash flows, and through the alignment of the maturity Management believes that, although most of transacprofiles of financial assets and liabilities. The followtions being with only one customer, Petrobras, the ing table shows in detail the maturity of contracts for credit risk is insignificant, considering that Petrobras financial liabilities: is assessed by rating agencies as Investment Grade, is controlled by the Federal Government and does not Parent have a history of default or delays. During the years Less than 1 year Total ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were not recorded Suppliers 101 101 losses on receivables with the client Petrobras. Total 101 101 e) Interest rate risk Consolidated Less than 1 year Total The Company uses funds generated by operating acSuppliers 32,517 32,517 tivities to manage its operations and to ensure their Related parties 85 85 investment and growth. Financial investments are Total 32,602 32,602 tied to interest post fixed – CDI rates. Sensitivity analysis for interest rates Balance at Probable Scenario I – Scenario II – Operation Risk 12/31/2012 scenario (a) 25% stress 50% stress Effective rate on December 31, 2012 6.90% 6.90% 6.90% Cash equivalents and short-term investments 797,975 Decrease CDI 797,975 797,975 797,975 Estimated annual rate of CDI to December 31, 2013 7.39% 5.54% 3.70% Cash equivalents and Short-term investments – sensitivity scenario Decrease CDI 856,945 841,113 825,281 Effect on income and shareholder’s equity on December 31, 2013: Estimated financial revenue 58,970 43,138 27,306 (a) Probable scenario of interest rate CDI for one year period at December 31, 2013, according Focus report at March 8, 2013, issued by Banco Central does Brasil. Balance at Probable Scenario I Scenario II Operation Risk 12/31/2012 scenario(a) 25% stress 50% stress Effective rate on December 31, 2012 6.90% 6.90% 6.90% Restricted cash: 24,231 Decrease CDI 24,231 24,231 24,231 Estimated annual rate of CDI to December 31, 2013 7.39% 5.54% 3.70% Restricted cash: Decrease CDI 26,022 25,541 25,060 Effect on income and shareholder’s equity on December 31,2013: Estimated financial revenue 1,791 1,310 829 (a) Probable scenario of interest rate CDI for one year period at December 31, 2013, according Focus report at March 8, 2013, issued by Banco Central do Brasil. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 117 f) Non-Brazilian exchange rate risk These risks are derived principally from the effect of exchange rates increase on foreign currency transactions. In order to reduce exposure from fluctuations of the dollar, in the seismic of new acquisitions, Management opted to protect part of the value in R$, indexed in dollar, using derivative instruments as described below. The instruments signed for acquisition was call option and the notional amount of US$601 was paid a premium of R$55 for the purchase of the Option, and the terms and provisions are the following: Trade Date: August 2, 2012 2012 Financial Reference Currency: USD Rate Notional value Fair value instruments Sellers’ Choice of Currency: Banco Itaú BBA S.A. R$ R$ Currency Option Style: European Call Option USD 1,228 19 (a) (a) The fair value was recorded in Others Assets (Current Assets). The year ended December 31, 2012, the effect Currency Option Type: Purchase Option of USD results was R$(9). Notional Amount of Reference Currency: USD601 Exercise Price: 2.27R$/USD Sensitivity analysis for non-Brazilian exchange rate Held to Maturity August 28, 2013 Exercise Date: August 28, 2013 exposure Settlement Date: August 28, 2013 Premium: R$55 The table below presents the sensitivity analysis in the Date of Payment of the Premium: August 2, 2012 case of dollar appreciation against real (R$) and the impact on financial instruments liabilities of the Company. Consolidated 12/31/2012 Risk Probable scenario (a) Scenario Possible Remote USD R$ (25%) (50%) Effective rate on December 31, 2012 2.0435 2.0435 2.0435 Operation Provision for abandonment US$ increase 56,992 116,462 116,462 116,462 Call option US$ increase 601 1,228 1,228 1,228 Estimated annual rate of USD to December 31, 2013 2,00 2,50 3,00 Provision for abandonment US$ increase 56,992 113,983 142,479 170,974 Call option US$ increase 601 1,202 1,503 1,803 Effect on income and shareholder’s increment in appreciation of the US$ against the real for year ended on December 31, 2012: Estimated financial revenue 2,505 Estimated expense (28,796) (57,592) (a) Probable scenario of interest rate CDI for one year period at December 31, 2013, according Focus report at March 8, 2013, issued by Banco Central do Brasil. 118 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 23. SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY i. Capital stock ii. Net income per share At the Extraordinary General Meeting (“EGM”) of The basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net January 17, 2011 it was decided to split each share into income by the weighted average of all classes of shares three (3) common shares and therefore the number outstanding during the year. The calculation of diluted of issued shares stood at 186,065,886 as of that date. earnings per share is computed including options to purchase shares of executives and key employees using the A meeting of the Board of Directors (“MBD”) held treasury stock method when the effect is dilutive. on 7 February 2011 approved the capital increase of R$1,317,460 from the current R$620,417 to R$1,937,877 The instruments of participation that will or may be through the issuance of 69,340,017 shares, all ordisettled in shares of the Company are included in the nary nominative, with no par value which were subcalculation only when the liquidation has a dilution ject to public offering held in Brazil on this date in the impact on earnings per share. OTC market which is not organized, according to CVM Instruction 400 of December 29, 2003. 01/01/12 01/01/11 Basic and diluted earnings per share to 12/31/12 to 12/31/11 Numerator In “MBD” held on March 2, 2011 were approved Net income of the period 82,468 92,137 the capital increase of R$197,619 from the current Denominator (in thousands of share) R$1,937,877 to R$2,135,496 by issuing 10,401,002 Weighted average number of common shares 264,551 256,850 Basic and diluted earnings per common share 0.31 0.36 common shares, all nominative without nominal value, were publicly distributed under the same conditions and at the same price of the shares initially Basic earnings and diluted earnings per common share offered, due to the exercise of an option to distribute is the same as in December 31, 2012 stock options are additional shares by BTG Pactual in accordance with “out of money”, and therefore do not impact the calculathe provisions of the Distribution Agreement and Fition of diluted earnings per share. nal Prospectus for Public Offering Primary Distribution of Common Shares of QGEP Participações S.A. iii. Stock options (“Final Prospectus”). The Board of Directors, within their functions and in acThe capital stock of the Company on December 31, cordance to the Stock option approved the granting of 2012 is R$2,078,116, divided into 265,806,905 compreferred stock options to managements and executives mon shares without nominal value, net amount of of the Company. Grants for 2012 and 2011, the options R$57,380 of share issue costs. The composition of the become exercisable 20% from the first year, an additional share capital on December 31, 2012 is as follows: 30% from the second and remaining 50% from the third year.The options under this Plan of 2012 and 2011 may be Shareholder Nº ordinary shares % of shareholding exercised within 7 years after the grant date. Queiroz Galvão S.A. 167,459,291 63.0 FIP Quantum 18,606,588 7.0 The fair value of the purchase options was estimated at Outstanding shares 75,910,838 28.6 concession date of options using the binomial model for Share held in treasury 3,588,956 1.3 Management 241,232 0.1 pricing in the amount of R$5.31 and R$3.87 for the Plans Total 265,806,905 100 in 2012 and R$9.87 for the Plan in 2011. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 119 The meetings of the Board of Directors and the assumptions used in pricing model are as follows:. Stock option to Stock option to Stock option to purchase purchase purchase shares 05/29/2012 shares 03/26/2012 shares 04/29/2011 Date of Board of Directors meeting 05/28/2012 03/23/2012 04/29/2011 Total of options granted 550,000 1,941,517 1,097,439 Exercise price of the option R$12.81 R$14.17 R$19.00 Fair value of the option at grant date R$3.87 R$5.31 R$9.87 Estimated volatility of the stock price 49.88% 53.24% 59.24% Expected dividend 1.93% 1.93% 2.35% Rate of return risk-free 4.06% 4.69% 6.36% Length of the options (in years) 7 7 7 The movement of stock options existing on December 31, 2012 is presented below: Price weighted average Stock option exercise Option outstanding at December 31, 2010 Granted in the period – 04/29/2011 1,097,439 19.00 Option outstanding at December 31, 2011 1,097,439 19.00 Granted in the period – 03/26/2012 1,941,517 14.17 Granted in the period – 05/28/2012 550,000 12.81 Option outstanding at December 31, 2012 3,588,956 15.33 The range of exercise prices and average maturity of outstanding options, as well as the ranges of exercise prices for options exercisable at December 31, 2012 are summarized below: Options outstanding Option exercisable Average Average Plan Options Average Options remaining exercise outstanding at exercise outstanding maturity in price Dec/2012 price Dec/2012 years Plan 2012 – 2nd grant plan 550,000 7 12.81 Plan 2012 – 1 grant plan st 1,941,517 7 14.17 Plan 2011 1,097,439 7 19.00 219,488 19.00 For the year ended December 31, 2012, the Company recorded in shareholders’ equity a result with stockbased compensation in the amount of $8,466, including R$3,757 of 2011 plan, R$4,068 of 1st grant of 2012 plan and R$641 of 2nd grant of 2012 plan (R$3,544 of 2011 plan), being the counterpart in the income statement as personnel cost. 120 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS iv. Appropriation of profit for the year: Position of shares held in treasury is presented below: The Management of the Company is proposing to the Ordinary Value – R$ General Shareholders’ Meeting to appropriate the shares (*) thousand amount of net income for the year ended December Balance on December 31, 2011 31, 2012, as follows: Movement in the period Grant of option Shares in 2011 1,097,439 9,107 2012 Grant of option Shares in 2012 2,491,517 29,792 Net income for the year 82,468 Balance on December 31, 2012 3,588,956 38,899 Legal reserve (5%) (4,123) (*) Number of shares Minimum mandatory dividends (1) Investment reserve (78,344) Historical cost on acquisition of 12/31/2012 shares held in treasury (R$ per share) The Company’s bylaws provide for the payment of Weighted average 11.22 minimum dividend of 0.001% calculated on the adMinimum 7.88 Maximum 13.39 justed net income in the form of the Corporations Law. Market value of shares held in treasury Based on the profits remaining after allocations to legal reserves and mandatory dividends, that will be The market value of shares held in treasury at period submitted for approval at a shareholder’s meeting. ended December 31, 2012 is presented below: 24. SHARES HELD IN TREASURY 12/31/2012 On April 2012, the Company authorized the repurchase Ordinary shares program of up to 1,097,439 ordinary shares issued by Shares held in treasury 3,588,956 it, all nominative without nominal value, for maintePrices per share – BOVESPA (R$) 13.12 Market value (R$ thousand) 47,087 nance of shares held in treasury and subsequently canceled or sold in order to implement the Program Grant of Option Shares in 2012. The maximum term Shares held in treasury represent 1.35% of total of of the repurchase program is 365 days from April 24, Company ordinary shares on December 31, 2012. 2012, date of approval of Share Repurchase Plan by the Board of Directors. 25. INSURANCE The major assets or interests covered by insurance and On July 2012, the Company authorized the repurchase respective amounts are summarized as follows: program of up to 2,699,826 ordinary shares issued by it, all nominative without nominal value, for mainteInsured amounts nance of shares held in treasury and subsequently Insurance type Maturity Dec-12 canceled or sold in order to implement the Program Grant of Option Shares in 2011. The maximum term Civil liability general 01/21/2013 256,513 of the repurchase program is 365 days from July 9, Petroleum and operating risks 01/21/2013 812,015 Total 1,068,527 2012, date of approval of Share Repurchase Plan by the Board of Directors. The insurances were renewed in 2012, and de maturity of new policies to January 21, 2014, as described in Note 30. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 121 26. RETIREMENT PLAN BENEFITS 29. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS The direct subsidiary QGEP, has a voluntary private (i) On January 2013, the major assets or interests covpension plan to which all employees and directors are ered by insurance were renewed. The amounts and eligible. This is a defined contribution plan, with conmaturity are summarized as follows: tributions of up to 12% of the monthly salary by the Insured employee, and a counterpart of up to 6.5% by QGEP, Insurance type Maturity amounts according to the level of the employee in the hierarDec-11 chy. The plan is managed by the Bradesco Life and Civil liability general 01/21/2014 296,556 Pension with two types of regime, progressive and Petroleum and operating risks 01/21/2014 1,201,302 Total 1,497,858 regressive. When employees leave the plan before the end of the minimum contribution period, the contributions payable are reduced to the amount already (ii)  On January 31, 2013, was established QGEP paid by the Company. The only obligation of the ComNetherlands B.V. (“QGEP Netherlands”), with pany in relation to the retirement plan is to make the headquarters in Rotterdam, Netherlands, wholly specified contributions. owned subsidiary of Queiroz Galvão Exploração e Produção (“QGEP”), and capital stock to be paid The total expenditure of R$432 in December 31, 2012 in total of US$1. QGEP Netherlands is engaged (R$196 in December 31, 2011), recognized in the conincorporate, manage and supervise companies; solidated income statement, refers to contributions to carry all types of commercial and industrial activibe paid as rates specified by the rules of these plans. ties, and all things that are related to the activities described. 27. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ON CASH FLOWS (iii) Atlanta Field B.V. (AFBV) was established by QueiThe non cash items flows of the Company are as follows: roz Galvão Exploração e Produção S.A. (“QGEP”) on November 22, 2012. On February 12, 2013, 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 QGEP sold their entire participation interest in Addition to intangible assets 225,636 AFBV to QGEP Netherlands B.V, a wholly owned Addition to fixed assets 801 subsidiary of QGEP. On February 21, 2013, OGX Stock options 8,466 3,731 Netherlands Holding B.V, and FR Barra 1 S.à r.l, Dividends receivable – declared but not received 2,428 2,716 depending on QGEP in partnership in BS-4 Block concession, entered the structure AFBV and now 28. APPROVAL OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS holds 40% and 30% respectively, participation The financial statements were approved and authorinterests in AFBV. QGEP Netherlands BV on this ized by the Board of Directors on March 11, 2013. date has 30% stake in AFBV. 122 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DECLARATION PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 25 OF CVM REGULATION 480/09 In our capacity as directors of QGEP PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A., a corporation headquartered at Avenida Almirante Barroso, 52, sala 1301, Rio de Janeiro, RJ and registered under CNPJ/MF No. 11.669.021/0001-10 (the “Company”), and in compliance with Section V, paragraph 1, Article 25 of Regulation No. 480 issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Brazil on December 7, 2009, which we have reviewed, discussed and agree with the opinion expressed by the Company’s independent auditors (Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Auditores Independentes) regarding the Company’s financial statements for the period January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012. Rio de Janeiro, March 11, 2013. ________________________________________ Lincoln Rumenos Guardado Chief Executive Officer __________________________________________ Paula Vasconcelos da Costa Corte-Real Finance and Investor Relations Director __________________________________________ Danilo Oliveira Director __________________________________________ Sérgio Michelucci Rodrigues Director ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 123 DECLARATION PURSUANT TO ARTICLE 25 OF CVM REGULATION 480/09 In our capacity as directors of QGEP PARTICIPAÇÕES S.A., a corporation headquartered at Avenida Almirante Barroso, 52, sala 1301, Rio de Janeiro, RJ and registered under CNPJ/MF No. 11.669.021/0001-10 (the “Company”), and in compliance with Section VI, paragraph 1, Article 25 of Regulation No. 480 issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Brazil on December 7, 2009, which we have reviewed, discussed and agree with the Company’s financial statements for the period January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012. Rio de Janeiro, March 11, 2013. ________________________________________ Lincoln Rumenos Guardado Chief Executive Officer __________________________________________ Paula Vasconcelos da Costa Corte-Real Finance and Investor Relations Director __________________________________________ Danilo Oliveira Director __________________________________________ Sérgio Michelucci Rodrigues Director 124 GOVERNAÇA CORPORATIVA GRI CrossReference Table GRI 3.12 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 125 126 GRI CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE AR’s Pages/ Global 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equiva1.1 6 to 9 lent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 6 to 9, 26 and 27 114 to 117 AR’s Pages/ Global 2. ORGANIZATION PROFILE FSs’ Pages Comments Compact 2.1 Name of the organization. 2 and 3 92 to 93 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 38 to 44 92 to 93 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, 2.3 2 and 3 92 to 93 operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 136 92 to 93 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with 2.5 either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues 2 and 3 92 to 93 covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 2 and 3 92 to 93 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of custo2.7 2 and 3, 59 92 to 93 mers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 2 to 4 75 to 82 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 10 to 11 77 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 22 AR’s Pages/ Global 3. REPORT PARAMETERS FSs’ Pages Comments Compact 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 11 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 11 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 11 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 136 Process for defining report content, including: a) determining materiality, b) prioritizing topics 3.5 12 within the report, and c) identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint 3.6 11 ventures, and suppliers). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 11 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, 3.8 and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or 11 between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and 3.9 techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the indicators and other 11 93 to 103 information in the report. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, 3.10 and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/ 11 periods, nature of business, and measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement 3.11 11 methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 124 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 11 83 to 84 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 127 AR’s Pages/ Global 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENT GOVERNANCE FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governan4.1 16 to 23 ce body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if 4.2 18 so, their function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the 4.3 18 and 19 highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to 4.4 18 the highest governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior mana4.5 gers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performan18 ce (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 18 Process for determining the composition, qualifications and expertise of the members of 4.7 the highest governance body and its committees,including any consideration of gender and 19 other indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant 4.8 5 and 23 1, 6 and 10 to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant 4.9 19 risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with 4.10 19 respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by 4.11 26 and 27 7 the organization. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other 4.12 23 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: a) has positions in governance bodies, 4.13 46 to 47 b) participates in projects or committees, c) provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues or d) views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 12 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 12 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by 4.16 56 to 60 stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 4.17 12 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 128 GRI CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MANAGEMENT 30 to 37, 47 and 63 93 to 101 AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Economic Performance FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operaEssential EC1 ting costs, employee compensation, donations, and other community invest66 90 ments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s Essential EC2 Not material. activities due to climate change. Essential EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. Not material. Essential EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 65 AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Market Presence FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum Additional EC5 Not material. wage at significant locations of operation. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at Essential EC6 Not material. significant locations of operation. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from Essential EC7 Not material. 7, 8 and 9 the local community at locations of significant operation. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided Essential EC8 49 81 to 82 primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, incluAdditional EC9 49 81 to 82 ding the extent of impacts. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MANAGEMENT 47 and 48 AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Materials FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Essential EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Not material. Essential EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 55 8 and 9 AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Energy FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Essential EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 54 Essential EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Not material. Additional EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Not material. 8 and 9 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and Additional EN6 Not material. 8 and 9 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Additional EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Not material. 8 and 9 ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 129 AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Water FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Essential EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Not material. Additional EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Not material. Additional EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Not material. 8 and 9 AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Biodiversity FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protecEssential EN11 49 ted areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on Essential EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 49 protected areas. Additional EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 48 and 49 8 Additional EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. 44 and 49 8 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with Additional EN15 48 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Essential EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 54 and 55 Essential EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 54 and 55 Additional EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Not material. 8 Essential EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not material. Essential EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Not material. Essential EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 56 8 Essential EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 55 8 There were no spills in 2012 Essential EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. (because there were no operations during the year). There was no transport of Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazarhazardous waste in 2012 Additional EN24 dous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and (because there were no operapercentage of transported waste shipped internationally. tions during the year). Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and reAdditional EN25 lated habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges Not material. of water and runoff. 130 GRI CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Products and Services FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and Essential EN26 56 8 extent of impact mitigation. Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaiEssential EN27 Not material. 8 med by category. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Compliance FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sancEssential EN28 47 109 to 110 tions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Transport FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods Additional EN29 and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting mem52 bers of the workforce. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Overall FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Additional EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 47 8 LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MANAGEMENT 56 and 58 AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Employment FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, Essential LA1 57 broken down by gender. Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age Essential LA2 58 6 group, gender, and region. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary Additional LA3 Not material. or part-time employees, by major operations. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Labor/Management Relations FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Essential LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Not material. 3 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether Essential LA5 Not material. 3 it is specified in collective agreements. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management – Additional LA6 worker health and safety committees – that help monitor and advise on 58 occupational health and safety programs. There were no lost days due to work-related injuries, occupational diseases or accidents in the workplace. The Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Essential LA7 absenteeism rate was 0.5%, number of workrelated fatalities by region and by gender. representing two employees who missed work through INSS (Social Security). There were no fatalities during the year. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 131 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in Essential LA8 place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members Not material. regarding serious diseases. Additional LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 58 AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Training and Education FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by Essential LA10 Not material. employee category. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the Additional LA11 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing Not material. 7, 8 and 9 career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career developAdditional LA12 Not material. ment reviews, by gender. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per cateEssential LA13 gory according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other Not material. indicators of diversity. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee Essential LA14 Not material. category, by signifi cant locations of operation. Essential LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. Not material. HUMAN RIGHTS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MANAGEMENT 23, 49 and 50 AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Percentage and total number of signifi cant investment agreements and Essential HR1 contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that 23 have undergone human rights screening. Percentage of signifi cant suppliers, contractors and other business partners Essential HR2 23 that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning Additional HR3 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the Not material. percentage of employees trained. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Non-Discrimination FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Essential HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. Not material. 6 AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Operations and significant suppliers identifi ed in which the right to exercise Essential HR5 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be voilated or at Not material. 3 significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. 132 GRI CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Child Labor FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Essential HR6 incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective Not material. 5 abolition of child labor. AR’S PAGES/ Global Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor FSs’ Pages COMMENTS Compact Operations and significant suppliers identifi ed as having signifi cant risk for Essential HR7 incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the Not material. 2 and 4 elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Security Practices FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or proAdditional HR8 Not material. 1 cedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Indigenous Rights FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people Additional HR9 51 and actions taken. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Assessment FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human Essential HR10 Not material. rights reviews and/or impact assessments. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Remediation FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Number of grievances related to human rights fi led, addressed and resolved Essential HR11 Not material. through formal grievance mechanisms. SOCIETY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MANAGEMENT 47 and 82 75 and 76 AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Local Community FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, Essential SO1 49 to 51 81 to 82 impact assessments, and development programs. Operations with signifi cant potential or actual negative impacts Essential SO9 49 81 to 82 on local communities. Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with signifi cant Essential SO10 49 81 to 82 potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Corruption FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to Essential SO2 Not material. 10 corruption. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies Essential SO3 Not material. 10 and procedures. Essential SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Not material. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 133 AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Public Policy FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Essential SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Not material. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politiAdditional SO6 Not material. cians, and related institutions by country. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and Additional SO7 Not material. monopoly practices and their outcomes. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Compliance FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Essential SO8 Not material. sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS MANAGEMENT Not material. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Customer Health and Safety FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and serviEssential PR1 ces are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products Not material. and services categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Additional PR2 codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during Not material. their life cycle, by type of outcomes. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Product and Service Labeling FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage Essential PR3 Not material. of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes Additional PR4 Not material. concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys Additional PR5 Not material. measuring customer satisfaction. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Marketing Communications FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to Essential PR6 Not material. marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Additional PR7 codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promoNot material. tion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. 134 GRI CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Customer Privacy FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer Additional PR8 Not material. privacy and losses of customer data. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Compliance FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulaEssential PR9 Not material. tions concerning the provision and use of products and services. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS OIL AND GAS SECTOR SUPPLEMENT AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Reserves FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Sectoral OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production. 38 to 44, 59 to 60 AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Energy FSs’ Pages Comments Compact There were no investments in Sectoral OG2 Total amount invested in renewable energy. renewable energy or research on biofuels in 2012. Sectoral OG3 Total amount of renewable energy generated by source. 54 AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Ecosystem-related services, including biodiversity FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Number and percentage of significant operating sites in which biodiversity Sectoral OG4 49 81 to 82 risk has been assessed and monitored. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Emissions, efluents and waste FSs’ Pages Comments Compact There were no operations in 2012. Sectoral OG5 Volume and disposal of formation or produced water. QGEP does not produce or reuse water. There were no hydrocarbons flared or vented in 2012, as Sectoral OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon. there were no operations during the year. There was no drilling waste Amount of drilling waste (drill mud and cuttings) and strategies for treat(drill mud and cuttings) produSectoral OG7 ment and disposal. ced in 2012, as there were no operations during the year. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Products and services FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Not applicable, Sectoral OG8 Benzene, lead and sulfur content in fuels. as the company is only an upstream operator. ANNUAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 135 AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Indigenous Rights FSs’ Pages Comments Compact Operations where indigenous communities are present or affected by activities and Sectoral OG9 51 81 to 82 where specific engagement strategies are in place. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Society FSs’ Pages Comments Compact 51 QGEP has no disputes associaNumber and description of significant disputes with local communities and Sectoral OG10 ted with its operations. All its indigenous peoples. Blocks are offshore and are in the exploration stage. Number of sites that have been decommissioned and sites that are in the No sites were decommissioned Sectoral OG11 process of being decommissioned. in 2012. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Involuntary resettlement FSs’ Pages Comments Compact The company is only active in offshore Blocks where it is the operator, and there is still Operations where involuntary resettlement took place, the number of households no need to have an onshore Sectoral OG12 resettled in each and how their livelihoods were affected in the process. production facility. Accordingly, there had been no resettlement of any family at the end of 2012. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Integrity of assets and process safety FSs’ Pages Comments Compact At the end of 2012 there had been no hydrocarbons produSectoral OG13 Number of process safety events, by business activity. ced and no commercial activity in the Blocks where QGEP is the operator. AR’s Pages/ Global Aspect: Fossil fuel substitutes FSs’ Pages Comments Compact At the end of 2012 there had been no hydrocarbons produced and no commercial activity in Volume of biofuels produced and Sectoral OG14 the Blocks where QGEP is the purchased meeting sustainability criteria. operator. Accordingly, there had been no production or purchase of biofuels at the end of 2012. 136 CORPORATE INFORMATION CREDITS GRI 2.4 | 3.4 Content Queiroz Galvão Exploração Maria Eduarda Pessôa – Health, Safety e Produção and Environment Renata Amarante – Investor Relations Rio de Janeiro Rebeca Kiperman – Communication Av. Almirante Barroso, 52 – suite 1301 and Sustainability Centro – Rio de Janeiro – RJ – Brazil CEP: 20031-918 Graphic design and content advisory Phone: 55 21 3509 5800 TheMediaGroup Fax: 55 21 3509 5999 Ilustrations Bahia TheMediaGroup Av. Antônio Carlos Magalhães, 1034 – suite 353 Daniel Roda Pituba Parque Center – Itaigara Mariana Waechter Salvador – Bahia – Brazil CEP: 41825-000 Photos and videos Phone: 55 71 3351 6210 TheMediaGroup Fax: 55 71 3355 1009 Daniel Renalt Ari Versiani QGEP collection Translation Montreal Consultants www.qgep.com.br
