Bringing Dreams to Life with Light SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Year ended March 31, 2013 Aim to become a “Light Innovation Company” with and branding in light-related business, able to satisfy customers’ needs at all times. Approach to Materiality at the USHIO Group Editorial Policy High In choosing the material for this Sustainability Report 2013, we made an effort to report High in greater depth on the correlation between management and corporate social responRank C Rank B Rank A sibility (CSR) issues. The report was created mainly for the following stakeholder audience, while emphasizing links with our Annual Report and various other media for Importance to stakeholders communicating our corporate activities. Reporting in printed 1) Approach to Materiality* it ies material tiv Dialogue and the exchange of opinions with our stakeholders guided us in narrowing f ac eo down the most important social issues confronting corporations and USHIO’s numerous nc Reporting through rta web and other media CSR initiatives. This booklet reports on issues and initiatives that were judged to be po im of high importance. Other initiatives too numerous to mention are introduced on the sic rin Group’s website. Int * Materiality: Priority of initiatives by comparison of corporate and societal issues. High Importance to USHIO 2 Sustainability Report 2013 Today, the world faces global pressure Contents relating to issues like the environment, the scale of the human population, and the 01 USHIO Group Management Philosophy need for energy. USHIO believes that the power of light is part of the solution. We Editorial Policy are using the technology that the Company has acquired over decades of operation, 02 Top Message and our skill at applying and developing that technology, to provide solutions, in 04 Feature: SHEDDING LIGHT the hope that USHIO, as well as human Part 1: The POCT Concept society, can continue to grow and prosper. Part 2: What Only Light Can Do the world’s No. 1 technology 08 USHIO’s CSR propose solutions that fully 12 Governance Corporate Governance and Compliance 14 People Working Together with Employees 16 Quality Relationships with Customers and Business Partners 19 Environment Environmental Activities 22 Society Relationship with Society 24 Business Overview 25 Third-Party Opinion 2) Annual Report • Scope of Report For information about the USHIO Group’s busiTime period: This report basically covers fiscal 2013 (April 1, 2012 ness activities, please see our Annual Report to March 31, 2013), but also includes some continuing 2013, and our Group website. activities from before fiscal 2012, and some activities in fiscal 2014. Fiscal 2013 and fiscal 2014 are years ended March 31, 2013 and 2014. Organizations: All USHIO INC. business sites and Group compa• Use of Website nies worldwide We provide more comprehensive and detailed reporting on our • The Tri-colored Leaf—A Symbol of the corporate website. Please refer to the USHIO corporate website at USHIO Group’s Activities the link shown below for more detail on items marked by the folThe Tri-colored Leaf that appears on the cover of this report is designed lowing symbol. to symbolize the three primary colors of light in a budding leaf motif that symbolizes the natural environment. At the same time, the design represents http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/ three elements of sustainable management—financial viability (red), social responsibility (blue), and regard for the environment (green). Our goal is to grow each of these leaves through steady, daily activities, until they produce a powerful trunk. Sustainability Report 2013 01 Top Message USHIO aims to continue to grow and prosper together with its stakeholders. We have stated our vision as being to establish the USHIO Group as the “Light Innovation Company” with the world’s No. 1 technology and branding in light-related business, able to propose solutions that fully satisfy customers’ needs at all times. Results of Operations and Future Outlook First I’d like to report on the Company today in terms of our business performance for fiscal 2013. Net sales fell 4.4% year on year to ¥143.4 billion, operating income declined 29.1% to ¥7.5 billion, ordinary income was down 19.6% to ¥10.5 billion, and net income decreased 18.2% to ¥7.1 billion. A factor behind the decline in both sales and earnings was lackluster sales of optical equipment, while corporate customers in the electronics sector, our main market, experienced a decline in capacity utilization in their production lines, causing them to continue to restrain or delay capital expenditure. Another factor was a drop in sales of digital cinema projectors. For the fiscal year ending March 31, 2014, we expect to see a recovery in capital expenditure and capacity utilization rates in the electronics field, driven by further expansion in the markets for smartphones and tablet PCs. In the visual imaging field, we expect to see growth in general imaging, as well as steady growth in demand for lamps in step with the penetration of digital cinema projectors. As a result, we are forecasting increases in both sales and income for the fiscal year ending March 31, 2014, with net sales of ¥160.0 billion, up 11.5% year on year, and operating income of ¥12.5 billion, up 64.9%. Financial Performance (Millions of yen) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Net Sales 120,846 119,079 145,125 150,087 143,461 Operating Income 8,963 7,262 14,034 10,696 7,582 Net Income 3,481 7,071 9,577 8,748 7,155 Return On Equity (ROE) (%) 2.3 4.7 6.2 5.6 4.3 02 Sustainability Report 2013 Medium-term Vision and Medical and Science Progress in Medium-term Planning for CSR Business Fiscal 2013 is the second year of phase-2 of our medium-term USHIO has set out a medium-term vision as a three-year rolling plan for CSR, which we formulated in 2009. During phase-1, we plan. Our recently announced medium-term plan includes a clear sought to examine the optimal form for USHIO’s CSR activities, vision for each segment of the Company, as well as quantitawhile making use of guidelines such as ISO 26000 and the United tive targets. Our targets for the whole Group for the fiscal year Nations Global Compact. These deliberations resulted in our ending March 31, 2016 are net sales of ¥190.0 billion, and operformulation in 2012 of the CSR Action Plan, which comprises five ating income of ¥19.0 billion. We are making a concerted effort pillars. This action plan forms the basis of USHIO’s CSR activities. to achieve these targets. Now, during phase-2 of our CSR planning, we are promoting We are also concentrating our efforts in the medical and biooperations to reflect the CSR Action Plan in the business plans technology fields, with the intention of developing them as key throughout the Company. As president, I lead the CSR Comareas for the USHIO Group in the long term. Our business scale mittee in ensuring that every department has an action plan in these new fields is still small compared with the electronics and with detailed and specific numerical targets. Each department imaging field, so we have not set numerical targets for them in our has already brought up a host of measures and plans relating to medium-term vision. Nevertheless, our goal is to be able to report human resource development, customer satisfaction, diversity, their successful development as growth drivers around the end of environmentally responsible products, and so forth. Through March 2016. We have already made a start in this direction. Last these measures and plans, we will advance USHIO’s CSR initiatives year in the Sustainability Report we mentioned the excimer light through our daily business activities themselves. Ultimately we seek therapy device TheraBeam® UV308, and in fiscal 2013 we made to create a system for connecting our activities to the pursuit of further progress including the launch of the Point Reader® blood the USHIO Group’s vision. analyzer. There is an enormous potential market for this device, and we believe it offers a ray of hope for the many people and Fiscal 2014 is the 50th anniversary of USHIO’s foundation. The healthcare workers who have difficulty carrying out treatment and USIHO Group is committed to using the manifold power of light testing due to poverty or other factors. to provide solutions for a global society as a truly global company. I hope you will continue to support us as we strive to meet your expectations. September 2013 Shiro Sugata President and Chief Executive Officer Net sales Operating income/ Net income/ Operating income ratio Return on equity (ROE) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (%) (Billions of yen) (%) 200 20 9.7 10 20 8 6.2 145.1 150.0 150 143.4 15 8 15 5.6 6 7.4 14.0 7.1 120.8 119.0 4.7 6.1 100 10 10.6 6 10 4.3 4 5.3 9.5 8.9 8.7 7.2 7.5 7.0 7.1 50 5 4 5 2.3 2 3.4 0 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Operating income (left scale) Net income (left scale) Operating income ratio (right scale) Return on equity (right scale) Sustainability Report 2013 03 Feature Shedding Light Photograph: Hirofumi Makino Part 1: The POCT Concept Point of Care Testing (POCT) refers to conducting medical tests quickly on site at the patient’s location. To some, it might not sound so different from ordinary testing, but POCT offers a host of important advantages. “Right There” and “Right Away” These key concepts distinguish POCT from ordinary testing. Many people take the trouble to visit the hospital when they feel unwell, only to experience the disappointment of being asked to return at a later date to hear the results of their tests. With POCT, patients can hear the results of their blood tests or sample analysis right away. POCT is defined as testing conducted by the physician right beside the patient, using the advantages of shorter testing time and sense of closeness to the patient to contribute to swift and appropriate diagnosis, care, disease prevention, and health promotion, and ultimately to improving the quality of healthcare, and thereby the patient’s quality of life (QOL).*1 In other words, POCT is a kind of patient-friendly testing that doesn’t require returning to the clinic at a later date to hear results, or a lengthy wait in the waiting room. Common examples of POCT tests include the influenza tests conducted at hospitals and home pregnancy test kits. Qualitative or Quantitative—that is the Question. Both the influenza tests and pregnancy tests is “qualitative” tests—they are “yes or no” style tests where the result is expressed as either positive or negative. There are already a wide range of commonly used reagents and testing techniques for test such qualitative test subjects, and even at general hospitals, they can be handled with POCT-style tests. However, to achieve increased QOL for patients and realize preventative therapies, there is a need for “quantitative” POCT that can accurately measure the concentration or amount of a certain substance and express it with high precision in numerical terms. Medical equipment manufacturers are competing to develop testing equipment and reagents to achieve this goal. 04 Sustainability Report 2013 POCT Enables Patients to Start Therapy Right There, Right Away Hepatitis B and C are said to be the largest epidemic in Japan today. Hepatitis C is particularly worrisome, since it often leads to sclerosis and then liver cancer when left untreated. Recently there has been a lot of interest in phlebotomy therapy*2 in the treatment of hepatitis C. To determine whether this course of treatment is appropriate requires a quantitative test of the patient’s serum ferritin level*3, as the indicator. Serum ferritin is commonly excluded as a blood test item during an ordinary health check. As a result, patients who require testing usually have to visit a major hospital that has the large and expensive equipment able to conduct a quantitative test. This has become an indirect factor preventing this effective method of therapy from becoming properly adopted on a wide scale. In other words, because only a limited number of hospitals can provide the testing and therapy, many who are known to need it find themselves unable to receive it. Such people may include the elderly, the self-employed, and mothers busy with childrearing. Furthermore, serum ferritin is also used as a marker for malignant tumors, and is used for diagnosing various cancers, including of the liver, pancreas, lung, and uterus. If there were a device or reagent at local clinics that could give an immediate test result, more people could be tested, enabling early detection of cancers in some cases. There are high expectations of POCT to provide such a means of early detection and subsequent treatment of diseases such as those that have remained hidden until now. POCT in Developing Countries The power of POCT goes beyond simply contributing to better QOL in advanced countries; it is also inherently easy for anyone to use, and delivers stable results at a low price. In developing countries there is a lack of expensive testing equipment able to perform quantitative tests, making it difficult for ordinary people to access them. This situation has created a need for simple, low-cost testing with test items customized to the conditions of each country or region, such as hepatitis C, which is caused by low standards of hygiene and medical practices, or endemic diseases such as thalassemia. In response to these challenges, Japan is currently examining options for introducing testing equipment for POCT to developing countries, such as those in Southeast Asia, as a form of medical overseas development aid. The spread of POCT equipment will enable treatment and prevention of diseases through early detection, and help to raise healthcare standards and alleviate the economic burden. USHIO is contributing to this effort with its proprietary optical and imaging technologies. *1 From the POCT Guidelines of the Japan Society for Clinical Laboratory Automation (translated into English by the Company) *2 Phlebotomy refers to drawing blood from the body. Generally, this treatment involves drawing out between 200—400 ml of blood every 1—2 weeks in order to lower the serum ferritin level. The treatment can control the advance of hepatitis caused by excess iron in the body. *3 Ferritin is a protein that stores iron. Serum ferritin rises and falls reflecting the amount of iron stored in the body. Quantitative analysis of serum ferritin enables testing and diagnosis prior to phlebotomy therapy for anemia or hyperferremia, leukemia, and hepatitis C, and gives an insight into the state of the disease. Quantitative analysis is therefore generally in demand. Sustainability Report 2013 05 Feature: Shedding Light Part 2: What Only Light Can Do In April 2013, USHIO launched Japan’s first* blood analysis device capable of quantitatively analyzing serum ferritin by immunochromatography, the Point Reader®, and a dedicated reagent. The device makes use of USHIO’s optical and imaging analysis technologies, developed over many years. *According to USHIO research as of March 31, 2013 What Is Immunochromatography? Immunochromatography is a commonly used testing method, found in familiar simple (rapid diagnostic) test kits such as for influenza and pregnancy tests. The word is taken from “immuno,” referring to the immune system, and “chromatography,” which means to separate a substance out into components. For example, in the influenza test, a sample taken from the patient’s nasal cavity is diluted and several drops of the solution dripped onto a strip ❶. The sample then moves through the strip by capillary action ❷ and if the influenza virus (antigen) is present in the sample it forms a compound with a labeled antibody ❸. That compound moves further along the strip and is captured by an anti-influenza virus antibody on the test line ❹. The compounds emit a color that cannot be seen at the individual compound level, and as the number of captured compounds increases, the crimson (purplish-red) line acquires enough color to be seen by the human eye, allowing the tester to determine whether or not the virus is present ❺. Image of Measurement by Immunochromatography ❶A sample is dripped onto a test strip ❸The influenza virus (antigen) and labeled antibody form a compound Labeled antibody Test line Anti-influenza antibody Influenza virus Other substances ❷The sample moves by capillary action ❹〜❺The compound is captured by the anti-influenza virus antibody, forming a crimson line. Japan’s First System for Measuring Serum Ferritin by Immunochromatography Traditionally, the downside to the easy-to-use immunochromotagraphy method has been its low level of precision in making quantitative measurements such as the percentage of a substance within a blood sample. The method has therefore been limited to tests where it is sufficient simply to show the presence of infection, such as influenza tests, and other qualitative analysis such as pregnancy or allergy tests. USHIO’s Point Reader® together with its dedicated reagent, the Point Strip®, are the first system in Japan to achieve quantitative measurements of serum ferritin using the immunochromatography method. The system uses proprietary optical technologies and algorithms to analyze fine changes in color intensity that depend on the concentration of serum ferritin in a blood sample. This represents a dramatic leap forward in the analysis capabilities of immunochromatography. The system shows excellent The Point Reader® and Point Strip® correspondence in results with those of large-scale automated analysis equipment, and opens the way for quantitative analysis of serum ferritin in a clinical setting that has previously been impossible. This breakthrough will eliminate variation in test accuracy and significantly relieve the burden of testing on both patients and physicians. 06 Sustainability Report 2013 USHIO’s Proprietary Measurement Method The needs for this kind of accurate on-site testing are multitude, including detection tests for mold, toxins, or harmful additives in food, for virus and bacteria that cause infectious diseases, or for various biomarkers in the blood. To meet these needs, USHIO is developing an on-site micro-analysis kit that uses a completely new proprietary measurement method called Q-body. A version of the device is currently being evaluated by the Japan Customs analysis division for use as a testing tool for import cargoes to crack down on drug smuggling. USHIO will continue to work closely with people on various frontlines, applying its optical technologies to contribute to peace of mind, safety, and environmental protection for everyone. Image of Optical Measurement Low concentration High concentration (faint color) (strong color) Reflected Reflected light More light Less Incident Incident light Absorbed light Absorbed light Less light More Since the degree of light absorption changes with the concentration, the concentration can be quantified by reading the reflected light. USHIO’s onsite microanalysis kit, currently being evaluated by the analysis division of Japan Customs Column Myanmar, also known as Burma, has a land area twice the However, Myanmar continues to face the problems of thalassize of Japan and a population of some 50 million people. semia, excessive iron levels, and hepatitis. To treat these patients, It has become the focus of global attention in recent years it is necessary to ascertain the trends in their iron levels. Dr. as it continues to change rapidly into a democratic state. Okada, who has long recognized the need for development of a Despite these encouraging statistics, the per capital GDP in device that can easily perform such tests in a clinical setting, first 2012 was only 1/60th of Japan’s. The country is striving to met with USHIO three years ago. And now, we have been able to develop various aspects of social infrastructure, and Japadeliver this newest product to Myanmar through the result of our nese citizens have been providing medical support there joint development effort. for some time. “It is vital to be able to measure the slightest change in concentration. This new testing device is going to make a lot of people “Myanmar is home to an endemic disease called thalassemia, a very happy I think.” After years of hard work in the medical field congenital condition where the hemoglobin is short-lived.” in Myanmar, Dr. Okada, too, is delighted. Doctor Shigeru Okada, an honorary professor of Okayama *The Point Reader® and Point Strip® University, explained about Myanmar in 1988, when he became involved with the work of The Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). Thalassemia patients suffer from severe anemia, and so require blood transfusions. However, the transfusions cause excessive iron levels that resulted in a host of other issues for the patient. In Doctor Shigeru Okada, 1988, there was no screening for blood transfusions so 90% of Director, NPO Japan-Myanmar Collaboration Project thalassemia patients carried hepatitis C. As a physician this was for Fostering Medical Human Resources not something that could be overlooked. Honorary Professor, Okayama University In addition, when hepatitis worsens, it progresses to untreatable sclerosis and liver cancer. It was therefore vital to treat hepatitis patients during the inflammation stage. The excessive iron level also made the hepatitis even worse. In 2000, Dr. Okada brought together a group of peripheral researchers and JICA to encourage the Myanmar Ministry of Health to take action to make blood transfusions safer. These efforts bore fruit three years later, and today safe blood transfusions are being provided. Sustainability Report 2013 07 USHIO’s CSR Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR*) We consider it natural that a corporate citizen should observe laws and regulations, contribute to society, and take steps to protect the environment. These are the foundations of all corporate activity. In addition, a corporation should build good relationships with its various stakeholders* and advance by creating and offering new value to contribute to society. This is the kind of corporation that USHIO is working to become. Society Create and provide new value to society USHIO Group Stakeholders Build good relationships Compliance* Glossary CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility): The responsibility of a company as an entity in global society. Stakeholders: People who are concerned or affected in some way by the decisions and actions of an organization. Generally described as people who have a stake in a company. Compliance: Literally, compliance with laws and regulations. At one point this was all the word was taken to mean, but in recent years it has come to include observing the rules and norms of society, and contributing to society. 08 Sustainability Report 2013 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csrprogram (Toward Realizing a Sustainable Society) CSR Promotion Framework United Nations Global Compact’s* Ten Principles USHIO has established a CSR Committee, which is chaired by the USHIO has declared its support for the United Nations Global president. The committee decides on policies for the whole ComCompact of principles concerning human rights, labor standards, pany relating to CSR initiatives. The CSR Committee establishes the environment and anti-corruption. We have joined the local UN subcommittees as needed to oversee practical implementation network supporting the compact, Global Compact Japan Network, of the policies it has decided, and discusses specific initiatives and have taken an active role in various sectional activities, includand ways to promote them. From 2012, the CSR Committee has ing our involvement in co-sponsoring a proposal on supply chain increased the frequency of its meetings as part of our ongoing management as one of the participating companies. We have voluntary efforts to enhance our systems for promoting more joined the local UN network supporting the compact, Global Comtimely CSR activities. pact Japan Network, and are working to promote all facets of CSR among the many other participating companies. To this end, we have taken an active role in sectional activities for sharing informaCSR Promotion Framework tion on necessary specific measures, and enhancing the activities of each company. CSR Committee (Chairperson: president) CSR Department Separate subcommittees Group UGN* for each initiative companies Business divisions United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles and Our Initiatives United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles USHIO’s Related Initiatives Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally The third section of USHIO’s 10 Action Guidelines sets Principle 1 proclaimed human rights; and out clear requirements for respecting basic human rights Human for all people, and prohibits unfair discrimination, among Rights other measures. Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. t Pages 14, 15 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective The USHIO Group respects the International Labour Principle 3 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Organization’s* Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Under the third section of USHIO’s 10 Labor Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Action Guidelines, the Company strives to promote good Standards labor-management relations, abolish discrimination in the Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and workplace, and create working environments that are cheerful, safe, and comfortable. Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. t Pages 14, 15 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Principle 7 Section 8 of USHIO’s 10 Action Guidelines clearly states challenges; the Company’s position on actively working to protect the Environenvironment. We also formulated our 2020 Environmental Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and ment Vision and are now working to implement Phase Three of the Environmental Action Plan. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Principle 9 t Pages 19, 20, 21 technologies. Under section 6 of the 10 Action Guidelines, USHIO strives to prevent corruption and to AntiBusinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including conduct fair business activities. We have also Principle 1 0 Corruption extortion and bribery. set up a Compliance Committee and the USHIO Hotline (internal reporting system). t Pages 13 UGN: USHIO Green Network. An organization for promoting environmental action and The International Labour Organization: Established by the 1919 Treaty of Versailles. As information sharing at USHIO Group sites. an international organization, the ILO works in all countries to improve labor conditions and The United Nations Global Compact: This initiative was set up in 1999 by Kofi Annan, realize social justice. the United Nations secretary general at the time. The Global Compact calls for organizations to take practical steps to follow ten principles relating to human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. Sustainability Report 2013 09 Medium-term Planning for CSR the activity infrastructure we built during phase-1 is functioning USHIO established the CSR Department in 2009, and formulated effectively. Specifically, under the direction of the president, who is a medium-term CSR plan aimed at fusing the Company’s manthe chairperson of the CSR Committee, in fiscal 2013 we strenuagement strategies through to 2016 with its CSR tasks. USHIO’s ously promoted these respective CSR initiatives within our business medium-term CSR planning comprises three phases over a sevenconfines, treating the CSR Action Plan as a guiding principle for year period. In phase-1 (2010 to 2012), we focused our efforts on fitting in our five CSR pillars harmoniously with the business plan “forming an infrastructure for CSR initiatives” and achieved our and momentum of each division and department. Each departinitial targets. We are currently in phase-2 (2013 to 2014) during ment has already brought up a host of measures and plans relating which we are working to “dig deeper into CSR issues.” to human resource development, customer satisfaction, diversity, environmentally responsible products, and so forth. Looking ahead, Reflecting on Phase-1 we will continue our work by implementing this action plan at our During phase-1 of our medium-term CSR planning, we worked to Group companies. collect information and form an infrastructure for CSR initiatives, while discovering our vision for CSR at USHIO. We identified the CSR Action Plan CSR issues USHIO should take up by conducting awareness surveys In formulating the CSR Action Plan, the CSR Committee and other among the management tier and questionnaires with our employrelated organizations investigated CSR factors of the USHIO’s ees at large and promoting dialogue with NGOs and knowledgebusiness activities from various angles, while giving consideration able experts. Through this process, we built an essential activity to the 7 core subjects of ISO 26000 and many other sources of infrastructure for executing our CSR initiatives. Specifically, we guidance and guidelines. As a result, the Group’s issues were clasestablished the CSR Committee, with the president as chairperson, sified under the five pillars of governance, people, quality, society, set up a CSR promotion framework, declared our support for the and environment. These items are then broken down further into 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, and announced a CSR action policies. Currently, this CSR Action Plan serves as USHIO’s Action Plan. CSR framework, and is the basic foundation underpinning the thinking of each operating division and Group company as they Phase-2 create their business plans. In phase-2, the current phase, we have started off a PDCA cycle for fusing the actual business operations of our business divisions and Group companies with CSR aspects, by ensuring that Medium-term Planning for CSR Goals and Roadmap Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Complete integration of management strategy with Items to be executed CSR issues Dialogue with NGOs and external experts Link social issues with management strategy, clarify the relationship with Internal opinion surveys the medium-term management plan Dig deeper into CSR issues Signed the UN Global Compact Organize social issues and USHIO Survey of conflict minerals management issues and strategies CSR Action Plan formulated Develop action plans for each strategy (Reflect the issues in each department’s Target business plans) Form an infrastructure for CSR initiatives, gather information Determine important issues using in-house opinion surveys and dialogue with experts Decide upon issues that relate to the five pillars of CSR initiatives 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 (Fiscal year) Glossary ISO 26000: A global guideline for initiatives regarding organizational social responsibility published in October 2011 by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). The guideline was drafted through discussions with representatives from government and industry, labor, consumer groups, NGOs and other organizations that began in the early 2000s. Unlike previous ISO programs, no certification is required. 10 Sustainability Report 2013 Formulation of a CSR Action Plan under the Five Pillars Governance People Quality Establish a compliance system that encomConsidering workplace environments, Initiatives to meet the needs of passes international standards in global human rights, and diversity of values in customers, shareholders, and busicorporate activities, work to publicize CSRhiring and using human resources ness partners based on observance related information and establish stakeof market rules, and regulations holder communication, and strengthen and enhance the governance framework Issues Issues Issues USHIO • Promulgation throughout the Company • Human rights • CSR procurement • Internal control* • Promotion of diversity • Quality • Global measures • Promotion of work-life balance • Creation of solutions to meet new • BCP* • Health and safety social needs* • Compliance and ethics • Human resources • Strengthen information security • Fair and impartial business activities • Protecting property rights Fiscal 2014 Action Policies Fiscal 2014 Action Policies Fiscal 2014 Action Policies • Promotion of risk management • Formulate a human resources plan looking three • Promote initiatives to increase customer satisfaction • Take steps to promote observance of laws and years into the future (Promote human resources, and quality in addition to achieving sales and profit regulations employee composition, and diversity to match targets • Strengthen information security future strategies) • Strengthen supply chains (Promote CSR and green • Protect and make strategic use of intellectual • Promote work-life balance procurement) property • Reduce total work hours • Formulate an approach for solving social issues • Formulate a business continuity plan • Promote health and safety measures through core business (product and service) capabilities, and a business promotion plan for Asia and other emerging markets • Upgrade quality assurance system Environment Society Engage in corporate activities to protect Engage widely with society at all levels the environment. Strive to meet both from local to international, cooperating environmental and business needs, and coordinating with other groups in including addressing global environmental contributing to education, culture, problems affecting biotopes welfare, development and other aspects of society Issues Issues • Expanding sales of environmentally conscious • Social contribution activities products • Global warming countermeasures • Chemical substance management • Resource conservation — Biodiversity preservation Fiscal 2014 Action Policies Fiscal 2014 Action Policies • Promote Phase Three of the Environmental • Promote social contribution activities Action Plan (Communicate with local communities and • Contribute to the environment by reducing energy explore ways to contribute to the world through and resource costs our core businesses) • Comply with environmental laws and regulations; develop products and markets ahead of regulatory trends Internal control: The process of forming rules for conducting business appropriately within an for adapting to the unexpected, rather than attempting to respond to the unexpected in a organization such as a company, and ensuring business is conducted in accordance with these predictable manner. rules. In the wake of incidents of large-scale financial reporting and accounting fraud in the Social needs: Among the various needs in the world today, this refers to needs in public or U.S., compliance has become an important issue worldwide. social areas such as the environment, poverty, human rights, welfare and health. BCP (Business Continuity Plan): An abbreviation for Business Continuity Plan, a set of policies and plans for continuing business operations and responding quickly and effectively in the event of a natural disaster or other unforeseen circumstances. The key is to create frameworks Sustainability Report 2013 11 Governance Corporate Governance and Compliance The basic policy of the USHIO Group is to ensure the transparency and efficiency of the Group’s management, and increase corporate value to meet the expectations of all of the Group’s stakeholders. To this end, we place the establishment and maintenance of systems of internal control, incorporating compliance with laws, regulations, social norms, corporate ethics, and J-SOX regulations, as a top management priority and make every effort to promote these systems. Corporate Governance* Framework USHIO uses a management structure that includes a Board of Corporate Auditors. Management and administrative responsibilities are divided among three governance units. The first is the Board of Directors, which determines management policies and makes decisions about other matters of the highest importance. The directors also oversee the management of business operations. The second is the representative directors, who are responsible for conducting business operations. The third is the Board of Corporate Auditors, which is responsible for audits. To assist the Board of Directors in reaching decisions, the USHIO Group has three advisory units that examine and discuss management USHIO’s Internal Control Framework General Meeting of Shareholders Election and Election and Election and dismissal dismissal dismissal Reporting Board of Directors Reporting Independent Auditing Firm Auditing Board of Corporate Auditors • Approval of appointments and Election and reappointments dismissal •Appointments Reporting Auditing • Evaluation of appropriateness Reporting and removals of financial audits •Supervision Reporting Representative Directors Reporting about Security Export Control Committee Instructions and important supervision matters Corporate Social Responsibility Department Compliance Committee Executive Council Business Auditing Department Group Coordination Council including evaluation of the (Deliberation on important matters) internal control system Instructions and Reporting about Submitting policy Authorization of policy supervision important matters proposals and plans proposals and plans Divisions, subsidiaries, and affiliates Glossary Corporate governance: This refers to a company’s mechanisms for management and supervision. Supervision refers not to monitoring for suspicious activity in management, but rather setting targets for management and evaluating performance. In other words, a mechanism for ensuring that management is managing the company for the shareholders. 12 Sustainability Report 2013 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/governance (Corporate Governance System) http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/compliance (Compliance) strategies and medium and long-term management policies with Compliance respect to the entire Group. The units are the Executive Council, It is widely recognized that breaches of compliance can undermine Group Coordination Council and the Group’s executive officers. the very foundations of the public’s trust in a company or governIn addition, the USHIO Group has a business unit structure and ment, and carry a risk of significant losses through claims for daman executive officer system for the purposes of strengthening and ages, and sharp declines in sales. At USHIO we have established a speeding up the execution of business operations by the represenCompliance Committee to address compliance-related concerns, tative directors. including potential risks, across the entire Group as early as possible. We have also established the USHIO Helpline as a point of Audits by Corporate Auditors contact for external consultation and reporting. USHIO has a Board of Corporate Auditors with five members that include three outside auditors who are independent of the USHIO Information Security Group. The outside corporate auditors are professionals in fields USHIO often handles customers’ private information or is entrusted such as finance, accounting, and law. The inclusion of outside with their important company information and other information corporate auditors makes it possible to perform audits from an assets in the course of its business activities. We consider it a top objective and neutral perspective. The board submits reports conpriority to safeguard such information from threats such as leaks cerning legally required items and other matters to the Board of and modification. Moreover, because we recognize that informaCorporate Auditors. Other matters include items that may have a tion is an asset that generates value, and is a source for increassignificant impact on the entire Group, important items concerning ing corporate value, we are taking measures, including raising monthly business operations, and other information that should awareness of information security among our employees, and be reported. The independent auditor submits an annual auditing improving our risk management systems. This kind of management plan to the Board of Corporate Auditors and explains its specific requires three interlocking initiatives: rules must be determined, a auditing objectives to the corporate auditors. In addition, the framework must be created for observing those rules, and awareindependent auditor provides the corporate auditors with reviews ness must be raised. In fiscal 2012, we conducted a revision of of quarterly and year-end financial reports as well as reviews of the our information security management rules to ensure that they financial audits and summaries of audit results. This forms the basis are appropriate and current. Our next step will be to make sure for periodic meetings of the independent auditors and Board of these rules are applied uniformly and consistently within the USHIO Corporate Auditors. Group throughout the world. Specific examples include the promotion of countermeasures, such as having a certain secure area at Business Audits each business site where access is controlled with IC embedded The importance of internal audits has increased along with the ID cards, antivirus measures for PCs, encryption of hard drives, enactment of the Companies Act and Financial Instruments authorization management of operation systems, and strengthenand Exchange Act of Japan, and in order to prevent corporate ing the capacity to respond to disasters and faults. Other measures impropriety. Besides compliance audits of laws, regulations and include setting up automatic encryption for email attachments, so forth, and assessments of the design and operation of internal and functions to prevent sending emails to the wrong recipient, controls, internal audits must now also serve as a consulting funcstrengthening systems for certification management and program tion with a view to improving business processes and other aspects asset management, and shoring up antivirus measures for portable of the company. At USHIO, we conduct various audits, including storage media. It is also important to enhance information security compliance audits and audits of export controls, both internally awareness and skills for each individual employee in order to preand at our Group companies. To ensure the quality and raise the vent information leaks. We have therefore taken steps to increase effectiveness of these audits, the corporate auditors coordinate awareness among employees of the various threats and opportuniwith relevant departments at all times. The theme and inspection ties where leaks may occur, by implementing a company-wide items in our internal audits are selected in accordance with the e-learning program, and conducting level-specific training for new situation of the organization to be audited from the perspectives recruits. In fiscal 2013, we also started a PDCA cycle as an initiative of the Company’s business aims and minimizing management to ensure that this awareness penetrates our entire organization at risks. We take care to ensure that the audits provide value by every level. helping USHIO achieve its organizational objectives. Moreover, the indications and recommendations raised by the internal audits Fair and Equitable Business Transactions are followed through periodically until the required improvements The USHIO Group’s 10 Action Guidelines expresses our commithave been made. We will continue to have audits conducted in ment to always respecting the position and rights of the other close observation of actual frontline business conditions with a party in business dealings, to conducting transactions fairly and view to issuing recommendations for streamlining management, equitably, and to not taking advantage of a dominant position to improving business operations, safeguarding assets, and improving impose inappropriate terms or conditions. We also promise to the management structure while minimizing risks. work to prevent corruption and carry out appropriate business transactions in line with socially accepted practices. Sustainability Report 2013 13 People Working Together with Employees By working to fulfill its responsibilities to society, the USHIO Group aims to create a company where employees can work with enthusiasm and a sense of purpose. As is clear from the first item in the Group’s management philosophy: “Build both a prosperous Company and prosperous employees,” this goal has remained the same since the Company’s foundation. Respecting Human Rights The USHIO Group respects the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. USHIO also declared its support for the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in October 2010. The principles relate to human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. USHIO is promoting initiatives to ensure adherence to them. In addition to this, CSR procurement, conflict minerals*, and diversity are also important themes related to human rights. Initiatives to promote diversity have been increasing in Japan guided by national policy, and USHIO is following a long-term plan to ensure that the Company does not discriminate based on nationality, gender, or any other such factor when offering employment or promotion opportunities. Diversity* Utilizing Global Human Resources Overseas sales account for over 70% of the USHIO Group’s total. Human resources capable of blending in to communicate and understand local needs are indispensable in promoting business overseas. We are therefore working to develop and utilize global human resources by conducting international study programs, hiring international students, sending personnel from Group companies overseas to the parent company in Japan, and providing opportunities for interaction between Group companies. Support for Working Women We believe that new talent pools are needed in order to generate new business amid the matured economies of the industrialized nations. Consequently, we have more than doubled the percentage of female employees in sales and technical positions since 2007 in our effort to recruit human resources without regard to gender. We have also taken steps to encourage and motivate employees on an individual level. For example, in December 2012 we invited a female sales manager from outside the Company to come and run a study and networking session for female sales staff, and in January and April 2013, we held talks between the chairman of USHIO and female employees to make sure that their voices are being heard by senior management. Glossary Conflict Minerals: The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act drafted by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission requires listed companies in the U.S. to report on the use of four substances (gold, tin, tantalum, and tungsten). There are concerns that, depending on where they have been mined, these substances could be used to provide funding for armed forces in the Democratic Republic of the DRC. To help resolve human rights issues, companies are required to manage these substances carefully, such as by specifying smelters and so forth. Diversity: The principle of diversity calls for the creation of organizations that allow diverse people to achieve their full potential, regardless of race, gender, age, or beliefs. 14 Sustainability Report 2013 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/peoples (Working Together with Employees) Work-Life Balance* maintain their health. Health-related counseling is provided to Support Programs employees with health or weight issues identified by a health USHIO aims to be able to flexibly accommodate diverse values check, and physicians consult with employees working long hours. and working styles regardless of employees’ lifestyles and gender. As part of this, we have a support system for childcare leave that Education and Training for Human Resources offers much more than the legally required level of support. In Development March 2009 we created the Work-Life Balance Handbook, which Various training programs have been established to facilitate the contains information on programs for balancing work. It also development of personnel capable of acting independently and to contains information on child-raising and maternal welfare, how make it possible to align “the Company’s prosperity with enriching managers should respond, and other tips for employees who the lives of individual employees.” would use the programs and for their managers. In July 2011, we In addition, revisions were made to the skills required for each revised our system for working shorter hours to extend the eligibildivision and type of job, and a system established at each office ity of choosing to work shorter hours until a child is six years old. which will facilitate training and evaluation of employees. Moreover, in an effort to build an environment conducive to supRegardless of the type of job, all employees are trained to porting gender equality, we uploaded stories of male employees develop their ability to maintain an awareness of the problem, a and their experience with childcare leave for view on our intranet problem-solving approach that is not limited by past experience and portal. Consequently, in June 2012, for the third time we earned the ability to independently develop and implement new proposals. Kurumin* certification under the Act for Measures to Support the Development of the Next Generation. Support for Self-Development Correspondence courses: In fiscal 2013 we had a lineup of 290 USHIO’s Work-Life Balance Support Program (Balancing Work and Parenting) courses on subjects ranging from management to computer skills, in addition to basic classes on foreign languages, technical topics Prior to Birth Birth Post Natal Childcare and certification courses. When employees finish a course, they are •Leave of absence for •Paternity leave •Childcare leave •Short working hours paid a bonus as a way to support their motivation to learn. In fiscal fertility treatment • Antenatal/postnatal t Women may take up (childcare) 2013, a total of 356 courses were taken. •Shortened working leave to two years leave •Excused from work hours (pregnancy) t 8 weeks each two times for each outside of regular TOEIC testing: TOEIC tests are given to employees who want to •Leave of absence for child, regardless of hours, or amount of gauge their English ability and further improve it. The Company maternity clinic visits whether their spouse regular work limited •Pregnancy discomfort is working •Amount of late night pays a portion of the testing fees. A total of 75 employees took leave work limited the test in fiscal 2013. •Nursing care leave •Childcare leave Tiered Employee Training Employees Using Childcare •Hospital visit leave Training for young employees: Available for new recruits straight from university who have been with the Company for five 2011 2012 2013 Men 2 2 5 years. This training focuses on developing the skills to guide and Women 29 27 32 correct others when providing on-the-job training. Total 31 29 37 Training to prepare corporate officers for appointment: This training targets middle-management level employees who aim to Paid Vacation and No-Overtime Days become corporate officers. The course covers the fundamentals Based on a commitment to Percentage of Paid Vacation Days Used of management, and includes a diagnostic component to confirm work-life balance, we designate whether participants have the required ability to be a corporate certain days as no overtime days % 100 officer, and their capacity to know themselves and to raise their and prearrange paid vacation own awareness. The results of the diagnostic component are sent days to give employees time to 75 to the participant and their supervisor and used to develop the spend with their friends and 50 participant’s abilities going forward. family or on their own pursuits Training for newly appointed line managers: Available for 25 and to help create a more employees who have recently been promoted to a line manager dynamic working environment. 0 2011 2012 2013 (generally, a department manager) position. Training focuses We believe that performance on the ability to identify organizational objectives, then lead or improves when employees mainmanage the department or team to achieve these objectives, tain their physical and mental health by taking time off to relax while addressing any obstacles or problems encountered along and rejuvenate. the way. Division manager training: The training programs for business Occupational Health and Safety division managers and other section managers not only enhance USHIO INC. engages in occupational health and safety initiatives to organizational management skills but also ensure that managers maintain a workplace that provides total peace of mind to employcan keep their eye on the mediumand long-term strategic goals ees. Various systems have been established to help employees of their business and resolve issues in order to meet those goals. Work-life Balance: This refers to regulating the workplace and the social environment to Kurumin: The Kurumin symbol is used by companies who receive certification from Japan’s allow people to enjoy full lives while working. The concept extends further than the simple Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare after creating and implementing an action plan for reduction of overtime, calling for initiatives that improve the quality of both work and private supporting employees in childcare, and meeting certain standards. life to achieve synergies. Sustainability Report 2013 15 Quality Relationships with Customers and Business Partners To accurately grasp the needs of our customers, we think from their perspective, then work as one with our business partners to improve our product development and quality. In this way we provide products and services with appealing quality that goes above and beyond the run-of-the-mill. Quality Policy USHIO has created unified quality policies for the entire Group and continued its efforts to improve quality. UPS (USHIO Production System) UPS (USHIO Production System) is the name of a new initiative aiming to establish a unique new production system at USHIO’s Harima Division from fiscal 2011. Amid a rapidly changing business environment, it is important to be able to efficiently supply high quality products in any environment. To achieve this, we saw the need to think outside of the box and promote improvements from a broad-ranging perspective by integrating our ongoing UPS, TPM and TQC improvement activities, rather than repeatedly going over the same ground. The main thrust of the UPS movement is ZD (zero-defects) activities, which seek Basic Philosophy to eliminate defective work by stimulating USHIO regards product quality as an overriding priority individual autonomy and enthusiasm among and will promptly provide global markets with high quality, employees and fostering creative thinking. safe products and services that are highly reliable and economical in order to fulfill the requirements of customers. It is a movement that consists of three pillar groups. Namely, the Manufacturing TechnolAction Guidelines ogy Group, the Quality Assurance System 1. We will act rigorously in putting the customer first and Reform Group and the Education and putting quality first, and will develop appealing products with cutting-edge technology to fulfill the requirements Enlightenment Group. of customers and earn their trust. In fiscal 2013, we started initiatives aimed 2. We will strive to further improve quality by developing at producing concrete results. Looking entity-level quality management systems and continually ahead, with an eye to measuring actual working to improve their effectiveness in order to meet effectiveness, we will enhance our activities the needs of customers. to improve customer satisfaction in the 3. We will work to share information with customers, make cost improvements, develop new products, pioManufacturing Technology Group, embed neer new markets, and promptly provide global markets improved systems in the Quality Assurance with high quality, safe products that are highly reliable System Reform Group, and firmly establish and economical. an ongoing education system in the EducaApril 1, 2010 tion and Enlightenment Group. Shiro Sugata President and Chief Executive Officer USHIO INC. Glossary Evaluation Criteria of Super Green Products: The certification standard for Super Green Products is comprised of the following three requirements: 1) Environmentally conscious product score of 80 or more (based on environmentally conscious product assessment standards) 2) Environmental factor of 1.5 or more (calculated in comparison to previous products, with fiscal 2000 as the baseline year) 3) Attainment of transparency Environmental Factor: A comparison of the environmental efficiency of a newly developed product and past products can be expressed numerically as an environmental factor. Higher numbers represent greater improvements. The environmental factor is calculated by dividing the environmental efficiency of the target product by the environmental efficiency of the equivalent product in the baseline year. USHIO calculates a product’s environmental efficiency by dividing product value (performance) by environmental impact. Product value is calculated by multiplying energy output by lifespan. Environmental impact is calculated with well-defined formula: 16 Sustainability Report 2013 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/supplier (Working Together with Business Partners) http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/customer (Working Together with Customers) Contributing to Society with USHIO Products Promoting CSR Procurement Having started out as a manufacturer of light sources for industrial In line with the CSR Action Plan, from fiscal 2013 we have been applications, USHIO has continued to develop products to meet the surveying our suppliers' CSR actions. The surveys provide further needs of the times. Recently an important theme for us in fulfilling opportunities to help suppliers’ understand USHIO’s stance, and our corporate social responsibility is contributing to society through we are beginning to see a virtuous cycle emerge, where we find our main business. In line with this, we have been aggressively opportunities to achieve mutual understanding on various aspects. launching products to solve issues in a variety of fields through the As a result, we are beginning to see improvements in many of our application of light. suppliers’ understanding and response to CSR. In fiscal 2013, we focused on broadly extending the scope of our environmental assessments from the product development stage, Promoting Green Procurement and Compliance with and have been strengthening our initiatives to renew the perforInternational Environmental Laws and Regulations mance of our products. We will use the light technologies we have To ensure the smooth, stable supply of its products in the face developed through the years, applying them and developing them of a diversifying body of overseas laws and regulations, USHIO to address problems that must be solved at the global level such is focusing on timely collection of information, and building a as medicine, health, the environment, energy, water, security, and value chain* designed in response to these requirements. We food. At the same time, we will provide products and services that hold explanatory meetings with our suppliers to deepen mutual offer high added value to meet our customers’ needs. understanding and gain their cooperation in responding to purchasing policy, green procurement スーパーグリーン製品マーク standards, RoHS, and Development of Super Green Products REACH regulations. We also conduct continuous activities based USHIO is working to create environmentally responsible products on dialogue with suppliers to avoid problems arising with delivery and has created its own proprietary certification standard, known schedules and product quality. Through these activities we aim to as Super Green (SG) products, which are recognized as actively raise overall customer satisfaction. incorporating more environmental technologies than conventional products. SG products must be the best in their class, and offer Checking for Conflict Minerals* superior environmental performance in terms of energy efficiency, In accordance with the clause on conflict minerals in the U.S. extended lifetime, 3R design, materials used, applications and so Securities and Exchange Commission’s Dodd-Frank Wall Street forth. In addition, the product must satisfy the numerical standards Reform and Consumer Protection Act, in August 2012 a final rule of our USHIO environmental factor* requirement. Currently, the was adopted requiring companies listed on securities exchanges in Group has certified 15 SG products. the U.S. to disclose and report on their use of conflict minerals in New certified products in fiscal 2013 include special lamps for their products. Conflict minerals include tantalum, tin, gold, and medical applications, LED light sources, and other high-valuetungsten, produced in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or added energy saving industrial process equipment. In this way we adjacent countries. The law has been enforced since January 2013. have sought to address environmental concerns in the product USHIO uses significant quantities of tungsten in its electrodes, and group where our proprietary strengths shine most brightly. The has therefore responded by strengthening its surveys on suppliers’ number and variety of certified Group company products has use of materials, and has started surveys using the EICC/GeSI* also expanded significantly, and we expect it to continue to do so Conflict Minerals Reporting ledger sheet. going forward. BCP* Initiatives Launch of the Quality Assurance Center The Great East Japan Earthquake of March 2011 taught us a From April 2013, the separate Quality Assurance Divisions that had powerful lesson on how entire industries can be impacted by the been established at each business site were integrated to launch inability to supply just one component. USHIO INC. commands the Quality Assurance Center. With this move, USHIO will exploit extraordinarily large market shares for many of its light source the good aspects of quality control know-how developed at each products used in various industries. Recognizing our important business site, to achieve even more attractive quality and efficiency. responsibility to ensure stable supplies of these products, we have This will enable us to meet the exacting demands for quality been actively promoting business continuity plans (BCP). required by our lineup of medical equipment, which has continued Since April 2012, we have had a dedicated, companywide comto expand in recent years. Moreover, we will use our accumulated mittee that has been formulating an overall plan, including buildknowhow in making products for industry to strengthen our activiing systems for cross-divisional back-up between each business ties in line with ISO 13485 (an international standard for quality site, and to enable minimization of damage and swifter recovery assurance of medical equipment. The content of the standard in the event of a major earthquake or when other disasters occur. has been modified from the ISO 9001 standard, and additional We have taken stock of our disaster damage risks, and started requirements inherent to medical equipment have been added), creating various specific action plans. With respect to information in order to deepen our relationships with overseas manufacturing security, we have made our business process systems more robust companies going forward and create an integrated Group-wide against disasters and faults, and have bolstered our network infraquality assurance system. structure and internal data assets as part of an ongoing effort to ensure stability across all aspects of our operations. √ [(Energy input)2+(3R volume)2+(Chemical substances content)2] Value chain: An approach in which the chain of value generated by buying and distribution, Notes: 1. Energy output: For lamps, primarily lighting output and intensity in the necessary manufacturing, shipping, sales and marketing, and services, coupled with personnel and labor wavelength range management, technology development and other efforts that support these processes, give 2. Energy input: Energy consumed in using the product rise to value in end products and services. The term was first coined in the book Competitive 3. 3R volume: Product size and weight (quantity of resources used) Advantage by American scholar Michael Porter. 4. Chemical substances content: Quantity of substances with environmental risk EICC/GeSI Template: A common global template provided by the EICC (Electronics Industry contained in the product Citizenship Coalition®) and the GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiative) for gathering procurement data related to conflict minerals. Sustainability Report 2013 17 Products That Solve Societal Issues Medical Energy (treatment, diagnosis, sterilization and testing) Light plays a central role in the development of many new Light-based medical equipment is attracting great interest due to energy sources including solar power. USHIO has taken a its ability to enhance the quality of life. USHIO employs the most pioneering role in the development of new infrastructure and advanced technology to develop new products used in medical technology to promote a carbon-neutral society. treatment, diagnosis, testing and sterilization/hygiene. UV phototherapy device for Solar simulator for Point Reader® and Acceleration dermatological problems testing solar batteries Point Strip® testing system TheraBeam® UV308 Agriculture Security (cultivation and propagation) (hazardous chemicals, surveillance and information security) Agriculture faces great challenges in our modern world to USHIO provides products for a variety of purposes including the preserve the safety, quality and stability of our food supply. By detection of pesticides and hazardous chemicals, nighttime developing and optimizing man-made light sources that can surveillance and security. USHIO products are also used to be used for cultivation, USHIO hopes to help solve global food prevent data theft and provide information security for comsupply issues. puter systems. Lighting system Light source unit Biotip for chemical for plant cultivation for plant cultivation detection system and control Natural environment USHIO Light Put to Work in Ballast Water (air and water quality) Sterilization (USHIO EUROPE B.V.) USHIO has developed light-based products that help improve Ballast water is a problem because it impacts marine ecosystems. water quality in rivers, groundwater, water supply and sewerIn order to eliminate this impact, the water must be sterilized, age systems, and preserve air quality by reducing gas and and one method for doing so uses light. This method has drawn particle emissions. attention for being compact, easy to handle and not producing chemical pollution. Water treatment using light is an important technology in all water-related fields. USHIO EUROPE currently supplies UV lamps and power sources for ballast water as well as control parts when they are needed. Going forward, the company intends to expand into a variety of applications, including industrial wastewater treatment, and supply them to the market as optical solutions to environmental problems. UV germicidal lamp unit Min-Excimer without mercury 18 Sustainability Report 2013 Environment Environmental Activities The USHIO Group has defined a vision of where it wants to be in 2020, and is strengthening its initiatives to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society through its core operations. Message from the Director Responsible for CSR In the 10 years since we initiated Group environmental management activities, we have encouraged environmental initiatives throughout the entire Group, set key environmental tasks for each Group company, and carried out performance evaluations. Today, USHIO recognizes that environmental performance is itself an aspect of quality, and this concept inspires us to contribute to the environment through our products. We will continue to promote environmental management as one of the driving forces behind our Medium-Term Vision. Tadashi Taki: Officer in Charge of CSR 2020 Environmental Vision The USHIO Group formulated its 2020 Environmental Vision with the goal of becoming a company able to contribute through its business activities to the realization of a low-carbon*, recyclingoriented*, biodiversity-preserving* society by the year 2020. Under Phase Three of the Environmental Action Plan, which started in fiscal 2010, we extrapolated back in time from our vision for 2020, and broke down our vision into a set of specific goals through a process called “back casting.” History of USHIO’s Environmental Initiatives 2020 Environmental Vision Through Lighting-Edge Technologies, we will contribute to: creation of a low-carbon society, conservation of resources, and preservation of biodiversity. USHIO’s vision for Back casting* the Company in 2020 Low-carbon society Recycling-oriented society Goals and Targets of Phase Goals and Targets of Phase Goals and Targets of Phase Goals and Targets of Phase 1 of USHIO’s Environmental 2 of USHIO’s Environmental 3 of USHIO’s Environmental 4 of USHIO’s Environmental Biodiversity-preserving society Action Plan Action Plan Action Plan Action Plan 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2020 Published environmental Introduced material flow cost Signed UN Global Compact report accounting Published environmental Started collection and recycling Started collection and recycling report of UV lamps of cinema projector lamps Established Environmental Introduced environmental Environmental tasks presented Formulated CSR Committee management information at productivity improvement Action Plan (CSR Committee from 2011) system meeting Glossary Low-carbon Society: A society that reduces its CO2 emissions to prevent global warming. Recycling-oriented Society: A society that uses resources carefully, promoting sustainable recycling through reuse and other means. Biodiversity-preserving Society: A society that supports a rich variety of life by protecting diversity in genes, living organisms, and biotopes. Back casting: A technique for setting targets by working backward from a future vision to the present. Sustainability Report 2013 19 Reviewing Phase Three of the Environmental on establishing the foundation for our environmental initiatives, Action Plan and actively promoted environmentally conscious products and Although overall we achieved levels that were close to our Super Green products based on our own quantitative standards. goals, we did not achieve a reduction in CO2 emissions, partly The results of our initiatives for environmental themes are as follows: because we didn’t consider changes due to fluctuations in http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/csr/eco/manage/plan.html production volume. On the other hand, we made good progress Environmental Themes Evaluation Strengthen environmental Created three-year plan in accordance with phase-3 of the Environmental Action Plan at all Group Environmental governance production sites. management Carbon management* Published CO2 emissions in accordance with guidelines on web site and in Sustainability Report. Promote environmenExpand lineup of tally conscious product environmentally conscious Certified a total of 15 environmentally conscious products (Super Green products). performance products Implemented measures to strengthen links within the Group in order to reduce CO2 emissions; however, the Strengthening global absolute value of CO2 emissions was 5% higher than the standard. Also carried out measures to reduce CO2 × warming countermeasures Environmentally emissions from distribution operations. conscious business Achieved 99.8% zero emissions on a Group basis. In efforts to use water resources efficiently, made operations (improve Conserve resources progress in recycling industrial-use water, and achieved 45% reduction from standard value. environmental productivity) Chemical substance Strengthened links between production sites in Asia on chemical substances management. Shared improved management system methods for managing chloroform throughout the Group, and in reduction of hazardous chemicals, (CMS) achieved 20% reduction in emissions of top five ranking volatile organic compounds (VOC). Activities to contribute to an environmentally Biodiversity preservation Conducted biodiversity evaluation friendly society Phase Four of the Environmental Action Plan into real increases in sales. In chemical substance management, In light of the power supply situation following the Great East such as compliance with the Mercury Pact and the new European Japan Earthquake, we set production efficiency assuming supply RoHS2 standard, we will aim to comply with international stanshortages as an important theme. All USHIO Group business sites dards and to remain firm in this approach. In our links with Group are dedicated to contributing to a low-carbon society by setting companies, we have taken concrete steps such as implementing accumulative targets. We will focus on contributing to society by a quantitative evaluation system and framework, and each site reducing CO2 at business sites and through our electrical products, has started to show distinctive strengths. We aim to raise the bar and by developing a material database and Super Green products. even higher during phase four of the Environmental Action Plan by During the third phase, we produced steady results with innovate strengthening links within the Group, and other means. environmentally conscious products, by using LEDs and other We have also revised our targets for emissions per unit of net means. We will now work even harder to parlay these innovations sales under our CO2 reduction plan. Phase Four of the Environmental Action Plan Expand Sales of EnvironmenGlobal Warming Chemical Substance Resource Conservation and tally Conscious Products Countermeasures Management Biodiversity Preservation • Create Super Green products • Reduce CO2 emissions at • Enhance reliability and effi• Reduce waste emission volume • Increase ratio of environmenbusiness sites ciency of CMS by unit sales tally conscious products among • Reduce CO2 emissions due to • Enhance customer response • Promote stakeholder net sales distribution regarding chemical substance engagement management • Social contribution activities and biodiversity preservation Committees for Each Measure Promote Activities Global Warming Green Products Committee 3R activities at each CSR Procurement Countermeasures Committee business site Committee Glossary Carbon Management: Management of CO2 and other greenhouse gas emissions as a measure to counter global warming. Zero Emissions: Activities aimed at reducing waste emissions from production, disposal and consumption to zero. Stakeholder Engagement: Initiatives to promote understanding and discussion of stakeholders’ views in company activities. 20 Sustainability Report 2013 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/environmental (Environmental Management System) http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/energy (Global Warming Countermeasures) Phase Three of the Environmental Action Plan— Initiatives at TAIWAN USHIO LIGHTING INC. Highlights (Fiscal 2011-2013) Ceased Using Urethane Packaging TAIWAN USHIO LIGHTING CO2 Emissions Water resource usage (water input INC. (TULI) has changed the (m3)/production amount (million yen)) material used as cushioning 26,360t-CO2 5.48 in its shopping containers 26,836t-CO2 7.2 from urethane chips to air pouches. The bags used Efficient use of resources Waste emission volume for the air pouches are (Total for production sites in Japan) (Total for production sites in Japan) made from environmentally 98.9% 1,482t friendly biodegradable plasEquipment for air pouch 95.6% 1,549t tic that can be broken down by microbes into water and carbon dioxide. Awards Received in Fiscal 2013 Chiyoda City Environmental Consideration Award for Global Silica Glass Recycled as Heat-Resistant Blocks for Warming Action Plan (USHIO INC.) Electric Furnaces In February 2013, USHIO INC., the parent company of the Group, In other initiatives, TULI received an Environmental Consideration Award from Chiyoda found a way to use silica City, a ward of Tokyo. The glass as a material for a new award is given to businesses product, where previously in recognition of efforts to it had been disposed of develop human resources in landfill. The glass can who will act considerately now be made into blocks for the environment as well for constructing electric as measures to improve furnaces, helping to reduce buildings and equipment, Heat-resistant blocks made from silica glass landfill waste costs at the Mr. Omori, leader of the Head Office Environthereby focusing on both same time. mental Promotion Committee (left), Masami the hard and soft aspects of Ishikawa, Mayor of Chiyoda City (center), and their operations. Mr. Ujiie, general manager of the CSR Department (right) USHIO Harima Division Introduces Gas-Powered Electricity Generator The Harima Division Top Award for Outstanding Energy Management has introduced a small (Gotemba Division) gas-powered electricity The Gotemba Division received the Top Award for Outstandgenerator that has a minimal ing Energy Management from the Kanto Area Electricity Use impact on the environment Rationalization Committee. The division received the award for and low noise levels. To successfully using an electric power monitoring system developed further ensure that people in-house by USIHO to achieve a substantial reduction in electricity in the surrounding area are consumption. Particular mention was made of efforts to reduce not bothered by noise, the peak consumption following the 2011 earthquake by closing the division has worked to achieve highly effective noise prevention in administrative wing and shifting Life Test and production operathe facility, including construction of a 10-meter-high noise barrier. tions to other sites. The generator can be used to provide emergency power for reducing demand on the grid during the summer peak, and to provide Canada’s Greenest Employers Award assistance during power cuts. This allows some equipment that (CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS CANADA INC.) cannot be easily shut down to continue ticking over, even during Our Canadian subsidiary, CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS CANADA INC. planned blackouts. received the 2013 Canada’s Greenest Employers award, making to receive this award, making it the third time the company has received the award. Reasons cited for the award included an enviChangeover to Hybrid Vehicles (USHIO LIGHTING) USHIO LIGHTING is taking steps to replace its company vehicle ronmentally conscious renovation of the business site that received fleet with hybrid vehicles. The changeover is already under way at a LEED* Gold Compliance Renovation evaluation, and other efforts each business site, and with all 12 of the long-distance-running to make improvements to reduce the impact on the environment. sales vehicles already hybrids, the company has reduced annual CO2 emissions by approximately 420,000 tons (total annual travel distance of 12 vehicles is 304,315 km, representing a CO2 emission volume of 700,000 tons for an ordinary gasoline vehicle and 280,000 tons for a hybrid vehicle). LEED: Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design. A third-party rating system for environmentally conscious buildings, developed by the U.S. Green Building Council. Sustainability Report 2013 21 Society Relationship with Society As a member of the international community, USHIO will contribute to the development of respective regions where it conducts business. The Group has a growing body of contribution examples following its expansion in Japan and overseas, and in addition to the initiatives reported here, is engaged in various activities in the fields of education, culture, disaster support, and exchanges with local society. These areas are vital aspects of sustainability. The USHIO Foundation The USHIO Foundation was established in 1994 to commemorate the 30th anniversary of the founding of USHIO. Its purpose is to contribute to the development of human resources, learning and culture. Its main projects include supporting the development of the next generation of human resources who will be responsible for leading the world in the future by providing scholarships to assist with their studies, and promoting further interaction and mutual understanding between Japan and other countries. In fiscal 2012, the foundation provided scholarships to 37 graduate students (including overseas students) and 15 students in specialized courses at colleges of technology. So far, 426 scholarship students have been accepted, and we plan to continue focusing on calling for scholarship applicants from schools in areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake going forward. USHIO INC. Assistance for Recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake In March 2014 it will be three years since the Great East Japan Earthquake, and the areas affected by the quake still require ongoing assistance. USHIO INC. head office, along with other companies in the same building in Chiyoda City in Tokyo, jointly sponsored a second local food market to support the Great East Japan Earthquake victims in Tohoku. This year the market’s sales were up 1.5 times from the previous market, and the number of visitors doubled. Parent and Child Factory Tour In August 2012, the Gotemba Division held a Parent and Child Factory Tour event attended by 43 elementary school students and parents from local elementary schools. Gotemba City hosts parent and child factory tours every year during the summer holidays, and this year USHIO INC. participated as part of its efforts to maintain communication with the local community. Visitors enjoyed a tour of the factory, tried out the TV conferencing system, and had lunch with employees in the company cafeteria. Students’ Factory Tour Children enjoyed getting close to the TV The Gotemba Division received requests from local schools to allow students to visit as part of their conferencing system lessons to let them see what kind of products were being produced in the local USHIO factory, and how they were being produced. In response, the division has been receiving the students of Numazu National College of Technology and Gotemba High School for factory tours almost every year. The visits provide an excellent opportunity to introduce the Company’s business operations and products to the students. Glossary United Way: A volunteer-led non-profit organization committed to dealing with fundamental problems that occur in local communities. United Way takes responsibility for resource management and longand short-term results. The United Way Global Network achieves outstanding power by leveraging its combined capabilities at the global, regional, national and local levels, and their mutual cooperation, to provide a foundation for influencing local societies that is growing in every region throughout the world. 22 Sustainability Report 2013 http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/contribution (Working Together with Local Communities) http://www.ushio.co.jp/en/society (USHIO Group Support for Culture and Learning) CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS CANADA INC. Helping Children Facing Starvation The Gift of Life—Blood Donation CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS USA donates both manpower and CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS CANADA INC. has been running a funds to support the humanitarian food aid organization Kids campaign to promote blood donation among employees since Against Hunger. Kids Against Hunger aims to help hungry children February 2012. The company held seminars and lectures about around the world and has provided over 200 million meals to donating blood for all employees at the Canada Division, and 71 children and their families in over 60 countries worldwide since it had donated blood by December 31, 2012. In 2013 the company was established. All its activities are supported by several hundred participated in the Waterloo Region High-Tech Companies Blood thousand volunteers. CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS USA packaged Donation Race, organized by local companies, and as of July 2013, 11,664 meals for distribution to children in Africa, and people has set a target of 75 blood donors for the year. living in Orange County, California, who are suffering from hunger. A message from the Canada Blood Service: “There are 78 keys on your keyboard. If that many of your coworkers gave blood, we could help 15 people in cancer treatment.” USHIO AMERICA INC. USHIO Angels* Support the American Cancer Society Continuing to Hold the United Way* Campaign Employees from USHIO For five days beginning AMERICA INC. participated October 1, 2012, CHRISTIE in the Relay for Life* charity DIGITAL SYSTEMS CANADA event held by the American held a special event with Cancer Society on June support from local compa22-23, 2012. This year nies through United Way. they collected the highest The event was a contest amount of donations yet— to build a machine for US$86,464 (¥6.9 million). hurling footballs, leveragLater, in November, USHIO ing CHRISTIE’s strengths in creativity and engineering. This year, AMERICA held a Cup Cake CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS CANADA raised around C$90,000 War event to help raise con(approximately ¥7.3 million), and has become a powerful suptributions for the American porter of United Way, which is dedicated to supporting better lives Cancer Society. Participants for people in the local community. in the event baked a huge quantity of cupcakes and CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS USA, INC. raised money to donate to Projectors Donated to American Red Cross the American Cancer Society CHRISTIE DIGITAL SYSTEMS Teresa Hernandez was the overall winner in the through sales to USHIO USA responded to a request cup cake contest. AMERICA employees. for help from the American At the Oregon Division, Red Cross to donate projecUSHIO Angels will continue to take the lead in collecting donations tors by supplying four digital for the American Cancer Society through fun events. projectors to emergency centers operated by the U.S. government. The LWU420 3LCD projectors can show information in real time, helping emergency centers to minimize damage and help protect areas during a disaster or emergency situation. In the southern California emergency centers for Orange County, Riverside County and San Bernadino County, the projectors play a critical role in protecting people. USHIO Angels: This was originally the nickname given to the employees of USHIO America’s Relay for Life: This event is held in cities and towns around the country every year by the Oregon Plant by people who knew of their charitable spirit and activities, which started in 2005 American Cancer Society. The Relay for Life involves continuous walking for 24 hours, on the when one of their co-workers succumbed to cancer. It is now the name of a team made up of grounds of local schools, through parks and on sidewalks, with teams taking part in a relay USHIO America employees who join in the Relay for Life event. format. Walking for 24 hours without resting is meant as a way of signifying support for people battling cancer, which is a 24-hour-a-day battle that takes a toll on the body. Sustainability Report 2013 23 Business Overview Breakdown of Sales Breakdown of Operating Income Breakdown of Assets (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) Other Businesses 2% Other Businesses 1% Other Businesses 15% Equipment Equipment Equipment Business Business Business 60% 16% 47% 2013 2013 2013 ¥143.4 ¥7.5 ¥228.6 Light Light Light Sources Sources Sources Business Business Business 38% 83% 38% Equipment Business Light Sources Business Other Businesses Imaging equipment Discharge lamps Machinery for industrial uses • Digital projectors for cinemas • UV lamps for manufacturing semiconductors, flat and others • Digital projectors for general imaging panel displays, and electronic components • Plastic forming applications, peripheral (control rooms, simulators, signage, virtual • A range of lamps and industrial LEDs for use in machinery reality, and others) cinema projectors, data projectors, office • Factory automation systems equipment, illumination, and other optical • Others Optical equipment equipment • Optical equipment for manufacturing semiconductors, flat panel displays and Halogen lamps electronic components (exposure tools, photo• For use in office equipment cleaning units, photocuring systems, and others) • For illumination applications (commercial • UV phototherapy devices, blood analyzers and facilities, stage and studio lighting, specialized other medical equipment lighting, and others) • EUV light sources for inspection and • Halogen heaters development applications Sales and Segment Income Sales and Segment Income Sales and Segment Income (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 100 6 60 10 4 0.15 80 3 4 40 0.1 60 5 2 40 2 20 00.5 1 20 0 0 0 0 0 0.0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Sales (left scale) Sales (left scale) Sales (left scale) Segment Income (right scale) Segment Income (right scale) Segment Income (right scale) Corporate Data Established March 1964 Employees: 5,616 (as of March 31, 2013): Paid-in capital ¥19,556,326,316 Parent company 1,793 President and Chief Executive Officer Shiro Sugata Subsidiaries • Japan 574 • Overseas 3,249 24 Sustainability Report 2013 Third-Party Opinion USHIO’s sustainability reports over the past few years have conveyed the important base of operations, the Company will need to take a more Company’s intention to incorporate the concepts of CSR, or sustainabilglobal perspective to CSR in terms of both activities and reporting. For ity, into business management, and in doing so, to produce new social example, as a global company USHIO will need to deal with supply and business innovations that will give the Company an even greater chain issues including labor and human rights in the abovementioned competitive advantage. Asian region, and this issue will become even more prominent going This year, the report has a feature (pages 4-7) about the Company’s forward. In its evolution into a global company, USHIO has made use medical and science project for fiscal 2013. In this project, USHIO develof ISO 260000 and conducted CSR officer-level research seminars on oped a blood analysis device using its optical and imaging analysis techhuman rights and education; however, it needs to review once again nologies, which are unique management resources, in a field that it has what issues and stakeholders are relevant at each phase of its operabeen focusing on recently. The device is significant in that it will enable tions, from raw material procurement, through transport, production, simple and quick analysis of serum ferritin at local clinics and hospitals distribution, and sales. Actively building relationships with stakeholdin Japan and overseas, making this important test accessible to everyone ers and recognizing the issues involved will become a source of value where previously it had been available only at certain institutions due for USHIO, and give the Company a competitive edge. In that sense, to its high cost. USHIO’s medical business is still only small in scale, but I believe it would be beneficial for USHIO at this point to map out the by working with medical institutions in Japan, and NPOs and NGOs in “stakeholder landscape” (a diagram showing the status of relationships developing countries, it has tremendous potential as a social business with stakeholders) on a global level, and to try engaging the stakeholdthat can contribute to higher standards of healthcare in local communiers in a sincere dialogue. From there, we will see which stakeholders ties, and improved QOL for patients. the Company will choose to engage, (local employees, suppliers, NPOs/ Moreover, the top management of the Company has got behind the NGOs, specialists, etc.) and what kind of frank opinions they can elicit, CSR Action Plan, so that every department has produced measures and rather than simple lip-service. USHIO may already have implemented this management priorities for a host of issues including human resource approach to a certain extent, and I look forward to seeing the Company development, the environment, customers, and diversity. Specific issues extend these measures outside of Japan, eliciting and organizing key to be addressed at the frontline in Japan are gradually being identified issues and establishing PDCA cycles to build sustainable, responsible and organized. The CSR Action Plan discussed on page 11 reveals a competitive capabilities. gradual incorporation of CSR at the concrete level through dialogue with the departments responsible for each aspect. Indeed, while the Masaatsu Doi Associate Professor, society aspect requires further steps to be taken in effective use of founTakasaki City University of Economics dations and contribution activities through core businesses, we can see Dr. Doi holds a PhD in commerce. He began his current job in 2009 after graduating from gradual progress in the governance aspect, with the enhancement of the Hitotsubashi University Department of information security, in the people aspect, with support for women and Economics and completing post-doctoral research at the Hitotsubashi University promotion of work-life balance, and in the quality aspect, with promoGraduate School of Commerce and Management. He has written tion of CSR procurement and checking up on conflict minerals. several books, including CSR Keiei—Kigyou no Shakai teki Meanwhile, considering that around 70% of USHIO’s net sales are Sekinin to Stakeholders (co-author, generated overseas (in Asia and North America for example), and that CHUOKEIZAI-SHA, INC.) Social Enterprize—Shakai teki Kigyou no the Asian region, such as the Philippines and China, is becoming an Taitou (co-author, CHUOKEIZAI-SHA, INC.) Response to Third-Party Opinion Tadashi Taki Director, Officer in Charge of CSR We appreciate receiving valuable feedback from Dr. Masaatsu Doi, Assoahead, we will continue as a company to provide global society with ciate Professor of Takasaki City University of Economics, on our Sustainsolutions through the diverse potential of light. We recognize that in ability Report 2013. this role, it is vital to maintain and improve sound relationships with our Dr. Doi has provided a third-party opinion on each of our sustainability stakeholders all over the world. reports from the 2010 edition, and has given us his views and evaluation By creating new social businesses, promoting steady CSR activities, of USHIO’s CSR initiatives and progress. We have taken his observations building relationships with stakeholders from a global perspective, and as a guiding policy in our efforts to improve and promote our activities. other initiatives, we aim to ensure that our CSR activities are valuable, In March 2014, USHIO will celebrate its 50th anniversary. Looking and connected with our business management activities. Sustainability Report 2013 25 Environmental Consciousness of this Publication This Sustainability Report 2013 is printed on paper approved by the Forest Stewardship Council® at a green printing certified plant using waterless printing, which is highly effective in reducing volatile organic compounds (VOC). In addition, the computer-to-plate (CTP) method of printing is used to eliminate the intermediary materials required for the platemaking process. Corporate Social Responsibility Department Administration Division USHIO INC. 2-6-1, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8150, Japan TEL: 03-3242-1892 FAX: 03-3245-0730 E-mail:kankyo@ushio.co.jp http://www.ushio.co.jp/en 1309S①-1000E① Printed in Japan
