KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Reporting Kirin Group’s CSR Activities Editorial Policy Contents In order to convey to our stakeholders in as broad a manner as possible the Kirin Group’s activities, and the future directions established to achieve the Kirin Group’s identity statement 02 Reporting Kirin Group’s CSR Activities 23 Improving food safety and security of being “focused on people, nature, and craftsmanship to redefine the joy of food and health,” we actively distribute information on the Kirin Group’s CSR activities. By publishing 03 Company Profile 24 Quality Management these reports, we would like to receive feedback on the Group’s efforts in order to implement further improvements. 04 About Kirin Group Communication with Our Customers As the main reports on the Kirin Group’s activities, we present the following three files and associated media. For more detailed information about the CSR activities of specific 06 Top Management Commitment 25 Protecting human rights and working conditions Group companies, please see their individual CSR reports. 09 Kirin Group’s Aspirations 26 Respect for Human Rights ■ Sustainability Report 2013 in PDF format (available in English and Japanese) This report details the Kirin Group’s stance on CSR and its efforts 13 Strengthening bonds between people and society Respect for Diversity made in accordance with this position. It also operates as a guide to more comprehensive information on the Group’s efforts in this 14 Kirin KIZUNA Relief-Support Project 27 Preventing corruption regard as described on the corporate website. In compiling this report, we focused on the points listed below. 15 Bond-Building Business Activities 28 Compliance and Risk Management ● 2013 is the inaugural year of the Kirin Group Vision 2021 (KV2021) long-term business plan and 2013-2015 medium-term business 16 Promoting health Socially Responsible Procurement and Transactions plans. The report outlines the policies and programs stated in the plans. ● The report also introduces the six themes announced in KV2021 that are important for society and 17 Alcohol-Related Problems 29 A Message from an Outside Director the Kirin Group, and reports on the activities performed in accordance with each theme. 18 Public Education and Support on Health ■ Website: available in English and Japanese 30 Third-Party Opinion The corporate website provides detailed information on the efforts Pharmaceutical and Biochemical Business made in each field more comprehensively and systematically 31 How We Act Upon Expert Advice than the sustainability report. It is produced with reference to 19 Protecting the environment Socially Responsible Investment Indexes documents such as G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, published by the Global Reporting Initiative in 2011 and 20 Sustainable Use of Biological Resources Public Recognition Environmental Reporting Guidelines (FY 2012 Version), published by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan. Preservation of Water Resources Information on Kirin Group Companies’ Sustainability Efforts ■ Environmental Performance Data Book in PDF format (available in Japanese only) 21 Recycling of Containers and Packaging Detailed information on the environmental performance is compiled in one booklet produced with reference to documents including the G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, 22 Taking Measures Against Global Warming published by the Global Reporting Initiative in 2011 and the Environmental Reporting Guidelines (FY 2012 Version), published by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 02 Forward-Looking Statements: Statements in this report that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements based on the current beliefs, Financial Highlights estimates, and expectations of management, and include risks and uncertainties associated with changes in domestic or overseas economic or market conditions, and changes in laws, regulations and policies in any of the countries in which ■ Consolidated Sales the Kirin Group operates. (Billions of yen) 30,000 Reporting Period 21,861 22,900 January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012. Please note that environmental performance data for the Kyowa Hakko Kirin 21,778 20,717 20,000 Group cover the period April 1, 2011 through March 31, 2012, with the exception of energy-use data that cover the period January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012. 10,000 Scope of Reporting and Data Compilation Where applicable, this report covers activities and accomplishments by Kirin Holdings Co., Ltd. and its 257 consolidated 0 subsidiaries in Japan and abroad (as of December 2012), which collectively constitute the Kirin Group. On matters where (Fiscal year) 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Estimated) group-wide information is unavailable, names of companies for which information is compiled are specified. ■ Consolidated Operating Income / Consolidated Recurrent Profit/ Business Company Consolidated Operating Income ratio (Billions of yen) 1,516 1,530 1,550 Kirin Brewery Co., Ltd. ; Kirin Logistics Co., Ltd. ; Kirin Distillery Co., Ltd. ; Kirin Engineering Co., Ltd. ; Kirin （%） 1,500 1,409 1,428 1,384 15 Domestic alcohol beverages Beer Marketing Co., Ltd. ; Ei Sho Gen Co., Ltd. ; Kirin & Communications Co., Ltd. ; Kirin Techno-System 1,368 1,320 business Corp. ; Kirin City Co., Ltd. ; Kirin Merchandising Co., Ltd. ; Heineken Kirin K.K. ; Mercian Corp. ; Wine Curation Co., Ltd. ; Nippon Liquor Ltd. ; Daiichi Alcohol Co., Ltd. 1,000 10.5 10.9 10.8 10 10.6 Domestic non-alcohol Kirin Beverage Co., Ltd.; Shinshu Beverage Co., Ltd. 500 5 beverages business Operating Income Recurrent Profit Overseas beverages business Kirin (China) Investment Co., Ltd.; Kirin Brewery (Zhuhai) Co., Ltd.; Lion; Brasil Kirin Prior to amortization 0 0 (Fiscal year) 2010 of goodwill, etc. 2011 2012 2013 (Estimated) Kyowa Hakko Kirin Co., Ltd. ; Kyowa Medex Co., Ltd. ; Kyowa Hakko Bio Co., Ltd. ; Daiichi Fine Chemical Co., Pharmaceuticals and Ltd. ; Kyowa Hakko Kirin China Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. ; BIOKYOWA INC. ; Shanghai Kyowa Amino Acid biochemicals business Co., Ltd. Segment Information Kirin Holdings Co., Kirin Business Expert Co., Kirin Business System Co., Ltd. Kirin Kyowa Foods Co., Ltd.; ■ Percentage of Sales by Business Segment (Liquor tax included) in 2012 Other businesses Koiwai Dairy Products Co., Ltd.; Yokohama Arena Co., Ltd.; Yokohama Akarenga Inc.; Kirin Echo Other businesses 4% Environmental performance data for the Group's operations are a compilation of the above data (Company names are as of December 31, 2012) Domestic alcohol Pharmaceutical 2,186.1 beverages business 39% Company Profile and biochemical business 15% billion yen Trade Name Kirin Holdings Company, Limited Domestic non-alcohol 27% 15% Overseas beverages February 23, 1907 business beverages business Date of Incorporation * On July 1, 2007, pursuant to the transition to a pure holding company structure, Kirin Brewery Company, Limited changed its trade name to Kirin Holdings Company, Limited. ■ Percentage of Operating Income by Business Segment (Liquor tax included) in 2012 Head Office NAKANO CENTRAL PARK SOUTH 10-2, Nakano 4-chome, Nakano-ku, Tokyo 164-0001, Japan Consolidated expenses and sales among different segments (to be removed from the count) Telephone +81-3-6837-7000 Other businesses 3% △2% President and CEO Senji Miyake Domestic alcohol Paid-in Capital 102,045,793,357 yen 153 beverages business 41% 36% Pharmaceutical and biochemical business billion yen Sales 2,186,177 million yen (Consolidated sales from January through December 31, 2012) 3% Domestic non-alcohol 18% Overseas beverages Number of Employees 68 (Number of employees of Kirin Holdings’ consolidated subsidiaries: 41,246) business beverages business (As of January 1, 2013) KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 03 About Kirin Group Group Structure (As of April 1, 2013) Kirin Holdings The Kirin Group is engaged Beverages Pharmaceutical and biochemical Beverages in the manufacture and sales Kirin of alcohol beverages, nonKirin Coca-Cola Bottling Company of alcohol beverages, foods, and Kirin Business Expert Co., Ltd. Northern New England Japan Kirin Business Expert Co., Ltd. *2 Kirin Business System Co., Ltd. Kirin Business System Co., Ltd. *2 pharmaceuticals in Japan, Kyowa Hakko Kirin the Asia-Oceania region, and Oceania Lion other parts of the world. As of December 31, 2012, the Group BRASIL KIRIN had approximately 41,000 Kirin Holdings Singapore employees, and comprised 257 Interfood consolidated subsidiaries, one Siam Kirin Beverage Other unconsolidated subsidiary, and Kirin-Amgen overseas Vietnam Kirin Beverage regions China Resources Kirin Beverages 17 affiliates accounted for by China Resources Kirin Beverages (Greater China) Co., Ltd.*1 the equity method. In October (Greater China) Co., Ltd. Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Northern New England 2012, the Group announced Interfood Indústria Agrícola Tozan Ltda. the Kirin Group Vision 2021 Vietnam Kirin Beverage San Miguel Brewery*1 Siam Kirin Beverage (KV2021) long-term business Kirin Holdings Singapore plan, which has the aim of Lion Pharmaceutical and biochemical further developing the Group’s Kyowa Hakko Kirin domestic integrated beverages Kirin-Amgen*1 business—its core business, along with the development of Other businesses overseas integrated beverages Kirin Kyowa Foods business to facilitate the further Koiwai Dairy Products Kirin Echo development of the Group. San Miguel Brewery Yokohama Akarenga BRASIL KIRIN Indústria Agrícola Tozan Ltda. Yokohama Arena *1 Affiliate accounted for by the equity method *2 Shared services company Business Segments [Core Products] Domestic alcohol beverages business Domestic non-alcohol beverages business Overseas beverages business Pharmaceutical and biochemical business KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 04 Kirin Group Participates in the United Nations Global Compact The U.N. Global Compact’s 10 Principles The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary, global initiative for Human Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and companies committed to exercising creative leadership in maintaining Rights Principle 2 ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. responsible business practices and sustainability. The Compact asks participating businesses to accept, support, and practice the 10 universally Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; accepted principles outlined below in the areas of human rights, labor, Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; environment, and anticorruption. The Kirin Group Labor announced its participation in the Compact in Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labor; and September 2005, and has since been working to align Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. its employee relationships and its business operations ranging from procurement and R&D to manufacturing Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; and marketing with the 10 principles. Kirin Group Environment Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and employees participate in working groups organized by theme in the Global Compact Japan Network and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. discuss common issues with representatives of other Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. member companies. Kirin Group CSR History Kirin Brewery Co., Ltd. was established on February 23, 1907, taking over the business of the Japan Brewery Co., Ltd., which had started marketing Kirin Beer in 1888. In its history extending over 100 years from the Meiji to the Heisei era, Kirin Brewery has gone through a series of hard times, including struggling to recover from devastating earthquakes as well as from the postwar chaos in the late 1940s. Despite these challenging circumstances, the company has never wavered from its philosophy of being customer focused and quality focused, and has continued to expand its business. Such a corporate history forms the basis of the Kirin Group’s CSR management. 1880s 1950s-1980s 1990s 2000s 2010-2013 1885 1970s 1984 1997 2006 2007 2013 Japan Brewery Co., Ltd. (the forerunner of Kirin Expands its business to areas Develops and implements the Announces the New Kirin Vision 21 (NK21) Announces the Kirin Group Kirin Brewery changes Establishes Kirin Co., Management Brewery Co., Ltd.) established in Yokohama. On the related to luxuries, health, and Long-Range Management Plan medium-term business plan, which outlines structural Vision 2015 (KV2015) its trade name to Kirin Ltd., which oversees the history advice of Thomas Blake Glover, who would later join culture, and, through its business and states its goal to diversify reforms to be implemented in the core beer business. long-term business plan. Holdings Co., Ltd. with integrated beverages the board of Japan Brewery, Yanosuke Iwasaki — centered on beers, strives to its business lines and venture NK21 includes initiatives to build a solid base for the Sets the goal of becoming a Kirin Holdings being a pure businesses in Japan president of Mitsubishi — and eight other Japanese contribute to the improvement into pharmaceuticals and other pharmaceutical and other diversified businesses, and leading company in Asia and holding company for the become the company's shareholders. of customers' quality of life. life science fields. to address social and environmental issues. Oceania. entire Kirin Group. Management Being focused on quality and 1984 Being focused on quality, conducting 1988 Kirin Group, an 1993 We contribute to the health, enjoyment and 2007 Kirin Group is focused on people, nature and conducting sound business sound business management, and industry that comfort of people all over the world. craftsmanship to promote the joy of food and health. philosophy management creating new values values life. Slogan 1984 Cheers to the 21st century 1993 Toward a fresh future 2000 One happiness after another 2007 Good taste makes you smile. 1958 1974 1993 1998 2005 2007 2010 Becomes the first company in the industry Establishes environmental improvement Develops and introduces Becomes the first beer Signs the United Nations Establishes the Kirin Women's Publishes the Kirin Group's to state a “quality-focused” stance and offices in all plants and research centers. lightweight returnable bottles. company in Japan to achieve Global Compact. Kirin Network (KWN) to promote Declaration of Support for decides to stop using artificial sweeteners a 100% recycling rate in all its Beverage starts using diversity among employees Biodiversity Conservation. 1996 Major CSR and colorants, which were widely 1978 Publishes the basic policy for breweries. Pecology® bottles, the 2008 2011 1999 contained in soft drinks at the time. industry's lightest PET activities Begins sponsorship of Japan Cup soccer quality assurance across the bottles, for its Kirin Nama 1965 Revises and updates the Kirin Establishes the ARP Office. (the forerunner of Kirin Cup Soccer), the first Group. Establishes the Quality Launches the Water-Source Cha green tea drinks. Group environmental policy *ARP: Alcohol Related Problem Introduces the industry's international club competition in Japan. It has Assurance Department to be a Forestation Project activities (Alcohol Related Problem first plastic carrying crates. since continued to support soccer in Japan. trusted corporate group. starting from Yokohama Plant. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 05 Top Management Commitment Working to Retain the Trust and investors—and to create shared value with them. We also have reviewed what we have Respect of Society in a Fast-Changing accomplished in our CSR initiatives and Business Environment have identified six major social challenges as key themes central to the Group's business The Kirin Group unveiled in October 2012 activities. the Kirin Group Vision 2021 (KV2021), a longterm road map of how we work to retain the Developing a Stronger Bond with trust and respect of the society that we serve. KV2021 replaced the Kirin Group Vision 2015 Society by Remaining Customer(KV2015), which was announced in 2006 as Focused and Quality-Focused the Group's long-term strategic initiatives for developing and expanding its business. Under In KV2021, we have three visions to pursue. KV2015, we achieved significant revenue These visions reiterate the Group's inherited growth thanks to our increased presence in the attributes of being customer-focused and global market. However, we faced tremendous quality-focused in pursuit of the Group's challenges in the Japanese beverage market, in corporate philosophy of being focused on which consumers had a much wider variety of people, nature and craftsmanship to redefine beverage products from which to choose and the joy of food and well-being. As all three changes were taking place in a more dramatic visions are derived from the Group's long-held and fast-paced manner than we had expected. philosophy and mission, I hope that Group To become more flexible and adaptive to employees around the world will find it easy to a fast-changing business environment, we embrace and relate to them. have updated KV2015 to KV2021 earlier than The first vision is to help people foster originally planned, and have decided to head stronger bonds by offering customer-oriented Pursuing Sustained with renewed determination toward where we want to be. and quality-focused value. The pursuit of this vision has its roots in the heritage of the What is new about KV2021 is that it Kirin Group. Being customer-focused and Growth While Living Up takes the traditional CSR (corporate social quality-focused does not end with making responsibility) approach to the next level by products and offering services—it is about To Expectations of Society incorporating a management concept known creating products that enrich and enhance as a CSV (creating shared value) approach＊1, customers' experiences. Kirin Brewery's Ichiban in which the Kirin Group makes it part of Shibori Frozen Draft is a case in point. It is Senji Miyake its business to increase engagement with a product born out of a customer-focused, President and CEO its six groups of stakeholders—customers, quality-focused approach that enables Kirin Holdings Company, Limited employees, communities, business partners, customers to enjoy beer in a way that they the environment, and shareholders and have never before. Seeing how happy they KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 06 TOP COMMITMENT are when drinking Frozen Draft makes our we endorse even broader diversity and each country and region has its own food Compact, in which the Kirin Group participates. job worthwhile. We apply this approach not inclusion among our employees regardless of culture and flavor preferences, it will not These three themes and the theme of only to our alcohol beverages business but nationality, race, and culture. Having diverse work if we stick to Japanese ways of doing improving food safety and security, which also to our non-alcohol beverages, food, and employees will give us a more competitive things when conducting business in markets is must-have for a company in the food pharmaceutical businesses, so that a broader edge in the global market. This second vision outside Japan. Each Kirin Group company is business and has profound social implications, range of people can have richer experiences also reflects our commitment to playing a an expert in the market in which it operates constitute the Kirin Group’s core themes. All and foster stronger bonds with each other. constructive role in community development and is, therefore, responsible for expanding the Group companies, wherever they are, must The second vision is to build a corporate and environmental conservation, as we cannot business on its own in a manner deemed most pursue these four core themes while each is group where a diversity of people enjoy continue our business without the support of relevant to the regional needs. encouraged to exercise autonomy in pursuing working and businesses grow with local local communities nor without the water and its business goals in a manner appropriate to communities, protecting the environment. raw materials that nature provides. local agendas. Delivering Value That Only Kirin This vision directly reflects our progress The third vision is to develop businesses We have two more themes, which toward becoming a truly global corporate globally in the field of food and well-being, Can Deliver While Pursuing Six Key are derived from our corporate philosophy group. In Japan, we were one of the first with each region pursuing self-sustained Themes and are specific to the Kirin Group. One is companies in the beverage industry to offer growth in a locally optimized way. This strengthening bonds between people and equal employment opportunities to men vision reflects our intention to diversify our The Kirin Group has been carrying out a wide society, which is closely associated with the and women, and we have been proactively businesses into a wider global arena with an range of CSR activities for years. For instance, heritage of the Group and has considerable embracing diversity in the workplace. As unwavering commitment to continuing to we became, in 1999, the first beverage social relevance. Our products and services we are expanding our operations globally, redefine the joy of food and well-being. As company to launch a forest preservation have brought, and will continue to bring, project in Japan, and have been working smiles to people’s faces and help them foster to meet aggressive self-imposed targets bonds with each other. In addition to bringing to reduce CO2 emissions so as to mitigate about such a positive effect on people, we will Kirin Group's Corporate Philosophy global warming. However, the enthusiasm step up our efforts to bring communities closer The Kirin Group – Focused on people, nature and craftsmanship to redefine the joy that management and departments and together through the Kirin KIZUNA (bonding) of food and well-being staffers directly involved in implementing CSR Project＊2 for reconstructing communities initiatives and projects felt for high-minded CSR affected by the March 2011 Great East Japan 2021 Vision causes did not necessarily filter down to the Earthquake as well as through other initiatives. ● Help people foster stronger bonds by offering customer-oriented and rest of the organization; to my disappointment, We will leverage the experiences and expertise quality-focused value not all employees recognized the importance we are gaining from the KIZUNA Project to of practicing CSR. To incorporate the CSR help foster stronger bonds between people ● Build a corporate group where a diversity of people enjoy working and businesses perspective in our organizational culture and and society. grow with local communities, protecting the environment business operations, we have chosen six key The other theme is promoting health, ● Develop businesses globally in the field of food and well-being, with each region themes to pursue in KV2021. a theme that is most relevant to a corporate pursuing self-sustained growth in a locally optimized way Of the six key themes, three—protecting group engaged in the beverages, food, and the environment, protecting human rights pharmaceutical businesses. It is also a theme “One Kirin”Values and working conditions, and preventing that reflects the growing health consciousness Passion and Integrity corruption—are based on the principles among customers. While addressing alcoholproposed in the United Nations Global related problems by offering non-alcohol, beerKIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 07 TOP COMMITMENT We adhere to compliance requirements, value. For instance, an effort to figure out how such as the prevention of forced labor and to promote environmental conservation or child labor, and ask the same thing of our customers' health may lead to an idea for a business partners. We will continue to find new product; and an effort for community ways to establish win-win relationships with outreach may point to a new business our business partners, as demonstrated in our opportunity. This type of CSV approach has just support of the Rainforest Alliance＊4 project in started to catch on. In the Kirin Group, the CSV Sri Lanka. Division in Kirin Corporation—a new company Our efforts to reduce CO2 emissions established in January 2013 to oversee the to protect the environment include sharing Group's integrated beverages businesses in trucks with other beverage companies to Japan—takes the lead in putting the CSV deliver products to distributors and retailers perspective into practice. We hope that the more efficiently. We will continue to practice division will set a good example of the Group's a broad range of environmental stewardship, corporate citizenship for all other Group and wine-tasting drinks as alternatives, we will One way to do this is to foster stronger bonds including the protection of resources and the companies to follow. continue to develop food and drink products with them by being always grateful to and environment. In order for this endeavor to succeed, that offer customers health benefits. Products sincere with them. We maintain relationships of trust with it is critically important for all Kirin Group marketed under the Kirin Plus-i＊3 brand are To help customers foster strong bonds shareholders and investors by increasing our employees around the world to understand a case in point. In addition to expanding with each other, we focus on developing food corporate value and sharing profits with them how much we can collectively accomplish the offerings of energizing food and drink and drink products from which customers and by giving them an assurance that our CSR by working toward KV2021, the six key CSR products that contain ornithine (a self-renewal can have fun and delightful experiences with efforts will result in an increase in our corporate themes, and stronger bonds with stakeholders. amino acid), we launched in 2012, with great others. To address alcohol-related problems, value. To build solid buy-in among employees, every success, yogurt drinks that contain plasma we are expanding our offerings of non-alcohol, member of the management teams of Group lactic acid bacteria found to reduce the risk of beerand wine-tasting drinks, such as Kirin companies will act as a vocal advocate of contracting infectious diseases. The Kirin Group Free, and promoting responsible drinking Creating Shared Value for Both this approach and will infuse vitality into our will become more aggressive in research and among adults. Society and the Kirin Group organizational culture. With all employees development in areas where we can make a We create an open and accommodating working as a team to create value based on difference in promoting customers’ health. organizational culture in which every their understanding of stakeholders' needs and employee is proud of the company and has While talking with external experts expectations, the Kirin Group will be able to the opportunity to achieve personal and to obtain advice on KV2021 during its achieve KV2021, to continue to live up to the Maintaining Relationships of Trust professional growth in the workplace. development phase and while working on trust and respect of the society it serves, and to with All Our Stakeholders We help communities sustain wellthe Kirin KIZUNA Project, I came to realize remain on a growth track. balanced development by educating children that a CSV approach, which makes CSR an through soccer and by addressing social integral part of management practices, might challenges through the Kirin KIZUNA Project hold the key to increasing corporate value. A ＊1 See Page 12 for details Our efforts to achieve the 2021 Vision ＊2 See Page 14 for details include working closely with all six groups of and a campaign to promote responsible company that tackles social challenges head＊3 See Page 18 for details stakeholders to co-create greater brand value. drinking. on has a good chance of increasing its brand ＊4 See Page 20 for details KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 08 Kirin Group's Aspirations Continuing to Redefine the Joy of Food and Well-Being 2021 Vision over the Next 10 Years Help people foster stronger bonds by offering customer-oriented and In 2012, the Kirin Group announced the 2021 Vision, which articulates the Group's long-term aspirations of where it wants to be in 2021 and quality-focused value gives us something to strive for to continue to redefine the joy of food and well-being over the next 10 years. In pursuit of the 2021 Vision, we Build a corporate group where a will work with our stakeholders to create shared value for both society and the Kirin Group. All Kirin Group companies, regardless of where they diversity of people enjoy working and are and what they do, share One Kirin Values and work in concert to help achieve a sustainable society around the globe. businesses grow with local communiC SV ) Value ( ties, protecting the environment h are d gS Creatin Develop businesses globally in the field of food and well-being, with each Kirin Group's region pursuing self-sustained growth in a locally optimized way Six Themes Strengthening bonds r ity between people and society t eg In d Protecting Themes specific an the environment to the Kirin Group si on as :P es Protecting human rights and working conditions Sustainability of Promoting health Valu rin society and business Compliance K i ne Improving food ”O Corporate Philosophy safety and security Working toward achieving the 2021 Vision, The Kirin Group – Focused on Preventing the Kirin Group pursues its six common people, nature and craftsmancorruption themes derived from its corporate philosoship to redefine the joy of food phy, using the CSV perspective—creating and well-being shared value for both society and the Kirin Group—and with passion and integrity. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 09 Kirin Group's Aspirations Six Themes That the Kirin Group Pursues We pursue six themes considered central to a corporate group doing business in the field of food and well-being. Protecting the environment, improving food safety and security, protecting human rights and working conditions, and preventing corruption are the four core themes we have chosen based on the United Nations Global Compact*; and strengthening bonds between people and society and promoting health are ・Communities becoming two themes specific to the Kirin Group. We work with our stakeholders to create shared value as a part of conducting business. loosely connected with each other *See Page 5 for details ・Diversity of food and beverage cultures decreasing Strengthening bonds The March 2011 Great East Japan between people and society Earthquake made us see in a ・Biological and water fresh light the importance of resources and raw materials for packages and containers having strong bonds between becoming scarce people and society. We want our ・Global warming products and services to make a difference in creating and Protecting strengthening bonds among In pursuit of the Kirin Group people and among ・Employees becoming the environment Environment Vision for 2050, communities. increasingly diverse we share with all parties ・Corporate organization involved in our value chains our aligned for global operations aspirations to continue to enjoy See Page 13 the natural bounty of the Earth and pass it down to future Protecting human rights generations. Our principles on human and working conditions resources management center on valuing employees. We respect the human rights of our employees as well as those See Page 19 Promoting health As a corporate group engaged in employed by business partners the alcohol beverages business, involved in our value chains, we address alcohol-related Kirin Group's Six Themes and provide a working problems on a global scale. True environment in which to our corporate philosophy of employees feel safe and secure. redefining the joy of food and well-being, we provide products Improving food and services that add the value See Page 25 Our dedication to quality has its of being healthy to customers' safety and security roots in the early days of the daily lives and that inspire new Kirin Group. We stop at nothing lifestyles among them. to offer customers safe and reliable products and services See Page 16 that live up to their trust and expectations. ・More and more people suffering from a wide range of health Preventing corruption We use sound judgment and problems including lifestyleintegrity when dealing with all induced diseases business partners that support ・People becoming more and the value chains of the Kirin more health-conscious Group's businesses so as to See Page 23 ・Alcohol-related problems ・Scope of our responsibility develop a fair and equitable becoming larger as we relationship with each of them. expand operations globally ・People becoming increasingly We adhere to compliance ・Social challenges becoming conscious about food safety increasingly diverse requirements as a basis for ・The need to secure high-quality implementing our CSR raw materials to make products initiatives. See Page 27 KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 10 Kirin Group's Aspirations Co-Creating Brand Value with Stakeholders Facilitating Greater EngageCOLUMN Customers, employees, communities, business partners, the environment, and shareholders and investors are six groups of ment with Our Stakeholders stakeholders common to all Kirin Group companies. We work with these stakeholders to pursue six key themes in collective efforts to create shared value. In addition, we maintain dialogues with them to keep abreast of the changing needs and In the second phase of the Kirin KIZUNA Relief-Support expectations of the society that we serve. Project for the areas affected by the March 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake, we have been supporting the Agricultural Training Center Project for the Tohoku Region Co-create value through brand-centered management since April 2013. This training project is the fruit of more We strive to be part of our customers' important life moments and than 10 sessions we had with people in the agricultural continue to co-create with them the value that meets their needs, while sector, NPOs, and experts. Kirin staffers have been meeting offering safe and reliable products and services. Develop an organizational culture in which with other project members regularly to discuss and Strengthening bonds between people and society Promoting health employees feel a sense of pride and Improving food safety and security identify the needs and challenges associated with fulfillment, embrace diversity and inclusion, Customers restoring agriculture in the affected communities and how and can develop professional skills the Kirin Group can assist in the restoration efforts. We develop an organizational culture in which diverse employees feel a sense of fulfillment in In August 2012, we had a stakeholder dialogue what they do and achieve personal and Continually increase our session with six experts in the field of food safety and professional growth. corporate value to deliver a return security to discuss ways to maintain effective qualityProtecting human rights and working conditions to shareholders related communication. The insights and ideas shared at Employees Shareholders Promoting health and Investors We continually increase our corporate value by the session—concerning how to establish good maintaining the quality of our management Preventing corruption and establishing long-term relationships of relationships with customers and society and to disclose trust with shareholders and investors. information about food safety—were incorporated into Preventing corruption the ways we communicate with our customers. We will Contribute to community Kirin keep in touch with our stakeholders and continue to development through business Group exchange ideas on broader subjects. activities We value the communities on which we depend for our business activities, and help them sustain well-balanced development by using our products and services to create bonds among people. Help achieve a zero-waste society Strengthening bonds between people and society Communities The Environment We make a cyclical use of resources so as to Promoting health keep their use at or below the level at which the Earth can replenish them, while reducing the environmental loads that the Kirin Group Session of the Agricultural Training Center Project generates in its value chains. Coevolve through mutual trust and collaboration We establish relationships of trust with all our business partners through Protecting the environment fair business practices as part of our collective efforts to achieve a sustainable society. Business Partners Protecting human rights and working conditions Preventing corruption Six themes common to all Kirin Group companies: Stakeholder dialogue session about food safety and security Strengthening bonds between people and society Promoting health Protecting the environment Improving food safety and security Protecting human rights and working conditions Preventing corruption KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 11 Kirin Group's Aspirations Creating Shared Value Taking on Social Challenges While Sustaining the Growth of the Kirin Group In 2013, the Kirin Group established Kirin Co., Ltd., which oversees the integrated beverages businesses in Japan carried out by Kirin Brewery, Kirin Beverage, and Mercian. The new company has in place the CSV Division. CSV stands for creating shared value—a management concept proposed by Michael E. Porter, a Harvard Kunio Kurihara Executive Officer of Kirin Holdings Co., Ltd. professor—which seeks to combine engagement in social challenges with sustained business growth. To bring to the next level the CSR initiatives that the Kirin Interview Director in Charge of Group CSR Group has implemented through its business activities, in the Kirin Group Vision 2021 (KV2021), we make it an integral part of our business to create value that the General Manager of CSV Management Department Kirin Group and society can share. in CSV Division of Kirin Co., Ltd. create shared value. provide us with a basis of competition. Addressing Social Challenges as Part We take the following three For instance, we have been assisting of Providing Products and Services approaches to creating shared value: efforts to restore agriculture and fishery 1. Taking a CSV perspective when in the communities affected by the Great The Kirin Group has chosen to adopt a CSV developing and marketing products East Japan Earthquake as part of the Kirin approach because we wanted to transform and services. Kirin Free, the world’s first KIZUNA Project. We will continue to work the ways in which we do business. For non-alcohol, beer-tasting drink, is a case with a diverse range of communities that years, we remained customer-focused in point; it addresses the social issue of support our business. and quality-focused to offer products and increasing traffic accidents caused by services that made customers happy. Then drunk driving. We will continue to look we asked ourselves, “Why not do more?” into other social issues to explore ways to Taking on Social Challenges and After the Great East Japan Earthquake in develop products and services that address Sustaining Business Growth March 2011, we found people becoming them. more and more conscious about the social 2. Working with our business We have just started to pursue a CSV issues that they saw around them, and we partners involved in manufacture and agenda, beginning first with our integrated realized the tremendous expectations placed logistics in our value chains. For instance, beverages businesses in Japan. We will on us by society. It was not long before we we work with retailers and logistics share and apply what we will learn in determined that addressing social challenges companies to reduce environmental loads Japan to the rest of the Kirin Group. In as part of our business of providing products ー Evolving CSR to CSV ー generated from distribution operations by that process, we will seek the advice and services would benefit our business in consolidating small loads of merchandise and assistance of a broad range of our Facilitate the long run. That is why we have chosen to to large freight trucks for delivery to stakeholders. We are ready to leverage our innovation implement a CSV approach. retailers. This reduces the number of strengths to continue to take on social CSV deliveries by trucks, yielding the benefits challenges and, at the same time, to sustain Address of reduced CO2 emissions and lower the Group’s business growth. By doing so social challenges ・Products and services Creating Shared Value distribution costs. Collaboration with our we can make a difference in shaping our ・Value chain Societal CSR business partners and other parties in the future society. value ・Local Community industry is expected to generate greater KV2021 calls for us to pursue six key Corporate value results than those Kirin can deliver alone. Sustain a company's growth themes with six groups of stakeholders to 3. Working on the communities that KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 12 Strengthening We want our products and services to make bonds between a difference in creating and strengthening bonds people and society among people and among communities. Our Approaches The Kirin Group, living up to the wishes and expectations of stakeholders, has been developing and fostering bonds with people and society as part of its business of providing products and services. In July 2011, we made a commitment to contributing six billion yen over three years to reconstruction efforts in the Tohoku region struck by the Great East Japan Earthquake. All Group companies have since been joining forces in the Kirin KIZUNA Relief-Support Project. Driven by a strong desire to work closely with the people in the affected communities in reconstruction efforts, an important part of our assistance centers on encouraging them to foster stronger bonds with their families and communities. The Kirin KIZUNA Project comprises three pillars of activities: (1) helping restore the local food culture and food industry; (2) bringing smiles to children; and (3) helping people enhance their mental and physical wellness. As part of initiatives to nurture the young generation, we sponsor soccer games and events to encourage their dreams of becoming members of the Japan national soccer team. Our sales and marketing activities have the underlying objective of helping customers stay in touch with their families and friends. Furthermore, we make it part of our business to work with local residents and business partners to assist with community development and to create stronger bonds among communities. We also share with consumers the Our Goal information and insights we gain from our extensive research on food lifestyles and beverage cultures. All our stakeholders—customers, employees, communities, business partners, the environment, and shareholders and investors—have made the Kirin Group what it is today. The March 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake made us see in a fresh light the importance of having strong bonds between people and society, and we have since been assisting reconstruction efforts in the affected communities in the Tohoku region. Our support is intended to help the region's industries return to what they used to be, which will make children feel they have a bright future ahead, brighten up the communities, invigorate the entire region, and eventually lead to its sustained growth. The 2021 Vision calls for us to help people foster stronger bonds by offering customer-oriented and quality-focused value. True to the philosophy on which the Kirin Group was founded, we use our products and services to pass down traditional food and beverage cultures and create new ones, and to help people stay in touch with their families and friends and with society. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 13 Kirin KIZUNA Relief-Support Project Strengthening bonds between people and society Promoting health Protecting the environment Improving food safety and security Protecting human rights and working conditions Preventing corruption Helping Restore the Local Food Culture and Food Industry Bringing Smiles to Children The Kirin Group, a corporate group in the food business, has taken it upon itself to help farmers Scholarships for High School Students Studying Agriculture / and fishers affected by the earthquake in the Tohoku region get back on their feet in processes Cheering up children through table tennis ranging from production through delivery of their products to customers. We have joined forces with Save the Children Japan (SCJ), an NGO advocating children’s rights, Kirin’s project staffers meet frequently with farmers, fishers, NPOs, and industry experts in the to run the Kirin SCJ KIZUNA Scholarship Program for high school students studying agriculture in region and ascertain their needs and challenges so that we can provide assistance that makes a Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima Prefectures. In 2012, the second year of the difference to the local industries. program, 662 students from 20 high schools received scholarships. Kirin’s In the project’s first phase, which ran in 2011 and 2012, we offered a subsidy of 500 million project staffers visited some of the schools to attend hands-on classes yen for farmers to buy 386 pieces of farming equipment to replace lost or damaged equipment, and school festivals. and offered 400 million yen to restore damaged aquaculture equipment. Furthermore, 491 Kirin In addition, we are holding table tennis classes for children in Iwate, Group employees volunteered to provide assistance to fishers in remote communities. Miyagi and Fukushima Prefecture to encourage their wholesome growth. In the second phase, which began in 2013, we have expanded our assistance to include helpWe held classes for 3,900 Children in 15 locations by the end of 2012, and ing local farmers and fishers develop brands for their farm and marine products, and helping them plan to hold additional classes in 2013. Students harvesting rice in a hands-on class expand sales channels for their products in preparation for senary industrial development＊. We will also support the training of the future generation of farmers with leadership talent. ＊ An approach to revitalizing agriculture and fishery in the primary sector of economic activity by extending them to include the processing of raw materials and the sale of processed products. (1) Primary sector (agriculture and fishery) x (2) secondary sector (processing) x (3) tertiary sector (distribution and sale) Helping People Enhance Their Mental and Physical Wellness = (6) senary sector JFA-Kirin Smile Field Working with the Japan Football Association, we sponsor the JFA-Kirin Smile Field program in Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima Prefectures. Former members of Japan’s national team visit elementary schools and coach students in soccer skills, and we donate balls and goals to schools so that children can enjoy playing soccer when they want. By the end of 2012, 49,604 elementary students participated in the soccer classes held at 323 Students participating in a soccer class held at Iitoyo Elementary School in Soma, Fukushima Prefecture schools. The program will continue through 2013. on December 4, 2012 Members of the Shichigahama Farmers Association Fully restored refrigerated storage facility for oysters, Volunteers working on an aquaculture farm in back in business operated by the Miyagi Prefecture Fishermen’s Association Ogatsu Tachihama in Ishinomaki COLUMN Supporting Sports Training Farmers To nurture the future generation of farmers with leadership talent, we support the Agricultural Nurturing Children Through Soccer Training Center Project for the Tohoku Region, scheduled to run from April 2013 through March The Kirin Group has been sponsoring the Kirin Soccer Field, soccer 2014. This project is intended to bring farmers in the region up-to-date with respect to the agriclasses for elementary students, in Japan since 2008. This program is culture business, including case studies of the latest developments outside Japan, and to invite intended to help soccer gain a broader fan base and to encourage aspiring talents into the region. Two programs—the Farming Leaders’ Network in Tohoku and children to aspire to make it to Japan’s national team. Takafumi Ogura, the Curriculum for Reconstruction Producers in Tokyo—are offered in the project; participants in a former member of the national team, coaches enthusiastic children these programs work together to who enjoy practicing soccer with a former professional player they Children playing a mini game with coaches create a new business model for idolize. agriculture in the Tohoku region Nearly 6,200 children participated in the classes held around the country in the first five years of the program. and to help bring communities Participating young players not only improve their technical skills in the sport but also learn the importance of affected by the earthquake back taking on the challenge of becoming better players. We hope the program helps children grow into wholeto what they used to be and some individuals. In 2013, classes for 1,300 children are scheduled at 13 locations. more. Training sessions KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 14 Bond-Building Business Activities Strengthening bonds between people and society Promoting health Protecting the environment Improving food safety and security Protecting human rights and working conditions Preventing corruption Business Activities That Have a Way of Creating Stronger Bonds Vineyard That Has Become Part of a Community Products and services the Kirin Group offers have a way of creating bonds among people. In our Mercian converted idle farmland into a vineyard in Ueda, Nagano business, we strive to make a difference by helping people strengthen their bonds with their Prefecture, in 2002. It was named Mariko Vineyard and has since hired families and friends, which will invigorate communities. members of the local community as workers. The 2009 vintage wine produced from the vineyard won a gold award in the 2013 Vinalies A New Way of Gift-Giving Using Social Media Internationales wine contest. The vineyard is expected to double its annual Kirin Brewery has launched a new online service named “Beer to friends” using social media for wine production to the equivalent of 80,000 750-ml bottles by 2018. Mercian’s Mariko Vineyard marketing Grand Kirin premium beer. A customer can purchase and send via Facebook or Twitter an electronic gift certificate for a bottle of Grand Kirin to a friend, who then takes the certificate to a 7-Eleven store to get a beer. This is a novel way of marketing beer gift certificates that bring Sharing Information on Food and Lifestyle people closer together. The Kirin Institute of Food and Lifestyle conducts surveys and studies on consumers’ lifestyle trends associated with food and alcohol beverages, and reports findings about changes in consumers’ Project to Communicate the Importance of Dining Together preferences and in social trends. The Kirin Group has been carrying out the Table of Dreams Project since The institute analyzed Japanese consumers’ dietary behavior, lifestyle choices, personal values, 2011 to show how sitting around a dining table can bring people closer and how they use dining as a relationship-building experience, and identified 10 distinctive together. We sponsor a TV program with the same title, which—using a patterns of food lifestyles among them. The Kirin Group helps a diverse range of customers take a dining table as a metaphor by which people connect with others— second look at what they eat, and assists them in leading invigorating and fulfilling lives. brings to TV audiences snapshots of a variety of regional food cultures from around Japan as well as scenes of how food has a way of creating Employee’s Comment bonds among people. We also use Facebook to provide tidbits of information about food to the public. In addition, we invite hundreds of Dining event at Yokohama Red Brick Warehouse, with 1,000 participants Fostering a Sense of Close-Knit, Lively Community among people to events in which they share outdoor dining experiences as a Bars, Restaurants and Retailers way of developing bonds with each other. My sales territory has been in the Kamata area in southern Tokyo for five years. Kamata used to attract a steady stream of shoppers and diners from neighboring communities, Project That Brings Children and Parents Closer Together but has lost its appeal to out-of-towners in recent years. During a meeting with the city’s Kirin Beverage has been carrying out the Children’s Library Project under Hisashi Arita tourist association, I was told that Kamata would be a location for a daily TV sitcom “Dr. Tokyo Sales Office 3 the Koiwai Pure-Water Fruit Juice Drink brand. Under the supervision of Ume-chan” to be aired by NHK (public broadcasting company), and I saw an opportunity Metropolitan Sales Division Kirin Beer Marketing Naoki Ogi, an education expert, the company produces picture books to showcase the town to outsiders. I started working with Hakusui-sha, a Kamataabout children’s mental growth, and donates them to kindergartens and based manufacturer of flavored soda drinks, and local bars and restaurants to create a libraries. Kirin Beverage also sponsors reading events for children around new cocktail only available in Kamata. After several prototypes, we finally created the the country. “Ume-chan Sour” cocktail, named after the TV program. Initially, only a few bars and restaurants in the area offered the cocktail to their customers. That changed when the tourist association endorsed the drink and when it was frequently featured in magazines Employee’s Comment and TV programs. Eventually, the cocktail was added to the drink menus of 70 bars and restaurants in the area and became very popular among visitors. We Bring Children and Their Parents Closer Together There was a disconnect between the Kamata Station Building and small retailers, bars, and Since starting the Children’s Library Project in 2011, we have donated 15,000 picture books “Ume-chan Sour” restaurants nearby. To create a sense of community between the station building and the Cocktail as of the end of March 2013. I hope this project has helped many children and their parents surrounding commercial district, we held Kamata Town Fair in the terminal building, which share a good time. We will continue to offer products that not only connect with customers Aya Yamaguchi helped raise people’s awareness of Kamata’s local delicacies and also drove customers to but also bring closer together children and their parents who enjoy our products. Marketing Department, Kirin Beverage local bars, restaurants, and retailers. It is exciting to see a sense of close-knit, lively community becoming stronger in Kamata. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 15 As a group of companies committed to “delivering a Promoting greater joy of food and health,” we will strive to bring health smiles through proposals with additional health benefits to your daily life. Our Approaches The Kirin Group Vision 2021 (KV2021) is the Group’s long-term business plan to develop businesses globally in the field of food and well-being, with each region pursuing selfsustained growth in a locally optimized way. In 2008, the Kirin Group launched the cross-company Kirin Health Project mainly in Japan under the Kirin Plus-i brand, whereby it leverages its technical expertise to develop products to meet the needs of healthconscious customers. We will continue our efforts to conduct research and development on health and maximize our global intercompany synergy to develop products that will meet the health-related needs that are ever increasing and diversifying along with the advancement of society. As a socially responsible corporate group that manufactures and markets alcohol beverages, and to address alcohol-related problems (ARPs) through a global perspective, we will regularly conduct public-awareness campaigns on responsible drinking in various countries. Kyowa Hakko Kirin Group, operating in the pharmaceutical and biochemical business, strives to develop groundbreaking new drugs, such as therapeutic antibodies, with a sense of mission to deliver them as fast as possible to as many people in the world suffering with diseases as possible. Kyowa Hakko Kirin also strives to fulfill its obligation to provide its pharmaceutical products to ensure their safe and reliable use. Furthermore, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Group actively provides information that is in high demand on pharmaceuticals and Our Goal healthcare. The Kirin Group’s identity statement is to “be focused on people, nature, and craftsmanship to redefine the joy of food and well-being.” We believe that one’s health benefits not only one’s self but also one’s families, friends, communities, workplaces, and next generations. By incorporating a perspective on “health” in daily life, we aim to make life more joyous and fulfilling. The World Health Organization (WHO) defines health as “a state of complete physical, mental and social well-being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity.” Based on this ideal, the Kirin Group promotes health as a “source of social bonding.” KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 16 Alcohol-Related Problems Strengthening bonds between people and society Promoting health Protecting the environment Improving food safety and security Protecting human rights and working conditions Preventing corruption Addressing Alcohol-Related Problems ＊1 Global Alcohol Producers Group (GAP-Group) The GAP-Group is an international trade organization established in 2005 to provide alcohol beverage companies with a channel of dialogue with the WHO. Its members are 16 organizations comprised of alcohol beverages companies and brewers associations from around the world. For details, access the URL on the right. http://www.globalalcoholproducersgroup.com/ We consider alcohol-related problems (ARPs) to be at odds with the Kirin Group’s identity ＊2 International Center for Alcohol Policies (ICAP) The ICAP is an international NPO established in 1995 to promote dialogue on alcohol policies. Its members are 14 major alcohol beverages companies from around the world. statement of “redefining the joy of food and well-being.” As a socially responsible corporate group For details, access the URL on the right. http://www.icap.org/ that manufactures and markets alcohol beverages, the Kirin Group addresses ARPs head-on and provides practical solutions to them. We work with local and international communities in the fight against high-risk drinking. Our far-reaching efforts to tackle ARPs start with establishing the basic policy and action guidelines for addressing them, and range from raising public awareness Promoting Responsible Drinking about responsible drinking to defining and enforcing stringent voluntary standards on alcohol advertising. We also train our employees on responsible drinking, and participate in industry-wide To reduce alcohol-related problems, we believe that it is most important to promote responsible drinking. programs and campaigns against the harmful use of alcohol in Japan and abroad. We perform promotional activities as well as activities using our products, such as Kirin Free, development and distribution of public teaching materials, and campaign against drunk driving in cooperation with administrative organizations. The Kirin Group expects all its employees to be role models for responsible drinking for the public and Basic Policy The Kirin Group, true to its identity statement of being “focused on people, nature and provides awareness-raising training on responsible drinking to all employees. It has designated April as a for Addressing craftsmanship to redefine the joy of food and well-being,” strives to prevent high-risk drinking responsible-drinking month in which all employees are encouraged to participate in a training session, where ARPs that can lead to a variety of problems and to promote responsible drinking in a society. instruction is provided on the advantage and disadvantage of drinking, how to achieve responsible drinking, as well as reviewing eating habits, promoting exercise, and other knowledge to lead a healthy life and improve awareness. Basic Policy 1. In the belief that responsible drinking has merits and facilitates communication among As teaching materials, the Kirin Group has distributed approximately 7 million copies of a brochure titled people, we educate the public on sensible drinking. “The ABCs of Alcohol and Health” since 1996, approximately 0.6 million copies of a video titled “Minors and 2. Acknowledging that alcohol beverages have an intoxicating effect on people and that excessive Alcohol” since 1993 to prevent underage drinking, and approximately 0.2 million copies of an educational video drinking may lead to alcohol dependency, we conduct public-awareness campaigns on the for adults titled “Drink Happily Throughout Your Lifetime” since 2012 in order to share knowledge on this subject. potential problems that harmful drinking may cause to prevent such problems. ● Preventing underage drinking ● Preventing drunk driving ● Preventing binge As part of its fight against drunk driving, the Group started using Kirin Free a non-alcohol(0%), beerdrinking ● Discouraging pregnant women and nursing mothers from drinking tasting beverage as a vehicle to get across its message against drunk driving and to generate increased 3. We strictly adhere to laws and regulations, voluntary standards set up by the industry, and our own voluntary public support and awareness of a designated driver and safe ride campaign called the Steering-Wheel standards in conducting our business while promoting responsible drinking and preventing high-risk drinking. Keeper Campaign from 2009. In 2012, the Group, in cooperation with local governments, distributed 4. We actively support public campaigns and down-to-earth activities to prevent irresponsible drinking. campaign brochures and free samples of Kirin Free to people on the street at 120 locations across Japan. 5. We establish a responsible-drinking drive month in which all employees are encouraged to In 2010, the Group added the Kirin Fund against Drunk Driving as an option in its special benefit program participate in a training session or a self-development program. for shareholders. In 2012, approximately 1.25 million yen was raised and donated to the Japan National Organization Welfare of Victims of Automotive Accidents. COLUMN Joining Forces with Trade Associations Efforts Made by Lion (in Australia and New Zealand) Lion has made efforts concerning the alcohol contents of its products as well In May 2010, the WHO resolved to adopt the Global Strategy to Reduce the Harmful Use of Alcohol. as items to be denoted on its product labels. It reduced the alcohol content of Following the WHO resolution, trade associations within the Japanese alcohol industry have been working its major brand product “XXXX GOLD” from 5% to 4.2% in 1991. Further, along with the government to develop initiatives to address ARPs, including those specific to the Japanese market. with an increase in health awareness, it has reduced the alcohol content to The Kirin Group has joined international trade organizations, the Global Alcohol Producers 3.5% to contribute to moderate drinking among its customers. In 2012, the Group (GAP Group)＊1 in 2005 and the International Center for Alcohol Policies (ICAP)＊2 in 2013, increasing market share of low-alcohol beer reached approximately 17% of the entire beer market, and “XXXX GOLD” and has been globally carrying out projects to reduce the adverse effects of alcohol misuse. became the leading brand in the market. As an effort more than sufficiently meeting legal standards, Lion adopts In 2012, the Kirin Group worked to ensure that overseas major Group companies understood consumer health messages that support responsible drinking choices on the labels of their alcohol beverages. In 2012, in the message of “Reducing the Harmful Use of Alcohol: Beer, Wine and Spirits Producers’ response to a suggestion from a stakeholder, Lion focused its message to warning against drinking during pregnancy. Commitments” produced and published by the GAP-Group and the ICAP. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 17 Public Education and Support on Health/Pharmaceutical and Biochemical Business Strengthening bonds between people and society Promoting health Protecting the environment Improving food safety and security Protecting human rights and working conditions Preventing corruption Health Promotion Efforts Pharmaceutical and Biochemical Business Activities Promoting Products with Additional Health Benefits Providing Information on Health To help its customers enjoy their food regardless of their age, the Kirin Group has provided, Kyowa Hakko Kirin Group manages websites through its group companies, products under the Kirin Plus-i brand to create value by offering not that provide patients with information about only great taste and joy but also health-related benefits. The first Kirin Plus-i products all contain, diseases and their treatment and medication as a functional material, ornithine, an amino acid developed and manufactured by Kyowa Hakko as well as providing the general public with Bio, a Group company. As a health need among people in their 30s and 40s, who are busy both at information maintaining good health. work and in their private life, Kyowa Hakko Bio focused on the need to “recover from fatigue,” and Kyowa Hakko Kirin manages a number conducted research through evidence-based data on the effectiveness of ornithine to alleviate of websites for patients and the general symptoms of fatigue, alcoholic fatigue, and malodors caused by fatigue. In 2012, it made further public. For example, Hay Fever Handling research findings on the effectiveness of ornithine in facilitating sleep and the workings of the Navigator provides information on the brain in the morning after waking up. mechanism of and measures against hay Other research by the Kirin Group includes the research on materials (hops and barley) that fever as well as regional pollen dispersion led to the finding of the effectiveness of beta-Eudesmol, which is contained in Hersbrucker hops forecasts and a function enabling users to from Hallertau in Germany, to provide a sense of relaxation, the effectiveness of roasted barley to search for appropriate hospitals in their Healthcare Laboratory Website Top Page Hay Fever Handling Navigator Website improve blood circulation and warm the body, and ascertaining the effectiveness of Plasma Lactic vicinities. In 2013, an application of this acid bacteria to prevent influenza virus infection in a study on mice. navigator for smartphones was made. In these ways, the Kirin Group will continue its efforts to leverage its wealth of research Amid a strong trend for the consumption of health food and a growing need for information achievements and technologies in order to develop, under the Kirin Plus-i brand, products that on health ingredients, Kyowa Hakko Bio launched the Healthcare Laboratory website in 2008, enable customers to enjoy hard-to-take food items and those with health benefits as part of their which it keeps updated to help customers maintain their health and to promote the scientific daily diet. evidence and the expected health benefit of ingredients, such as ornithine and citrulline. It will continue providing information based on research results, and will incorporate the information to Discovery and Application of Plasma Lactic Acid Bacteria meet the demand for knowledge among customers. In collaboration with Koiwai Dairy Products Co., Ltd., the Central Laboratories of Kirin Holdings discovered the effectiveness of Plasma Lactic acid bacteria (Lactococcus lactis: JCM5805) in stimulating the immune function to prevent viral infection among animals and people＊ in 2011. Then the COLUMN bacteria’s effectiveness to prevent influenza virus infection was tested and ascertained through administration on mice and people and the findings were reported at the 60th Annual Meeting of Efforts in Australia the Japanese Society for Virology. According to data from the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare In the future, in cooperation with Research Laboratories for Beverage Technologies of Kirin (AIHW), 60% of Australians aged 18 and over are overweight or obese, Holdings and other group companies, the Central Laboratories will apply its findings more as are approximately 25% of Australians under 18. Furthermore, extensively to food and drink. obesity among adults is on the rise. In response to this problem, Lion ＊ Published in September 6, 2011 “Discovery of lactic acid bacteria that stimulates the immune function to prevent viral infection” provides information and public education on product selection that helps customers improve their eating habits. To date, Lion has made efforts to establish regulations and frameworks concerning fat, sugar and alcohol in cooperation with trade associations, government agencies, and health promotion associations. The results of these activities are applied to the product development and marketing of Lion. In 2012, it started selling healthier products, such Adding Plasma as non-fat yogurt and fruit juice with the sugar content reduced by 50%. To better serve customer needs, Lion Lactic acid will continue its effort to provide public education for consumers through marketing activities and product bacteria distribution in cooperation with governmental agencies and industries. Normal plasmacytoid dendritic cells Active pDC (pDC)(without adding anything) KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 18 We will pass down the bounty of nature of our Earth to the Protecting the environment generations to come in cooperation with our stakeholders. Our Approaches The Kirin Group uses the bounty, power and heritage of nature to create products that enrich people’s lives. Ensuring a balanced coexistence with nature and the sustainable use of its blessings is one of the top priorities on our corporate agenda. In 2009, the Kirin Group announced its Action Plans for Becoming a Low-Carbon Corporate Group. In 2010, it announced the Kirin Group’s Declaration of Support for Biodiversity Conservation. While tackling individual environmental issues, we have been constantly reminded that maintaining environmental sustainability along the Kirin Group’s value chain has much to do with the continuity of society and of our business. We have also realized that we need to address environmental issues as a whole rather than individually in order for our efforts to be effective. In light of this, we come up with the Kirin Group’s Long-Term Environmental Vision to constructively integrate our past activities. We use it as the Kirin Group’s environmental strategy to help make a sustainable environment and society a reality and to increase the Group’s corporate value. Kirin Group's Long-Term Environmental Vision The Kirin Group shares with all the people associated with its value chain its aspiration to continue to enjoy the bounty of nature and pass it down to the generations to come. Our direction : Realization of society that is based on 100% recycling. Make a cyclical use of resources so as to keep their use at or below the level that the Earth can replenish them, while reducing the environmental loads that the Kirin Group generates through its value chain. Efforts Made throughout the Value Chain Water resources Containers and packaging Our Goal We make sustainable use of We use sustainable containers and water together packaging in The Kirin Group, true to its identity statement of being “focused on people, nature and with communities. consideration of their users. craftsmanship to redefine the joy of food and well-being,” aspires to pass down the bounty of nature and environment of our Earth to the generations to come in a sustainable style, so as to Global Warming Raw Products continue creating and offering added value to its customers and society. To achieve our goal, we materials We keep the CO2 conduct our activities in communication and cooperation with our stakeholders. The long-term Biological resources emissions of the value chain within vision states such aspirations of the Kirin Group. the Earth's natural We support CO2 absorption agricultural ability in communities and cooperation with make sustainable all the people use of biological associated with our resources. value chain. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 19 Sustainable Use of Biological Resources / Conservation of Water Resources Strengthening bonds between people and society Promoting health Protecting the environment Improving food safety and security Protecting human rights and working conditions Preventing corruption Sustainable Use of Biological Resources are willing but are unable to be certified. Thus, to facilitate the sustainability of the entire community and consequently the sustainable In order to secure a supply of high-quality raw materials and water, it is necessary to protect the ecosystems provision of raw materials, the Kirin Group has decided to help farmers become Rain Forest of their communities. The Kirin Group establishes partnerships with those communities and the people Alliance certified, a certification of sustainable farming. The Kirin Group plans to select around four working in them to use biological resources with consideration to the conservation of the ecosystem as tea farmers from among those covered by the Kirin Beverages Sri Lanka Friendship Project＊3. well as to improving the sustainability of communities themselves. ＊1 Data from 2011 Tea Statistics published by the Japan Tea Association ＊2 Survey Data by the Food Marketing Institute (Results in 2011) ＊3 The Sri Lanka Friendship Project is an activity to donate books to elementary schools near tea farmers in Sri Lanka that grow tea leaves for Kirin black tea drinks. Sustainable Sourcing of Biological Resources In 2010, the Kirin Group announced the Kirin Group’s Declaration of Support for Biodiversity Conservation. Since then, it has engaged in efforts such as assessments of risks to local ecosystems caused by acquiring biological resources. Conserving water resources In cooperation with the Japan Office of the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), an organization working on issues related to the conservation of the environment in approximately 100 countries, the The impact of water resource issues vary significantly geographically. The Kirin Group assesses the Kirin Group adopted the Guideline for the Sustainable Sourcing of Biological Resources and prepared risk concerning water resources in its production sites and addresses the water resource issue in action plans to improve the sustainability of biological resources, including tea leaves, paper and palm oil. each region in order to preserve water in cooperation with local communities. We will continue to work with agricultural communities and suppliers to achieve the sustainable sourcing of biological resources so that nature continues to bless us with its plentiful Efforts to use water more efficiently bounty to keep our business going. In 2011, Kirin Brewery installed a newly developed hybrid rinser that uses significantly less water to wash cans before they are filled with beer. The hybrid rinser sprays pressurized air together with water to clean the cans with 60% less water. By adopting such water-saving technologies for the Guideline for the Sustainable Sourcing of Biological Resources manufacturing process along with recycled water use in other areas, the Kirin Group companies The Kirin Group shall procure specified biological resources in accordance with the strive to reduce water consumption. following principles. 1. Biological resources from plantations or afforested areas, which have been developed by illegal Change in Water Use and Water-Use Intensity (Kirin Brewery) Conceptual Diagram of the Hybrid Rinser deforestation, shall not be procured. Biological resources shall be confirmed to have been (millions of cubic meters) （㎥／㎘） Old New produced according to local regulations on felling trees and proper procedures may be procured. 40 10.4 12 Conventional rinser nozzle Hybrid rinser nozzle 2. Biological resources shall be produced by plantations or afforested areas certified by reliable 34.9 third parties. 30 9 6.7 Water Pressurized 3. Biological resources provided by business organizations suspected to have performed air 20 5.5 5.2 6 environmental destruction shall not be procured. 17.4 Water 10 12.6 11.6 3 Helping Tea Farmers in Sri Lanka Become Rainforest Alliance Certification 0 (Year) 1990 2009 2011 2012 0 Modified cleaning nozzle to reduce water consumption by 60% Sri Lanka is one of the world’s major tea exporting countries. Approximately 60% of tea leaves imported Water Consumption Water consumption (cubic meters/kL) to Japan are from Sri Lanka＊1, and approximately 25% of the tea leaves imported to Japan from Sri Lanka are used for Gogo-no-Kocha＊2, the No.1 bottled tea brand produced by Kirin. Under such a circumstance, the Kirin Group has conducted surveys Activities to Preserve Forests and Water on their supplier tea farmers in Sri Lanka concerning their sustainability The Kirin Group works together with local NPOs and forestry associations and efforts to conserve the ecosystem. The Group discovered that to help the communities make forests with consideration to the local approximately 40% of its supplier farmers have been certified for vegetation and ecosystem. The Kirin Group company employees and contributing to biodiversity, and the proportion of those has gradually their families join such activities as volunteers together with local people, increased. On the other hand, the Group also discovered that the farmers thereby providing excellent environmental education. that can address such certifications for sustainable agriculture are limited to those with relatively ample capital, and that there are many farmers that Tea farmers in Sri Lanka Area of Water-Source Forestation project (Kirin Brewery) 14 sites in Japan, 1,056 ha in total KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 20 Recycling of Containers and Packaging Strengthening bonds between people and society Promoting health Protecting the environment Improving food safety and security Protecting human rights and working conditions Preventing corruption Recycling of Containers and Packaging Bottle-to-bottle recycling combined, for the first time in Japan, with plant-derived PET materials Containers and packages preserve the quality of their contents and make it easy for customers to Kirin Beverage managed to make its 2-liter PET bottle lighter by 38 g per bottle (and the PET handle products; however, they are made from finite resources. At the Kirin Group, we develop and bottle for water by 35 g) through the use of the new advanced Pecology bottle developed in adopt containers and packaging that are light and easy to use for customers and the people who 2010. Furthermore, in 2012, Kirin Beverage started utilizing a bottle that uses 37% less petroleumtransport them as well as those that have a minimal impact on the natural environment. derived materials for its Kirin Nama Cha green tea drinks. This was achieved by applying bottleFurthermore, we plan to use more plant-derived materials for the manufacture of plastic bottles and to-bottle recycling combined with, for the first time in Japan＊, plant-derived PET materials. In will start to recycle used PET bottles into new PET bottles in Japan to make a zero-waste society a addition to having reduced the environmental load, the new bottle improves ease of use by reality. being easy to open and easy to hold. Currently, Kirin Beverage is seeking to further reduce the use of petroleum-derived materials by increasing the ratio of recycled materials used. Premium Glass Bottle, the Lightest One-Way Bottle in Japan ＊ As of January 5, 2012. The Premium Glass Bottle, developed in 2012, weighs only 140 g making it the lightest 330-ml one-way bottle in Kirin Nama Cha green tea drink in the new Pecology bottle Easy to open Japan＊ produced for carbonated drinks. In addition Making PET bottles lighter The bottle has bumps and dips on its Reducing Reducing shoulder to make it easy to grasp when to reducing the weight by 20% and reducing CO2 30g of raw material 23g of CO2 emission opening the cap. emissions in the manufacturing process by 23 g per bottle per bottle 63g 42g 38g Easy to peel off per bottle, the bottle has a wide mouth that makes The new Roll Label can be removed drinking from it easier. Ease of drinking easily by simply pulling it. Improved the ease of drinking Kirin Brewery adopted this glass bottle for Grand by adopting a wide-mouth design. Easy to hold Kirin beer, and began sales of it in Japan at 7-Eleven The bottle can be held easily and Easy to place Conventional PET bottle Pecology bottle New Pecology bottle stably by grasping it around the stores that sell alcohol beverages. Grand Kirin received Its shape, having the same height middle, where the bottle is narrower. and diameter as a 500-ml can, the Good Design Award 2012 (organized by the Japan makes it easy to place for display. Reducing the use of petroleum-derived material Material derived Easy to pour Institute of Design Promotion) for its eco-friendliness from recycled PET bottles By allowing multiple fingers to fit Robust in using the lightest bottle in Japan and reducing Ensuring material strength by around the narrowed area in the middle maintaining thickness in the areas that Plant-derived material of the bottle, users can tilt it stably when CO2 emissions by making the bottle and packaging Petroleumpouring out the contents. come into contact with other bottles derived Petroleummaterials lighter as well as the bottle’s upscale styling material derived Reducing Easy to squash petroleum-derived and easy-to-use design. 100% material Being light and thin, it can be easily 63% material by 37% squashed and flattened by hand. ＊ As of June 13, 2012, according to our survey data. COLUMN COLUMN Research Laboratories for Packaging Technologies Efforts by Lion (Australia) to Reduce the Weight of Containers Kirin Brewery is one of the few integrated alcohol beverages In Australia, the government and industry have the Australian Packaging Covenant with the aim of reducing the companies to have its own Packaging Development Center for environmental load of containers and packaging as well as waste containers and packaging. Lion, a signatory developing containers that are lighter, easier to use, and help of this covenant, released its new action plan in 2011. One of the goals stated in the action plan is to reduce maintain quality more effectively. Since January 2013, the Packaging the environmental load by improving the resource usage efficiency of containers and packaging without Development Center has been reorganized to the Research Research Laboratories for Packaging affecting the quality and safety of products. In 2011, Lion’s Beer, Spirit & Wine business in Australia assessed and Technologies Laboratories for Packing Technologies and has worked to improve reengineered packaging materials. As a result of a collaborative effort with suppliers, Lion significantly reduced the quality and reliability of packages and, at the same time, reduce their environmental load. The laboratory the weight of the materials it uses, such as glass bottles, cardboard, bottle caps, cans, and labels. Overall, the shares its technological achievements with other Group companies. materials usage index measured as grams of packaging per liter of product was reduced by 2.3%. The food and beverage department reduced the weight of the 3-liter PET bottle for juice from 90 g to 78 g as well as making resource-saving efforts with regard to shipping cartons and pallets. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 21 Taking Measures Against Global Warming Strengthening bonds between people and society Promoting health Protecting the environment Improving food safety and security Protecting human rights and working conditions Preventing corruption Taking Measures Against Global Warming Using a Renewable Energy Produced by Anaerobic Wastewater-Treatment Facilities Kirin Brewery plants are equipped with advanced wastewater treatment facilities. The biogas Global warming might trigger a climate change that affects the entire Earth; its ecosystems, water (methane gas), a renewable energy source, which is produced during the treatment, is collected resources, farm crops, and gives rise to natural disasters. It is a major issue for the Kirin Group’s business. from these anaerobic wastewater-treatment facilities to run a cogeneration system utilizing The Kirin Group, in cooperation with all the people associated with its value chain, aims to reduce CO2 biogas, a renewable energy, produced by anaerobic wastewater-treatment facilities in its plants. emissions generated from its entire global value chain by half from the 1990 level by 2050. This technology was installed in all seven plants in Japan, resulting in the use of biogas power generation in 2012 to cover approximately 30% of the electricity used at these facilities. Action Plan to Reduce CO2 Emissions In August 2009, the Kirin Group announced its Action Plans for Becoming a Low-Carbon Efforts at Kirin Brewery’s Chitose Plant in Hokkaido Corporate Group and established a goal to reduce CO2 emissions generated from its entire global Facilities in Hokkaido in the northern part of Japan, where a lot of electricity is required during value chain, from development to disposal and recycling, by half. winter, have been asked to save electricity as the power supply in Japan has not yet recovered By 2012, the Kirin Group managed to bring CO2 emissions generated from its entire global fully following the incident at the Fukushima nuclear reactor. Kirin Brewery’s Chitose Plant in value chain down to 25.4% below the 1990 level and CO2 emissions from its manufacturing, Hokkaido implemented a plan to reduce maximum electricity consumption by 15% from the distribution and office operations in Japan down to 53% below the 1990 level. previous year during the four-month period from December 2012 to March 2013 by replacing lights with LED lamps and by applying inventive ideas to the manufacturing process. Action Plan Ocean Transportation in Large Bags and Bottling in Japan ● We will reduce CO2 emissions generated from our entire global value chain by half from the 1990 level by 2050. Mercian imports some of its wines in bulk via ocean transportation in specially designed 24-kL ● By 2015, we will bring CO2 emissions from our manufacturing, distribution and office operations in Japan down to large bags having low oxygen permeability, and bottles the wines in Japan. As this system does 35% below the 1990 level＊. (Created in 2009 and revised in 2012.) not require the transportation of the bottles, it makes it possible to reduce CO2 emissions during ＊ The target has been achieved, so a new target is to be set in 2013. ocean transportation by approximately 60%. Furthermore, bottling the wines in Japan allows the use of light eco-friendly bottles (including 90% or more recycled glass and reducing weight by CO2 Emissions Generated from the Entire Global Value Chain Results and targets of CO2 emissions from the manufacturing, 5%), contributing to the effective use of resources and reduction of CO2 emissions for product distribution and office operations in Japan＊ (10,000 tons) (1,000 tons) distribution in Japan. Raw material Production Logistics Production 750 860 1,500 1,514 (fermentation) Reducing CO2 (bottling) Reducing the emissions during weight of the ocean transportation container by 680 35% by approximately 5% reduction 637 53% 60% 500 25.4% 1,000 light light reduction reduction 984 ecoeco953 881 friendly friendly 430 50% 824 778 bottle bottle reduction 715 250 500 Adopting Heat Pumps and Refrigerant Free of Ozone-Harming 0 0 (Year) 1990 2009 2011 2050 (Target) (Year) 1990 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2015 (Target) CFC Gas for ewly Installed Vending Machines Kirin Beverage started in March 2012 installing a new generation of can and PET bottle vending machines＊ Reducing power CO2 Emissions Generated from the Entire Global Value Chain that use up to 50% less electricity than their predecessors consumption by 50% In 2011, the Kirin Group’s CO2 emissions generated from its entire global value chain were by running on energy-efficient heat pumps. Furthermore, approximately 6.37 million tons. Of the CO2 emissions as a whole, only 23% came from direct 99% of new vending machines to be installed in 2013 will business activities; manufacturing, distribution, and office operations. This means we need to do use refrigerant free of ozone-harming CFC gas. something about CO2 emissions associated with the rest of the value-chain activities to reduce In order to maintain stable supply of products in 99 % of new vending machines to be installed our overall CO2 emissions. spite of the difficult electricity supply situation, the Kirin will use refrigerant free of Group will continue its efforts to conserve electricity. ozone-harming CFC gas. ＊ Excluding a small number of shallow-profile units. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 22 Our dedication to quality has its roots in the early days Improving food of the Kirin Group. Today, we continue our efforts to safety and security offer customers safe and reliable products and services that live up to their trust and expectations. Our Approaches All Kirin Group companies maintain a comprehensive quality-management system in all processes across the value chain in compliance with the Kirin Group’s quality policy. Currently, the Group is preparing to implement a unified quality-management system across its business, which is growing geographically. In Japan, the Kirin Corporation and companies operating under its management (Kirin Brewery, Kirin Beverage, and Mercian) established in January 2013 a unified system to promote quality-assurance and customer service. quality-assurance departments strive to ensure safety in more effective ways by leveraging the strengths of each company. The customer service office, which serves the customers of the three beverage companies, works hard to standardize the service as well as improve skills to ensure even greater reliability and satisfaction for customers. Furthermore, to ensure more reliability to customers, the customer service office also works to better facilitate communication with customers. We foster relationships of trust with our customers and society by holding stakeholder dialogue sessions and providing information from the quality-assurance website shared by the three beverage companies. The Kirin Group’s Quality Policy We make it our highest priority to ensure product safety and customer satisfaction. We make it our highest priority to listen to our customers, 1. Increase Customer value their feedback and respond to it from their viewpoint. Satisfaction We realize that dialogues with our customers give us a good Our Goal (A customeropportunity to make incremental improvements to quality focused approach) and customer satisfaction, which results in better products To meet the globally increasing consciousness regarding food safety, the Kirin Group ensures the and services down to fine details. quality of products by performing some of the most stringent quality-assurance practices in the food and beverage industry. To live up to the expectations of customers and society, the Group We offer safe and reliable products and services to our strives to communicate with sincerity and offer safe and reliable products and services at all times. 2. Provide Safe and customers in all aspects of our business activities ranging Reliable Products from the sourcing of raw materials through product (A steady focus on development, manufacturing and inspection to distribution quality) and marketing so as to retain their trust in us. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 23 Quality Management / Communication with Our Customers Strengthening bonds between people and society Promoting health Protecting the environment Improving food safety and security Protecting human rights and working conditions Preventing corruption Quality Management Improving Customer Service Enhancing Quality Management At the Kirin Group, we value communication with our customer as an integral factor to offer To maintain continuous compliance with the Kirin Group’s quality policy, Group companies them safe and reliable products and services that live up to their trust and expectations. In have established a quality-management system based on ISO 9001 and other international 2012, Kirin Brewery received approximately 37,000 inquiries, requests, and comments about standards, and continually improve quality as measured against the Kirin Group Quality Standards. its products and services from customers. Kirin Beverage received approximately 30,000; and In addition, we have established within Kirin Holdings a group of staffers in charge of quality Mercian approximately 4,400. In January 2013, the Kirin Corporation was established to create assurance, who appropriately allocate resources to improve quality-assurance efforts within the a new structure for the domestic integrated beverages business, whereby the customer service entire Group. In Oceania and Brazil, the progress in our projects to improve productivity has led to departments of the three beverage companies were unified as the customer service office of improved promptness in solving problems in the manufacturing process. As an added result, we Kirin Corporation. We will strive to improve the quality of our customer service in the new system witnessed a remarkable improvement concerning quality, such as a decline in complaints from through training and study meetings. We have also announced the Pledge by the Customer customers. We plan to share these findings and awareness with other Group companies in Japan Service Office as a basic guidance for providing our daily service. and Southeast Asia in order to improve quality management efforts across the Group. System to act on VOC Ensuring Safety of Raw Materials Pledge by the Customer Service Office We will pay respect to the value held by each of our customers. Group The Kirin Group Basic Policy on Quality states commitment to ensuring product safety is the item companies Product/ of the highest priority. This is based on efforts made to ensure the safety of raw materials. The Kirin We will receive customer feedback to make further improvements. Departments service A cycle of Group works in cooperation with suppliers to test the quality of raw materials as well as perform We will convey our gratitude to our customers. smiles periodical inspections to check the quality control status. The Group also applies advanced analytical technologies to check product safety from the product development stage. In addition, We will always remember our gratitude to our customers for selecting the Group monitors the latest scientific findings and changes in laws our products, and we take customer feedback seriously in order to offer and regulations in each country so it can promptly take any necessary customers safe and reliable products and services that live up to their trust and Customer service Customer measures. expectations and apply the feedback on the business activities. office The procurement of raw materials extends to global markets along with the IT technologies that immediately disseminate information on food risks. In order to properly handle such a situation, Kirin Group COLUMN companies around the world have jointly launched a system to collect and share information. The system is scheduled to start operation in 2014. Sensory testing of water used in beer breweries Acting on VOC for Improvement Customer feedback is promptly reported to Group companies and relevant departments to improve products Improving Communication with Our Customers and service from the perspective of integrated beverage business. In 2012, based on customer feedback, we From 2013, the quality assurance departments of Kirin Brewery, Kirin Quality implemented 18 improvements in total for Kirin Brewery and Kirin Beverage. Kirin Beverage, and Mercian have worked as a team in the domestic integrated beverages business to perform activities to Pursuing Valuing the With regard to the 2-liter Before the provement After the improvement In response to PET bottle, the direction customer feedback, earn customers’ continued trust by efforts such as launching a the taste craftsmanship we started displaying a of the arrow indicating quality assurance website shared by the three companies. The triangular mark at the where to start peeling off point to start peeling quality assurance website summarizes four efforts to ensure Kirin the label is difficult off the label in order The Kirin Quality is in the craft, people, to perceive. to indicate the exact Quality: Pursuing the taste, Valuing the craftsmanship, Promises for and aspiration to create the taste. position at a glance. safety, and Sincerity to stay reliable to customers. Providing the highest safety and reliability throughout the ages Sincerity to Promises stay reliable to for safety customers KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 24 At the Kirin Group, we strive to conduct a global Protecting human rights and working business that respects the human rights of conditions stakeholders across the value chain. Our Approaches In 2005, the Kirin Group announced its participation in the United Nations Global Compact. The Group strives to comply with and thoroughly apply the principles of protecting human rights and working conditions. With regard to human rights, the Group has established a risk management system to effectively monitor issues in order to thoroughly ensure within the Group the “respect of human rights and prohibition of discrimination” and the “prohibition of harassment” as stated in the Kirin Group Compliance Guidelines. To its business partners, the Kirin Group provides the Kirin Group Supplier CSR Guidelines, which stipulates respect for human rights in the code of conduct, and promotes it in cooperation with our business partners. With regard to the working environment, the Kirin Group has highpriority CSR initiatives to “foster professional human resources” and “embrace diversity and inclusion” in order to create a corporate culture in which employees from diverse backgrounds work together with joy and have the opportunity to achieve personal and professional growth in the workplace. In 2013, the Group established a diversity promotion office to enhance its effort to create a corporate culture, which actively promotes diversity such as that of gender, disability, age, and nationality. An excerpt from the sections concerning protecting human rights and working conditions from the Kirin Group Compliance Guidelines Always strive to maintain a workplace environment that is safe and comfortable to work in, respect everyone’s human rights, and do not Respect engage in acts that lead to discrimination. of Human 1. Do not engage in any form of discrimination based on differences of race, Rights and Our Goal Prohibition of ethnicity, nationality, social status, lineage, sex, disability, health conditions, ideology, faith, occupation or occupational status. 2. In accordance with internationally recognized standards, we support and practice Discrimination the elimination of all kinds of forced labor and substantial abolition of child labor. At the Kirin Group, we strive to conduct a global business that respects the human rights of 3. Implement human rights training and other human rights education activities throughout stakeholders across the value chain. the company and actively participate in these activities. With regard to the work environment, we strive to create an open and accommodating 1. We will never engage in physical, sexual, psychological and economic organizational culture in which all of the 40,000 or so employees of Group companies, including abuse, harassment, or neglect (language and behaviors that offend others, those overseas, are motivated to work hard and be proud of the company. In accordance with our and retaliation for the harassed party’s response, such as imposing undue Prohibition of disadvantage on the harassed party’s work conditions, or aggravating the work principles on human resources management being centered on valuing employees, we create a environment). Harassment 2. As a matter of course, do not personally engage in any words or acts that may corporate culture in which employees from diverse backgrounds work together with joy and have be construed as harassment, and strive to create an atmosphere whereby harassment will not occur in your workplace. the opportunity to achieve personal and professional growth in the workplace. 3. Positively participate in harassment training implemented by the company. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 25 Respect for Human Rights / Respect for Diversity Strengthening bonds between people and society Promoting health Protecting the environment Improving food safety and security Protecting human rights and working conditions Preventing corruption Efforts to Promote Human Rights have managed to keep the quotas for female hires to 40% or above. Consequently, we observe changes such as the promotion of female employees to department managers at head office Efforts Made across the Value Chain to Respect Human Rights and as presidents of Group companies. As high-priority initiatives to continuously empower We strive to ensure that human rights are upheld not just for Kirin Group employees but at all female workers, we will promote the following three targets: (1) Further increasing the number of stages across the value chain outside the operational boundaries of the Group. As part of these female leaders, (2) Establishing a working environment in which one can work at the same time efforts, we published the Kirin Group Supplier CSR Guidelines in 2011 and stated in its code of as providing childcare and long-term care of family members, and (3) Further raising awareness conduct our commitment to respect the human rights of our employees. among leaders. The Guidelines, in compliance with the United Nations Global Compact and ISO 26000 We will also step up our effort to promote the hiring of people with disabilities. international guidance standard, states “prohibition of child labor, discrimination, inhumane ＊ “Female leaders” refers to female managerial workers and executives. treatment, and forced labor and promotion of safety and cleanliness at the workplace.” The Kirin Group promotes compliance with the Guidelines with its business partners. Enhancing the Effort to Develop Human Resources Furthermore, the Kirin Group uses, as one of the first groups in the industry, Supplier CSR At the Kirin Group, we have devised a medium-term plan to train our Confirmation as a tool to promote and check CSR activities among its business partners. employees in order to develop their skills as the basis of our business Basic Policy on Human Resource Development to create shared value with customers. To better develop the skills of 1. Promote acquiring basic business Efforts to Raise Awareness among Employees each employee, we provide various programs to foster professionals. skills to raise the level of the In order to promote human rights, we train employees on human rights and compliance One of the high-priority initiatives in the medium-term plan is to Group as a whole. every year. We also offer executive training sessions on human rights to presidents and general “enhance career development.” With regard to enhancing one’s career 2. Discover and foster talents managers of Group companies every year. We appoint and train a staff in charge of human development considering the career from being young employees capable of effectively managing companies within the Group. rights promotion in each Group company and hold study groups and training sessions to raise to middle-ranking executives to senior executives, we provide an 3. Discover and foster global awareness of human rights in workplaces throughout the Group. To review the effectiveness opportunity to form a career vision from the time of being young managers who can manage of such measures, we conduct a survey on human rights awareness among Group company employees and promote efforts to achieve such a vision. We help globalized business. employees every two years. We use the survey results to assess the change in awareness and of employees in different generations re-acknowledge their strength 4. Strengthen the ties between leaders and their members issues among the employees of each Group company and plan our future efforts accordingly. and expected roles and develop skills to achieve their career visions. to enhance the Group’s Annually, June is designated as a month to promote the fight against harassment and activities Furthermore, efforts by leaders to support the career development organizational strengths. are performed to raise awareness among employees. We use a risk of their members will raise their will to achieve the vision and 5. Actively establish opportunities management system to identify human rights risks in our overseas Group consequently enhance the Group’s organizational strengths. and environment to learn and achieve growth. companies and to monitor how they handle those risks. In 2013, we aim to assess the policy, system, and conditions for respecting human rights and ensuring non-violation of human rights. Furthermore, we aim to COLUMN set targets for each Group company. With regard to harassment, we will enhance our effort to monitor and assess the system and mechanism to Brasil Kirin Launches a Project to Provide Vocational Training on Manufacturing Skills prevent it. Training employees on human rights In 2012, Brasil Kirin, in cooperation with SENAI national industrial vocational training schools, launched the Qualifica project in Caxias City in Maranhao, Brazil. This project provides eight courses by which to acquire manufacturing skills. In total, the courses extend for 700 hours over five months. The 90 or so participants consist of company employees (38%) and non-employees (62%). Helping them acquire skills contributes to the Efforts concerning Working Conditions promotion of local employment at Brasil Kirin and other companies. Compared to the metropolitan areas in the southwest, such as Sao Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, and Belo Horizonte, the local unemployment rate in this area Embracing Diversity and Inclusion is generally high and there are many people in the low-income group. Therefore, many people cannot receive At the Kirin Group, we make various efforts to create a corporate culture where a diversity of education and consequently cannot gain employment. Brasil Kirin’s effort to help people acquire manufacturing people work with joy. As an effort to promote diversity and inclusion in the workplace, we have skills has contributed to an increase both in the local employment rate and the skills of factory workers at Brasil continuously implemented programs to empower female employees. As a result of setting Kirin, and has created values for both society and the company. This project will continue further. quotas and systematically hiring, developing and posting female employees, the number of female leaders＊ has increased to 123 (4.5%) as of April 2013. We have also established a work environment in which female workers can work continuously after marriage and childbirth. We KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 26 We develop a fair and equitable relationship with each of our business partners and adhere to Preventing corruption compliance requirements as a basis for implementing our CSR initiatives. Our Approaches Based on the aforementioned definition of compliance, the Kirin Group’s policy of adhering to laws and regulations as well as to social ethics is expressly outlined in the Kirin Group Compliance Guidelines. The Guidelines specifies the matters to which compliance is applied and the code of conduct for each of the six stakeholder groups. The Kirin Group supports the United Nations Global Compact, which it signed in September 2005. The Global Compact’s principles outlined in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption are included in the Kirin Group Compliance Guidelines, and the Group strives to achieve them. The principles are also incorporated in the CSR procurement efforts that we make together with our suppliers, who are important business partners. Specifically, we have included the code of conduct in the aforementioned four areas in the Kirin Group Supplier CSR Guidelines, which was created in 2011. We use the Guidelines to encourage suppliers to step up their CSR efforts. Each Kirin Group company integrates compliance efforts into risk management processes to ensure effective implementation. Our Goal At the Kirin Group, we define compliance as: “fulfilling both legal and ethical responsibilities that society expects from us by adhering to laws, internal and external regulations and rules, and social norms, so that the Kirin Group can avoid the risk of suffering unexpected financial loss or of destroying its credibility and can retain and strengthen the trust of stakeholders.” Realizing that maintaining compliance underlies all CSR activities, we develop a fair and equitable relationship with each of our The RULE: a handy employee manual for promoting business partners and work toward achieving a sustainable society throughout the entire value chain. the Kirin Group Compliance Guidelines among employees As one of the Group’s key operational considerations, we have stipulated our stance on procurement in the Kirin Group Procurement Basic Policy with five areas of policy agenda. In “Fair and open business transactions,” we state our commitment to fair and equitable transactions. In “Relationships of mutual trust and influence with suppliers,” we state our commitment to establishing long-term relationships of trust with our suppliers for a harmonious relationship. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 27 Compliance and Risk Management / Socially Responsible Procurement and Transactions Strengthening bonds between people and society Promoting health Protecting the environment Improving food safety and security Protecting human rights and working conditions Preventing corruption Efforts to Promote Compliance CSR Procurement Efforts with Suppliers In the Kirin Group, the Group Risk Management Committee manages and promotes compliance The active involvement of the entire value chain in promoting CSR is essential for us to work across the Group. Each Group company integrates compliance efforts into risk management toward making a sustainable society a reality. In 2011, the Kirin Group published the Kirin Group processes to ensure effective implementation. Supplier CSR Guidelines based on the Kirin Group Procurement Basic Policy in order to meet requests and expectations from stakeholders and promote CSR activities together with our Compliance Guidelines business partner suppliers in accordance The Kirin Group’s Compliance Guidelines discuss legal compliance and spell out the dos and with changes in society. The Group’s basic don’ts of ethical behavior. We regularly update the Compliance Guidelines to keep them relevant stance and code of conduct are specified Six Categories of the CSR Code of to changing social requirements, such as those stated in the United Nations Global Compact and to promote CSR activities in each Group Conduct for Suppliers those promoted by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). company. The CSR code of conduct for suppliers ① Governance, compliance, risk management Compliance Training consists of the six categories as shown on ② Respect for the human rights of employees Kirin Group companies in Japan provide all of their employees with compliance training annually; the right. We also directly communicate employees learn through group discussions that compliance is not something other people with our suppliers to specifically describe ③ Environmental stewardship do for them but something they have to do for themselves; that they are expected to give their the Guidelines. In 2012, we promoted CSR ④ Food safety and security superiors information with not only positive but also negative implications timely and accurately; procurement to 300 companies. Using the ⑤ Addressing alcohol-related problems and that they need to act in an open and fair manner. Employees gain an understanding of Guidelines, we will continue efforts across these basics of compliance to become sensitive to changes in society. Overseas, we promote the Group to promote CSR to both ⑥ Social contribution compliance in a manner most appropriate to each country or region. domestic and overseas suppliers. Communication with Suppliers At the Kirin Group, each time we start business transactions with a new supplier, we ask Risk Management Efforts the supplier to submit a Supplier CSR Confirmation based on the six categories of the code of conduct stipulated in the Kirin Group Supplier CSR Guidelines. In 2012, we had Supplier The Kirin Group, including its overseas consolidated subsidiaries, focuses its risk management CSR Confirmations submitted by around 40 companies which started business with us. The efforts on preventing risks from materializing and affecting its business. Under the present system, information to check and report as stated in the Supplier CSR Confirmation is used as an we identify and manage significant risks that could affect the entire Group, and each Group important tool for discussing issues with the Group’s procurement coordinators. company determines its own significant risks and makes it part of its business plan to manage With regard to existing suppliers, we incorporate CSR issues into such risks. the supplier assessment that we conduct annually of all of our suppliers, and check their CSR efforts through on-site inspections and additional Crisis Management and Business Continuity Planning investigations. We then provide our feedback on the investigation results In the event of a crisis, the Group Risk Management Committee shares and exchanges to the suppliers and, if necessary, request them to enhance their CSR information with Group companies to provide support and maintain group-wide crisis efforts or work together with them in making CSR efforts. preparedness. In particular, following the Great East Japan Earthquake that struck in March 2011, By making continuous efforts to perform CSR activities and improve we strive to maintain preparedness for large earthquakes or other disasters, and have enhanced quality in cooperation with our suppliers, we hope to further foster Communication with a Czechoslovakian hop business continuity planning by re-examining the expected events and scope of disaster relationships of trust. supplier preparedness. To be specific, we have reassessed our business continuity planning and have– provided disaster training accordingly as well as implementing measures to reduce procurement risks. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 28 A Message from an Outside Director I would like to work together to promote CSV throughout the Kirin Group and develop a mechanism for the Group to effectively handle its increasingly globalized business. Even before taking up a position as an outside director, I had an impression of role model, I also look forward to the future achievements of Kirin Company, the Kirin Group as being enthusiastic in its CSR efforts. After I joined the Group which started its operation in 2013. as a director, I was impressed by the Group’s decisiveness and commitment to Of the six important CSR themes stated in KV 2021, I believe that efforts its CSR efforts. concerning “protection of human rights,” “compliance with labor standards” I especially value its brave act of promoting “brand-centered and “prevention of corruption in business operations” are accompanied by management” in its long-term business plan, Kirin Group Vision 2021 (“KV2021”). difficulties. With its business becoming increasingly globalized, the Kirin Group The philosophy of “brand-centered management” for co-creating values, operates in various countries with differences in cultures, ways of thinking and such as products, services and corporate brand, together with customers and other standards. While this has led to increasing risk concerning compliance, society, exactly matches the philosophy of CSV, which is becoming increasingly I believe the Group’s measures are not yet sufficient for the challenge. It is important. I also believe that the Group’s visions, such as “food and well-being” important not to establish rules with double standards, such as permitting and “being customer-oriented and quality-focused,” which are based on the what is prohibited in Japan in some developing countries. Instead, the Kirin Group’s corporate philosophy, are easy for company employees to understand. Group should establish a rule based on a universal standard and ensure that all The Kirin KIZUNA (bonding) Project built with the commitment to of its Group companies operate in compliance with that rule. To achieve this, it contributing six billion yen over three years from 2011 to reconstruction is important for Group companies to exchange information promptly and to be efforts in regions struck by the Great East Japan Earthquake also requires bold aware of the situations in different countries in order to store knowledge and decisions by the top management for its achievement. I participate in the Kirin skills within the Group. For example, Europe is advanced in efforts concerning Toshio Arima KIZUNA Project as an adviser. From the looks on the faces of the people I meet human rights issues, so it may be a good idea to try a global role sharing and ● United Nations Global Compact Board Member at project meetings, I can sense their serious commitment to implementing have a European Group company play a central role in dealing with human ● Chairman of the Board, Global Compact Japan Network ● Executive Adviser, Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. this project successfully as their mission. I am also impressed by the Group’s rights issues and support other Group companies—even in cases of such issues ● Director, Kirin Holdings Company, Limited high level of awareness by incorporating the United Nations Global Compact’s occurring in Asia. I believe that establishing a system to prevent the Group’s risk principles as its six important CSR themes. I believe that such efforts can be on a global level will help create a new value. made because the top managers duly recognize the importance of CSR when I worked for a long time for Fuji Xerox, a company operating in the P r o f i l e they make their decisions, and the staff responsible for such matters within electronic device industry—quite different from the food and pharmaceutical 1967 Joins Fuji Xerox. Group companies also understand the philosophy sufficiently. industries in which the Kirin Group operates. However, both companies 1987 Becomes senior manager of the First Sales Department, As the Group has established such a framework for CSR, I now would like share the same philosophy: that it is important to create products through a Industry Section, Sales Division. 1996 Becomes managing director of Fuji Xerox. it to establish a discussion forum that is open to all employees. It may be a customer-oriented approach and that the value of each product is created Becomes president and CEO of Xerox International good idea to disclose the top managements’ discussions to other employees only when it is used by the customers. I believe that one of my main roles is Partners (USA). 2002 Became the president and CEO of Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. as a stimulus. Incorporating CSV efforts into one’s business activities through to support the Group’s management by making use of my previous business 2007 Becomes an executive adviser of Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. discussions as to why the vision was established and what its messages tell us experiences. Furthermore, I would like to support the Kirin Group to generate Becomes a United Nations Global Compact board member. would likely help the Kirin Group take a leadership role in future society as well greater results in their CSR efforts, which are closely related with the United 2011 Became a director of Kirin Holdings Company, Limited. as raise the value of its brand. Considering the importance of acting as a CSV Nations Global Compact implementation in which I am involved. Becomes the chairman of the Board, Global Compact Japan Network. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 29 Third-Party Opinion Over the past one and a half years or so, arguments among people in the example, with regard to the recycling of containers and packaging described finance business over disclosure of non-financial information have advanced in the report, it would be advisable to also refer to its influence on the financial substantially. Although I understand that the Kirin Group’s report does not status, such as whether it would reduce the cost of raw materials, whether it specifically acknowledge such arguments, I nonetheless have tried to review would reduce distribution costs, and whether it would receive the support of the report from the perspective of a financial capital provider, who would like consumers and facilitates sales increase. to value the Group’s ability to create values in the long term. I also feel that report could refer more to the Kirin Group’s recent hit In comparison with last year’s report, which was arranged in chapters on products, such as alcohol-free Kirin Free, which has met the needs of occasions customers, the global environment, communities, employees and business during which one cannot drink beer (alcoholic beverage); Mets Cola, which partners, I see a drastic change in this year’s report, which is arranged into has met the needs of health-conscious adults; and “Sekai no Kitchen kara” (from chapters of six themes considered especially important for a corporate group the kitchen of the world) beverage series, which uses ideas born from the committed to promoting “food and well-being.” However, I have observed that knowledge and skills of mothers around the world, since many of these cases, it would be more effective to deepen our understanding if the report were such as the contribution of the products in tackling social issues, rediscovery arranged and written from the perspective of identifying specific opportunities of local resources, and women’s active involvement in product development, and risk that influence the Kirin Group’s ability to create values in the long term match the philosophy of CSV. Thus, I believe that the Group’s efforts can be and what kind of efforts are being made to deal with them. made more convincing by disclosing a comprehensive story of creating values. Eiichiro Adachi For example, under the theme of “Promoting health,” “research and In the percentage of sales by business segment in 2012, sales in the Head of ESG Research Center development and product development meeting the health needs in overseas beverages business reached almost 30%. As the Kirin Group states The Japan Research Institute, Limited each country” would be categorized as an opportunity while “alcoholits commitment to “develop businesses globally” in its long-term business related problems” would be categorized as a risk. As a reference, in its 2012 plan, it would be advisable to increase the disclosure of overseas efforts and sustainability report, Lion lists five “material matters,” namely responsible achievements in the report. It is important to respect autonomy, but as the business practices, environmental stewardship, sustainable and ethical outside director, Toshio Arima, has mentioned, it also is important “not to sourcing, building trusting relationships with stakeholders, and building an establish rules with double standards, such as permitting what is prohibited in I have provided a third-party opinion on the Kirin achievement culture. The report, outlining “Why this is material to our business” Japan in some developing countries.” Group’s CSR activities described in this report and at the beginning of each chapter, may be referred to as an effective benchmark. Lastly, I was deeply impressed by the statement in Top Commitment to “take on the way in which the Group disclosed relevant information, from the perspective of a provider of I also recommend presentation of the hypothesis describing how each the traditional CSR (corporate social responsibility) approach to the next level by corporate information to financial institutions to serve effort will lead to producing a long-term corporate value together with the incorporating a management concept known as a CSV (creating shared value) their decision-making regarding socially responsible investments. This opinion does not express a view on actual results. approach, in which the Kirin Group makes it part of its business to increase whether this report presents, in all material respects, Especially, as the Kirin Group has recently established the CSV Division engagement with its stakeholders and to create shared value with them.” I look matters measured, calculated, and prepared in accordance with environmental reporting guidelines within the Kirin Company and declared that it would “make it an integral part forward to observing your long-term commitment to implement your business generally accepted. of our business to create value that the Kirin Group and society can share,” strategies to minimize negative impacts and maximize positive impacts with information disclosure complying with this perspective is indispensable. For care about the soundness of society with an acute awareness of issues. KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 30 How We Act Upon Expert Advice Public Recognition Thank you for providing your opinions from the perspective of valuing a Kirin Group companies have received public recognition and awards for their achievements in diverse areas. corporate group’s ability to create values in the long term. The following are some of the awards we have received. In the Kirin Group Vision 2021 (KV2021) long-term plan that was Year Award created last year, we stated six themes common to all Kirin Group Award for Achievement in Technological Research granted by the Japan Society for Bioscience, Biotechnology, and Agrochemistry companies, namely “Strengthening bonds between people and society,” Development of a comprehensive technology to analyze beer yeast for quality improvement “Promoting health,” “Protecting the environment,” “Improving food safety and Good Design Award Development of a glass bottle for Grand Kirin beer security,” “Protecting human rights and working conditions,” and “Preventing Merit Award received at the 17th Momofuku Ando Award Development of Kirin Ichiban Shibori Frozen Nama draft beer topped with frozen beer foam to provide a new texture corruption.” On this first year of implementing the plan, we face mounting 2012 Hot Topics Award at Annual Meeting of JSBBA 2012 challenges that need to be addressed. In order to make the CSR initiatives Identifying the reception mechanism of the sense of coolness provided by beta-Eudesmol, which is contained in hops and eucalyptes under each theme an integral part of our business and create value that Technology Award received at 2012 ASEV Japan Annual Meeting Identifying the unpleasant taste one may get when one has seafood and wine in the mouth at the same time and developing a technology Toru Suzuki the Kirin Group and society can share, we believe that it is important to act to reduce the iron that causes it Kirin Holdings Co., Ltd. in compliance with Mr. Adachi’s suggestion “not only to disclose qualitative R&D-Related Ranked No. 1 Managing Director in the overall results of the 2012 Food Safety and Reliability Brand Survey conducted by Nikkei BP Consulting. data about the CSR efforts but also assess and refer to the CSR achievements Received the Functional Excellence Award at Glass Bottle Award 2012 and possible influence on the financial status based on hypotheses.” GRAND KIRIN With regard to our overseas efforts and achievements, in compliance Hot Topics Award at the Annual Meeting of JSBBA 2013 Identifying the effectiveness of drinking beverages with beta-Eudesmol, which is contained in hops, to regulate the autonomic nervous with Mr. Adachi’s advice, we will strive to implement efforts centered on system 2013 the six themes common to all Kirin Group companies as well as to share the Received the Young Researcher’s Award at the 48th Societe Franco-Japonaise des Sciences Veterinaires progress and achievements and report them. Topic: Oxidative neurotoxicity caused by microglial NADPH oxidase in encephalomyocarditis virus infection Academic Society: The 48th Societe Franco-Japonaise des Sciences Veterinaires We take seriously Mr. Adachi’s valuable advice so as to increase Presenters: Yasuhisa Ano, Akikazu Sakudo, Hiroyuki Nakayama, Takashi Onodera engagement with our stakeholders and to create shared value with them. Selected as one of 289 Companies With the Most Advanced Commitment in Socially Responsible Management in 2011 according to Japanese Corporation ESG (Environment/Social/Governance) Initiative Survey conducted by the Japan Research Institute SustainabilityRanked No. 1 in the industry in the 12th IntegreX Survey Report 2012 Related Socially Responsible Investment Indexes Included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index 2012 Included in the FTSE4Good Index There has been a growing interest in socially responsible investment (SRI) that determines in which company Featured in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI), which is a key component of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)’s annual Japan 500 report (CDP Japan 500). to invest on the basis of its practices with regard to social, environmental, ethical and governance issues. Environment2012 Received the First Prize for the Eco & Design Booth Prize at Eco-Products 2012 Various institutions around the world evaluate the CSR performances of corporations and publish SRI indexes Related of good performers. As of September 2012, Kirin Holdings was included in the following SRI indexes. Received the Kanagawa Global Environment Award 2012 for efforts at Kirin Brewery’s Yokohama Plant Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes Information on Kirin Group Companies’ Sustainability Efforts For details about the CSR efforts of each Kirin Group company, see the following. Ethibel Sustainability Index FTSE4GoodIndex Kirin Beverage ECO-CHALLENGE REPORT http://www.beverage.co.jp/csr/environment/index.html Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index Mercian Environmental Report http://www.mercian.co.jp/csr/eco/index.html Kyowa Hakko Kirin Annual Report http://www.kyowa-kirin.co.jp/ir/library/annual_report/index.html Lion Sustainability Reporting http://lionco.com/sustainability/sustainability-reporting/ Kirin Holdings CSR Website http://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/csr/ KIRIN GROUP SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 31 For inquiries, contact : Group CSR of Kirin Holdings Company,Limted NAKANO CENTRAL PARK SOUTH 10-2, Nakano 4-chome, Nakano-ku, Tokyo 164-0001, Japan http://www.kirinholdings.co.jp/english/csr/ ● published August 2013 Next report to be published August 2014
