Name/Logo COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ExecuTrain of Jakarta Year 2012 Jakarta, December 2012 Communication on Progress – ExecuTrain of Jakarta Page 1 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT ExecuTrain of Jakarta as the training institute for professionals since its first existence has been committed to improve the productivities and performance of business professionals & executives. As part of the worldwide learning organization, ExecuTrain of Jakarta since 1995 endures cooperation with various national and multinational partners in Indonesia to improve their performance in finding beneficial Information Technology as well as improving the human resources qualities through sequence of management & business skills training program. With our mission ‘Building people’s skills and behavior through sequences of quality training to support the success of their business.’ therefore, we are committed to continuously expand our quality and the number of various training programs, and as a member of the Global Compact, we believe that our business policies incorporate the ten principles. Our board fully supports our actions in working towards sustainability goals – in particular that contained in the UN Global Compact – and endorses the future priorities and specific targets we set out in our report. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the agenda forward on performance related to human rights, labour rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. In our annual report, we have summarised the progress we have made against each of these principles and we will continue to follow them up in future reports. Here we provide an index to our performance with crossreferences to the related GC principles. Jakarta, December 20th, 2012 Maya D. Tanama Director Contact : Maya D. Tanama Email : mtanama@executrain.co.id Phone: 62-21-5210793 Fax: 62-215210794 Communication on Progress – ExecuTrain of Jakarta Page 2 INTRODUCTION Since 2007 we engaged the Global Compact principles campaign program among Indonesian organizations, we do promotion and campaign the ten principles of the Global Compact together with other members of IGCN. We also actively participated in the events conducted by Indonesian Global Compact Network. It is important for us to involve such events to get more information and learn from others about the progress and implementation. Then, we can share all those information to our members in order to motivate them in building the commitment on supporting the ten principles of Global Compact. We realize that conducting intensive communication among members through monthly meeting of “Conversation Forum” will get more benefits and easier to implement our ideas. Moreover, we can also design project plan together in order to give more impact in implementing the ten principles as well as achieving company goals, sustainable business with good governance and ethical. By establishment of the Indonesia Global Compact Network, it would be more optimistic promoting GC Principles easily adopted by companies in Indonesia. We realize that implementing the ten principles is more about continuous improvement in running our business. Communication on Progress – ExecuTrain of Jakarta Page 3 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of international human rights within their sphere of influence. Our support and respect to the International declaration of Human right has been our commitment since years ago as the implementation of our social responsibility. Internally, we facilitate our employee with, working safety environment, health insurance, and freedom in belief of such religion. Externally, we do provide customer care program to support customer satisfaction and gave quickly feed-backed when arise complaints, both for our products and services. Principle 2: make sure that their own corporations are not complicit in human rights abuses. We have to make sure that everyone in this company has contribution to the success of company target achievement with no any discrimination. We ensure that there is no employee in the work place under intimidation and threaten in expressing their ideas. By joining with insurance company we ensure that all employee health cover all health treatments including doctors and hospital. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Company gives opportunity to all employees to enhance their skills and knowledge to have its members express their ideas and communicate among them freely in the work place and let their representatives who are not subject to any discrimination, deliver to management. We do also give facility opportunity to all employees whatever the level and qualification to have time and place for their religious activities based on their own beliefs. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. We have committed to recruit employee based on the legal rules by conducting conversation to set up agreement including job description and payment. We also committed not to resort to any forms of force and compulsory labor. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor. We do strongly committed against child labor and we apply such standard of employment based on legal rules. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Since the beginning in running business we strongly avoid any forms of discrimination especially in recruitment, promotion, training, and career development. We provide opportunity fairly to all employees to get higher salary improvement based on target achievement and performance appraisal. Personal evaluation is done independently by other employees at the same level who close relation and communication in work place. Promotion procedures are fully based on personal performance evaluated by immediate superior, head of department, and human asset department. It is, therefore, different person get different amount or percentage of salary improvement annually. ETOJ Perform art & Sport competition was conducted annually involving all employees in all Communication on Progress – ExecuTrain of Jakarta Page 4 level to perform sport skill and compete to be the champion without any discrimination. We can see here, there is no such discrimination among the employees. There is only one thing, build a team work and support each other to win in competition. ENVIRONMENT Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. We have committed in initiating and promoting environmental responsibility among company members as well as industrial society. It was continuous improvement for our company to keep our concern in preserving green environment for green company. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Since the beginning we run this company efficiently and effectively to produce competitive products accepted by customer. Clean and green process is the only way to reach the company target optimally. Saving energy, efficient working system, clean production, and environmentally working sphere together can achieve corporate targets and give more benefits to all stakeholders. Saving energy consumption a. Reuse of sewage/waste water for watering garden and plants after being treated in waste water treatment facility. b. Energy saving through improving awareness all staffs to turn off electricity and water if not in use c. Encourage to use recycle paper and print any documentation in a proper way. AGAINST CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. We have committed and agreed with this principle and will not tolerate any kind of corruption in our personal life as well as in business activity. We do not practice the bribery as well as corruption which do not allow in our business and personal life activities. ACTIVITIES IN INDONESIA GLOBAL COMPACT NETWORK As a member of The Global Compact since December 13th, 2007 we have done some progressive action in disseminating the ten principles of the Global Compact among companies in Indonesia. Together with other companies and organization we participate Indonesia Global Compact Network (IGCN) where we can do intensively communicate with other companies about programs we can implement together. Communication on Progress – ExecuTrain of Jakarta Page 5 Our Program on 2011: Charity Photo Contest, 24 November 2012, Yayasan Sayap Ibu Communication on Progress – ExecuTrain of Jakarta Page 6 Volunteer Day 30 – 2 December 2012, Desa Wisata Soroan, Klaten Communication on Progress – ExecuTrain of Jakarta Page 7 Template C Pages in Global Compact Principle Summary of Action Taken & Impact Achieved Report 1: Businesses should support and Click to enter a brief describtion Page #-# respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; 2: and make sure that they are not Click to enter a brief describtion Page #-# complicit in human rights abuses. 3: Businesses should uphold the Click to enter a brief describtion Page #-# freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4: the elimination of all forms of Click to enter a brief describtion Page #-# forced and compulsory labour; 5: the effective abolition of child Click to enter a brief describtion Page #-# labour; 6: and the elimination of Click to enter a brief describtion Page #-# discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7: Businesses should support a Click to enter a brief describtion Page #-# precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8: undertake initiatives to promote Click to enter a brief describtion Page #-# greater environmental responsibility; 9: and encourage the development Click to enter a brief describtion Page #-# and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10: Businesses should work against Click to enter a brief describtion Page #-# all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. 8/8
