EMBRACING OUR ENVIRONMENT, ONE SOLUTION AT A TIME. Sustainability Report 2012 Table of Contents 01 Introduction 02 CEO Letter 06 About ABM 07 Governance Structure 08 ABM Operational Structure and Service Offerings 08 How We Approach Sustainability 14 Sustainability in ABM Operations 20 Sustainability in ABM Services 30 How We Value Our People 36 ABM in the Community 39 Appendix ABM Sustainability Report 01 Introduction ABM continues to work tirelessly to raise the bar on our levels of performance for each of our stakeholders. While we maintain the integrity and principles upon which ABM’s success has been built for over a century, we’ve broadened and refined our solutions, capabilities and operating structure to ensure that we remain a leader within our industry. In fact, in 2012, we underwent a rebranding initiative to Sustainability reporting is an ever-changing discipline, and as illustrate the transformation that continues to take place our corporate sustainability programs continue to mature, at ABM. The tagline we developed, Building Value, was so too must our reporting. With that goal in mind, we have intended to demonstrate that each day our 100,000+ submitted this report for the second consecutive year for the employees are dedicated to working smarter and more assessment by The Centre for Sustainability and Excellence efficiently. We believe that Building Value for each of our (CSE) an independent, outside entity. CSE’s evaluation is stakeholders through our varied sustainability efforts included later in this report. is an inherent component of that ongoing growth as an organization. ABM has produced our Fiscal Year 2012 Sustainability Report for clients, shareholders, employees, supplier We Believe that Building Value partners and others with an interest in our corporate approach to sustainability. In the coming pages, ABM CEO for each of our stakeholders Henrik Slipsager will outline just some of the exciting new throughout our varied ways in which ABM is operating, and in all cases we do so with a keen focus on our shared environment and those sustainability efforts is an living in it. inherent component of ongoing This report details the sustainability achievements, goals growth as an organization. and challenges that ABM has identified within our operations, and it publicly identifies our commitment to monitor and improve our impact on people and the earth. ABM is a publicly-traded company and thus held to a higher standard of ethics and compliance compared to Readers can provide feedback on our plans and progress many competitors in the facility services industry. A key through the channels identified at the end of this report. example of ABM’s compliance is our Sarbanes Oxley (SOX) Please funnel your comments, questions or concerns to ABM’s certification. ABM rigorously adheres to SOX standards Corporate Communications team at sustainability@abm.com. to ensure financial accuracy, auditor independence and We welcome your insights on how we can meet our shared corporate responsibility across the enterprise. commitment to a sustainable world. CEO Letter Dear Stakeholders, Throughout its long history, ABM has successfully evolved increasingly environmental focuses. In the healthcare and adapted to meet the demands of the marketplace. We sector, we acquired HHA Services (“HHA”), a leading began as a small window washing company over a century provider of food and facility management services to ago, and now we provide many services across broad hospitals, healthcare systems and long-term care facilities geographies and multiple facility types. We proudly serve that is dedicated to sustainable practices. Sustainability in thousands of clients throughout the world and now have healthcare is a growing trend given the strong correlation over 100,000 valued employees. between the overall wellness of patients, the community and the environment. As a major employer and global enterprise with countless touch points, we have a responsibility to do our part to The aviation vertical represents another robust opportunity minimize our environmental impact and help improve for ABM and one in which green initiatives are of paramount the health of our planet. ABM remains committed to our importance given the impact of commercial air travel on participation in the U.N. Global Compact and proud to be climate change and desire to offset carbon emissions. With a part of this strategic policy initiative. the recent acquisition of Air Serv, a leading provider of integrated facility management services for the world’s airlines and freight companies at airports throughout the Building Value through Sustainability United States and United Kingdom, ABM is now cleaning more than 41 million square feet daily in the aviation market ABM is about building value for our clients. Early in 2012, we and we anticipate that a majority of this will be utilizing launched a transformational rebranding initiative designed green cleaning by the end of 2013. to convey this message and that ABM can deliver services far beyond just building maintenance. As a part of this, we are We are also working closely with our vendor partners to working to ensure that all of our clients and the communities implement new technologies and have expanded our in which we operate view us as a sustainable partner. ABM GreenCare offerings to include electric vehicle charging station installation and maintenance. We are Our goal is for our clients to see us as extending the life of excited about the steadily increasing number of consumers their assets and continually adding new value. We are using green vehicles, particularly electric vehicles. To help committed to using our technical and operational expertise do our part to encourage this trend, we are working with to help our clients maintain a clean, safe and energy efficient cities and our clients to install electric vehicle charging workplace while reducing their operating costs. stations. At the end of 2012, we had installed over 500 charging stations, including at AT&T Park in San Francisco. We believe that green and sustainable solutions provide It’s the first ballpark in California to offer next generation an enormous opportunity for ABM and our clients, and charging stations for eco-friendly, no emission electric are at the heart of our commitment to innovation. We vehicles. Fans of the world champion San Francisco Giants continue to expand and enhance our sustainable service can now attend a game at AT&T Park and have their plug-in offerings and identify new products and methods to operate electric vehicle recharged during the game. more efficiently. By the end of 2012, ABM GreenCare®, our sustainable service offerings program, surpassed As so many of our clients are working to improve the more than 360 million square feet of building space, efficiency of their operations, we at ABM are focused approximately half of which is LEED certified. on continually reducing our environmental impact. We are in the process of studying ways in which to reduce We recently completed two key acquisitions that provide carbon emissions of ABM’s own fleet and using taxis and critical mass in certain key vertical markets for ABM with transportation services that are emission friendly. We ABM Sustainability Report 3 Being “Green” is not just a fad to us; We believe that continually evolving our sustainability initiatives is critical to our long-term success and ensuring another century of growth. also continue to unify and streamline our information Sustainability and social responsibility is ingrained as part technology infrastructure in order to reduce our server of the ABM culture. We embue our operations with a spirit footprint and we recently reorganized our Onsite business, of environmental stewardship. Being “green” is not just a fad which will include a number of office consolidations over the to us; we believe that continually evolving our sustainability next twenty-four months; thereby improving our energy initiatives is critical to our long-term success and ensuring efficiency and, long-term will reduce our carbon footprint. another century of growth. As we look forward, I want ABM to resonate with all our clients and communities as a partner in business and sustainability. We have an enormous opportunity to work together with our partners to achieve mutual environmental benefits. Every ABM employee in every department shares my commitment to playing our part in helping to create a healthier planet and a brighter future for the next generations. We look forward to continuing to pave the way as an industry leader in sustainable facility services. Click to play Video Commitment to Social Responsibility Henrik C. Slipsager Given our tremendous resources and manpower at ABM, we President and have the ability to make a difference in society. As President Chief Executive Officer and Chief Executive Officer, I field numerous requests for donations and resources from ABM. We are dedicated to supporting the causes we feel are most important in making the world a healthier, happier, and more sustainable place. We are in the process of setting goals for our philanthropic endeavors. I am pleased that not only does ABM contribute financially, but also we encourage our employees to donate their time to supporting causes that resonate with them. Amongst the varied philanthropic efforts our employees continue to undertake, we recently teamed with the March of Dimes as multiple ABM offices across the country are ‘walking’ to raise money for this great cause. The ABM Corporate Sustainability Report covers the corporate activities and services provided by ABM and its subsidiaries throughout North America. ABM Sustainability Report 5 Report Parameters This is ABM’s third Sustainability Report and covers activities related to our 2012 fiscal year that ended October 31, 2012. The development of this report evolved from various internal discussions with key stakeholders as well as a materiality assessment following the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. An index of the GRI indicators and metrics is provided at the end of this report, linking the applicable topics with the corresponding page(s). For the second year in a row, we submitted our report to the Centre for Sustainability and Excellence (CSE) for an independent audit assessment. Finally, we will continue to update this report each fiscal year and publish it on our website . Other key company information can be found in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), and is available on our website at http://www.abm.com. The ABM Corporate Sustainability Report covers the corporate activities and services provided by ABM and its subsidiaries throughout North America. Organization of this Report We will introduce ABM, our services, and organizational structure. We will then identify our key impacts, risks and opportunities relating to our corporate sustainability initiatives, and the primary stakeholders for whom our sustainability commitment is most impactful. We will also discuss our governance for ensuring we perform with utmost integrity on behalf of our stakeholders. From there, we will take a look at the following: • Building Value through Sustainability in ABM Operations • Building Value through Sustainability in ABM Services • Building Value through Our People • ABM in the Community About ABM ABM Sustainability Report 7 ABM (NYSE: ABM) is a leading provider of facility solutions with revenues exceeding $4 billion and 100,000 employees in over 400 offices deployed throughout the United States and various international locations. ABM’s comprehensive capabilities include facilities engineering, commercial cleaning, energy solutions, HVAC, electrical, landscaping, parking and security, provided through stand-alone or integrated solutions. ABM provides custom facility solutions in urban, suburban and rural areas to properties of all sizes — from schools and hospitals to the largest and most complex facilities, such as manufacturing plants and major airports. ABM Industries Incorporated, which operates through its subsidiaries, was founded in 1909. For more information, please visit www.abm.com. ABM is incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware The Board’s Corporate Citizenship & Communications and is a publicly owned company, governed by a board of Committee provides oversight in connection with ABM’s directors. Our global headquarters is in New York, NY. responsibilities as a corporate citizen, community Shares of ABM are traded on the New York Stock Exchange member and engaged partner with the Company’s many [NYSE: ABM] . stakeholders, internally and externally. The list below details persons who have reported in Schedule Specifically, the Corporate Citizenship & Communications 13G or Schedule 13D filings made with the SEC that at Committee acts in an advisory capacity to the Board and December 31, 2012 held 5% or more of the outstanding shares Management as well as provide Board-level oversight with of ABM common stock. respect to policies, strategies and practices including, but not limited to: • Bank of America Corporation • Blackrock, Inc. • Equal Opportunity Employer • Lord Michael A. Ashcroft • Sustainability and environmental and green energy issues • The Theodore Rosenberg Trust • Crisis management planning and communications • Vanguard Group, Inc. • Health and Safety Issues • Wells Fargo & Company • Public affairs, public policy and government relations • Political action committee activities, if any • Marketing, branding and communications • Corporate philanthropy Governance Structure At ABM, our governance structure, along with our Code of Business Conduct, provide the framework for us to effectively serve our clients, stakeholders and employees with integrity. Information concerning Governance and our Board of Directors is available at http://investor.abm.com. Specifics on the board’s composition are available at http://investor.abm.com/committees.cfm. 8 About ABM ABM Operational Structure and The Facility Solutions Group provides the following mobile Service Offerings services and solutions: ABM is headquartered in New York, NY. ABM Onsite Services • Electrical & Lighting are headquartered in Houston, TX and ABM Mobile/On • Electrical Power Solutions Demand Services are headquartered in Irvine, CA. • Energy Solutions • Government Services Changes in Organizational Structure since our Last Report • Healthcare Support Services We recently announced exciting organizational changes, • HVAC & Mechanical which we believe will allow ABM to better sell and deliver • On-Demand Services as a national provider of local services. This will also consolidate office locations and back-office functionality, reducing our carbon footprint. ABM’s approach to sustainability We have realigned the operational structure to integrate all Our Stakeholders Onsite service lines, including Janitorial, Security, Parking, Our approach to sustainability integration is based upon and Facilities Engineering. This enables us to leverage our addressing known and perceived stakeholder needs. With domain expertise and operational excellence throughout our primary stakeholders being clients, employees and all service lines in each of the geographic markets we shareholders, people are our number one stakeholder serve, thereby maximizing value through the integration category, and understanding the varied and sometimes of several back office functions and office locations, and intertwined needs of these groups is paramount to the driving collaboration locally to fuel growth and provide an success of all involved. enhanced service experience for our clients. ABM identifies our stakeholders as those individuals ABM Onsite Services is led by Jim McClure, Executive Vice who can affect or be affected by the Company’s actions. President and President, Onsite Services which offers a ABM understands and believes in the concept that joint variety of maintenance services, including: outcomes mutually benefitting all ABM stakeholders result in furthering the value of the organization as a • Facilities Engineering whole. ABM stakeholders may contact ABM’s Board of • Janitorial Directors and non-management directors through email or • Landscape & Grounds a direct letter. Contact information can be found at • Security Personnel & Consulting http://investor.abm.com/contactBoard.cfm. • Parking & Transportation • Integrated Facility Solutions With ABM’s service model executed at our client locations, and often an integral part of our client sustainability Tracy Price, Executive Vice President & President, ABM integration (e.g. – cleaning, facility maintenance, energy Facility Solutions Group, will continue to be responsible for conservation, security, safety, etc.), our approach was ABM’s Mobile Services, Franchise Offerings, On-Demand started within ABM’s service offerings and solutions. Services, Government Services and Vertical Market Through listening to our clients’ needs and implementing strategy groups. Tracy is also leading ABM’s Corporate and assisting with sustainable aspects on their behalf, our Sales and Corporate Marketing groups, along with several realization of the benefits of CSR became more apparent – strategic corporate initiatives. a commitment to sustainability to our shared environment was simply good business and a win for all stakeholders involved. Across the ABM enterprise, we serve a wide array of markets, including: Electrical & Lighting Janitorial Onsite or dispatched Electricians & NETA techs provide: Onsite full-time or dispatched Janitors provide: • Repairs, Replacements & Upgrades • Green Cleaning & Recycling Services • High Efficiency Lighting Improvements • General Maintenance • Predictive & Preventive Maintenance • Carpet & Floor Care • Lowto High-Voltage Testing & Solutions • Clean Room & GMP Cleaning • Electrical Engineering & Commissioning • Staffing & Specialty Services Energy Landscape & Grounds Energy specialists provide: Onsite full-time or dispatched Landscapers provide: • Guaranteed Energy Saving Programs • Landscape & Grounds Maintenance • HVAC, Central Plants, Lighting & Controls • Golf Course Maintenance & Renovations • Solar & Other Renewable Energy Solutions • Athletic & Sports Field Maintenance • Sustainability Solutions • Irrigation Maintenance & Management • EV Charging Stations • Exterior Pest & Fertility Management Facilities Engineering Parking & Transportation Onsite full-time or dispatched Building Engineers provide: Onsite full-time or event-based Parking staff provide: • HVAC, Mechanical & Electrical •Shuttle & Transportation Services • Plumbing, Carpentry & Locksmith • Valet Parking & Special Event Services • Maintenance, Repairs & Operations • On & Off-Street Parking Management • Handyman Services • Mobile Phone & Web-based Solutions • Clinical Engineering • Improved Parking Net Operating Income HVAC & Mechanical Security Personnel & Consulting Onsite full-time or dispatched Technicians provide: Onsite full-time or event-based Security experts provide: • Repairs, Replacements & Upgrades • Uniformed & Plainclothes Security • Preventive Maintenance • Concierge & Receptionist Services • Chiller Services • Special Events Coverage • Engineering & Recommissioning • Security Consulting & System Design • Guaranteed Energy Saving Programs • Background Checks & Investigations Integrated Facility Solutions Bundled ABM services provides One point of contact, One process & One system that: • Reduces operational costs • Decreases regulatory & safety risk • Consolidates invoices & contracts • Delivers consistent, reliable service • Lowers administrative overhead 10 About ABM Our next known need was identified as our portion of Some of the topics discussed during this year’s updates were: clients’ supply chain. While not a carbon intensive company, the decision to identify and track our emission levels using • Specific actions taken to advance Business Continuity efforts Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol toolsets and thinking of • Details regarding further strengthening of Compliance program our company’s role, risks and potential gains in relation to • Under the auspices of Reputational Risk, established Crisis climate change brought Sustainability integration out of Communication Plan and Executive Crisis Communication Team merely a service element and into a business component. •E fforts to mitigate risk by promoting risk awareness throughout the organization; specific initiatives in areas of Safety and Risks and Opportunities Payroll Fraud. ABM is set to launch an internal safety awareness As part of ABM’s Enterprise Risk Management framework, campaign in 2013, which will be called “ThinkSafe”. the ABM risk portfolio is continuously evaluated through structured interviews with senior management. Risks in Additionally, ABM continues to move forward with the the portfolio are then assessed with impact and probability integration of sustainability into our business strategy following risk rating scales by risk owners. Risks are reviewed by the the four key principles of responsibility in the following: Risk Committee, which is comprised of cross-divisional and functional leadership. The Management Risk Committee •R esponsibility in the workplace relates to a broad range of items agrees on the ranking of our company’s key enterprise risks including labor standards, talent management, diversity and and primary risks, risk-owner roles, responsibilities and inclusion, employee training and safety, and employee health. identification of next steps. Updates on the ERM program • Responsibility in the marketplace revolves around client are given to the Board of Directors and/or Audit Committee safety, service quality, responsible sourcing and supply chain on a quarterly basis. These updates provide high-level management, and proper and responsible marketing practices. overviews of the progress made on various initiatives, as • Responsibility in the environment is centered on our energy well as the overall program as a whole. A more detailed and resource efficiency, reducing or eliminating drains on the presentation is given each year to either the full Board or environments we share and reusing or repurposing products we the Audit Committee on one of the Key Enterprise Risks, use and distribute to maximize their lifecycle. usually by the risk owner. • Responsibility in the community is the culmination of the first three principals as those feed directly into how we affect the public at large within our circle of influence. ABM Sustainability Report 11 A commitment to sustainability to our shared environment was simply good business and a win for all shareholders involved. Our service lines have minimal risk related to regulatory ABM On-Demand has a network of over 7,000 pre-screened, requirements on climate change because our service model certified contractors that can deliver a variety of services is labor intensive, not product-intensive. ABM’s services are for clients not requiring full-time ABM staffing, across the performed by our employees at client site locations and we entire building trades spectrum of services. do not manufacture products. Additionally, ABM has such a diverse client base from both an industry and geographic ABM acquired several businesses to help expand our perspective that we are not heavily dependent upon one On-Demand and Mobile Service capabilities, including TEGG industry sector or geographic location for a majority of our Franchise Operations, which enhances ABM’s electrical business, limiting our regulatory risk. We could experience expertise and reach, and recently Calvert-Jones, which indirect exposure to such regulations and impacts through expands our energy and HVAC capabilities. suppliers of cleaning products, cleaning equipment and changes in building engineering requirements, but these are a minor risk to our business model. Financial Implications and Risks/Opportunities for ABM Due to Climate Change Regulation We have not seen our business model change significantly since our 2011 report as it relates to risks/opportunities Now we offer an end-to-end service delivery system for for ABM due to climate change regulation. View more detail all markets that enables us to serve the largest facilities on these in our 2011 Corporate Sustainability Report . in urban cities that require extensive full-time staffing to clients in rural communities that require less frequent service, and everything in between. Significant Changes since our Last Report In 2012, we expanded our Mechanical and Electrical Mobile Service footprint as well as our newly minted On-Demand platform, which enables ABM to expand the scale and scope of services to clients in urban, suburban and rural locations. 12 About ABM Data at a glance ABM Sustainability Report 13 The following selected financial data is derived from ABM’s Once again, ABM participated this year in the Carbon consolidated financial statements as of October 31, 2012. Disclosure Project http://www.cdproject.net , which This information should be read in conjunction with our operates as the world’s largest global climate change financial reports such as the Annual Report on Form 10-K reporting system. Stated emissions are based upon current and other periodic and current reports that we file with the data acquired as well as estimated assumptions based on SEC from time to time, which are available at http://investor. historical data collected. abm.com/financials.cfm. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange [NYSE: ABM]. Selected Financial Data (Year ended Oct. 31, 2012) Note: ABM does not receive any significant financial assistance from any host government. Units FY 2012 FY2011 Financial Revenue Thousands $4,300,265 $4,246,842 Adjusted Income from Continuing Operations Thousands $76,122 $74,962 Stock Common Stock High Dollars $24.50 $27.14 Common Stock Low Dollars $17.95 $17.29 Dividends declared per Share Dollars $0.58 $0.56 This information should be read in conjunction with our financial reports such as the Annual Report on Form 10-K and other periodic and current reports that we file with the SEC from time to time, which are available at http://investor.abm.com/financials.cfm. Building Value Through Sustainability in ABM Operations ABM Sustainability Report 15 ABM is keenly focused on how our facilities and operations For offices in which the utilities are included/prorated affect our shared environment. Just as we are Building Value within the lease agreement, as well as those for which actual for clients through world-class services, we continually data was not able to be secured with reasonable attempts, seek to enhance our organizational efficiencies and reduce estimates of consumption from known offices within that ABM’s own carbon footprint across the enterprise. Every region and comparable square footage were used. day, we walk the sustainability talk; here’s how. We have excluded activities occurring at client sites ABM’s expansive geographic footprint means we’re always (40,000+) as those would be already included in our client’s near our current and prospective clients. With over 400 scope 1 and 2 calculations as well as the refrigerant leakage offices across North America, we are able to cut down on of our leased office locations. our travel, emissions and time delays. Direct vehicle fuel usage by type (gasoline, diesel, E85) Each of our branch office locations handles its own utilities. by gallon for the time period was provided by our fleet Therefore, we asked our branch office personnel to complete management company and the corresponding a web-based survey to efficiently aggregate the energy information was entered into the mobile transport tool consumptions of their respective offices by known fuel type. from Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions reporting. Emissions Units 2012 2011 Scope 1 CO2 e Tonnes 49,032 47,683 Scope 2 CO2 e Tonnes 9,796 10,437 Scope 3 CO2 e Tonnes 1,453 1,311 Fuel used MWh 204,744 198,195 Electricity Used MWh 17,020 17,653 ABM’s Overall Fuel Consumption (Fleet and Office Locations) Fuels MWh Electricity 17020 Motor Gasoline 188358 Diesel 8490 E-85 144 Propane 8 Natural Gas 7744 Total 221,764 Accident Rate Per Million Miles by ABM Drivers 2011 2012 Variance Number of Claims* 324 368 44 Units on Collision 3689 3709 20 Annual Collision Rate 8.8% 9.9% 1.1% Collision per Million Miles 5.99 7.21 1.22 Number of Crashes ** 237 283 46 Annual Crash Rate ** 6.4% 7.6% 1.2% Crashes per Million Miles ** 4.38 5.54 1.16 * Claims are loss reports created. ** Crashes are claims that occurred while the vehicle was being driven. 16 Sustainability in ABM Operations ABM has a national distribution network servicing every Electronic Payroll Options for major city across the U.S. These 47 strategically located ABM Employees distributors provide an efficient, locally-based way for our employees to order and receive the products used in our ABM added 8,000 new employees to our online paystub daily service delivery to clients. These distributors receive solution in 2012, eliminating the printing and distribution and distribute products from our corporately approved of over 240,000 stubs annually, cutting down on the need suppliers, ensuring the consistency of our service delivery for paper, envelopes and toner. Across the ABM enterprise, and streamlining the ordering process. 54 percent of our employees are now paid electronically (via direct deposit or Paycard), which is an increase of 43 As a matter of good business, we’ve remained everpercent from 2011. conscious of forward-thinking ways to go ‘green’ and operate more efficiently internally. The below sections highlight the ways in which different segments within ABM ABM Corporate Payment Options, Credit are committed to sustainability. Card Usage and Expense Reporting In 2012, ABM began paying vendors via automated ABM Secured Document Recycling electronic payment and credit card (excluding company credit card). When paying certain vendors, ABM no longer In fiscal 2012, ABM worked with an outside vendor to cuts checks, puts them in envelopes and mails them to the calculate certain geographic portions of the business’ vendor. Instead, an electronic file is sent to ABM’s bank secured document recycling. The recycling process of listing the vendor number, invoices to be paid and total the paper provides security for ABM and environmental amount to be paid per vendor. The bank then transfers the benefits by reducing pollution, preserving landfill space money (via ACH) to the vendor and electronically transfers and saving trees, water and oil resources. The below the remittance information to the vendor. table illustrates: Recycled Paper Paper When ABM pays vendors via credit card, all the information office paper grade Material is sent electronically, reducing checks, envelopes and the State (Pounds) (Tons) actual mailing itself. Based on monthly statistics from 2012, Arizona 1,193 1 ABM expects to eliminate over 15,000 checks via ACH and credit card. California 17,547 9 Florida 4,452 2 Over the past couple of years, we have implemented the Illinois 6,900 3 Wells Fargo corporate credit card (“cCard”), which has Iowa 3,559 2 resulted in significant process efficiencies. At the end of Oregon 548 0 2012, ABM had about 1,700 cCard holders, who processed Texas 41,652 21 179,672 transactions on their cCards during 2012. As a result, Washington 35,364 18 these cCard holders no longer process paper expense reports, instead processing them on-line. Rather than Total 111,215 56 mailing or over-nighting expense reports to a supervisor for processing, expense reports are now electronic on the Wells Fargo system. Additionally, instead of issuing paper checks to employees for reimbursement, ABM now reimburses through electronic deposit into their bank account. ABM Sustainability Report 17 Our Revamped booth exemplifies our commitment to sustainability. Technology • A suspended NanoShapes™ circular LED screen with a 6’ diameter viewing area to command attention and communicate our messages to those inside the booth as well as passing traffic. Circles are an important visual element in our brand, so this screen shape was an ideal choice. We chose the pantone orange casing to match our logo. (The round shape and the orange color mimic the “head” above the “M” in the ABM logo). While the screen itself has a strong visual appeal, the looping video provides a concise and lively 90-second summary of our service lines and major markets. • Four 32-inch touchscreens on each corner of the booth running Metropolis, an interactive learning tool ABM launched in 2012, similar to SimCity.™ Visitors can elect to see our various ABM Marketing Sustainability Initiatives services in action in different types of buildings (schools, office buildings, airports, etc.). It also includes videos and case As part of ABM’s rebranding initiative in 2012, we revamped studies. Because we localized the entire platform into four our booth for exhibiting at tradeshows. Due to our diverse individual laptops for the booth, we will not have to rely on clientele and wide range of markets served, ABM exhibits at securing internet service at each tradeshow. a number of tradeshows around the country. • QR codes on our banners provide smart phone users with a direct link to our web site for more information. While we are proud as an organization of our sustainability efforts, nothing about ABM’s old booth demonstrated this Additionally, ABM is ever mindful of reducing excess commitment in terms of construction and energy usage, and waste in regards to marketing collateral materials. We we sought to change that. Additionally, a major component continue to utilize a print on-demand website to quickly of ABM’s new branding initiative dealt with our commitment and accurately update and provide materials to our offices towards a technology-focused approach to doing business, across the country. This allows for digital prints of much of and we wanted our new booth to reflect this mindset. Some our collateral on demand, and in most cases offers online of the new ‘green’ advances ABM’s new tradeshow booth pdf versions of our materials for ABM employees, thereby boasts include: reducing shipping costs and paper usage in many instances. We also store offset materials through an outside vendor • Recycled rubber flooring when absolutely necessary to print and store, allowing us • Lighter weight/sensible packing to minimize to maintain inventory of printed materials and responsibly shipping/drayage costs distribute or recycle those. ABM also began using QR • Eco-friendly digital signage combines technology with sustainability Codes on our business cards and certain other promotional • QR codes and touch screens in lieu of printed collateral materials in 2012, and we continue to emphasize search • LED lighting on ABM’s main NanoLumen screen in the booth engine optimization and pay-per-click methods to drive uses less electricity than standard lighting with average individuals to our website rather than direct mail. life span of 5 years; our circular LED screen uses the same electricity as a coffee maker. • Reuse of circular hanging banner sign from a previous conference • “About this Booth” displays pointing out how the booth exemplifies our commitment to sustainability. 18 Sustainability in ABM Operations ABM’s business-to-business marketing practices continue • Environmentally responsible marketing communications to be compliant with the ICC International Code of printing practices which include: Advertising, where applicable, as it relates to advertising – Printing smaller digital quantities on recycled Mohawk 50/10 and marketing communication in its entirety. This includes: paper, manufactured entirely with green e-certified windgenerated electricity via our online print-on-demand system. • Responsible messaging (i.e., legal, decent, honest and truthful) – Our partnering with offset printers who are Forest defined for the appropriate targeted audiences. Stewardship Council (FSC) certified for paper manufacturing • Sourced technical data and statistics that are substantiated, and printing processes. This is displayed thru the FSC and include the ABM brand name, value proposition, and certification logo on applicable marketing communications. contact information. • An established review process by Corporate Marketing, Legal, ABM has no reported incidents of non-compliance with internal subject-matter-experts and executive management regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing for ensuring the company represents itself appropriately and communications, including advertising, promotion, and with goodwill. sponsorship, by type of outcomes. • Application for and ongoing maintenance and documentation of company trademarks that are properly applied for and managed by our Corporate Marketing and Legal departments ABM IT Sustainability Initiatives through the U.S Patent & Trademark Office. • Copyrighting of all marketing communications on the company ABM’s Information Technology Department continues website, which includes industry expert articles/white papers to build on the momentum we’ve seen in recent years by and sustainability processes. bringing all of our IT needs in-house to unify all disparate • The truthful depiction of safety and health practices in images systems and applications, streamline communications, and (e.g., of ABM employees in action) used for marketing expedite internal services. communications. • Adhering to ABM’s data privacy protection policy, which discloses This initiative has transformed our infrastructure and put data collection methods (i.e., data collected automatically, in its place a new 100% virtualized VMware environment “cookie,” volunteered information). The policy is posted on the that reduces costs and improves sustainability, IBM XIV company web site. high performance storage for database reporting, and new ISeries systems for our JD Edwards platform. ABM Sustainability Report 19 Since this system unification’s launch in 2009, IT has reduced to new Polycom systems. By year’s end, ABM had 14 our physical server footprint by nearly 90%. By adopting videoconference-enabled facilities, with a total of 34 cameras virtualization, reporting performance improved by an average and videoconferencing rooms. Including testing, there were of 800% with high speed storage, and server processing times 498 reported conferences consuming 370,499 total minutes improved by 28% through new server systems. on the new Polycom system and 15,206 minutes on the old system – we anticipate full integration onto the new platform Recently, Andre Garcia, ABM assistant vice president of by our 2013 Corporate Sustainability Report. global infrastructure services, was interviewed by Baseline Magazine to discuss the transformation we’ve seen since overhauling our Business Intelligence platform and upgrading our ERP system. Read the full article here. Some of the highlights in addition to the statistics listed above include: Since this system unification’s • ABM IT supports 40 percent more applications on less than one-fourth of the physical servers. launch in 2009, IT has reduced • The virtualization of ABM’s SQL server database hosting BI content reduced the time required for the related nightly ETL our physical server footprint (extract, transform load) process to less than three hours, by nearly 90%. down from as much as six hours previously. ABM disposed of roughly 50 physical servers between two data centers in 2012. New servers were added, but they were used to replace already existing physical servers. ABM’s current server counts do not include the acquisitions of TEGG, HHA, Air Serv or Calvert-Jones. Videoconferencing is a serious initiative at ABM, and 2012 was a transitional year on this front. ABM underwent the beginning stages of a migration from its old network Building Value Through Sustainability in ABM Services ABM Sustainability Report 21 We’ve built our strong reputation by continually striving to improve upon our client service offerings. As part of that goal, we actively work with our clients on a wide range of these efforts, from energy reduction to LEED certification. In 2012, ABM’s newly launched brand emphasized holistic of sustainable practices and new innovations in cleaning and innovative facility solutions for clients, while reinforcing methods and equipment. Through our strong, established the integrity and principles upon which we were founded. relationships with industry-leading supply, chemical and raw Because sustainability is engrained within our core material manufacturers we are actively implementing new philosophy as an organization, ABM is able to truly partner solutions such as: with our clients on how they are impacting the environment. Each of ABM’s service lines offer their own respective • Bio-based cleaning alternatives solutions for varying clients in our many key vertical • Specialized cleaning solutions for various surface types that markets ABM services, and below are some of the ways in increase productivity which we’re Building Value for clients through sustainability. • Electrically Activated Water Cleaning Solutions and Hygiene Intervention Programs This affords us cost-control advantages over our competitors and provides our clients several distinct advantages for how we can deliver new cleaning processes and products and technologies quickly, and at the best possible price. ABM GreenCare The ABM GreenCare® program, originally implemented As a member of the U.S. Green Building Council [USGBC], in 2006, spans our sustainability client offerings across we continue to offer specific products and procedures for the enterprise, in every market we service. ABM businesses buildings to maintain certification through the Leadership in across the enterprise offer a range of innovative green Energy & Environmental Design [LEED] Rating system. building and maintenance technologies and services under the ABM GreenCare program that help clients define a Sum of Gross Square Footage (in million) proactive strategy, establish business practices, minimize Leed Certified 186,442,000 risks, and better meet their sustainability goals. Initial Phase 116,323,000 Leed Registered 59,049,000 Janitorial Business Grand Total 361,814,000 ABM GreenCare services surpassed 360 million square Number of LEED Certified Buildings 351 feet of implementation in 2012, 185 million square feet of which is LEED certified. Just as is the case across our entire line of services, ABM Janitorial is utilizing technology to Further, as part of our commitment to technological upgrades, upgrade our sustainable offerings. This includes electrically we enhanced our client portal in 2012. This portal enables activated water systems that produce general cleaning clients to maintain full transparency in viewing their and sanitizing solutions from water, salt and electricity. account metrics and support in a secure environment 24x7. These allow ABM to produce safe, non-toxic daily cleaning Importantly for our shared sustainability efforts, clients solutions onsite and reduce packaging, transportation and have centralized, online access to contracts, contracts storage issues associated with traditional chemicals. ABM personnel, billing and invoice information, work order continues to identify new products and methods to operate information and account spend data – eliminating the need more efficiently for our clients and stay on the forefront for paper where each are concerned. 22 Sustainability in ABM Services In 2012, ABM further enhanced our energy business capabilities to drive energy efficiency and sustainability solutions for clients across all service lines. Energy Business The rising cost of energy, increasing government regulations, • Analysis and consulting and growing focus on reducing environmental impact • Monitoring and management are all prevalent concerns of today’s building owners and • Leading-edge technology and cloud-based operators. In response, ABM continues to be committed building automation to delivering innovative energy solutions that help clients • Electrical, lighting, HVAC, mechanical, controls, better manage and reduce energy consumption, increase and engineering trade experience social responsibility, and gain competitive advantage and • Regional variances in regulated and deregulated profitability through successful sustainability initiatives. utility markets • Project management and commissioning ABM has been delivering energy solutions over the past two • Measurement and verification decades. In 2012, ABM further enhanced our energy business • Rebates capabilities to drive energy efficiency and sustainability • Utility bill payment and reporting solutions solutions for clients across all service lines. • Benchmarking • Financing and contracts As ABM’s energy business continues to grow, our focus is on helping clients embrace sustainability, understand their Technology-Driven Energy Management Innovations options, and maximize their cost and energy savings. ABM To help clients effectively manage energy consumption, successfully retrofits commercial, government, industrial, costs, and impact, ABM offers a variety of advanced health care, educational and other facilities to help produce energy-related solutions, services, and programs – from guaranteed energy savings, reduce energy consumption state-of-the art building improvements and electric and environmental impact, and comply with green vehicle charging stations to renewable energy sources and government regulations. cogeneration systems. ABM views energy management as a long-term commitment. Green and sustainable services provide an enormous Our areas of energy expertise span multiple disciplines, opportunity for ABM and our clients, and are at the heart allowing us to provide turnkey energy solutions and manage of our commitment to sustainability and innovation. ABM the entire process for our clients – from planning to project continues to make exceptional progress implementing more management to financing to measurement: of our market-leading, technology-driven energy solutions. ABM Sustainability Report 23 Here are some of the solutions and projects we ABM installed and maintains four ChargePoint® charging worked on in 2012: stations, which can charge an EV in four hours, or about the length of a baseball game. Fans of the world champion San Electric Vehicle Charging Stations Francisco Giants can now attend a game at AT&T Park and ABM is dedicated to the rapid deployment of electric plug-in their electric vehicles at the same time. Read the vehicle (EV) infrastructure and our leadership position in press release for more on AT&T Park’s EV charging stations. installing EV charging stations. As of 2012, ABM has installed hundreds of EV charging stations at commercial and City of Oakland government facilities and performed hundreds of residential Oakland, CA has one of the most ambitious energy assessments across the country. Clients include cities, efficiency efforts of any city in the country. Through its counties, schools, businesses, and even sports facilities. Smart Lights program, it plans to reduce overall energy use by 20%. To help accomplish this goal, the city partnered We have also partnered with the top electric vehicle supply with ABM to transform its most antiquated parking garage equipment vendors such as ChargePoint® to create even on Martin Luther King Way into an ultramodern, energy greater access to next-generation charging stations for efficient facility. drivers of these eco-friendly, no emission electric vehicles. Some of our latest EV success stories in 2012 include: The result of the retrofit was a dramatic 45% energy savings. It was these energy saving enhancements that AT&T Park allowed for the implementation of ChargePoint EV charging AT&T Park, home of the San Francisco Giants, prides itself stations, without the need to upgrade the facility’s existing on cutting edge sustainability. In 2010, with the help of ABM, electrical system. The city was able to pay for the entire it became the first Major League baseball park to receive project with its utility cost savings – all with net zero impact LEED Silver Certification. In 2012, again with the help of on the city’s budget. Read the case study for more on the ABM, AT&T Park hit another sustainability milestone – it City of Oakland’s EV charging stations. became the first ballpark in California to offer public access to Level 2 EV charging stations. 24 Sustainability in ABM Services Bundled Energy Solutions High-Efficiency Lighting In 2012, ABM continued to expand its popular Bundled Ensuring electrical and lighting systems are at optimum Energy Solutions (BES) program, an innovative offering efficiency plays a huge role in helping clients meet their that allows government, education and commercial clients energy and sustainability goals. Retrofitting outdated and to revitalize their outdated and inefficient infrastructures inefficient lighting and state-of-the-art automation and with state-of-the-art, energy-efficient equipment and controls dramatically reduce energy consumption, lower technology – and pay with guaranteed energy savings that utility costs, and increase electrical capacity. completely offset project costs. In 2012, we continued to enhance electrical, lighting, safety, The BES approach is unique in the industry because it and security levels of our lighting clients; as well as lowered packages energy retrofit services and costs into a turnkey their total cost of ownership and made them energy offering whereby the energy savings are then used to efficient as well. Here are a few of our transformations: finance the project. Clients receive maximum energy and facility improvements with zero budget impact. BES BART solutions remove the barriers to funding and implementing Bay Area Rapid Transit (BART) partnered with ABM to critical sustainability upgrades. retrofit its 16th and 24th Street Stations. The stations were opened in 1973 and still had all original light fixtures. New Year over year, we have continued to increase the size, high-efficiency lighting saved 786,687 kWh per year, reduced scope, and referenceability of our BES projects. Some key energy costs by 75%, and improved light levels by 400%. new BES sustainability clients in 2012 include: The enhancements also provided a safer environment and Wright State University significantly decreased criminal activity at the station, and After completing a BES project with ABM in 2011 that qualified the client for special energy rebates. Read the reduced energy use by more than 20% and provided the case study for more information on the BART retrofit. university with more than $1.3 million in annual energy savings, Wright State University was so pleased with ABM’s Chiller Group results that they recently decided to entrust a second BES Chillers are major contributors to energy efficiency. project with ABM.. Using the same successful approach, the Keeping chillers running at peak performance is critical for latest campus-wide energy improvements are expected minimizing energy use and environmental impact. to lower energy consumption by nearly 40% and save $35.8 million in energy costs over the next 15 years. Read In 2012, ABM introduced our Chiller Services Group, an the press release, and see a local Dayton, OH news station elite cadre of chiller specialists with unique experience, feature the project. extensive skill set, and vast technical knowledge base. This seasoned team of experts is chartered with providing technical solutions for critical environments and large tonnage equipment, and setting the standard for energy efficient chiller system repair and maintenance. Based initially in Southern California, our new Chiller Services Group is serving as the foundation for a larger national team and demonstrates yet another way ABM continues to lead the market in innovative energy and sustainability solutions, and build value for our entire client base. Click to play Video Parking Business Fayette County ABM Parking Services, formerly Ampco System Parking, Fayette County Career & Technical Institute (FCCTI) in advanced greatly with its sustainability efforts for clients PA is expected to receive $4.9 million in energy-related in 2012. Taking advantage of the popularity of the web cost savings over the next 20 years. The school will use and mobile devices, not only did ABM Parking Services additional cost savings to adopt future technologies, as well provide ease of services for our clients, but did so with as expand its curriculum and program offerings. Read the sustainability firmly in mind. We are constantly seeking press release for more information on FCCTI’s BES project. ways to assist drivers in locating us more quickly so that ABM Sustainability Report 25 they spend less time in their cars, while giving them the And for facility operators, this capability supports their ability to pay and research everything related to our parking green initiatives with less paper, provides better visibility services online. into transactions, and improves reporting accuracy and timeliness. This offering can also generate revenue for our Customized Mobile App clients if they decide to charge for it. ABM partnered with Park-Me, a Los Angeles-based mobile parking information app provider to create a mobile QR Code Way Finding application for smartphones and tablets. The free mobile ABM’s new mobile app also includes “QR code way finding” app gives clients access to our comprehensive parking to reduce driver confusion and help them easily find their database and helps them find real-time parking availability way back to their parking spot. By scanning a displayed QR based on location, price, vehicle type, and garage occupancy – code using their mobile phone, drivers are guided back with all from a mobile phone. turn by turn instructions to the building and floor where vehicles are located. Available to download for free on iTunes, the mobile app also estimates costs, gives door-to-door route guidance, Consumer Website recommends preferred parking spots and more. The app In 2012, ABM also launched a consumer parking based web even provides drivers with a photo of the building’s entrance site that includes all 2,000 ABM-operated parking locations so they have a visual to help get them to their parking across the country. Now drivers are able to research ABMdestination more quickly and easily. operated parking locations and make reservations and transactions from their computers. Pay by Phone We also introduced pay by phone capabilities so drivers can Through the website, each ABM parking facility has its own quickly, conveniently, and securely use their mobile phones page with location, photos, rates, operating hours, entrance to pay for parking at ABM-operated facilities. Drivers can points, payment types, coupons, special event rates, and receive text message alerts when time is running out, and amenities. Drivers can easily find parking locations, make they can also add time remotely, without having to return to reservations, download coupons, and sign up for monthly their vehicle. They are also able to view parking history and parking and e-invoicing. receipts online. 26 Sustainability in ABM Services Security Business Virtual Guarding enables ABM Security Services began to implement virtual guarding at certain client locations in 2012, further advancing ABM Security Services’ ABM’s commitment to technology. Virtual Guarding is an interactive video service that includes two-way audio and live guards to spend less time monitoring, and delivers high-level security and surveillance around the clock for far less than the cost of uniform or patrol traveling from location to guard services. Virtual Guarding enables ABM Security location, cutting down on Services’ guards to spend less time traveling from location to location, cutting down on fuel consumption as well. fuel consumption as well. Virtual Guard services are gaining popularity because they offer a safe, effective, and cost-efficient alternative to traditional guard forces. While Virtual Guarding does not completely replace traditional security guards, it can greatly enhance a security program with its automated features that can provide these value-added benefits: • Operates 24/7 • Removes threat of injury or loss of life of guards • Intercepts suspicious activity and helps stop crime before it starts • Provides eyewitness testimony through recorded videos, reducing risk of liability and aiding prosecution of offenders • Offers extra safety to staff and clients • Reduces theft ABM Sustainability Report 27 ABM On-Demand Expands Services and Reach ABM significantly expanded its scale and scope of services for “FLEX” automated Knowledge Center technology that suburban and rural facilities by announcing the launch of ABM manages complex portfolio information; and a range of On-Demand in 2012, a joint venture delivering a wide range of other client-centered technology resources including cost high-quality facility services to multi-location clients. capture tools, recurring contract management and more. This enables us to efficiently manage and dispatch this ABM On-Demand has a network of more than 7,000 prevast network for clients. screened, certified contractors that can deliver a wide variety of services, including HVAC, electrical, plumbing, pest control, handyman services and more with a single point of contact. The On-Demand service network augments ABM’s urban service platform and complements ABM’s mobile service platform in urban and rural markets. ABM On-Demand integrates our comprehensive facility services resources with a 24/7 smart service center staffed with: knowledgeable, experienced dispatchers; a proprietary 28 Recently, ABM made significant investments to upgrade our expertise in two key vertical markets, acquiring Air Serv and HHA Services. ABM Sustainability Report 29 Recent acquisitions underscore ABM’s focus on key vertical markets. Recently, ABM made significant investments to upgrade our expertise in two key vertical markets, acquiring Air Serv and HHA Services. Air Serv is a leading end-to-end aviation services provider, and HHA Services specializes in comprehensive solutions for a wide range of health care facility types. Both acquisitions augment ABM’s already stellar services in these verticals while delivering additional services and in the case of Air Serv, helping ABM expand its presence overseas with Air Serv’s operations in the United Kingdom. Where sustainability is concerned, both will enhance ABM’s capabilities relating to environmentally friendly services in unique environments. Healthcare, in particular, requires specialized expertise in order to meet rigorous standards and procedures in various facility types due to higher risk of dealing with a broader range of diseases, blood borne pathogens, bodily fluids, etc. As a healthcare industry leader since 1974, HHA brings in specialized knowledge that will only serve to augment and enhance ABM’s commitment to sustainability in hospitals and other healthcare facilities. Building Value Through Our People ABM Sustainability Report 31 Our people continue to be the driving force behind everything we do at ABM. We take tremendous pride in our skilled and knowledgeable workforce. Spanning our wide array of service solutions and in a diverse set of markets, we firmly believe that our rich diversity of expertise and experience is unmatched anywhere. We strive to be an employer that attracts and retains highly provide distinct business advantages. In an increasingly skilled and diverse individuals. Rich diversity has always global marketplace it is critically important that the rich been a principal feature of our workforce, and will continue experiences, backgrounds and skills of our diverse to be throughout our future. Further, we pride ourselves on employee population are fully embraced to help us meet being an inclusive organization that promotes a culture of the various needs of our clients. learning, teamwork and mutual accountability. With over 400 offices located throughout the country, ABM offers job Our pledge to diversity and inclusion encompasses our opportunities in a variety of disciplines across the country. commitment to equal employment opportunity and For more information, visit our ‘careers’ section on the affirmative action. ABM will not discriminate on the basis of Company website at http://www.abm.com/Careers/Pages/ race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, creed, sexual cleaning-jobs.aspx. orientation, disability, ancestry, marital or veteran status, or any other protected status covered by law. Diversity and Human Rights And, as a federal contractor, ABM also has Affirmative Action programs and policies — including proactive Founded on the company’s core values of respect, integrity, outreach efforts — which are designed to create equal collaboration, innovation and excellence, ABM recognizes employment opportunities for all, including individuals that diversity and inclusion, and how we treat each other, with disabilities, veterans, women and minorities. Employee Union* and Employment Status Breakdown* Employees Union Non-Union Full-time Part-time 95,054** 48% 52% 68% 32% * Includes non-JDE LINC EE data ** Employee count as of 10/31/12 Prior to Air Serv, HHA, and Calvert Jones acquisitions. Employee Breakdown* Total % Male % Female % Minority Age<30 Age 30-50 Age >50 Board 9 78% 22% 22% 100% MGT 6167 61% 39% 44% 9% 53% 37% Non-Mgt 88887 58% 42% 76% 20% 47% 30% * Includes non-JDE LINC EE data 32 Our People Employee Training Performance Review Data Division # of Reviews as of 1/11/13 ABM is dedicated to maintaining and improving its human Corporate 172 capital through training and development course offerings FSG 45 which supports overall employee career progression and ensures equal opportunity in the workplace. Various Janitorial 1,351 learning and development programs at ABM include: Parking 393 Security 62 • Annual harassment prevention training Grand Total 2023 • Regional supervisor training • Wage and hour training • Civil Treatment for Managers class • Safety/OSHA standards and procedures at the management Serious Disease Prevention level and other course offerings at the service worker level across all divisions. Through our health plan partners, we offer the following for covered employees and their families: ABM recognizes training and development contributes to motivating improvement at the personal and • Disease management programs which assist members in organizational level. the management of their chronic medical conditions such as Coronary Artery Disease, Diabetes and Congestive Heart Failure Approximately ten hours of training are devoted to 5% • Transplant solution programs that provide specialized networks of ABM management level employees while 97% of ABM and support to members requiring transplant services service level employees devote 25 hours on average to • Health and Wellness coaching programs such as smoking training. All ABM management level employees participate cessation. Includes monetary incentive to complete a in the goal setting process and attend corporate sponsored Health Risk Assessment. training courses in addition to courses offered at the • Complex case management services which assist and divisional level nationwide emphasizing customer service, coordinate the care of members with serious and complex safety practices, business ethics, professional development medical issues. courses, and contractual training agreements are also • A 24 hour nurse line that assists with non-medical emergencies offered by ABM to its large client-base. Additionally, ABM offers internal employee training Code of Business Conduct and assistance programs that equip employees to meet strategic targets in a changing work environment. This ABM’s annual Code of Business Conduct and Antiincludes training on how to handle case-by-case problems Harassment Training are required for all staff and that should arise from any one of our varied clients in each management employees. of our divisions. The Code of Business Conduct has been updated to include ABM offers internal employee training and assistance language concerning health and safety, sustainability and programs that equip employees to meet strategic targets finding assistance. The Code of Business Conduct training in a changing work environment. ABM also supports tool also has been modified and updated to include questions continued professional development and educational specifically concerning anti-bribery and anti-corruption services through tuition reimbursement funding for its compliance, political contributions, personal relationships, employees. At this time, pre-retirement planning for information systems usage and the overall ethical intended retirees, assistance transitioning to a non-working environment at ABM. Links to policies related to the Code life, and retraining for those intending to continue working of Business Conduct have also been updated in the Code of are offered. However, ABM does offer severance pay Business Conduct and Anti-Harassment Training programs. (taking into account employee’s years of service) and job Staff and management employees spend approximately placement services in certain situations. A more skilled and three hours to complete both programs to earn certificates aware workforce enhances the organization’s human capital of completion. and contributes to employee satisfaction, which correlates strongly with improved performance. ABM Sustainability Report 33 Turnover Data as of 10-31-12 Oct-12 Annualized Turnover Overall Voluntary Involuntary Enterprise 51.3% 25.8% 25.5% COR-Corporate* 13.9% 7.8% 6.1% CSS-Shared Services 10.0% 4.0% 6.0% ENG-Facility Solutions Group (FSG) 26.0% 10.0% 16.0% JAN-Janitorial 53.5% 26.2% 27.3% PRK-Parking 44.4% 24.4% 20.0% SEC-Security 57.2% 32.1% 25.1% Staff & Mgmt 21.9% 11.2% 10.7% Service 53.2% 26.8% 26.4% Providing a Safe Workplace: in site safety efforts; consistent hazard identification Guiding Principles and correction actions; impactful training and a focus on continuous improvement. Safety is a core value at ABM, emphasizing decisionmaking at all levels of the organization based on safety’s moral, financial, compliance and competitive advantage Initiatives That Foster a Culture drivers. Whether ABM’s scope of work includes cleaning, of Safety shuttle driving, site patrols or electrical service tasks, our employees will not perform the job if they cannot do it ABM continues in its pursuit of world-class safety by first safely. To support this principle, ABM’s Safety Absolutes ensuring that foundational safety programs are supported focus on the Company’s most critical threats to our employees. by strong processes and then by addressing cultural These Absolutes mandate that ABM site teams will: drivers that provide the nexus between programs and practice. Where possible, we partner with our clients’ safety • Not work on live electrical systems unless authorized, properly professionals to improve the overall performance of both trained and are following job-specific procedures organizations’ safety efforts. The following represents • Follow lockout/tagout procedures on any work involving some of our key initiatives: mechanical, hydraulic, chemical and electrical systems • Follow confined space entry procedures prior to conducting • Release of 2013 Injury & Illness Prevention Programs (I2P2) work in designated confined spaces that are based on American National Standard Institute’s • Ensure that guards/railings or fall arrest systems are used (ANSI) Z-10, OSHA’s Voluntary Protection Program (VPP), when working at elevated heights California’s IIPP and the International Occupational Health and • Use all required personal protective equipment as prescribed Safety Assessment Series (OSHAS) 18001 specifications for work tasks • January 2013 launch of new OSHA Recordkeeping platform that • Use seatbelts and only hands-free communications when evolves injury recordkeeping compliance requirements by linking operating motorized vehicles different ABM data systems to help streamline the process • Partnership with Information Technology (IT) team to design ABM is committed to the safety and health of our tools within sales systems that direct ABM personnel so as employees, and understands that our strength as a to ensure coordination of site hazard assessments prior to Company is only as good as the strength of each individual. commencement of operations We recognize that when our work is carried out safely it • Integrating safety processes of recently acquired aviation is often done efficiently and with higher quality. Our goal and healthcare operations (Air Serv and HHA Services, is to continue to evolve the “culture of safety” across the respectively) into ABM ABM family through effective leadership messaging of safety expectations; facilitated employee engagement 34 Our People • Expanded safety assessments at ABM branches as well as Safety Training Approaches client sites through partnerships with internal audit and third party consultants, respectively ABM safety training programs are designed to address • Commenced multiple safety culture transformation projects the needs of our clients, fulfill our regulatory compliance designed to create sustainable safety climates at client requirements and, most importantly, arm our employees with locations. Site-based safety improvement strategies are the information needed to perform their jobs safely. ABM co-opted by leadership and employee teams, at both union training programs provide comprehensive instruction in the and non-union sites, with the ultimate goal of fostering a skills needed to safely and effectively perform assigned culture that actively promotes excellence in service delivery job duties. Training is delivered through on-site classroom through injury-free performance instruction, computer-based platforms, hands-on demonstrations, monthly meetings and off-site seminars. And looking to 2013: During FY2012, ABM safety training programs across all service lines ranged between 8-12 hours per employee • We will be launching ABM’s new safety brand “ThinkSafe”, which based on their assigned job tasks, work environment provides client site teams directional guidance on planning for conditions and anticipated hazards. In addition, ABM has and reducing hazards associated with the people, materials and implemented new Safety Leadership training modules environmental conditions that may be present at the job at the client-site and regional leadership levels, with the • “ Safe Stop” campaign that helps brand ABM’s commitment to goal of strengthening leadership knowledge of compliance ensuring employees exercise their right to stop a job and get requirements, critical threats, safety tactics and employee the help necessary to ensure the job is done safely engagement tactics. ABM Sustainability Report 35 ABM’s attention to safety and aggressive claim management has resulted in its most recently published Experience Mod Rating (EMR) to drop to .79, reflecting a credit to the insurance rating process. OSHA Citations & Key Rates ABM Learning and Quality Launched in 2012 During FY2012, ABM was cited by OSHA 29 times. ABM’s Learning & Quality Department has been deploying a Based on a partnership between ABM’s Safety and Legal wide variety of state-of-the-art tools and concepts to enrich teams, along with a formal process for responding to OSHA the knowledge of our diverse workforce. This is a vital element citations, the Company was able to demonstrate its strong of our operations since one of our primary differentiators is commitment to compliance during informal hearings. our 100,000+ workforce who have incredible experience and skill in their job specialties. The challenge historically has been ABM’s attention to safety and aggressive claim determining how to share and leverage this acquired knowledge management has resulted in its most recently published amongst all employees across the country and abroad. Experience Mod Rating (EMR) to drop to .79, reflecting a credit to the insurance rating process. In addition, these efforts help keep ABM’s OSHA Total Recordable Case (TRC) rate and Days Away From Work, Restricted Activity or Job Transfer (DART) rate at relatively low levels. Enterprise OSHA TRC Rate 2012 3.25 Enterprise OSHA DART Rate 2012 2.63 ABM in the Community ABM Sustainability Report 37 ABM is committed to operating under a core set of ABM Employees Partner up with Habitat for Humanity fundamental values: Last October, ABM Parking Services cashier George Ruder’s family was selected to receive a new home by Habitat for • Respect Humanity. The Ruder family resides in Tucson, AZ. His ABM • Integrity colleagues made the drive from Phoenix to Tucson to help • Collaboration build the house. This heartfelt and selfless act by Ruder’s • Innovation ABM colleagues is a great example of collaborative spirit • Excellence we’re continually seeking to promote at ABM. These values intertwine to provide a baseline mentality for how we operate, and nowhere is that more evident than in how we take responsibility for our activities which impact stakeholders and the environment. How We Give Back We believe that in order to be a good business leader, we must also be a good community leader. We support many different programs and endeavors that help fuel the social and economic vitality of various community sectors. Below are some of the examples of how ABM employees have given back to their various communities over the course of 2012. From Right to Left: Desraye Halon, George Ruder, Diana Cockrell, LeAnn Jackson, Toni Covington, Stephanie Mohigh, Otis Calvin, Lora Scheiss, Sizemore Calvin, Wendy Bailey, Brian Fox, Kitty Belcher, Habitat ABM Northern California Employees Bike for Multiple Sclerosis Employee, David Ruder, Habitat Employee ABM leaders from our Northern California offices biked in the Bay Area ‘Wave to Wine’ race in September to help fight Dress for Success Houston and Career Gear Houston Multiple Sclerosis (MS). They rode on a team that was put ABM’s Houston Shared Service Center office came together together by a major ABM client. Our ABM participants biked to support Dress For Success Houston (DFSH), which over 150 miles in two days for this tremendous cause. provides interview-appropriate clothing to low-income women seeking employment, and Career Gear Houston, which provides support and services to low-income men seeking employment. Participation was outstanding. In just five days, the Houston office collected 216 pieces of clothing. ABM Supports American Red Cross At the 2012 Building Operators and Managers Association (BOMA) national convention in Seattle, WA in June, and in conjunction with the American Red Cross, ABM sponsored a blood drive by providing refreshments to donors – blood donated went to Metropolitan Seattle hospitals. Supporting Our Troops ABM is honored to work with thousands of dedicated former servicemen and women across the country, and proud to support VFW chapters in addition to other local and national veteran’s groups. There are careers for veterans in each of ABM’s departments. ABM’s post-military jobs can be found at abm.com in our careers section. Pictured from left to right: Jason Crokaerts, Antonio Partida, Robert Dawes and David Koch, VP Property Management for Hines 38 ABM in the Community ABM Supports March of Dimes Recently, ABM corporate offices in Atlanta and Houston undertook a friendly competition to see which office could raise the most money by walking for the March of Dimes. We look forward to reporting the results of the coordinated national philanthropic effort in our 2013 Corporate Sustainability Report. Recognition for Our Integrity and Expertise Client Related: • Jones Lang LaSalle 2012 Supplier of the Year Award • Customer Care Award by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey’s (PANYNJ) Aviation Department for “Best Performance by a Port Authority Contractor – this award was for calendar year 2011, but ABM received it in 2012. • TOBY Awards: The Outstanding Building of the Year (TOBY) Award is the highest mark of excellence for office building management awarded by the Building Owners and Managers Association (BOMA). A few of the many buildings receiving this award that ABM maintains are One Datran Center in Ohio, City National Plaza and Century Plaza Towers in Los Angeles. Third Party and Industry Related: • IABC Golden Flame Award in the Communication Management – Brand Communication category • IABC Golden Flame Award in the Communication Management – Special Events (Internal or External) category ABM Association Memberships In an effort to stay on the cutting edge of the latest trends and abreast of regulations involving our critical markets served, ABM considers membership in various associations a key initiative. Organizations with which we maintain an active membership can be found on our website under Industry Organizations and Affiliations. ABM Sustainability Report 39 APPENDIX ○ Fully Reported Partially Reported GRI Content Table Standard Disclosures Section coverage 1. Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization about the 1.1 relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. CEO Letter ○ Introduction CEO Letter 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Risks and Opportunities ○ Financial Implications and Risks/ Opportunities for ABM Due to Climate Change Regulation 2. Organizational Profile Introduction 2.1 Name of the organization. About ABM ○ About ABM ABM Operational Structure and Service 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Offerings ○ Significant Changes Since Our Last Report About ABM Governance Structure Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating ABM Operational Structure and Service 2.3 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Offerings ○ Significant Changes Since Our Last Report About ABM 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. ABM Operational Structure and Service ○ Offerings Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with Report Parameters 2.5 either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. About ABM ○ 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. About ABM ○ ABM’s Approach to Sustainability Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 2.7 customers/beneficiaries). Significant Changes Since Our Last Report ○ Recent Acquisition Underscore About ABM 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Data at a Glance ○ ABM Operational Structure and Service Offerings Significant Changes Since Our Significant changes during the reporting period 2.9 regarding size, structure, or ownership Last Report ○ Recent Acquisition Underscore 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period How We Give Back ○ 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Report Parameters ○ 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Report Parameters ○ 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Report Parameters ○ 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Introduction ○ 3.5 Introduction Process for defining report content Report Parameters ○ 3.6 Boundary of the report Report Parameters ○ Report Parameters 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Building Value Through Sustainability in ABM ○ Operations 40 Appendix APPENDIX GRI Content Table Report Parameters Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced Significant Changes Since Our Last Report 3.8 operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. ○ Building Value Through Sustainability in ABM Operations Significant Changes Since Our Last Report Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions Data at a Glance 3.9 and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. ○ Building Value Through Sustainability in ABM Operations Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier 3.10 reports, and the reasons for such re-statement No Restatements ○ Introduction CEO Letter Report Parameters Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or 3.11 measurement methods applied in the report. ○ ABM Operational Structure and Service Offerings Significant Changes Since Our Last Report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Appendix ○ 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Report Parameters ○ 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement ○ Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest Governance Structure 4.1 governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. ABM’s Approach to Sustainability ○ Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive Governance Structure 4.2 officer (and, if so, their function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). http://investor.abm.com/committees.cfm ○ For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members Governance Structure 4.3 of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. http://investor.abm.com/committees.cfm ○ Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or 4.4 direction to the highest governance body. ABM’s Approach to Sustainability ○ Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ 4.13 international advocacy organizations in which the organization How We Give Back ○ 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ABM’s Approach to Sustainability ○ 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. ABM’s Approach to Sustainability ○ Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by 4.16 type and by stakeholder group. ABM’s Approach to Sustainability ○ ABM’s Approach to Sustainability Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, 4.17 and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns including through its reporting. Building Value Through Our People ○ ABM in The Community ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Section coverage Direct, economic value generates and distributed, including revenues, operating Data at a Glance EC1 costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital. Annual Report http://investor.abm.com ○ Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s EC2 activities due to climate change. ABM’s Approach to Sustainability ○ EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Data at a Glance ○ Building Value Through Sustainability in ABM Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided Services EC8 primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. ○ How We Give Back ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Section coverage EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. ABM Secured Document Recycling Building Value Through Sustainability in ABM EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Operations ○ Building Value Through Sustainability in ABM EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Operations ○ ABM IT Sustainability Initiatives EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Energy Business ABM Sustainability Report 41 ABM Marketing Sustainability Initiatives Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and ABM IT Sustainability Initiatives EN6 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. ○ Energy Business ABM Marketing Sustainability Initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. ABM IT Sustainability Initiatives Energy Business EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Energy Business Building Value Through Sustainability EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. in ABM Operations ○ EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. ABM Secured Document Recycling Electronic Payroll Options for ABM Employees Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent EN26 of impact mitigation. ABM Corporate Payment Options, Credit Card Usage and Expense Reporting ○ ABM Marketing Sustainability Initiatives ABM Marketing Sustainability LABOR PRACTICES INDICATORS coverage Initiatives LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. How We Value Our People LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. Employee Training LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Employee Training ○ Serious Disease Prevention Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to Initiatives That Foster a Culture of Safety LA8 assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Employee Training ○ Safety Training Approaches Employee Training LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. Safety Training Approaches ○ Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued LA11 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Employee Training ○ Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development LA12 reviews. Employee Training ○ HUMAN RIGHTS INDICATORS Section coverage Diversity and Human Rights HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Code of Business Code ○ Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, and HR6 Risks and Opportunities measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labour. Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or HR7 compulsory labour, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or Risks and Opportunities compulsory labour. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Section coverage What is the percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks SO2 related to corruption? Risks and Opportunities ○ What is the percentage of employees trained on anti-corruption policies and SO3 procedures? Code of Business Conduct ○ SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying Governance Structure PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY INDICATORS Section coverage Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary PR2 codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services, by type of outcomes. OSHA Citations & Key Rates ○ Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to PR6 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. ABM Marketing Sustainability Initiatives ○ Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. ABM Marketing Sustainability Initiatives ○ 42 Appendix APPENDIX GRI APPLICATION LEVEL CHECK The 2012 Sustainability Report “Embracing our environment, one solution at a time”, presents the commitments, achievements and evolution of ABM in the area of Sustainability. The 2012 Sustainability Report presents ABM’s overall economic, environmental and social challenges and performance as well as all related improvements made within 2012 throughout the US operations. ABM has self-declared the 2012 Sustainability Report “Embracing our environment, one solution at a time”, reporting to be Application Level C+. Centre for Sustainability and Excellence (CSE) has checked and confirms that ABM has satisfactorily applied the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting Framework, as specified by G3 Guidelines. The 2012 Sustainability Report “Embracing our environment one solution at a time”, meets the requirements of GRI G3 Version 3.0 Application Level C+. Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report On: Report on all Same as requirement 1.1 criteria listed for for Level B OUTPUT 2.1 2.10 Level C Plus: G3 Profile Disclosure 3.1 3.8, 3.10 -3.12 1.2 4.1 4.4, 4.14 4.15 3.9, 3.13 4.5 4.13, 4.16 4.17 Standard Disclosures Not Required Management Management Approach Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Approach Disclosures for each Disclosures for each Indicator Category OUTPUT G3 Management Indicator Category Approach Disclosures Report on a Report on a minimum Report on each minimum of 10 of 20 Performance core G3 and Sector G3 Performance Performance Indicators, at Supplement* Indicator OUTPUT Indicators & Sector Indicators, at least one from with due regard to the Supplement least one from each of Economic, Materiality Principle Performance Indicators each of Economic, Environmental, by either: a) reporting Social and Human Rights, Labor, on the indicator or b) Environmental. Society, Product explaining the reason Responsibility. for its omission. ABM Sustainability Report 43 Assurance Statement Introduction The Centre for Sustainability and Excellence (CSE) was commissioned by ABM to provide external assurance and commentary, and to undertake a third-party Application Level Assessment based on the requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 Guidelines for its 2012 Sustainability Report “Embracing our environment, one solution at a time”. The overall goal of this process is to provide reassurance to ABM’s stakeholders that the information is accurate, reliable, objective, and covers material areas. CSE used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines in order to assess Sustainability Report key elements. The process also involved a GRI G3 Application Level Check. This work included an independent assessment through discussions, and the collection and validation of sample quantitative data for 2012, reflected in the Sustainability Report. Our conclusions and overall opinion have been made on the basis of supporting objective evidence and review of ABM documentation. We believe that our work provides an appropriate basis for our general conclusions mentioned below: Assurance Statement Based on the above methodology, CSE performed an independent assessment of ABM and its underlying structures, procedures and company results for 2012. We took into consideration the fact that ABM offers a diverse set of services and is active through its subsidiaries throughout the United States. We believe that our work provides an appropriate basis for our general conclusions mentioned below: • ABM has a very good understanding of its direct and indirect, • We encourage ABM to continue to focus on putting processes global and local impacts across all aspects of its operations. It in place for the implementation of its sustainability practices is a people-driven organization focused on addressing its key and achievement of goals. Specifically, for measuring material issues in a sustainable manner. progress made in key areas of impact related to Economic, Environmental, Human Rights, Labor, Society and Service/ • ABM is focused on the development of vision, strategy and Product Responsibility. associated policies and governance processes that, apart from integrity and high levels of performance, demonstrate its • We encourage ABM to continue on its journey towards commitment to sustainability. sustainability and identify the environmental and social impact of its innovative solutions, activities and business • Good practice has been demonstrated in a number of specific approach to its key stakeholders. internal and external initiatives. • ABM has identified financial implications, risks and The scope of the assurance was limited to the above and the opinion opportunities for its activities due to climate change and is above has been formed on the basis of, and is subject to, the inheroffering initiatives to provide energy-efficient services, based ent limitations outlined in this independent assurance statement. on its stakeholders requirements Nikos Avlonas • ABM has shown a commitment in initiatives related to the Assurance Expert identification and reduction of energy consumption. June 2013 • ABM has a high standard for internally responsible marketing programs. www.cse-net.org ABM Corporate Headquarters 551 Fifth Avenue, Suite 300 New York, NY 10176 800.874.0780 | abm.com
