Sustainability Report 2013 Witzenmann GmbH Östliche Karl-Friedrich-Str. 134 0104uk/2/12/13/pdf 75175 Pforzheim, Germany Phone +49 7231 581 0 Fax +49 7231 581 820 wi@witzenmann.com www.witzenmann.de CONTENTS Foreword Sustainable reporting Foreword 5 Environmental report 26 Organisation of environmental protection 28 Material consumption 30 Sustainable business Waste 32 Water 34 Economic development 6 Air 35 Sustainability steering committee 10 HCI solvent balance 36 Guiding corporate principles 2013 12 Ground 37 Energy 38 Building heating 39 Noise 40 Sustainable acting Climate & Carbon Calculator for Companies 41 Strategies 14 Environmental protection 16 Appendix Energy and resource efficiency 18 Health at Witzenmann 20 Glossary 44 Contact/Imprint 46 2 3 Foreword Dear Readers, In the foreword of our first sustainability report, we highlighted the huge importance of the subject of “social responsibility“ for Witzenmann. Throughout the almost 160year history of our company, it has always been our desire to play a part in improving the economic performance and living conditions at our corporate sites. Our willingness to want to accomplish something in a special way for the community beyond our economic activities continues to this day. In times of globalisation, this responsibility is based on our corporate sites in the various continents and countries. By embracing “Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)“, we are following the central theme of “sustainability“. By joining the United Nations Global Compact, we are pledging ourselves to its 10 principles, which formulate clear requirements on the subjects of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and fighting corruption. In accordance with the prescribed statutes, we have promised to publish an annual report on our progress with respect to implementing these principles and supporting the UN objectives for sustainable development. The 2013 progress report documents the current status of our activities. The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact relate to a broad spectrum of social themes. In the interests of sustainable development, we intend to address these as a whole, rather than in isolation. In our company, we have assigned the responsibility for devising an action plan and managing and controlling individual measures to the newly established sustainability steering committee. With the analysis of the subject areas and definition of focal points for our approach, the first key steps have been taken and are documented in this progress report. Dr. Hans-Eberhard Koch Dr. Gerhard Flöck Dr. Andreas Kämpfe CEO Managing Director Managing Director 4 5 Economic Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix development Turnover record for the Witzenmann Group in 2012 – growth in America and Asia The Witzenmann Group is the world‘s leading manufacturer of flexible metal hoses, expansion joints, metal bellows and automotive components. Over 3,500 employees in 23 companies in 18 countries develop and produce tailor-made solutions for customers from all branches of industry. Witzenmann is a global technological leader within its sector and offers the most extensive product range and the widest spectrum of expertise in the field of flexible metallic pipeline elements. At a glance More than 3500 employees Over 470 million in turnover More than 2500 patents in the company‘s history 6 7 Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Moderate growth in turnover After strong growth in turnover in the 2011 financial year, further growth was also able to be achieved in 2012. Turnover increased by EUR 15.4 million or 3.4% to EUR 472.9 million. The trend with respect to turnover varied according to the regions: in Germany, Witzenmann recorded stable progression, whereas companies in other European countries saw slight declines. The largest growth was generated in America and Asia. Alongside the headquarters, the companies in the USA, China and Russia made significant contributions to growth. The overseas share of the total turnover is 65% for 2012, once again representing an increase of 1.5 percent in relation to the previous year. What is striking is the share of turnover from outside Europe, which has increased to almost 31% (2011: 27.0%) and was still below 10% ten years ago. “We are anticipating a moderate increase in turnover 600 to over EUR 490 million for 2013. We are also seeing 500 growth outside Europe this year.“ 493 457 473 Dr. Hans-Eberhard Koch, CEO 400 403 396 376 300 321 308 Mio. e 277 200 100 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013P Witzenmann‘s growth is driven by the vehicle industry (cars, trucks and commercial vehicles). Growth in the industry in general is limited. The employment trend is also positive. At the end of 2012, just short of 3,500 people were employed by the Group, more than half of them in German companies. Similarly to the growth in turnover, the employment figures are increasing in America and Asia in particular. The Witzenmann Group is on track for the current year. Planned growth is supported with targeted investments. For 2013, investments amounting to more than EUR 34 “Investment volume continues to be high and is still million are planned, following on from those of almost EUR 33 million in the previous year. The Witzenmann Group considers itself to be well placed and is setting ambitious above amortizations. We are using this to invest in our objectives. Turnover of EUR 800 million is to be achieved in 2020. Continued globalisafuture and secure our leading market position globally tion, systematic innovation management and focusing on high-growth business fields in the long term.“ are key strategic core themes. Dr. Gerhard Flöck, Managing Director 8 9 Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Sustainability steering committee After joining the Global Compact, Witzenmann‘s conceptional processes and nuCorporate Vision merous measures, initiatives and efforts on sustainable business and trading were “By 2025, we will reinforce our global presence through market leadership in America and Asia. brought together and put into practice throughout the company. In spring 2013, the The annual turnover of the Witzenmann Group will exceed one billion Euros by this point.“ sustainability steering committee was founded and held its inaugural meeting on 12.04.2013. The steering committee is led by the company‘s sustainability officer, Mr. Corporate Guidelines Corporate Objectives Corporate Mission Leadership Principles Philipp Paschen, and is an interdisciplinary team that meets to discuss the relevant Social responsibility and p Profitable Growth The Witzenmann Group is the Entrepreneurship themes. It is made up of employees from the Personnel Management, Environmental responsibility to society p Global Supplier worldwide recognized corporatiProtection and Quality Assurance departments as well as from Public Relations and p Technology and Innovation on for solving sophisticated enOrientation Performance Reliable Partner Leadership gineering problems in the field Corporate Communication. p Quality Leadership of vibration decoupling, comResponsibilty Independent family-run p Excellence in Personnel pensation of expansions, media and Encouragement company p Financial Independence guidance, and compensation of Key changes to the corporate principles p Sustainability mounting tolerances in piping Integrity and Cooperation Social responsibility has traditionally been of great importance to Witzenmann. As a Long-term systems. With more than 160 family company, the Witzenmann Group is committed to the concept of sustainability business planning / years of engineering experience Shaping change philosophy in the field of flexible metal and continuity and longevity are key guiding principles of our corporate strategy. This elements we are able to provide Health oriented is reflected in the Witzenmann Group‘s guiding corporate principles. Knowledge our customers intelligent and management and learning second-to-none engineering solutions. Our corporate mission Amongst other things, the guiding corporate principles provide information about our Equality of opportunity is summed up in our company and cultural variety motto – “managing flexibilty“. corporate vision. They describe the corporate objectives and strategies that we wish to use to achieve our vision. The mission, objectives and strategies should determine Corporate Strategies p Internationalisation & how we act. In particular, this means continually monitoring strategies and adapting Group strategy them if necessary to enable the vision and objectives to be achieved even under chanp Growth strategy p Quality strategy p Technology strategy p Personnel strategy ging conditions (including political, legal, economic, technological and socio-cultural p Financial strategy p Sustainability strategy circumstances). Business Divisions Central Departments In 2013, the Witzenmann guiding principles were expanded, enhanced and made more specific, particular with respect to the sustainable development of the company. The next section will provide more details on the guiding corporate principles of the Witzenmann Group, where there is a particular reference to the principles of the UN Global Compact, as well as the corporate objective of “sustainability“ which is now included in the guiding corporate principles. The principles relating to environmental protection are discussed separately in this report. 10 11 Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Corporate principles Equality of opportunity and cultural variety The guiding principles comprise the fundamental values, beliefs, policies and obligaAs an employer, Witzenmann offers all its staff the same opportunities regardless tions that apply to our company. They serve as a guide on how to act as a company of age, sex, religion, ethnic origin, sexual orientation or disability. The cultural diversiand when working with colleagues. ty of our workforce enriches our company and is key to the success of the group of companies. Social responsibility (extract) Sustainability As a family company, Witzenmann is particularly committed to continuously improving Sustainability has recently been incorporated into the canon of corporate objectives. scope for combining work and family for men and women alike. We offer more maIn doing so, we are underlining our commitment to sustainable business and acting, ture employees working conditions which enable them to enjoy a satisfying working respecting the environment and employee welfare. For us, sustainable business meenvironment even at an advanced stage of their career. We encourage and support ans that we need to preserve the natural world and environment for future generations non-native staff in their training and professional development. and that our way of doing business needs to provide a long-term basis for maintaining prosperity. We pursue the precautionary principle when faced with environmental problems. We take initiatives to create a greater awareness of the environment within the company in terms of use of resources and energy. We support and help speed up the development and spread of environmentally friendly technologies. To ensure a safe and healthy working environment for our staff, we are continually working on improving the health and safety of our workforce. Responsibility to society (extract) In line with the UN‘s Global Compact, we uphold all international human rights and reject all forms of corruption, bribery, and enforced and child labour. All our staff abide by the law as a matter of course. We enjoy a close and trusting relationship with employee representatives. We respect the rights of employees to the freedom of association and collective bargaining. 12 13 Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Sustainable business is a type of management that embraces ecological, economic and social aspects: p Ecological in the sense that nature and the environment are preserved for future generations p Economic in the sense that the economy provides a strong foundation for long-term employment and prosperity p Social in the sense that people find appropriate and meaningful employment. In keeping with this, sustainable business is characterised by considering the individual aspects as a whole. Making changes to and interfering with one part of the system or another generally affects other, often all, areas of social, economic and natural life. When evaluating future developments, considering what are known as megatrends can help us. These are trends that we currently believe will be highly significant in and have a key influence on the future.In addition to potentially altering specific areas of our lives, they are also expected to cause a fundamental change. The most important megatrends include: p Demographic change p New ecology p Health awareness p Globalisation p Individualisation p Cultural diversity p Mobility p Sustainability p Resource efficiency p Urbanisation p Willingness to learn These megatrends provide us with a basis for discussion on which we have defined the areas of action that are relevant to and must be dealt with by the group of companies. The subjects of environmental protection, energy and resource efficiency, and health are addressed jointly in the Witzenmann Group by the sustainability steering committee. Strategies 14 15 Environmental Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix protection Carbon footprint The tasks of the Witzenmann Group‘s environmental management system concern Working closely with Pforzheim University, Witzenmann GmbH has participated for the second time in a research project to determine the greenhouse gases produced by p Taking special responsibility for the protection and conservation of natural resources our company. p Ensuring careful use of resources In cooperation with Prof. Dr. Mario Schmidt (Head of Institute for Industrial Ecology, p Avoiding or reducing damage to and stress on the environment and Pforzheim University), the carbon footprint of Witzenmann‘s Pforzheim and Remchinp Complying with legal standards and other requirements. gen sites was determined. The carbon footprint balances the total CO2 emissions and considers both the direct Witzenmann GmbH has been certified in accordance with ISO 14001 since 2003 and and indirect emissions that, for example, arise from the production of preliminary regularly provides evidence. The ISO 14001:2004 standard is applied effectively. The products or the provision of services. Prof. Dr. Mario Schmidt is regarded as one of current certificate is valid until April 2015. Witzenmann do Brasil, Witzenmann Korea the most experienced experts in this field. A numerical model developed by Prof. Dr. and Witzenmann USA are also certified in accordance with ISO 14001. Mario Schmidt forms the basis of the research project and is used to determine the exchange of pollutant emissions from the widest range of production facilities in their Witzenmann GmbH regularly publishes an environmental report, which has formed entirety and to allow them to be compared. By participating in this research project, part of the sustainability report since 2012. For further details, please refer to the corWitzenmann is taking on a leading role among medium-sized industrial companies. responding section of this sustainability report. This year‘s results can be found in the environment section of this report. 16 17 Energy and Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix resource In our opinion, sustainable business involves an integrated approach that links the subjects of the environment and energy with resource efficiency and lean management methods. efficiency “The term 'resource' is used in various ways and is generally understood to be a natural resource, [...]. But there are of course other views on what resource efficiency means. The economic perspective in particular is often dismissed or even regarded as being in competition with the ecological view. Yet, the economy affects broad sections of our society and is even crucial when it comes to managing scarce resources.“ Prof. Dr. Mario Schmidt, Pforzheim University Witzenmann Production System (WPS) In the Witzenmann Group, as in many industrial companies, “lean production“ is a key guiding theme for improving production processes. When it comes to continuous process optimisation (“Kaizen“), measures such as those that enhance productivity and product quality or that increase production flexibility are at the forefront. The most important motivation for the WPS analyses of production processes is the avoidance of “waste“. Superfluous production procedures are to be avoided and “non-productive“ activities are to be organised intelligently. When it comes to tackling waste, there is a key crossover between the lean management methods and efforts regarding resource efficiency. In our company, the Witzenmann production system (WPS) was defined and launched in 2008. The aim of the WPS is to generate as little waste as possible in our production and to firmly establish a system of continuous improvement within the company. Within this framework, regular value stream analyses take place, for instance, which aim to promote resource-efficient processes. Resource efficiency and climate protection initiative Witzenmann GmbH has joined the “Initiative Ressourceneffizienz und Klimaschutz“ (resource efficiency and climate protection initiative) founded by the government in the German state of Baden-Württemberg. In close cooperation with the ministries concerned with this subject, the initiative is driving forward support for environmental engineering and resource efficiency in Baden-Württemberg. It serves as an interface between industry, science and politics. The main focuses of the work are consultation and support between science and industry and the launching of projects. The initiative also conducts the sector and location marketing for the expertise and economic strength of environmental engineering and resource efficiency in Baden-Württemberg. 18 19 Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Health at Health is an investment in the future. Challenges such as p global competitive pressure (pressure to innovate and adapt) p demographic change and the ageing workforce Witzenmann p changes in the working environment (trend: from manual worker to “knowledge“ worker) p competition for qualified young talent (“war for talent“) p change in values within society (changed attitude towards work) can still only be mastered with healthy, qualified, motivated and efficient employees. Protecting and promoting the health of our employees is therefore not simply evidence of us assuming social responsibility, but is also a economic consequence. Health management is socially and economically relevant Occupational health management is an important part of Witzenmann‘s personnel strategy. It improves the health of our employees and makes a key contribution to the sustainable success of the company. Our understanding of protecting and promoting the health of our employees goes beyond the objective of preventing accidents and work-related illnesses. We support employees in improving their health and well-being in a number of ways. We aim to create healthy conditions that promote productivity and motivation. 20 21 Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Manager Human Resources for Occupational Health Structure of Witzenmann‘s health management Sven Lükermann will in future be responsible for focusing and if necessary redirecting or expanding the various initiatives and measures relating to health in the Witzenmann Group. By way of example, key measures and initiatives are presented below that Health management were initiated as part of occupational health management during 2012/13. Contended employees Increase in efficiency Contended business and productivity partners Healthy and motivated employees Compliance with legal requirements “Witzenmann keeps fit…“ Hand protection initiative Occupational Occupational Health-focused Prevention When we compared the reportable accidents with the entries of past periods, we safety medicine management noticed a relatively large number of hand injuries. The majority of these concerned p Safe working p Medical check-ups p Health awareness p Development minor cuts, which, for the most part, occurred as a result of the improper handling of environment and p Counselling p Attentiveness of skills sharp-edged sheet metal or workpieces. Cuts continue to account for the largest share equipment p First aid p Welfare and support p Exercise and p Personal protective p Addiction p Cooperative nutrition of accidents in the statistics.Preventing such injuries, for example by correctly wearing equipment counselling management Cooperation protective gloves, is an important objective in the company‘s occupational safety policy. p Accident management p Hazardous substance management Under the leadership of the Personnel Management department and with the support of Heiko Kikillus (occupational safety specialist) and the German Social Accident InsuInformation and communication rance Institution for the woodworking and metalworking industries (BGHM), a hand protection initiative was implemented in the last quarter of 2012, which made emploSocial responsibility Long-term business planning yees in production aware of the dangers and reminded them of the codes of conduct for preventing hand injuries. In addition to accident prevention, precautionary measures such as applying skincare and protective creams or the targeted use of appropriate It is the job of occupational health management to create structures and processes cleaning agents, for example after coming into contact with corrosive liquids, were systematically and sustainably within the company that benefit the health of our also introduced. employees. This involves combining existing structures and established measures with new approaches or giving them a new emphasis. The focus is on empowering all employees to be conscious of and take responsibility for their health. In addition, occupational health management is entrusted with all duties relating to social Accident-free days accident insurance institutions and legal requirements. These are to be linked to the The launch of the company‘s accident-free days initiative in January 2013 elicited an voluntary measures as constructively as possible. The following specific tasks are extremely positive response. Since then, every production department at the headderived from this: 365 quarters has been documenting the number of work days where no accidents have occurred. Each department that can demonstrate 365 accident-free days will be p shaping and optimising processes in the organisation of occupational health rewarded with a small present for every employee. This long-term initiative is helping p creating healthy working conditions to make the production workforce aware of the issue of occupational safety and risk p empowering individuals to adopt behaviour that promotes health prevention. Its competitive aspect has also motivated employees. By putting accidentfree days on the agenda in the regular departmental meetings that take place as part of the Witzenmann production system (WPS), the subject of accident prevention is now firmly established. 22 23 Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Leadership and health workshop Occupational medicine Since 2013, the subject of “Leadership and health“ has been part of the Witzenmann Providing medical care to our employees is a core element of our health management Academy qualification programme. With seminars and workshops tailored to specific system. Thanks to a high-quality and requirements-based occupational medicine sertarget groups, the academy covers an extremely wide range of subject areas relating vice, our employees are protected in terms of their health and, if necessary, provided to employee training and development. The health-related seminar is a module on the with care in the event of a medical emergency. In particular, the duties of occupational leadership training course and is directed at managers both in production and in the medicine include offering employees counselling and examinations, advising the emoffices. In terms of content, it presents the various voluntary and compulsory health ployer on any issues relating to occupational health and measures to promote health, measures in the Witzenmann Group. In addition, the managers should also be made working in the occupational safety committee, carrying out regular inspections and aware of health aspects at work and come to understand the great importance of participating in the drawing-up of risk assessments. employee welfare. At a glance Drinking water dispenser Water is the most important nutrient for humans. The minimum recommended daily 80 participants in the 2012 “Health“ managers‘ forum 1000 intake is between one-and-a-half and two litres. In high temperatures and/or when the body is under physical strain, the daily requirement is much higher. With the installation of drinking water dispensers, employees of Witzenmann GmbH are able to enjoy this health-promoting commodity with little effort and free of charge. medical check-ups in 2012 The dispensers are serviced regularly and provide water that is perfectly safe to drink. 3 On request, the drinking water can be supplied at different temperatures and either still or sparkling. 0.7-litre bottles are available to allow employees to take the water to their workstations. specially trained company medical officers in 2012 140 trained company first-aiders in 2012 24 25 Environmental Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix report Sustainable environmental policy As a leading company in the industry of flexible metallic elements, we feel a particular degree of responsibility to stand up for the protection and conservation of natural resources. Early on, we committed to corporate management based on the careful use of resources. We continuously strive to avoid or reduce to a minimum damage to and stress on the environment through the production and use of our products. We comply with all relevant legal standards and other requirements as a matter of course. The following environmental guidelines apply to implementation of the environmental policy in all divisions of the company: p We see the conservation of natural resources for future generations as an important part of our social responsibility. p We regard environmental protection as an important component of corporate management and formulate concrete goals and rules of conduct for its implementation. p We recognise the importance of each employee in the implementation of environmental protection measures and create corresponding training opportunities and appropriate working conditions. p We identify and assess the environmental impact of our business processes through continuous analysis. New processes and materials are examined for their environmental compatibility before use. p We are committed to continuously improving our performance with respect to the environment and take all necessary measures to prevent, eliminate or at least reduce environmental impact to a minimum. p We publish a regular sustainability report to keep our employees, customers, the general public and the relevant authorities informed about our social and ecological commitment. 26 27 Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Organisation and structure of environmental protection at Witzenmann GmbH Executive Management bears the primary responsibility for environmental protecExecutive Management tion. They define the environmental policy and subsequent objectives. They decide Overall responsibility for environmental protection. on measures for realisation, identify responsibilities and provide funding. Responsi”Environmentally conscious behaviour is a company policy bility within Executive Management lies with the Managing Director for technology for Witzenmann GmbH as for the Witzenmann Group.” and quality, Dr. Andreas Kämpfe. He is the environmental management officer and carries out the responsibilities of the operator. The environmental protection and waste management officer, René Pflittner, is an employee of the Quality Assurance central department that reports to Executive Management directly. He carries out The Quality Assurance central department is the department responsible for corporate environmental protection the statutory obligations of the waste management officer: p Ensuring compliance with statutory provisions and regulatory requirements p Consideration of suggestions, planning and implementation of measures to improve corporate environmental protection p Responsibility to supervise p Responsibility to advocate p Responsibility to inform The environmental protection and waste management officer is subordinate to the Quality Assurance central department p Responsibility to report p Compliance monitoring of statutory provisions and regulatory requirements p Development of suggestions for improvement of corporate environmental protection Regarding the handling of hazardous materials, he supports the safety officer. p Employee information He works with the occupational safety committee. The technology and producp Contacts with authorities tion managers are responsible for compliance with and implementation of envip Annual report of the waste management officer ronmental regulations in their area. They are supported technically by production p Annual sustainability report engineering. Development and operation of the organisation are defined in the environmental management manual. Cross-departmental workflows are described in environmental process and work instructions. For environmentally relevant equipMaterials Management Corporate environmental Building and Domestic Continuous improvement Occupational ment and hazardous materials, there are operating instructions at the workplace. central department protection Engineering department process (CIP) safety p Disposal of productionp Environmentally p Responsible for the p Identification p Materials management related scrap waste, as compatible production collection point and of weaknesses They also serve to instruct employees. Overall, the idea of environmental protection p System monitoring well as materials and p Environmentally disposal of householdp Development of is not only pursued at headquarters. The subsidiaries are also committed to com(emissions and noise in systems that are no compatible resource type waste and office suggestions for pliance with the corresponding standards. The subsidiaries in Brazil, Korea and the the workplace) longer needed management waste improvement of USA are certified in accordance with DIN ISO 14001. p Environmentally corporate environmenp Procurement under ecological criteria compatible storage of tal protection environmentallyp Implementation of hazardous substances measures p Environmentally compatible disposal of waste In practice Corporate environmental protection – environmentally friendly production – environmentally sound use of resources – environmentally sound storage of hazardous substances – environmentally sound disposal of waste materials Environmentally responsible behaviour as a basis Every manager bears responsibility for environmentally responsible behaviour within his or her area. Environmentally responsible behaviour of each individual employee. 28 29 Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Material consumption For auxiliary and operating materials, the use of hazardous substances is kept to a miProduction material, merchandise, energy, services, etc. are procured by central nimum. Witzenmann GmbH pays attention to a low solvent content and water hazard purchasing as a matter of priority. Framework agreements are requested and class. According to the environmental protection instructions “Procurement of subconvenience goods are procured by decentralised purchasing. stances/mixtures, services and systems and evaluation of the environmental performance of suppliers“, specialists for occupational safety and environmental protection officers assess the substances. In production, processes are constantly evolving to reduce environmental impact and Procurement turnover 2011 Procurement turnover 2012 optimise material utilisation and quality. The use of auxiliary materials is reduced, for example, by the use of tool coatings or procedural changes eliminated by channels in roll form. Excessive greasing before material forming (bands, wires, etc.), which Energy/auxiliary materials Plates/tubes/wire Energy/auxiliary materials Plates/tubes/wire normally requires additional cleaning operations, is thus excluded. When shipping, 8% 17 % 9% 17 % products are packaged to protect against damage. Either the customer‘s own container systems and lattice boxes are used or cardboard boxes on Euro pallets. The cardboard boxes generally bear the RESY symbol, a label which guarantees disposal and recycling. Parts/components Parts/components 75 % 74 % The purchasing volume has grown continuously between 2010 and 2012. The percenInterim storage and padding consist of paper products. For all packaging components, tage increase for energy/auxiliary materials is due to the increase in energy prices. complete usability is ensured by waste management companies. With some custoThe slight decline in the proportion of parts/components can be attributed to the shift mers, there are agreements about the use and return of plastic linings from lattice in demand as a result of changes in the product portfolio. boxes. In the use phase, our products also have ecological benefits. They withstand extreme conditions and thus have a long service life. After use, 100% of the products About 90% of the materials used are made of metal. This material can be easily recyccan be returned to the reusable material cycle. Because they consist mostly of only led and is often reused. For other materials and bought-in products, ecological criteria one material, costly disassembly or separation processes are also not required. for the selection of suppliers are also used in addition to the costs and quality. Starting points are manufacturing processes (e.g. chlorine-free paper production), transport costs, as well as the usability or reusability of the packaging material. Regularly conducted supplier surveys form the basis for discussion with suppliers. 30 31 Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Waste The recycling rate of the total volume of waste has been 99.2% for a sustained period To ensure sustainable protection of the environment and efficient use of resources, leaving little room improve this figure. Through systematic separation of materials and Witzenmann GmbH endeavours to minimize the total volume of waste and to achieve consistent use of recyclable materials, the recycling rate of under 90% in the 90s was a high recycling rate. The generated waste is divided into two types, which differ signiincreased to its current high value. ficantly in regards to their environmental impact. To ensure high-quality recycling and that waste is disposed of with as low emissions as possible, it is collected separately in different fractions in the production plants of Witzenmann GmbH at Pforzheim, Waste management Recycling rate Pforzheim North, Brötzingen and Remchingen. Waste for recycling 2012 9865 Tons 99,1 % Such waste includes scrap waste, packaging materials, emulsions, rinse water, wipes, 2392 Tons perchloroethylene, construction materials and waste from separators. 2011 9331 Tons 99,2 % Waste for disposal 2450 Tons Such waste includes residual waste, paint and varnish waste, developers and fixing baths. 2010 8510 Tons 99,2 % 2332 Tons Trending in generated waste In 2009, the total volume of waste declined primarily due to the crisis. With rene2009 7052 Tons 98,7 % wed growth after the recession, the total volume of waste has again increased. In 1856 Tons relation to the respective production volumes of 2011 and 2012, the volume of waste per ton of manufactured products has decreased. 2008 10342 Tons 99,1 % 1463 Tons The waste for recycling primarily results from production. Therefore, the volume is primarily dependent on the order situation. Extraordinary circumstances can result 2007 10678 Tons 99,2 % from larger construction projects, moves, changes in production and scrapping 2302 Tons operations. 2006 10014 Tons 99,3 % 1907 Tons 2005 9495 Tons 99,2 % 1726 Tons Total waste Production 32 33 Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Water Air Approx. 90% of water is used for sanitary purposes. With 24 litres per employee per There are few environmentally harmful emissions in the production methods used. day, consumption is low and thus largely optimised. In production, water is used for Therefore, the focus is on measures for occupational health and safety. Emissions product cleaning and testing. Since 1993, cooling equipment with water is the excepwhen welding and cutting are drawn off. For large volume flow with the laser systems, tion since all buildings are equipped with recooling systems. for example, highly efficient filters are installed. Measurements in the workplace document compliance with limits for nickel-containing dusts specifically. The jump in water consumption from 2009 to 2010 at the Pforzheim site was a result of the increased use of osmosis water in production. The increased demand could be attributed to customer requirements in terms of surface finish of the end products and was able to be reduced again in 2012 thanks to a new process technology. Renovation HCI solvent balance of the main freshwater pipeline also contributed to the decrease in water consumption by reducing leaks. 18,0 16,0 14,0 Water consumption 12,0 40,0 in Tons 10,0 35,0 8,0 6,0 30,0 4,0 25,0 2,0 in 1.000 cbm 20,0 0,0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 15,0 10,0 Disposal Emission 1,000 operating hours h/a 5,0 0,0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Pforzheim site Remchingen site Water consumption ratio 1,000 cbm/100 employees 34 35 Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix HCI solvent balance based on operating hours Ground In 1999, the main plant in Pforzheim was expanded considerably through the acquisition of an adjacent developed property. The much-needed space requirement could thus be covered. 0,60 In addition, the warehouse and sales base for technical building equipment was assi0,50 gned to the main plant in 2000. Since 2006, other halls of the Pforzheim North plant and, from 2012, also the Pforzheim Brötzingen plant have been expanded for produc0,40 tion purposes. With a total area at the Pforzheim and Remchingen sites of approx. 0,35 65,000 m², 91% is sealed and 54% occupied by buildings. The multi-storey buildings in Pforzheim mean that the floor space is approx. 97,000 m2. 0,30 in Tons 0,25 148% 0,20 0,15 0,10 About space utilisation 0,05 0,00 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Correctly disposed of after use Emission The halogenated solvent perchloroethylene with the greatest environmental impact is used in two treatment systems due to its good cleaning characteristics. All systems meet the requirements of the 2nd Federal Immission Control Ordinance. Adherence to the prescribed limits is documented by regular measurements by authorised inspection companies. The solvent is conducted in circulation systems until cleaning efficiency no longer meets quality requirements. The perchloroethylene is then routed for disposal.During cleaning operations, a small portion of the solvent evaporates. This is listed in this report as an emission. The solvent emissions based on the operating hours has a downward trend, which correlates to the fact that cleaning operations have switched to HCI-free cleaning to the extent possible. 36 37 Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Energy Electricity is the most important energy source for all production processes. Therefore, Building heating changes in the power requirement are strongly dependent on the development of proIn Pforzheim, building heating is run using district heating from the neighbouring duction volume. In 2012, the total power requirement was 16,425 MWh. In relation to combined heat and power plant and in Remchingen using natural gas. The energy production volume, the power requirement is decreasing slightly. This is largely linked requirements are reduced by using the waste heat from machinery. The requirement is to increasing mechanisation and automation in production. The high rates in 2009 and dependent on the weather and the building. The higher the outside temperature, the 2010 show the dependence of power consumption on the degree of utilisation. Due to less heating is required. The current analyses of the data show that the specific heathe recession, utilisation in 2009 and in some of 2010 was lower than normal. In these ting requirement for the various buildings is between 40 and 200 kWh/m² depending phases, the underlying demand has a significant impact in production facilities and on the year of construction and equipment. offices accordingly. The large differences show what potentials could yet be exploited with thermal insulaEfforts are ongoing to continuously reduce power consumption through measures tion and other measures. Between 2000 and 2011, the windows in properties acquisuch as the use of energy-saving servo drives, as well as state-of-the-art control and red at the end of the 90s were gradually replaced by windows with better insulation lighting technology.In general, existing lighting is being replaced with lights with properties. The varying heating requirement in the form of district heating over the last electronic ballast or LED lights. In 2008, the equipment rooms of many buildings were few years is proportional to the average outside temperature. upgraded and by 2010, a new compressed-air management system was installed for optimal compressor control at the main plant in Pforzheim and in Remchingen. Heating oil is used as an energy source for heating external storage areas in Pforzheim and is of marginal importance. Electricity draw and production Energy sources for building heating Electricity draw in MWh 10000 Production in tons 8000 Trend Electricity draw per 1,000 t production Verbrauch in MWh 6000 16662,0 16952,0 17222,4 16319,0 16425,0 4000 15050,2 14954,5 13997,0 2000 10677,6 10342 10014,2 9865 0 9494,7 9331 8510 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 7052 District heating Natural gas Heating oil Energy requirement/1,000 employees Linear (energy requirement/1,000 employees) 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Most of the heating energy requirement is covered by the use of environmentally friendly district heating. 38 39 Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix CliCCC Climate & Carbon Calculator for Companies As part of a research project with Pforzheim University, the carbon footprint of Witzenmann GmbH was determined for the Pforzheim and Remchingen sites. Both direct and indirect emissions from preliminary products and services, so-called “rucksacks“, were taken into account. The emissions were divided into three categories of observation, scopes 1 to 3. Scope 1 includes direct emissions that are caused by production and operation of the company. Scope 2 weights the emissions resulting from the generation and supply of energy for the company. In scope 3, the CO2 balance of the raw materials and semi-finished products used, but also the emissions caused in the manufacture of tools and machines used, is represented.The total emissions, cumulative emission intensity (CEI) and population equivalent provide a quick overview of the carbon footprint of Witzenmann GmbH in the year 2010. “At Witzenmann we tackle the topic of noise pollution Results with great focus. Most effective is a direct reduction The three selected indicators provide a quick overview of the results: of noise emissions, i.e. fighting the source of noise directly.“ p recognised total emissions p cumulative emission intensity (CEI) p population equivalent. Noise The recognised total emissions reveal the sum of all emissions from the individual Noise emissions are primarily caused by transport and loading operations in the yard. categories. The CEI is the ratio of recognised total emissions to company turnover. Our own measurements have shown that the limits of the “Technical Instructions on To put the rather abstract recognised total emissions indicator in concrete terms, the Noise for Mixed Use Areas“ are met. As part of the new compensation system (ERA) population equivalent is also indicated and is the ratio of the recognised total emissiwhere workloads also play a role, all relevant workplaces have been checked for possions to the annual pro capita emissions of Germany. ble noise pollution. If limits are exceeded, measures are taken when possible to reduce the noise. For example, hydraulic equipment today is normally equipped with insulated enclosures and simultaneous presses, as well as automatic welding machines with Recognised total emissions isolation cabins. In 2006/2007, hydraulic equipment in the Metal Bellows business 2010 2012 Unit division was retrofitted with noise control enclosures. In 2011, soundproofing was ins74.754 103.202 t CO2 equivalent talled on the automatic assembly machines in the automotive components production Cumulative emission intensity (CEI) facilities. 2010 2012 Unit 0,299 0,364 kg CO2 equivalent/EUR Environmentally relevant incidents Incidents that impact on the environment can be avoided if the corresponding requirePopulation equivalent ments regarding plant and process safety are taken into account and environmentally 2010 2012 Unit critical, operational aspects are incorporated.In the current reporting period, environ7.475 10.320 inhabitants mentally relevant incidents were very rare. No fires are to be reported for 2012. In five cases, leaked liquids (oil/coolant) had to be cleaned up with oil binding agents and disposed of in line with the legal requirements. Intervention by the local fire service was not required in any of the cases. Nevertheless, we remain vigilant in order to also be able to identify low levels of risk and reduce the probability of accidents occurring. 40 41 Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix CliCCC – composition of the results Scope 1 Natural gas 100000 Heating oil Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) 90000 Diesel Scope 2 80000 Electricity (specific emission factor) District heating 70000 Scope 3 t CO² equivalent 60000 Pig iron, steel, semi-finished iron and steel products Metal products 50000 V. Foundry products Electricity, DL of the electricity, 40000 heating and cooling supply from tier 2 V. Chemical products 30000 Rubber and plastic products Other preliminary work (extrapolated on the 20000 basis of 91.62% of expected emissions from preliminary work) Machines 10000 Other fixed assets (extrapolated on the basis of 91.72% of expected emissions S. S. from fixed assets) 0 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 P. = preliminary work 2010 (V. & S.) 2012 (V. & S.) F. = fixed assets 42 43 Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Glossary Bar Unit of pressure Perchloroethylene Volatile cleaning agent based on chlorinated CIP Continuous improvement process hydrocarbon CO2 Carbon dioxide Recycling rate Percentage of recycling of total waste volume Emission Broadcast of interference factors such as exhaust, RESY symbol Recycling guarantee for transport packaging noise, etc. into the environment made of paper and cardboard ERA Compensation framework agreement Rinse water Type of waste consisting of soldering quench water and ultrasound water EVG Electronic ballast Servo drives Electronically controlled drive with position, Halogenated solvents Solvents that contain halogens, e.g. chlorine velocity or torque control (or a combination thereof) for applications in production equipment HCI Hydrogen chloride Space utilisation Covered floor space/total area of all properties Immission Entry in an environmental medium Specific heat requirement Amount of heat to heat an area of 1m2 ISO 14001 Internationally recognised standard and verification level for environmental management systems Waste for disposal Waste that does not meet the criteria for the Closed Substance Cycle Waste Management Act § 6 KWh/m2 Kilowatt hours per square metre per year Waste for recycling Waste that meets the criteria for the Recycling and LED Light-emitting diode Waste Management Act § 6 Materials management Planned use of substances and preparations Water hazard class Potential of various substances/mixtures for water pollution MWh Megawatt hours WPS Witzenmann Production System Ordinance on Ordinance on Hazardous Substances, subordinate Hazardous Substances to the Chemicals Act and Employment Protection Act 44 45 Sustainable business Sustainable acting Sustainable reporting Appendix Contact Contact for all internal and external questions about environmental protection is the environmental protection officer: René Pflittner Phone: +49 (0)7231 581-644 Imprint Publisher: Executive Management at Witzenmann GmbH, Postfach 101280, 75112 Pforzheim, Germany Author of the environmental report: René Pflittner, Environmental Protection Officer Editor: Marketing Witzenmann GmbH, Phone: +49 (0)7231 581-208 Design: Schindler Parent Industry GmbH, Eutinger Str. 2, 75175 Pforzheim, Germany Print: Alpha Druckhaus GmbH Printed on 100% recycled paper 46 47
