Table of Contents Section i About Dhiraagu 3 Section iI Global Compact Principles 8 2.1 United Nations Global Compact – Human Right Principles 9 2.1.1 Implementation 11 2.1.2 Measurement of Outcomes 12 2.2 United Nations Global Compact – Labour Principles 13 2.2.1 Implementation 15 2.2.2 Measurement of Outcomes 16 2.3 United Nations Global Compact – Environment Principles 16 2.3.1 Implementation 17 2.3.2 Measurement of Outcomes 18 2.4 United Nations Global Compact Anti-Corruption Principles 19 2.4.1 Implementation 20 2.4.2 Measurement of Outcomes 20 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT STATEMENT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE On behalf of Dhiraagu, I am pleased to submit the company’s first Communication On Progress Report to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Corporate Social Responsibility is a top priority for the company and to further strengthen our focus on CSR, Dhiraagu became a signatory to the UNGC on 28th December 2012. We support and remain committed to the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In the pages that follow, we have described our policies and the implementation of our operations to support the Global Compact Principles. We will be sharing this information with our stakeholders through our website www.dhiraagu.com.mv We support Thank you in advance for taking the time to read this report and we welcome your feedback. and remain committed to the Sincerely, ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. Ismail Rasheed CHIEF EXECUTIVE Introduction Introduction DHIRAGU became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in December 2012 and this report is the first Communication on Progress (COP) Report issued by the company. The reporting period is for the year 2012 from January – December. The Report is divided into two parts SECTION i provides an overview about the company and the approach to corporate social responsibility. SECTION ii describes our policies, implementation and outcomes in relation to the specific Global Compact Principles. This report was reviewed and approved by Dhiraagu CSR Committee www.dhiraagu.com.mv 2 SECTION I About Dhiraagu SECTION I About Dhiraagu About Dhiraagu DHIRAGU PLC is the leading and the largest telecommunication operator offering a comprehensive range of fixed, mobile, Internet and data services throughout Maldives. In addition to the strong presence in the Capital Male’, the company has 9 strategically located operating centers to serve over 350,000 customers spread across the nation’s 199 inhabited islands and over 100 industrial islands including tourist resorts. This is augmented by the largest retail and distribution network established in the country. Dhiraagu provides the widest coverage in Maldives covering all inhabited islands and resort islands. With over 25 years of service, Dhiraagu continues to be the market leader and the No. 1 Brand in the Maldives. With a nation-wide submarine fiber optic cable network system established, Dhiraagu is currently focused on expanding and rolling out broadband services across the country. Corporate Social Responsibility at Dhiraagu The corporate social responsibility strategy of Dhiraagu is based on responsibly grounded business decision-making that considers the broad impact of corporate actions on people, communities and the environment. Dhiraagu strives to give importance to the socio-economic developments of the country and engage in operations and services in a conscientious and responsible manner. Key aspects of Dhiraagu’s CSR programme include Positive contribution to Encourage and nurture best the social and economic practices in our activities. development of the community. Respect for the culture, Contribute towards values and human protecting the environment. rights throughout our operation. www.dhiraagu.com.mv 4 SECTION I Supporting the Community Dhiraagu is actively involved in community activities and regularly sponsors and contributes to worthy causes, in the areas of education, youth development and healthcare. Dhiraagu also actively supports island communities in their social activities and partners with NGOs to raise public awareness on social issues such as drug abuse and child protection. Key initiatives and contributions in this area include the following Dhiraagu Apprenticeship Supporting Kuda Kudhinge Programme (DAP) Hiyaa (orphanage) DAP is a training programme Dhiraagu provides free internet to that supports the work skill ‘Kudakudhinge Hiya’ orphanage, development of young Maldivians. While giving where a resource center and computer facilities opportunities for youth to gain experience in a are also established. Similarly, the company professional work environment, the programme provides free internet to the home for people with also provides educational experiences along special needs in Guraidhoo and to the National with soft skill development training that includes Thalassaemia Centre where a cyber-center is communicational skills, problem solving and established. decision making skills, planning, organizing and time management skills etc. GSMA Mobile Alliance Against Child Sexual Abuse As of 2012, 62 apprentices have been given the Content opportunity to take part in the programme. Out of the 16 apprentices that were selected in the Year Since 2008, Dhiraagu has been a 2012, 11 apprentices were based in Male’ and 5 member of the ‘GSMA Mobile Alliance Against Child apprentices were based across Dhiraagu regional Sexual Abuse Content’ and blocks child sexual centers across the country. abuse content on Dhiraagu internet. Child Helpline National Drug Abuse Helpline Since 2009, Dhiraagu continues to provide support to the Child Dhiraagu provides support to the Helpline 1412. The service provides National Drug Abuse Helpline 1410 assistance to all children across the country in since its inception in 2011. This is a collaboration need of care and protection to access help by between United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime means of mobiles and landlines via a toll free (UNODC), the Department of Drug Prevention number. The service was launched together with and Rehabilitation Services (DDPRS) and the the Ministry of Gender, Family and Human Rights Government of Maldives. The service is targeted to in Maldives and Child Helpline International, a the general community providing, counseling and global network of telephone helplines, operating in support relating to drug abuse. over 150 countries that provide outreach services to children and young people. About Dhiraagu Dhiraagu Maldives Road Race Dhiraagu’s annual road race is dedicated to a social cause and the theme for 2012 was to raise awareness against child abuse and domestic violence. The event also provides a platform for different NGOs to raise funds for their various social campaigns. There were 2,799 participants in the event held in 2012. Special Sports Festival Special Sports Festival is an annual event organized and conducted by Dhiraagu in association with various stakeholders in Maldives. The festival aims to provide opportunities for children with special needs to participate in sports activities. The event creates a platform for further collaboration among institutions and helps to advocate for children in need of special care. A number of Dhiraagu employees voluntarily participate in organizing the event every year. Nearly 200 students had the opportunity to take part in the event in 2012. www.dhiraagu.com.mv 6 SECTION II Global Compact Principles SECTION II 2.1 United Nations Global CompactHuman Rights Principles Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses, Assessment, Policy and Goals. Maldives is a signatory to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Dhiraagu complies with all local laws and regulations. The respect for the culture, values and human rights throughout our operation is one of our key principles in our Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy. Ethics Policy-Code of Conduct Dhiraagu’s Ethics Policy recognizes that the company’s success depends on the ability, as a company and as individuals to establish and maintain positive relationships, both internally with our colleagues and externally with our stakeholders. It specifies the ethical standards of behavior expected of all Dhiraagu employees in their interactions with each other, customers, suppliers, government, business partners and the wider community in which we operate and targets all staff to be familiar with the policy. Global Compact Principles Health and Safety Dhiraagu is committed to ensuring the health and safety of all staff and providing a safe work environment. Dhiraagu takes responsibility to comply with local laws and regulations and work towards achieving international best practice in relevant areas relating to our industry and specific work environments. In particular, the company has the following targets; To ensure that work activities are not harmful to the health of employees or to the general public and are as safe as is reasonably practicable To provide and to maintain adequate measures to control health and safety risks arising from work activities in order to prevent accidents and cases or workrelated ill health To provide staff with relevant information, instruction, training and supervision to ensure health and safety at work Medical Care and Retirement Benefits: The company has successfully run its own medical benefits scheme for several years, which applies to all employees and dependents and is more comprehensive than a basic health insurance scheme. The company also had a voluntary retirement’s benefit scheme in place, even before the establishment of the national pension scheme in 2009. The Company contributes 10% to the employee pension fund which is beyond the 7% required by law. www.dhiraagu.com.mv 10 SECTION II 2.1.1 Implementation Employee Induction Programme Ethics Policy together with the code of conduct managers and managers are responsible to is communicated with all new employees as part ensure that the Safety policy is implemented in of the Employee Induction Programme and is all functions under their control. As part of the shared on the online employee portal for further Induction Programme, all staff are briefed with reference. regard to safety procedures including fire and first aid procedures. Health and Safety A dedicated Health and Safety Officer is appointed to support the Chief Executive to promote all implementation aspects of Health and Safety at work and assist in developing and maintaining safe working In order to implement our commitments relating to practices in accordance with the Safety Policy. Health and Safety, a policy and manual was issued Comprising of the Chief Executive and the Health in 2011 which describes the responsibilities and and Safety Officer, a Safety Committee with the arrangements for Health and Safety within representatives from all departments and regional Dhiraagu. The policy is applicable to all Dhiraagu centres is in place. The committee is comprised employees and contractors. The Chief Executive of 10 Safety Representatives, which includes 5 Officer is responsible for the implementation of representatives for Male’ and 5 representatives for the policy and ensures that the policy is adhered regional centers. A Safety Management Review to and regularly reviewed. Furthermore all senior is organised once a month in order to monitor and review the programme. The company implements the following in accordance to the Health and Safety Policy Ensure that safe systems of work are Ensure that all personnel are given implemented and reviewed. information, instruction, training and supervision as appropriate in order to carry out their work safely. Carry out assessments of risk to the Arrange induction safety training for all health and safety of persons involved new employees. in or affected by the operations of their departments. Ensure that all firefighting equipment is regularly inspected and serviced. Global Compact Principles 2.1.2 Measurement of Outcomes In 2012, one accident resulted in lost282 staff were provided with Health time. This accident involving one of our and Safety related awareness training speed boats resulted in a collision at sea sessions. with minor injuries to a staff. An Induction Programme was conducted 34 staff were given training on Work for ALL new staff and the ethics policy, and Rescue at Height. code of conduct and safety procedures were briefed to ensure that employees are familiar with the policies from the very beginning. 86 staff were given training on Electrical Safety www.dhiraagu.com.mv 12 SECTION II Global Compact Principles 2.2 United Nations Global CompactLabour Principles Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We ensure to comply with local employment laws in the Maldives. We do not engage or employ child and forced labour in any of our operations. We also ensure to eliminate discrimination with respect to employment in all our operations. www.dhiraagu.com.mv 13 www.dhiraagu.com.mv 14 SECTION II 2.2.1 Implementation We believe in open, transparent dialogue with regard to labour related issues within the organization. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour In accordance to the Maldives Employment Act, the company declares that no person is compelled or forced into employment and undertakes Forced Employment to mean any service of labour obtained from a person under the threat of punishment, undue influence or intimidation and does not include services or labour performed of his own violation by any person (Chapter 3, Employment Act, Maldives) The effective abolition of child labor: In relation to the above, the company adheres to the Maldives Employment Act and does not employ minors The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation: The company complies to the Employment Act with regard to the above and ensures not to discriminate amongst persons carrying out equal work either in the granting of employment, determination of remuneration, increase in remuneration, provision of training, determination of conditions and manner of employment, dismissal from employment or resolution of other employment related matters, based on race, colour, social standing, religion, political beliefs or affiliation with any political party, sex, marital status, family obligations etc (in accordance to Chapter 2 , Part 4 of the Employment Act) Dhiraagu’s legal department regularly reviews to ensure that the company adheres to all local laws with regard to labour principles. HRD Board A Human Resources Board (HRD Board) is established to periodically review Labour issues by senior management. The HRD Board convenes every month or as and when required if there is an urgent issue to be dealt with. Mandate of the board includes reviewing HR policies and procedures and to make strategic decisions. Global Compact Principles 2.2.2 Measurement of Outcomes There have been no major employment issues in the reported period. The HRD Board ensures that employment issues are dealt fairly and harmoniously as per the employment law of the Maldives. Dhiraagu’s General Counsel regularly gives legal advice on employment issues to deal within the bounds of the Employment law and company procedures. 2.3 United Nations Global CompactEnvironment Principles Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies www.dhiraagu.com.mv 16 SECTION II 2.3.1 Implementation The company targets to reduce the environmental impacts and the footprints of our activities by implementing the following; Use of Renewable Energy Since 1988, Dhiraagu has been one of the highest users of renewable energy in the Maldives. Dhiraagu uses renewable energy both as a primary and as a secondary source of power in some of its equipment sites. Over 10% of Dhiraagu’s total power consumption in remote stations across the nation is generated from renewable energy. Energy Efficiency at Dhiraagu Head Office The new building of Dhiraagu Head Office was inaugurated in October 2012; a project that incorporated energy efficiency measures by implementing sustainable green design features. This not only helps to achieve energy consumption efficiency for the building, but also contributes to achieving a sustainable energy efficiency structure for our operations and for the society. The green initiatives incorporated in the building include the following All the lights used in the building, Motion detectors/sensors are used to including emergency lights are 99% LED switch off the lights in common areas of lights. the building such as corridors, staircases, toilet areas etc, to ensure lights are switched off when not in use. High heat reflective glass is used in Ozone friendly refrigerant R410A is building facade to minimise heat entering used in the VRV AC units installed in the into the building. building. Global Compact Principles Moving Towards Green Data Centers Data Center energy requirements continue to increase and the company targets to minimize consumption through appropriate design considerations. A modular and scalable design which enables infrastructure to be deployed when needed and through right-sizing avoids inefficiencies from overcapacity. Managing airflow and adopting more efficient equipment cooling architecture. Free cooling is utilized by eliminating hot hair without entirely depending on air conditioning. Adaptation of energy efficient power equipment and optimization of power distribution. Green Billing Dhiraagu Online Services was established in September 2012, which enables customers to view and pay bills online via www.dhiraagu.com.mv . While providing more convenience and simplicity for customers, this initiative encourages customers to adopt paperless billing which supports the environment by reducing the amount of paper used. 2.2.2 Measurement of Outcomes There are 174 islands where Dhiraagu has installed solar power systems, covering an area of more than 1,901 sqm solar across the country and producing 228,476KWh of renewable energy per year. The energy saving features incorporated in Dhiraagu Head Office in 2012, has resulted in an annual reduction of approximately 390,228.00 kwh of electricity, which is also equivalent to 276 metric tonnes of Carbon Dioxide or 636 barrels of oil. www.dhiraagu.com.mv 18 SECTION II 2.4 United Nations Global Compact Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Policy and Goals In September, 2011 Dhiraagu Ethics Policy was further revised to include an Anti-Bribery policy to work against corruption and to strengthen our commitment to operate professionally, fairly and with integrity. The company targets all employees to be familiar with this policy. Dhiraagu’s Anti-Bribery Policy comprehensively addresses in detail with regard to the following; We do not tolerate bribery, and do not We do not make facilitation payments and offer , give or receive bribes or improper we do not allow others who work for us payments or participate in any kind of to make them either. corrupt activity, either directly or through a third party. Any gifts or hospitality or promotional We do not make political contributions expenditure we receive or give in either directly or indirectly to political connection with our business should parties, causes or individuals. always be proportionate and reasonable in terms of value and frequency. Gifts and hospitality should never be offered or accepted if it may be perceived as improperly influencing a business decision about or by us or impair independence or judgment about us. We are committed to ensure that those who act on our behalf as representatives, agents, consultants and other providers of services do not bribe on our behalf. Global Compact Principles 2.4.1 Implementation Supplier Code of Conduct In 2012, a Supplier Code of Conduct was issued to better implement and to extend the commitments in our policies to our suppliers. All our suppliers are strongly encouraged to sign this code of conduct when doing business with us, which addresses the commitment to comply with applicable laws and regulations concerning bribery, corruption, fraud, and any other prohibited business practices. Anti-Bribery Training The company targeted for all employees to be fully familiar with the Anti-Bribery Policy and thereby conducted an Anti-Bribery Training Course in 2012. It was made compulsory for all employees to take the course and to pass an assessment. The course could be followed online and a downloadable Bribery Act Training Pack was available. A 90% pass mark for the assessment was required to complete the course. 2.4.2 Measurement of Outcomes 100% of the employees took the Anti-Bribery Policy Training course and all participants achieved the pass mark. www.dhiraagu.com.mv 20 www.dhiraagu.com.mv 21 www.dhiraagu.com.mv
