The differential in this year’s Sustainability Report is the division of chapters guided by the IRANI values. This division will allow you to see that these values are practiced by the Company and are indicators for the adopted management approach. These are expressed in the attitudes and relationships with its stakeholders and are cultivated in the business processes, products and services. Innovation and a pioneering spirit We cultivate innovation and a pioneering spirit in business, processes, products and services. Social and environmental responsibility We are promoting and multiplying agents of economic, social, environmental, community and personal development. Integrity, ethics, courage, transparency and cordiality We are upright, ethical, courageous, friendly and transparent in all our attitudes and relationships. Valuing people We believe that people in permanent development, are happy and working as a team makes all the difference Focus on results We seek with determination, superior and sustainable results. Objectivity, simplicity, austerity and action in the Focus on the Customer are our way to achieve excellence. 6 9 Materiality 10 Engagement 11 Evolution of commitments 13 The Company 14 Corporate Governance 17 General Structure and Organization Chart 18 Management Approach 25 Business 31 Major markets served 33 Surrounding Communities 41 Environment 67 Shareholders 68 Customers 73 Suppliers 77 Governments and Society 81 Employees 103 Economic Performance 104 Balance Sheets 105 Statements of Income 106 Economic context and main results 113 GRI Index and correlation with the principles of the Global Compact 119 Assurance Statement Sustainability Report 2012 We seek with determination, economic, environmental, and superior social performance and continuous evolution, also seeking to balance the vision of short and long term. t’s been nine years that we are dedicated to organizing and sharing with our stakeholders our actions and results in the key areas of performance of Celulose Irani SA The annual reports (two “social reports” and seven “sustainability reports”) have been a powerful tool for monitoring and management for the team and it has provided transparency to 6 these developments, their missteps and difficulties. The 2012 Report show the continuation of our journey during this past year, seeking to further improve the way we communicate and engage all stakeholders. The scenario in 2012, despite starting with certain degree of optimism, was marked once again by the global economic slowdown, played out by the European crisis and the reduced levels of growth in China. In Brazil, growth was also well below the forecast, and the companies IRANI faced up well to this enormous challenge of competitivewere even more exposed to the challenge ness in 2012. We maintained our EBITDA margin above 23%, reaching of competitiveness. The decline in interest a record annual EBITDA of R$ 115.4 million; we evolved in the large marates, the devaluation of the Real, the exjority of environmental indicators, highlighting the increase in energy emption from payroll and the reducing the efficiency, reduction in the loss of fibers and the reduction in water cost of electricity brought new variables consumption , as well as evolving in social indicators, especially indicathat will help local industry in the short tors relating to the development of people. term, but mainly it makes clear the urFrom the strategic point of view, the year was marked by the inigency and bring a degree of hope that the tiative of of preparing an IPO to fund and accelerate our growth plan, government in fact faces, the real reforms, that we named Project IRANI 2020 and to offer a greater liquidity to that are so necessary to change the level the shares of the company. The poor scenario in the 2012 financial of competitiveness of the country. Greater market, postponed obtaining these funds in the capital market, but efficiency in public spending, simplifying all efforts and steps in this direction have left us better prepared for and reducing taxes, political reform, recovthis new growth cycle. During the year, I formally took over as Presiery of investments with the infrastructure dent of the Company, with a mission to further strengthen the susare fundamental to enable sustainable tainability culture and occupy an increasingly prominent position in growth in Brazil over the coming years, the packaging paper and corrugated packaging sector. It is worth without falling into the inflation trap. highlighting the other advances in governance, such as the Board of Sustainability Report 2012 Directors that is now leaner and more particiIt is also important to note that the sale of the subsidiary Meu patory and has an independent advisor, the Móvel de Madeira, (My Wooden Furniture), trying to realize the value detailed organic investment projects that are generated by the creation of this business in the recent past and focus based on a market perception of our ability our energy and resources on the packaging paper, corrugated packagto grow and lead a consolidation process of ing, resin and derivatives business. the sector in Brazil. The Kyoto Protocol, weakened by the strong European and world From the middle of last year, we orgacrisis which diverted the focus and the priority of nations for economic nized ourselves, with the support of the conand social dimensions, was finally renovated. The prices of carbon trollers, to be active in the emerging process credits fell dramatically, reducing the economic impact of our CDM of the consolidation of the sector, investing projects, but not reducing our belief and dedication to the subject. It is in prospected opportunities, actions whose worth noting that our first CDM, the Cogeneration project, reached the results are starting to be harvested in 2013, milestone of 1 million tons of CO2 eq not being issued into the atmofor example, the lease that we signed for the sphere, generating the respective Kyoto Protocol credits. industrial plant – Indústria de Papel e EmbalInternally, the themes of Innovation, Risk Management, Project agens São Roberto S.A. in Minas Gerais and Management and Organizational Climate had a special focus and the contract for the strategic and operational representative advances. We were happy with the outcome of our restructuring of that company, acquired by organizational climate biennial survey, as it was established that we our parent company, Companhia Comercial achieved 75% employee satisfaction, improving by 10 percentage de Imóveis, at the end of last year. Only this points from the previous survey. lease will add a 28% growth in production caIn 2012, we again consulted and engaged our stakeholders on suspacity of packaging paper, which represents tainability issues and we did this through six “panels” specialized by a firm step towards our vision. interest group with a very expressive stake and with a greater depth. 7 Thus, we were able to review priorities and add new challenges expressed in the materiality matrix of the report. Challenges abound, and they are the real driving force of human development. A key is the “realization of new talents”, to support our growth in the context of a booming labor market. The “IRANI 2020” project is our objective today to grow even more with value, and the path goes through cost competitiveness, safety and quality of products and services, the efficient use of resources, and to grasp opportunities. An IPO, acquisitions and organic investments are all part of this journey and will have the team’s focus in the coming years. Finally, in 2013, the goals are renewed for all indicators, new indicators are added to the management, new challenges arise, new priorities are established, and our belief in sustainability is strengthened even more. It is expressed in our mission and vision and has helped us a lot as a team. Good reading and a good 2013 for us all! Pericles Pereira Druck CEO of IRANI Sustainability Report 2012 The IRANI Sustainability he Company self declares itself with the level of appliReport 2012 is aligned cation level A +, which is confirmed in the Assurance Statement providedby BSD Consultingand included at with the Global the end of this report. The financial statements are consolidated in Reporting Initiative (GRI) accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) 8 issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and in in its version G3.1 accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil. In the scope of this publication are the business units belonging to the Celulose Irani sul Florestal S.A, HGE – Geração de Energia Sustentável Ltda & Iraflor SA in the states of Santa Catarina, Sao Paulo Comércio de Madeiras Ltda. and Rio Grande do Sul and its subsidiaries IRANI always publishes its Sustainability Report in the first half of Meu Móvel de Madeira Comércio de Móveis e each year. The data collection process occurred during the year 2012 Decorações Ltda., Irani Trading S.A., Habitaand the beginning of 2013. Level of Application of this Report The following items were answered: Result 1.1, 1.2 G3 Profile 2.1 a 2.10 With external verification With external verification With external verification 3.1 a 3.10, 3.12 a 3.13 Conteúdo do Relatório 4.1 a 4.5, 4.13 a 4.17 Information Result Management Approach on the G3 is disclosed for each Management indicator category Approach G3 performance Each key indicator from Result indicators & G3 was answered with due performance regard to the Principle of indicators of the Materiality, reporting on the indicator or explaining the Sector Supplement reason for the omission Sustainability Report 2012 Materiality In 2012, IRANI updated its materiality matrix to guide the content There were three in the surrounding comof this report and to identify priority topics for its strategic managemunities, held in the localities of Campina ment. Another round of consultations was carried out with stakeholdda Alegria (SC), Balneário Pinhal (RS) and ers by conducting six panels of dialog with these stakeholders, with Indaiatuba (SP), one with employees, held the support of external consultants. The definition of the stakeholdin Campina da Alegria (SC), one with supers occurred through internal analysis of which groups that impact the pliers, held in Indaiatuba ( SP) and one with Company more and those that are most impacted by it. customers also in Indaiatuba (SP). More than 200 people took part in these panels. During 350 the events, activities were carried out to survey and prioritize the issues relevant to each Relevance to the stakeholders 300 member of the public that took part. The 250 result served to form the vertical axis of the 200 materiality matrix that is shown at the side. The horizontal axis was formed with contri150 butions from the workforce, with the valida100 tion of the executive board. 50 0 9 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 Relevance to the Company Go to http://www.irani.com.br/pt/info/relacoes-de-valor#gestao-648 and watch the video that shows the meetings that IRANI promoted with employees, community, government and society, suppliers and customers. Aspects related GRI Indicator Páginas • Incentives in Campina da Alegria; • Hiring local labor; Market 33, 58, 73, • Hiring of local suppliers; EC6 and EC7 presence 87 and 88 • Knowledge of the structure and organization of suppliers; • Numbers of internal and external recruitment • Investments in environmental projects; • Encouraging local businesses; Indirect • Beautification of Campina da Alegria; 27, 31, 34, economic EC8 and EC9 • Partnerships with technical schools and colleges 39, 40 and 61 impacts regarding technological innovation; • Increased geographic coverage for the actions. • Training and development; Training and LA10 and 66, 67, • Career Plan; education LA12 69 and 82 • Education for sustainability. Unfair • Good practices of competition; SO7 13 competition • Well-defined rules for negotiations. Labeling products • Reduction of costs seeking innovative packaging. PR5 57 and 72 and services • Tons of compost material; • Odor; Emissions, EN16, EN21, • Protection of springs; 36, 42, 45, waste water EN22 and • Wastewater; 47, 55 and 57 and waste EN25 • Recycling; • Carbon Credits. Relatório Sustainability de Sustentabilidade Report 2012 2012 Engagement IRANI pays special attention to its stakeholders, with whom it maintains relationships based on values such as ethics, integrity, transparency, warmth, simplicity and value people. Over the years, the Company endeavors to build strong partnerships, establish communication channels and build relationships of mutual trust in order to recognize the demands. Map of stakeholders Customer Governments and Society Supplier 10 Communities Shareholder Employees Resinas Unit Balneário Pinhal (RS) Sustainability Report 2012 Target reached Evolution of commitments Target partially reached In the Sustainability Report 2011 several commitments were made for 2012. Check the Target not reached status of each one of them. 60% of the targets were achieved. GRI Appearance Goal for 2012: Status Learn more The growth of the corporate governance structure with the reform of the Statute and the restructuring of the Executive Board and the Board of Corporate Re-draft the Corporate Governance Policy and Directors. The Corporate Governance Governance evolve in the governance structure. Policy will not be formalized once the main points were covered by the reformulation of the Statute and the restructuring that occurred. Conduct study on Life Cycle Analysis Ongoing study scheduled for of Paper and Packaging. completion in March 2013. Increase the offer of logistics solutions for Meu Business Móvel de Madeira customers so they have the opportunity to donate their used furniture, offering 40% target achieved, but without to at least 40% of customers partnerships that increasing the supply of services. already exists with the Salvation Army in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Maintain a fiber loss less than or equal Rate of 12.42 t/day achieved to 14.25 tons/day for the WWTP. Solid Waste Send to the landfill a percentage 9.12% of waste material 11 of waste less than 10%. sent to the landfill. Recycled percentage of 22%. The mix of Maintain the percentage of recycled paper produced in the year was higher Materials material to at least 23%. for paper based on cellulose and lower for chip based paper. Keep the specific energy consumption at 0.77 Reduced the specific energy consumption Energy MWh/net ton produced in the Paper Mill. to 0.75 MWh/net ton produced Reduce the amount of water used to Reduced to 25.87 m³/gross ton 26 m³ per gross ton produced. Water Percentage of water reused, at least 70%. 72% of water reused Reduce the amount of waste produced Wastewater Reduced to 21.19 m³/gross ton to 22.7 m³ per gross ton produced. A reduction of 37,792 thousand Reduce 34,000 tons of CO2eq. tons of Co2eq. Air Take part again in the MelhorAr Award The organizers of the award chose and get 75% of approvals. not to carry out a 2012 edition. Reduce to 18 the total number 24 work related accidents Value relationships of lost time accidents. were recorded. – employees Obtain a maximum level of turnover of 22% per year. 17.14% was reached Maintain 60% of the suppliers with long-term Value relationships contracts (IRANI Supplier Project) and maintain IRANI Project Supplier: 52.67% – suppliers 80% of the suppliers of wooden chips with stable Urban Forest Project: 72.41% purchases (Urban Forest Project). Sustainability Report 2012 We cultivate innovation and a pioneering spirit in business, processes, products and services. Sustainability Report 2012 The Company São Paulo elulose Irani has been in the market for 72 years. The CompaIndaiatuba ny is available in three Brazilian states, it produces packaging São Paulo paper, boxes and corrugated sheets and resins. Throughout Paraná its history, IRANI incorporated into its practice the concept of sustainability, ensuring high quality products. Its products come from Rio Negrinho Vargem Bonita a renewable forest-base, 100% recyclable, with absolute respect for Joaçaba people and the environment. The production is integrated from the Santa Catarina forests to the final products. Rio Grande Irani Trading SA is the controller of IRANI Companies: Habitasul do Sul Balneário Pinhal Forestry SA and HGE – Geração de Energia Sustentável Ltda (in a prePorto Alegre operational phase) in Porto Alegre (RS) and Iraflor Comércio de Madeira Ltda. in Vargem Bonita (SC). In 2012, the sale of the subsidiary Meu Móvel de Madeira – Comércio 13 Industrial de Móveis e Decorações Ltda., with its headquarters in Rio Negrinho Units (SC).was approved by the Board of Directors. The operations of this subOffices sidiary represented, during the first nine months of the year, less than 3% of the consolidated net revenue of the Company and its disposal will not impact the financial indicators of the Company. FSC ® Certification Unfair competition FSC certification ensures that timIn trade relations, place into practice its ber produced or used by the Company values, respecting customers, suppliers and comes from a forest that is managed in an environmentally responsible, competitors. In the performance of marketsocially beneficial and economically ing, defends ethics and free competition, not viable way, besides other controlled allowing illegal actions and corruption in the sources. operations. There were no record of fines for Forest Management Certification: valid only for forests and recognizes the violation of the laws regulating the marthat the forestry production meets FSC ket, including unfair competition and antistandards. IRANI has this certification trust practices. for its own forests in Santa Catarina. Chain of Custody Certification: ensures that the product is manufactured using raw material from certified and controlled forests. Units Paper, Packaging SC and Packaging SP have this certification. Pinus seedling: the beginning of the IRANI integrated Go to http://www.irani.com.br/en/info/awards-and-recognition/ano/2012 process and see the awards and recognitions received by IRANI in 2012. Sustainability Report 2012 Corporate Governance Administration The administration is conducted by the Board of Directors, who With respect to the variable remunerahave deliberative functions, and the Executive Board, with executive tion of the Executive Board, 20% of this and representative functions. For the companies Habitasul Forestremuneration refers to an individual assessry SA and Irani Trading SA, controlled by IRANI, there are separate ment of skills that encompasses many items boards of directors, each composed of three members who are also that capture a broad view of sustainability, part of the Board of Directors of Celulose Irani SA including environmental and social aspects. In 2012, the Company evolved in the corporate governance strucIn addition, the directors also receive a longture with the Bylaws and the restructuring of the Board of Directors term compensation proportional to the valuand Executive Board. However, the Corporate Governance Policy will ation of the shares of the Company every not be formalized once the main points were covered by the reform of three years, also capturing these intangibles the Statute and the restructuring occurred. and economic results. 2010 2011 2012 No. of members of the Board of Directors 7 7 5 Non-executive IRANI Board Members 5 5 4 Note: A non-executive Director does not exercise a management function in the Company. 14 Information regarding executive remuneration and those responsible for the governance and how that compensation is related to performance in the short, medium and long term are disclosed in the Relationship with the Investors Form, available on the Investor Relations site http://www.irani.com.br/en/ri/info/cvm-files, at the Brazilian Securities Commission/CVM Archives site. On December 31, 2012, the Company’s capital stock, subscribed and paid, was R$ 103,976,491.19, made up of which 92% (162,090,000 shares) were common shares entitled to a vote and 8% (12,810,260) preferred shares without a voting right. Exclusive on-line content In April 2012, the Chairman of the Board no longer held the position of Executive Chairman, the then CEO, Pericles Pereira Druck, was elected President of IRANI. The Chief Executive Officer went to advise the Executive Board, reporting to the Board on matters of great importance. Similarly, Paulo Rabello de Castro joined the Board of Directors of the Company, acting as an Independent Councilor. This enhancement regarding the management demonstrates the constant IRANI Commercial team search for adherence to best corporate governance practices. Sustainability Report 2012 Corporate Policies on the Disclosure and Use of Information and the Trading of Securities has been revised and updated, and approved by the Board of Directors and disclosed in accordance with the current legislation. Both policies seek to ensure fairness, transparency and the immediate dissemination of information to all interested parties without any privileges to any public. They cover issues such as disclosure of decisions of the controlling shareholder, resolutions of the General Assembly or the Board of Directors and the restrictions on trading with the Company’s securities during certain periods, among other issues considered relevant. The structure of Corporate Governance • Pericles de Freitas Druck – President; encompasses the General Meeting of Share• Eurito de Freitas Druck – Vice President; holders, the Board of Directors and to act in • Paulo Sérgio Viana Mallmann – Counselor; 15 unison in the pursuit of results and sustain• Pericles Pereira Druck – Counselor. ability in business. • Paulo Rabello de Castro – Independent Counselor The Board of Directors shall meet whenever necessary, by fixing attention on strateThe Executive Officers shall meet, ordinarily, in person every gic issues of the Company such as: business month, and by video-conference, when necessary, and it is in their risks, market relations, corporate policies, competence the practice all acts necessary for the regular operation of investments and monitoring the results rethe Company, that is not the competence of the General Assembly or flected in the Financial Statements Report. Board of Directors, in accordance with the powers contained in Article All the powers of the Board of Directors are 14 of the Bylaws of the Company. The term of office of the directors is in Article 12 of the Bylaws of the Company. two years, reelection being permitted. Among them, there is the management inThe Board, which will complete the current administration in May spection of the directors, allowing Board 2015, is composed of the following members: members to examine, at any time, Company books and papers, requesting information on • Pericles Pereira Druck – Chief Executive Officer; contracts and any other acts. The mandate • Odivan Carlos Cargnin – Director of Administration, Finance and Inof the Board member is two years, reelection vestor Relations; being permitted. • Sérgio Luiz Ribas Cotrim – Director of Paper and Packaging Business; The current Board of Directors will com• Túlio Cesar Reis Gomes – Director of Forest Business plete the current management term in 2015 and is composed as follows: The expenses with management fees, without payroll taxes totaled R$ 6,954 thousand in the fiscal year of 2012 (R$ 4,815 thousand in 2011). The aggregate remuneration of the directors was approved by the Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meetings dated April 19, 2012 and May 25, 2012 to a maximum of R$ 16,6 thousand. Sustainability Report 2012 IRANI adopts corporate governance guided by its values and committed to the best practices in the relationship with shareholders and other stakeholders. 16 To check the consistency and integrity of its operations, the Company retains Independent Auditors who are responsible for issuing The Independent Auditors’ Report, quarterly and annually. To send suggestions, questions, recommendations, or request more information visit the Investor Relations site http://www.irani.com.br/en/fale_conosco, Contact Us link. If you prefer to speak directly with the Director of Investor Relations his e-mail is available in the link Investor Shareholder Services http://www.irani.com.br/en/ri/info/service-for-shareholders. Sustainability Report 2012 General Structure Shareholders’ Meeting Board of Directors Executive Board Functional Management Areas Operating Segmentation Functional Paper RS Forestry New Management Packaging CC and Resins business Processes Finances, Accounting, IT, Procurement, Personnel Development, Marketing, Accounting, Market Intelligence, Innovation, Legal, Management for Excellence, Strategic Projects, EGP, Risk Management, Continuous Improvement. Organization Chart Board of Directors President Péricles de Freitas Druck 17 Vice-President Eurito de Freitas Druck Director Independent Director Director Pericles Pereira Druck Paulo Rabello de Castro Paulo Sérgio Viana Mallmann Organization Chart Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer Pericles Pereira Druck Director of the Paper and Director of Administration, Director of Forestry Business Packaging Business Finance and Investor Relations Túlio Gomes Sérgio Ribas Odivan Cargnin Sustainability Report 2012 Management Approach In its management, the Company adopts the Lean Manufacturing concept. Supported in the the PDCA cycle, kaizen actions are promoted in order to solve chronic problems that impact on the Company’s strategy, aiming to build agile processes, with a low production cost and maximum quality. The biggest challenge is to promote cultural improvement aimed at the constant improvement of the Company, assisting in the deployment of daily improvement strategies, promoted by the employees themselves. People are at the center of all activities, which demands a challenging environment that promotes and constant training and development. In 2012, the focus remained on the Mod2012, saw the continuity to communicael of Excellence in Management (MEG), ® tion, implementation and monitoring of the from the National Quality Foundation. New strategy. Studies were completed for the management practices were structured and Business Plan called “Project IRANI 2020,” implemented with the objective of strengthwhich includes the entire production chain, ening the Company with a reference model from the forest to the production of corrufor continuous improvement in the pursuit gated packaging. Technical studies for plants, of the best practices, ensuring better results global and national market research and poand a commitment to sustainability. tential niches, creation of investment scenarios for organic expansion and/or acquisitions 18 in the coming years were carried out. Strategic Planning | Cycle 2012-2016 Financial Increase the value Perspective of the company Grow with value and Obtain admirable sustainably profits Customer Perspective Create meaningful Be a recognized and and long-lasting preferred brand relationships Expand geographic Offer products and Contribute to the presence and increase services with the prosperity of the client the market share focus on the customer Processes Sustainability Innovation Production Suppliers Perspective Adopt appropriate Research and To establish stable Increase environmental and develop based on the partnerships with production innovative practices customer focus mutual benefits Innovation in products, Promote continuous Have safety in the Use resources services, processes improvement in cost, supply of fibers sustainably and management safety and quality and energy People Contribute to the Perspective development of Promote a Strengthen the Practicing (Learning and the communities culture of results-oriented participatory Using talent Knowledge) around the Company innovation culture management installations Sustainability Report 2012 19 Research and development is one of the ways IRANI uses for innovation Innovation Management IRANI believes that the path to differentiation is innovation. Continually pursues four types of innovation: the manufacturing process, product, business model and the management model. In 2012, Innovation Management was created, responsible for the Innovation Center and Corporate Research and Development. The actions of the Innovation Center are developed through the IRANI Inova Program, structured to follow the Company’s growth plan. The Center relies on the participation of employees, scientific and technological institutions, suppliers and customers. It covers 1,350 valuable ideas were noted in 2012 initiatives such as the Ideas for Value Program (Programa Ideias de Valor), Innovation Enablers (Facilitadores da Inovação) and the Innovative Planet (Planeta In 2012, it worked with the spreading the Inovador) newsletter, dealing with topics reculture of innovation through the generation lated to the management of ideas, to comof ideas and training of employees on this petitive intelligence, to intellectual property, issue. For 2013, the scope of the initiatives to the culture of innovation, to open innovawill be expanded in order to encourage open tion and project management. innovation. Sustainability Report 2012 Number of training hours in innovation (per employee) 20 2:01 Growth in the number of ideas per employee 0,81 00:35 00:21 0,04 0,04 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Exclusive on-line content The Value of Ideas Program is responThe Innovation Facilitators training program was launched in sible for managing ideas inside and outside 2012 with a group of 97 employees who participated in training on isIRANI. It is applied continuously, in addition sues related to innovation management. 21 meetings have been held, to encouraging creators to foster innovation totaling more than 300 hours of training. These employees will be rethrough their knowledge, improving financial sponsible for spreading innovation in IRANI. and/or operational results for the Company, Planeta Inovador is a Newsletter aimed at the Company leaderit seeks to recognize the efforts and reward ship for the purpose of competitive intelligence work. In it, topics are them for it. published related to the management of innovation and the biggest and best technological innovations, newly launched or in the research and development stage. In 2012 there were 7 editions and 76 subjects published. Sustainability Report 2012 The Research and Corporate Development activities are develCHALLENGE oped through medium and long term surveys, in partnership with scientific and technological institutions. With topics aligned with the IRANI strategy and the corporate growth plan, the research focuses throughout the production chain, from the seeds to the corrugated 2013: proceed in a concrete and objective packaging. way for open innovation, obtaining partners for the In 2012, we highlight the partnership that was started with the development of Federal University of Santa Catarina (UFSC) for the future construcinnovative projects. tion of a research laboratory focused on surface applications in the Paper Mill and packaging areas. It is expected to achieve an increase of resistance, reducing Sustainability Committee moisture absorption and obtaining of new The committee is made up of, currently, properties. This partnership model will grow seven employees, representatives of varigradually extending to other universities. ous units. The main projects in 2012 were the The research staff consists of three direct completion of six stakeholder panels, createmployees with master’s degrees and docing shared value with the various stakeholdtoral degrees that focus exclusively on straers involved and interested in the Company tegic research. The area also has the support business, the internal awareness campaigns of indirect researchers, through scholarships, for the rational use of natural resources, for for research projects aligned to strategic the reuse of food and the conscious vote, topics. IRANI has partnerships with over 100 preceding municipal elections, and the disuniversities nationwide. semination of the concept of sustainability 21 for employees. The mission of this committee is to promote everyday attitudes and innovative ways to build an economically viable company, that is environmentally sound and socialThe products are ly just, seeking high standards of governance based on transparency and ethics before the designed to offer various stakeholders. In 2013, the committee will reinforce the innovative and sustainability concept with partners from customized solutions the value chain, especially customers and suppliers. to the market Sustainability Report 2012 22 Celulose Irani is a company that is mainly forest based Code of Ethics IRANI’s activities, covering all industrial In order to maintain ethics and good conduct, developed through units, offices and subsidiaries, are permeits business relationships with customers, partners and suppliers, ated by the Code of Ethics which document IRANI condemns certain behavior on the part of their employees and values and commitments, aiming at a correct administrators that may conflict with the values of the Company. Its and transparent business operation with all Code of Ethics specifies the attitudes that characterize these conflicts interacting public. of interest and are divided into: private interests, security of informaThe Ethics Committee was reformulated tion and intellectual property , assets and Company resources security, and a review of the Code of Ethics was began trading in the Company´s shares, giveaways, gifts, favors and other that will be completed in 2013. Training on amenities, donations and sponsorships and professional secrecy. this update, including issues such as human The Ethical commitments assumed publicly with all stakeholders, rights, corruption and conflicts of interest the clear position on conflicts of interest, the role of the Ethics Comwill be held throughout the year. mittee, the monitoring of compliance and adherence to the principles adopted and the adhesion to the Pact for Integrity and Against Corruption and the Global Compact reflects the IRANI decisions to deepen the experience of its Mission and its Values. The Code of Ethics, including the means of communication available to make a manifestation, is available to all interested parties on the website http://www.irani.com.br/en/info/code-of-ethics. Sustainability Report 2012 Risk Management In 2012, the practice of risk management and internal controls was adopted, identifying corporate risks and classifying them according to strategic, operational, financial and compliance perspectives . In this year, corporate risk assessment in IRANI was caries out, considering the frequency, the differ• Social Responsibility > absence or mismanagement of socially reent types of impact and the various aspects sponsible activities; of management. • Natural Events >disasters caused by natural events, adverse weathSocial-environmental risks are consider conditions and global warming; ered in the evaluation. The following subcat• Environmental Management > failure or lack of monitoring proceegories describe the Company’s concern with dures likely risk to the environment and the community; and these aspects: • Environment > environmental practices that are not adequately treated or in violation of the laws in force. The Climatic Change topic was assessed by Risk Management, but was not considered as a risk factor by the diagnosis of risks conducted in 2012. Ethical issues are considered by the methodology, as well as the corruption issue considered as a risk factor. 23 Classification of Corporate Risks ESTRATÉGICO OPERATIONAL COMPLIANCE • Natural events Ethics and conduct: • Internal fraud Corporate • Social responsibility Environment: • Environmental Governance: Management • Information Internal: • Competition Security Logistics: • Product Transport • Market demand • Concessions Market • Macroeconomic Regulatory: and permits dynamics: Product: • Product Quality factors • Environment • Substitute Products • Development & • Contracts Human Training Strategic • Implementation Resources: • Work Relationships initiatives: • Monitoring • Attraction/Retention Legal: (employee and trade union) Asset • Fixed Assets Related parties: • Customers Security: • Other tangible items • Tax • Innovation Research and • Supply FINANCIAL • Long Term Development: Supplies: • Inventory Planning Credit/Liquidity • Credit and • Quality of supplies • Organizational and Investments collections Structure Planning and Capital • Strategic • Availability and Resource Technology and Structure: • Debt Planning Continuity Allocation: Information • Operational • Infrastructure Security: • Foreign currency Planning • IT Obsolescence Market: (exchange) • Interest Rate Sales: • Customer Relations Health and Safety: • Occupational Health Sustainability Report 2012 From the analysis carried out for risk management it was posRisk management sible to identify the main challenges and opportunities of the Company and to identify the main risks linked to strategic objectives, as provides IRANI with a shown in sequence. Each process mapped the results are presented systemic risk overview to the Executive Board. For 2013 the challenge has been to intensify this practice of involving the Executive Board, finalize the mapping of in the processes and all processes, review the corporate risk in adherence to the strategic plan, develop leadership for risk management and internal controls, to support the implement risk management policy adhering to Corporate Governance strategic decisions processes, manage opportunities for improvement and recommendations to be implemented by the areas and achieve greater efficiency and effectiveness of the Company’s processes. 24 Increase production 3.42 Intangible assets Expand geographic presence Throughout its history of over 70 years, and increase the Market Share 3.00 IRANI recognizes the importance of its inPromote continuous tangible assets as essential to create shared improvement in cost, 2.99 safety and quality value and to strengthen its market position, aligned with business strategies. Obtain admirable profits 2.96 In 2012, it adopted a specific methodology for identifying their main intangible asImprove forest productivity 2.89 sets, in addition to analyzing the practices adopted to protect them and develop them. Use the talents 2.82 Corporate Policies Obtain a high level of 2.77 IRANI has a set of defined policies, aimemployee engagement ing to align the culture and conduct, as well Achieve the highest degree of 2.63 as the improvement of its management operational effectiveness practices. Offer products and services with 2.39 the focus on the customer Adopt appropriate environmental and innovative 2.24 Note: On a scale of 1 to 5, with 1 being the one with the lowest frequency and impact and 5 with the highest impact and frequency. Visit http://www.irani.com.br/en/info/corporate-polices and get to know the Corporate Policies. Sustainability Report 2012 Business Its business is marked by a commitment to sustainability and ethical and transparent relationships. It acts in a different way in the market, constantly seeking solutions in weight reductions and the area in its projects, the reduction of raw materials in manufacturing and process optimization. Its products are biodegradable and recyclable, designed to provide customized and innovative solutions to market. Paper Production and total sales It manufactures kraft paper from 30 to 200 g/m2in the FineKraft, of paper (in tons) FlashKraft, FlatKraft, FlexiKraft and FancyKraft lines, It uses unbleached and bleached virgin fiber and provides brown kraft papers 196,921 195,470 200,013 with a choice of weights in white and other colors. The plant is located in Vargem Bonita (SC) and has the FSC Chain 72,667 72,151 77,626 of Custody certification which allows the manufacture of its products with the FSC seal, as it uses certified and controlled raw materials in its manufacturing process. Production Sale According to the Brazilian Association of Pulp and Paper (BRACELPA), the market share in 2012, considering the production of packaging 2010 2011 2012 paper, was 3.91%. Note: Part of the paper production is responsible for the supply of industrial packaging plants to be transformed into sheets and cartons. 25 The main customers are independent converters and cater for the bakery, coal, sugar segments, seeds with the manufacture of bags and large retailers with the manufacture of bags. The envelopes, adhesive tape segments and papers for special applications such as plotter for clothing and paint masking are also catered for with specific lines of paper. Indicated as being suitable for direct contact with food, the papers are produced with 100% virgin fiber and meet the requirements of ISEGA, RoHS Directive and Ordinance no. 177/99 of Anvisa. It also produces recycled paper derived from chippings. IRANI Paper: biodegradable and recyclable The growth of packaging sales (thousand m2) 276,587 273,166 270,548 2010 2011 2012 Packing The Company manufactures sheets and corrugated packaging, usIRANI packaging is aimed primarily at the ing various weights of paper. The Company also produces the Hard food market, including meat, oils and fats, System that allows the packaging of large size and offers a high medairy products, fast food, pasta and biscuits. chanical strength. It also sells to the beverage, plastics, rubber, It has two plants for manufacturing corrugated cardboard prodtextiles, leather, footwear, clothing, pharmaucts in the cities of Vargem Bonita (SC) and Indaiatuba (SP). The packceuticals, perfumery and chemical industries. aging is certified by the FSC Chain of Custody, ensuring that the whole It also has a market share in the sheets that process used certified and controlled raw materials . There is monitorare sold to independent converters. ing from the forest to the marketed product, in accordance with the According to the Brazilian Association requirements of this certification. of Pulp and Paper (BRACELPA), in 2012 the market share, measured in square meters of corrugated board, remained at 4.38%. 26 Resins From the resin extracted from the Pinus species IRANI produces, rosin and turpentine, products used in the preparation of varnishes, paints, soaps, glue, adhesives, insulating materials, explosives, chewing gums, waxes and others. Both are intended, mainly, for foreign markets such as Europe, North America, South America and Asia. The unit is located in Balneário Pinhal in Rio Grande do Sul, with a daily production capacity of 50 tons of rosin and 15 tons of turpentine. Total Production and sales of rosin and turpentine (in tons) 6,620 6,878 4,853 5,250 4,339 4,582 Production Sale Resins Unitproduction of Rosin and Turpentine 2010 2011 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Forestry The main objectives of the forestry business are to sell wood in the The Forestry operations located in westregional market and supply the production lines of the industrial units ern Santa Catarina are located in areas covin Santa Catarina and Rio Grande do Sul ered by the Atlantic Forest biome. Among Besides ensuring renewable raw material for the manufacture of the forestry compositions existing in this biits products, the management of planted forests assists in the presome, the Araucaria moist forests is predomiervation of native forests and the maintenance of local biodiversity. nant. In Rio Grande do Sul, these operations are located near the coast, in areas characterized by the formation of dunes and salt marshes. 27 Forests that are managed in accordance with best practices Sustainability Report 2012 Irani Forestry Areas Vargem Bonita Rio Negrinho Joaçaba SC Água Doce RS Porto Alegre Balneário Pinhal Ponte Serrada Vargem Irani Bonita Catanduvas Araucaria National Park Cidreira Balneário Pinhal Celulose Irani Forestry areas (SC) 28 Habitasul Florestal Forestry areas (RS) Mostardas Largo dos Peixes National Park Tavares São José do Norte Sustainability Report 2012 Santa Catarina Forestry areas The Company´s own forestry areas comprise a total of 29,781 hectares, distributed across five municipal areas. Land use in Santa Catarina Pinus spp. Eucalyptus spp. 6.7% 18% 22% 46.0% 47.3% 82% 78% production infrastructure preservation own partnership own partnership In 2012, an aerial survey of the areas was carried out to obtain high-resolution images which were georeferenced and orthorectified. These images, besides being updated, ensure a better accuracy in the 2013 GOAL Resume the search for new partners results obtained of the digitizing processes of the land use. with the provision of The Forests or the company´s managed units, in Santa Catarina, planting 700 ha. in SC. 29 have been certified by the FSC since 2008. This ensures that 60% to 70% of all wood used in pulp production is certified. The other woods used are considered to be controlled source and undergo an assessment regarding the attendance of the wood purchasing policy, origin and environmental The Forestry Partnerships Program is an alternative for generatrequirements. ing income for the surrounding communities. The partnerships that Part of their property is adjacent to or is were initiated were maintained and new contracts were not signed. partially inside the Araucárias National Park, All partners were visited, with the goal of having their forest managea federal conservation unit that was created ment activities assessed. in 2005. IRANI is part of the Advisory Board All IRANI forestry areas are mapped. In 2013, a project will be startof the location and helped with the preparaed for monitoring the drainage basins that are part of the coverage tion of its Management Plan. areas, in order to monitor water quality. IRANI preserves the forests and biodiversity Sustainability Report 2012 Fire Protection The creation of the PRNP was filed in 2012. There are 285 hectTo control and fight fires, IRANI has a ares of preserved native forest, located in Vargem Bonita (SC), in the Forest Fire Brigade, composed of nine fireCampina da Alegria Farm. This space will be dedicated to environmenfighters, a truck to support and fire fighting tal education and fauna and flora studies. In the areas covered by the equipment. As a prevention and fire fighting TAC, will have implemented in 2013, restoration projects with flora enstrategy, in 2012, acquired a watchtower in richment techniques, seeking the restoration of conservation areas in the forest allowing for a larger view of the accordance with environmental regulations. The obligations assumed Company´s areas and bordering areas. There by the TAC have been fulfilled within the time limits set out in that is also a partnership with the Volunteer Fire document. Department of the city of Irani (SC), through a cooperation agreement that ensures finanForestry areas in Rio Grande do Sul cial support in instances of in fire fighting, in Distributed in five municipalities, the forestry areas in Rio Grande training and in the lectures. do Sul totaling 16,608 hectares, 16,341 hectares of own areas and 267 Since 2003, two processes have been leased. The areas destined for production are interspersed with areas underway in the Federal Court relating to of conservation, defined as Permanent Preservation Areas (APP) and events that occurred more than a decade native vegetation. ago: a civil action and a criminal action. Both The process of defining the legal reserve areas and the environdeclared the occurrence of alleged environmental agency protocol were completed in April 2012. The areas were mental damage and have had the First Dedefined, and the process analysis is waiting approval by the State Degree sentences handed down. The decision partment of Forests and Protected Areas (DEFAP). of the criminal action has already been dis30 closed in a previous Sustainability Report, in the civil action, there was the determination that the companies; Celulose Irani SA and Indústria de Madeiras Faqueadas IpumLand use in Rio Grande do Sul irim S.A. recover the damage perpetrated 4% in the degraded area by submitting Recovery Plan of Degraded Areas (PRAD). The Company will appeal against this decision to obtain the revocation of the process without any penalty, as at that time, it obtained the necessary environmental permits to remove from its 45% 51% properties a few trees that had fallen due to storms, which are common in the region. The removal of trees, were indeed was carried out by another company, had no economic objective, as the amounts involved were not and are not representative in the company´s sales. Infrastructure Production Preserved areas Importantly, recent studies have indicated that the area where the fallen trees were removed is an example of conservation, in a forest Pinus spp. having a high environmental richness. 2% IRANI and its subsidiary Iraflor Comércio de Madeiras Ltda. signed in 2011, a Terms for the Adjustment of Conduct (TAC) because of the planting of exotic species in permanent preservation areas. Compa98% nies assumed the committed to realize the recovery of these areas, the environmental suitability of forest partnerships and the creation of a Private Natural Heritage Reserve (PRNP). The Public Summary of the Forest Stewardship Plan contains own partnership information about the activities of the IRANI forest and is available at the link http://www.irani.com.br/en/info/forest. Note: in Rio Grande do Sul, the planting of Eucalyptus spp. is carried out in the Company´s own areas. Sustainability Report 2012 Iraflor Founded in 2011, Iraflor Comércio de Madeiras Ltda. conducts operations management and the marketing of woods and forests for the parent Celulose Irani SA and also for the market. Habitasul Florestal Company controlled by IRANI engaged in harvesting, processing and marketing of wood in general, only in Rio Grande do Sul, while still Major markets served providing fresh resins for the IRANI Resins Unit. Paper HGE – Geração de Energia Sustentável Ltda.(Sustainable Power Foreign Markets South America (Argentina, Paraguay, Chile, Generation Ltda) Uruguay, Colombia, Peru, Bolivia, Venezuela), Established in 2010, this Company is not yet in operation, but has Africa (South Africa, Nigeria, Ghana and Sudan), two development projects which together have an installed capacity Europe (Belgium, Germany, Netherlands and of 138.60 MW. In 2012, the Company acquired the Pinhal Wind Farm Turkey), Middle East (Egypt, Saudi Arabia, project in Palmares do Sul (RS). Bahrain, UAE, Lebanon, Pakistan and Syria) and Asia (Malaysia, South Korea, Hong Kong, Taiwan, • The Cidreira Complex, located in the municipality of Cidreira (RS) has Singapore and Indonesia). an installed capacity of 67.2 MW. This project has its preliminary liDomestic Markets cense suspended because of a Preliminary Injunction and a civil acMinas Gerais, Paraná, São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, tion is in progress. We intend to perform an agreement to facilitate Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina. the undertaking. 31 • The Cidreira-Pinhal Complex, located in the municipalities of Cidreira Packaging and Balneário Pinhal (RS), has an installed capacity of 71.4 MW. ProjDomestic Markets ect under consideration for the issue of a preliminary license by the Distrito Federal, Goiás, Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso state environmental agency (FEPAM) since December 2011. do Sul, Minas Gerais, Paraná, Rio Grande do Sul, • Pinhal Wind Farm, located in the city of Palmares do Sul (SC), has Santa Catarina and São Paulo. an installed capacity of 22.0 MW. This project has an installation license and the other requirements that are necessary. Resins Foreign Markets In 2013, it is expected to overcome the difficulties of environmenChile, United States, Canada, Germany, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, France, India and tal licensing of projects and Cidreira Complexo and the Cidreira-Pinhal Japan Complexo so that in the coming years, the projects come into operation. However, for the Pinhal Wind-farm project, it is expected to have Domestic Markets an equity partner for the park to come into operation. Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, Bahia and Ceará. IRANI Trading S.A. Exports, on its own behalf or that of third parties, goods, products, commodities and real estate activities. Its main customer is IRANI. Visit http://www.irani.com.br/en/info/external-initiatives and discover the commitments to the external initiatives. Sustainability Report 2012 We are promoting agents and multipliers of financial, social, environmental, community and personal development. Sustainability Report 2012 Communities he surrounding communities are defined as municipalities where employees reside and they are subject to live with some kind of impact, positive or negative, as a result of the Company’s activities. Present for over 70 years in Santa Catarina, the Company has a has great influence in the region and is perceived as a competent Investments company, generating employment and inin social projects come for the surrounding municipalities with environmental responsibility. 2010 R$ 223,603.88 Communication with communities occurs 33 through representatives of the Company in 2011 R$ 199,601.49 these locations. In Campina da Alegria, this 2012 R$ 202,534.62 is done through the management area of the Village, The Open Talk Newspaper and sporadic meetings with members of the Board of the Association of Campina da Alegria The social investments are focused on these communities in iniResidents (AMOCA) and with the locals. tiatives that contribute to the reduction of social inequalities and the These communication tools are available to development of children and youths in the areas of citizenship, sport, the community. The Open Talk Newspaper in culture, education and environmental preservation. 2012, become even more interactive materiThe relationship with the surrounding communities in the vicinals suggested by the community, including ity of industrial plants in São Paulo and Rio Grande do Sul has been social and environmental issues. strengthened and is a challenge for 2013. In 2012, the methodology for identification of social aspects and impacts that the IRANI operations cause the surroundings was reformulated. This methodology was implemented in industrial and forestry units and the corporate office. Broto do Galho Products: sustainability and innovation Sustainability Report 2012 Besides external research with communities, the internal analysis of potential impacts and the development of action plans to mitigate them was incorporated. This new methodology assists in defining the relevance of social issues, as well as the alignment of the practices of the Company to the expectations of the communities, guiding decisions and the implementation of projects and continued investments. This is a preventive measure, especially in operations that are most likely to cause any significant negative impact. Search to invest in social programs and projects developed by solid institutions with which we can build long lasting partnerships. Among the partnerships include: The SESI Program Atleta do Futuro, Broto do Galho and the support and donations to local institutions. Broto do Galho reunites Broto do Galho Project Four years ago, the Broto do Galho was born as a way to genercraftsmen in the ate productive jobs and extra income to artisans residents in Campina da Alegria in Vargem Bonita (SC), through the development of handicommunity Campina crafts made from industrial waste. Throughout the year, the artisans 34 da Alegria in Vargem participated in training and industrial events. In 2012, there was a change of the softstarters to another property in Campina da Alegria, Bonita, in the mid-west that was larger and more suitable for the production of handicrafts. Similarly, the highlights are the partnerships with e-commerceportals of Santa Catarina for selling Broto do Galho products. that associatively manufactures handmade works from industrial waste Learn more about the Broto do Galho: www.brotodogalho.com.br www.facebook.com.br/brotodogalho brotodogalho@brotodogalho.com.br Broto do Galho Products: produced by craftsmen in the community surrounding Celulose Irani Sustainability Report 2012 IRANI encourages sports and citizenship training in children and young people SESI Athlete of the Future Program (PAF) Conducted in partnership with SESI, it is focused on children and young between 6-15 years participating in various sports activities implemented as its own methodology of the program and are addressed as cross-cutting issues relating to health, education, entrepreneur35 ship and sustainability. The PAF centers in the localities of Campina da Alegria in Vargem Bonita (SC), Irani (SC) and Ponte Serrada (SC) are supported. In 2012, this partnership was extended to Indaiatuba (SP) and, in 2013, will start in Balneário Pinhal (RS), always with the support of local governments. Participants of the PAF in Campina da Alegria (SC) Average annual number of children and youths participating in the PAF in 2012 964 86 97 128 Campina da Irani (SC) Ponte Indaiatuba (SP) Alegria (SC) Serrada (SC) Sustainability Report 2012 Exclusive on-line content Social Projects supported by IRANI Amount Project Description invested in 2012 (in reais) Monthly financial support to help maintain the activities of the Shelter installed in Joaçaba (SC), which has the objective Abrigo do Coração (Shelter for the Heart ) 6,000.00 to shelter people free of charge, who are receiving medical treatment and their companions. ÁGUIAS (EAGLES) – Association of Physically Disabled Persons – Águias of Concordia The independence and resilience are the main objectives of the development of adapted sports activities developed by these 12,000.00 ARAD – Regional Association of Disabled associations. Athletes in the Midwest Region of Santa Catarina Development of initiation cores core to the volleyball practice AJOV – Volleyball Association Joaçabense 9,000.00 with girls between 8 and 12 years in Joaçaba (SC). Training of a group of artisans in the basics of management Broto do Galho and recycling of industrial waste for processing into 2,760.92 handcrafted decorations and utilities. 36 Communication channel that circulates monthly in Campina da Open Conversation Journal Alegria in Vargem Bonita (SC), in which matters are disclosed 9,258.00 relating to the location and the Company. Partnership in the states of Santa Catarina, São Paulo and Rio Grande do Sul to stimulate corporate volunteering, spreading issues related to sustainability and entrepreneurial spirit in young people of school age. Junior Achievement No. of 48,000.00 No. of Number of participating volunteers in volunteer hours in students in 2010: 18 2010: 183 2010: 366 2011: 17 2011: 230 2011: 435 2012: 31 2012: 284 2012: 859 A partnership with SESI in the states of Santa Catarina and São SESI Athlete of the Future Program (FAP) Paulo, with the goal of developing citizenship through sports 89,355.00 and addressing common themes with children 6-15 years. The initiation and professional development are the main objectives of this program. In 2012, 33 young people aged between 17 and 18 years, attending high school or completed, were part of the framework for apprentices in the units of Young Apprentice Program 14,750.70 Santa Catarina, São Paulo and Rio Grande do Sul Priority is given to filling vacancies for apprentices for the children and families of employees. In 2013, the group of apprentices increased to 35 young people. Training of 27 young people between 12 and 14 years as multipliers and environmental advocates. This was held in Campina da Environmental Guards Alegria (SC) and had as partners; Environmental Police from 11,410.00 Concordia (SC), Galeazzo Paganelli School and the Vargem Bonita Town Hall (SC). Total R$ 202,534.62 Sustainability Report 2012 Specific initiatives supported by IRANI Support for APAE Joaçaba (SC) Christmas campaigns In 2012, the Friends of Exceptional ChilEncourages its employees to become involved in the National Santa dren (APAE) in Joaçaba held the 7th BarbeClaus Post Office Campaign. In 2012, the letters brought to the premcued Pig party. 10 employees were mobilized ises of the Company were from the municipalities of Joaçaba, Concórdia, who devoted approximately 98 volunteer Ponte Serrada e Vargem Bonita, located in the surrounding industrial hours to this initiative. The institution is a units in Santa Catarina. Altogether, 99% were sponsored by employees. regional reference for people with disabilities and operates the Festival in order to raise Solidarity campaigns funds for the maintenance of the institution. Two solidarity campaign were internally developed in the Vargem IRANI donated funds and materials for the Bonita Units the Office of Management and Finances. The first worked event which made a profit of R$ 36,800.00 on the collection of warm clothing and blankets, which resulted in the distribution of 1,880 items to the residents of the surrounding com37 munities, while the second campaign focused on the collection and distribution of 217 toys for Christmas for children in these communities. Sustainability Report 2012 Donations in general Based on the Social Responsibility Policy, make donations in their communities around the factory. In 2012, the total value was R$ 25,958.94. In 2011, this value was R$ 10,350.00. 2013 38 Revitalization Project for Campina da Alegria This community is located in the vicinity of industrial plants in Goal Santa Catarina and is comprised of properties owned by Irani Trading Register of all SA, a company controlled by Irani. residents of Campina In 2012, a software program for managing rental property was da Alegria with the goal of obtaining the implemented. demographic profile. IRANI interfaces with the local government to promote initiatives that promote the well-being of residents, such as socio-cultural events and viability of the works cited above. This support promotes a historical review for the community and encourages integration actions and cultural This revitalization project aims to promote improvements in the development. infrastructure of the community and provide welfare to its residents. Apart from residences and commercial The planning of works and inspections are the responsibility of IRANI establishments, there are also other buildwhile the works are carried out by service providers. Whenever posings used for the provision of services to the sible, the hiring of services and purchase of materials from establishcommunity, owned by institutions that are ments it prioritized from the surrounding communities. installed there. In 2012, investment in construction was R $ 1,556,036.18, being 13 renovations of buildings and four new buildings. These new projects include the construction of a catchment system and the reuse of rainwater. 2013 Goal Deliver nine new properties in Campina da Alegria. Sustainability Report 2012 Exclusive on-line content An important sanitation project was carries out in 2012. The system installed makes use of an anaerobic filter with UV lamps, increasing the degree of treatment of the sewage. The substitution of the water duct that belongs to the Companhia Catarinense de Água e Saneamento (Casan) was carried out, responsible for the water supply to the community. The new structure is more resilient and responsive to current standards. The program “Renewing Campina: IRANI and your family doing it together” was launched in 2012 as an initiative to promote Throughout the year, various common use spaces in Campina da improvements in the community with the Alegria were revitalized with the help of partners such as the Associapainting of real estate through a partnertion of Residents of Campina da Alegria (AMOCA), Association of Parship between the residents and the Coments and Teachers from the Basic School Galeazzo Paganelli, Military pany. The IRANI engineering area evaluated Police and the City of Vargem Bonita. These actions were only possible the properties registered in the program and by the optimization of human and material resources available and quantified the necessary materials that were often, through the volunteer work of community members. acquired by the Company and delivered to The central plaza received the installation of new benches and the family, responsible for doing the paintgarbage cans, gardening projects and the playground was renovated 39 ing within an agreed time scale between the . As a preventive action to reduce traffic accidents, crosswalks were parties. The closure is given in the form of marked around this space and traffic signs installed at specific points a small get together party with the family. around the village. Before the official launch of the program, 10 The IRANI Club Irani was also recovered and has adequate space families had already sealed a similar partnerfor holding events, sports and socio-cultural events in its facilities, ship with IRANI. By January 2013, three famwhere today theater and choir workshops are held. In a space attached ily groups were officially included. to the club, the FitnessCampina gym was opened and is available to the community. Sustainability Report 2012 A large clean-up campaign was carried out in Campina da Alegria. Churches, the town square, cemetery, football field, around the sports and recreation complex and vacant lots were cleaned and had the grass cut. Altogether, more than 46 tons of debris were removed with the aid of machines provided by IRANI. Moreover, approximately 50,000 m² of grass was cut, the equivalent of about 10 football fields. In early 2013, the program “Family Garden was launched: cultivate health at home”, with the aim of stimulating the quality of life for residents of Campina da Alegria. This program provided seeds given by the Secretary of State for Rural Development and Agriculture of Santa Catarina, encouraging household consumption of these foods grown in the garden. In 2012, the village bakeries started using bread bags with paper produced by IRANI. This initiative was made possible through a partnership between the commercial area of the Company and Casa Sol, which together have donated more than 50,000 bread bags to these establishments. Throughout the year, training opportunities were offered to the community. The artisans of the Broto do Galho and traders in the Vila Broto do Galho Artisan could participate in courses taught by Brazilian Service of Support for Micro and Small Enterprises (Sebrae) which dealt with topics such as 40 marketing and sales techniques. Through discussions between IRANI, The School of Basic Education Galeazzo Paganelli, the Education Management in Joaçaba and SENAI with the relevant In 2012, the amount of R$ 430,755.52 was transferred to the bodies, 35 young high school students were City of Vargem Bonita (SC) relating to the Tax on Services (ISS). This awarded the course of Electrical Engineering. amount represented 2.75% of the total collected by the municipality. From these young people, 28 belong to the In 2011, the amount transferred represented 2.35% of the total colcommunity of Campina da Alegria and seven lected by the municipality. are from the city of Irani (SC), which provides In 2002 a complementary law was passed in the municipality of transportation and encourages the training Vargem Bonita (SC) in which the responsibility was transferred to of these young people. The course is part of IRANI to withhold the payment of 3% from payments to its providers the National Program for Access to Technical in cases of ISS payments. Of this percentage, IRANI destined 2.5% Education and Employment (Pronatec) and to the municipality and 0.5% to AMOCA as a way to encourage the is performed in before/after school hours on development of the Campina da Alegria community. the premises of the School. In 2012, this contribution totaled R$ 82,603.16. The funds were used for different actions in the village such as the acquisition of equipment and renovation of CampinaFitness gym, community participation in sports tournaments, plus adjustments in the area of the cemetery and equipment for the provision of free wireless internet in the central square. In 2012 Irani allocated, R$ 111,371.41 for cultural projects through incentive laws. Law of incentive Location Value Rouanet Law Porto Alegre (RS) R$ 100,000.00 Cultural Action Program SP Indaiatuba (SP) R $ 11,371.41 (PROAC) Sustainability Report 2012 Araucaria: one of the most beautiful trees, typical of southern Brazil 41 Environment The environmentally responsible production is an IRANI commitment. Seeks to ensure that its activities are consistent with the applicable environmental legislation. Adopts various measures in order to minimize the environmental impacts caused by their activities. In 2012, the main project implemented was the Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) of the Fine Kraft 35gr paper and corrugated packaging. Still in progress, this project will identify in more detail the impacts generated by the manufacture The process of adapting to the implementation of ISO 14001 beof this product throughout its production gan in the industrial units in Santa Catarina and São Paulo. The intenchain. In early 2013, an audit will be conductsification of quality control of the ground and water resources is highed in order to verify and validate the results lighted, realized through the implementation of monitoring wells, the obtained in 2012. drilling of the ground and the adequacy of existing containments. At Targets linked to environmental indicathe SP Unit Packaging, was also held in 2012, the external pre-audit tors of reduction in the generation of waste with the aim of identifying potential weaknesses and plans for correcwater were extended to all employees, in tive and preventive action, considering the certification. 2012, they achieved a significant result. The Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) projects were kept. The Cogeneration CDM is in the revalidation process at the United Nations (UN). The sustainability actions promoted by the Company have resulted in several recognitions, these are available for consultation on the link http://www.irani.com.br/pt/info/premios-e-reconhecimentos Sustainability Report 2012 Solid Waste With the improvements made to the With the implementation of trimmings waste recycling plant,it equipment and the team’s commitment to was possible to contribute to the reduction in waste disposal in landachieving the targets set for the period, we fills, increasing the lifetime the landfill. observed an average increase in the production of moist plastic, on average 21 t /month and a fiber recovery of 10 t / month. In 2012, For more information about the trimmings waste recycling plant, we produced 257.31 tons of moist plastic and visit http://www.irani.com.br/pt/info/gestao-ambiental we recovered 121.41 t of fiber. Total waste generated per unit 218,732 199,370 203,856 201,374 185,742 182,838 9,457 9,500 9,029 9,693 8,416 9,044 211 198 462 42 Paper Mill SC Packaging Unit SP Packaging Unit Resins Unit Total 2010 2011 2012 Note: the increase in waste SP Packaging Unit was due to the excess wood from the new carton machines and wooden pallets that transported the starch that was purchased. We can cite as examples of Class I waste: Total weight of waste generated by type lamps, waste oil and ambulance room waste. 186,170 In Class IIA, are included waste pine and eu177,257 163,716 calyptus bark, calcium carbonate, among others. The Class IIB waste includes glass, metal and others. Through the Solid Waste Management Program, it is possible to maintain specific 32,490 37,461 procedures that guide, appropriately, the 26,460 storage of different types of waste, in order 72 139 197 to avoid possible contamination of natural resources. In 2012, 9.10% were destined for Class I Class II-A Class II-B an industrial landfill that has an environmental license for Class II waste. 2010 2011 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 In 2012, in partnership with the Brazilian Association of Pulp and Paper (BRACELPA), Institute CEMPRE (Business Commitment for Recycling) and other associations, IRANI participated in a project for developing sectoral agreement in response to the request from the Ministry of Environment (MMA) to meet the recycling targets and the National Policy on Solid Waste (PNRS). The document was handed over to MMA in late 2012. Total weight of waste by disposal method 112,375 101,340 102,690 97,035 82,965 73,027 43 The commitment to 19,006 18,454 17,069 sustainability guides all IRANI actions Recycled Recycled Landfill externally internally 2010 2011 2012 2013 Percentage of waste by disposal method Paper Mill GOAL Maintain the waste sent to the 60.40 55.20 landfill below 11%. 42.70 47.95 35.69 29.97 9.34 9.63 9.12 2010 2011 2012 Recycled Recycled or treated Sent to industrial internally (%) externally (%) landfills (%) Sustainability Report 2012 Exclusive on-line content Specific generation of waste Paper Mill Specific waste per 1.01 gross ton 3.75% less than in 2011 0.95 0.95 0.91 Specific waste per 0.89 0.85 net ton 3.82% less than 2011 2010 2011 2012 Ton/gross ton Ton/net ton Note: Gross production is the total production of machines, net production it is the production from the process yield, less gross production losses. Specific generation of waste Specific generation of waste 44 – SC Packaging Unit SP Packaging Unit 0.18 0.137 0.133 0.126 0.16 0.120 0.119 0.15 0.15 0.153 0.148 0.115 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Ton/gross ton Ton/net ton Ton/gross ton Ton/net ton All hazardous waste generated in 2012 Hazardous waste (tons) were transported and treated by specialWaste generated and ized companies, that were trained and enviUnit treated ronmentally appropriate. These contractors 2010 2011 2012 have environmental permits for transportaPaper 8.41 17.43 115.27 tion, as well as for the treatment to meet the SC Packaging 63.00 121.00 121.30 SP Packaging 0.57 1.00 1,12 requirements of the environmental agency. Total 71.98 139.43 237,69 Note: The industrial process at the Resins Unit does not generate hazardous waste, the increase in the Paper Mill waste was due to the reform BrobyOven overhaul, generating a large amount of contaminated construction waste. Sustainability Report 2012 Materials In the production process, a lot of recycled paper (chips) is used. This action enables the generation of economic and social benefits through the generation of employment and income for wastepaper wholesalers and cooperatives, and environmentalists, as the reuse ensures a reduction in the disposal of paper in the landfill, aligned with the National Policy on Solid Waste (Law 12.305 of 08/02/2010). Material consumption in 2012 was equivalent to 753,342 tons, represented by inputs and raw materials such as wood, chippings, paint, glue, soda, borax, paper, wax and resins. Consumption during this period was greater than the previous year due to increased production of the Paper Mill, SP Packaging and Resins. Shavings/chips: raw material for the production of packaging paper Materials used in production 736,786 728,644 753,342 590,943 581,727 601,298 Tons 45 62,062 62,458 62,128 78,159 78,378 81,623 5,623 6,081 8,293 Paper Mill SC Packaging Unit SP Packaging Unit Resins Unit Total 2010 2011 2012 Exclusive on-line content Materials Paper Mill 435,448 451,507 431,142 Percentage of raw material and inputs SC Pack Unit 96.07% 96.21% 96.10% 140,392 136,962 132,499 15,103 13,623 17,291 3.93% 3.79% 3.9% 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Inputs Chips Wood/Timber Inputs Raw Material Sustainability Report 2012 Percentage of raw material and inputs SP Pack Unit 96.83% 96.75% 97.08% 3.17% 3.25% 2.92% 2010 2011 2012 Inputs Raw Material Specific quantities of materials Specific quantities of materials Paper Mill SC Pack Unit 1.15 3.00 3.01 2.98 1.05 1.05 Tons Tons 2.82 2.81 1.02 1.02 1.02 2.78 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Consumption of Consumption of Consumption of Consumption of material/ton. gross material/ton. net material/ton. gross material/ton. net 46 The SP Packaging Unit showed increased Specific amount of materials SP specific amount of materials due to the use packaging unit of soda, borax and beeswax which were not 1.14 accounted for in previous years. 1.11 1.12 1.07 1.07 1.07 Tons 2010 2011 2012 Consumption of Consumption of material/ material/ton. gross ton. net The goal of maintaining the percentage of recycled material at 23%, in 2012, was not achieved. The mix of paper produced was greater for cellulose-based paper than for chip based paper. The percentage of recycled materials in relation to Percentage of recycled materials Paper Mill the total chips used in the Paper Mill 63% 61% 60% 76% 76% 78% 37% 39% 40% 24% 24% 22% 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Recycled materials Non-recycled materials Pulp (virgin fiber) Shavings/Chips (recycled fiber) Sustainability Report 2012 Exclusive on-line content The chips generated in the SC Packaging Percentage of chips recovered from the SC and SP and SP Packaging Units are reprocessed by Packaging Units by the Paper Mill. 10.05% the Paper Mill and used in the manufacture 8.78% 8.20% of new papers. This practice is carried out only between IRANI units because the process enables product traceability. When the chips are purchased in the market, there is no evidence that can prove their origin. 2010 2011 2012 Energy The self-production supplied 69% of the energy demand of the Paper Mill in 2012. The energy was generated by the Company´s Percentage of self-generated and three hydroelectric power plants located purchased energy at the Paper Mill around the manufacturing plant and a ther80% 77% moelectric power plant that runs on biomass. 69% 47 31% 20% 23% 2010 2011 2012 Self-generated Energy Purchased Energy Control room of the Note: the increase in the percentage of energy purchased occurred due to low Co-generation Plant rainfall levels and, consequently, reduced the generation of hydro-power. As shown in the following chart, the amount of energy purchased in the past three years had an average increase of 35.2%. Considering 2004 as the base year, there is an average reduction of 10.29%. Amount of purchased energy and the respective percentage reduction (MWh) 48 55,720 49,985 Quantity purchased (MWh) 10 Respect for the environment: 37,314 32,392 a practice that permeates all IRANI process. 33 42 2004 2010 2011 2012 The reduction in hydro-power generation in 2012 occurred as a Purchased Percentage reduction result of low rainfall. Energy compared to 2004 Thermal power and hydro-power generated in the Paper Mill 249,865 248,292 217,022 220,795 224,388 147,395 2010 2011 2012 Thermal (GJ) Hydric (GJ) Note: hydro-power and thermal energy is generated and used by Flor do Mato Plant: In 2012, the hydroelectric power station was the Paper Mill. Wheras, in the SC Packaging Unit uses steam from responsible for 10.80% of the energy consumed by IRANI the Paper Mill thermoelectric unit. Energy purchased from 2010 to 2012 179,948 49 Purchased Energy (Gigajoule) 134,330 116,611 23,359 25,601 27,448 22,986 22,484 23,095 606 664 879 Paper Mill SC Packaging Unit SP Packaging Unit Resins Unit 2010 2011 2012 2013 Specific consumption of electric power in the Paper Mill GOAL Maintain the specific 0.82 0.82 0.80 energy consumption at 0.80 MWh /net ton Quantity MWh 0.77 0.77 produced at the Paper Mill. 0.75 2010 2011 2012 Power consumption / Energy consumption/ gross production (t) net prod (ton) Sustainability Report 2012 Exclusive on-line content Specific consumption of electric energy Specific consumption of electric energy SC Packaging Unit SP Packaging Unit 0.121 0.119 0.119 0.090 0.089 0.089 Quantity MWh Quantity MWh 0.115 0.115 0.088 0.086 0.106 0.084 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Power consumption / Power consumption Power consumption / Power consumption t gross / t net t gross / t net Note: Because of a change in the formula for calculating this indicator, consumption for the year 2011 is smaller than the result reported in the previous Sustainability Report. For the production of thermal energy, Consumption of biomass to generate energy Paper Mill 50 forest residues, from the Company and from Energy Specific suppliers in the region are used as the main Consumption generated Biomass Period of Biomass (t) from biomass (t)/Energy sources of fuel. Thermal energy is supplied (GJ) Generated (GJ) to the Paper Mill and SC Packaging unit. This 2004 (base year) 319,072 51,354 6.21 uses BPF oil as fuel in the boiler during main2010 415,876 249,865 1.66 tenance to the biomass boiler in the Paper 2011 422,207 220,795 1.91 mill, failing to generate steam for SC Pack2012 403,827 248,292 1.63 aging unit. The SP Packaging unit produces In the Paper Mill, to start the boilers running on biomass, light BPF oil is used as thermal energy via a natural gas boiler. an auxiliary fuel. The specific consumption of biomass/energy generated (GJ) 1.91 Tons 1.66 1.63 2010 2011 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Non-renewable resources used to 2010 2011 2012 generate energy Quantity GJ Quantity GJ Quantity GJ Natural Gas (m ) SP Packaging unit 2 1,463,183 57,078,756 1,481,760.54 57,803,479 1,955,353.92 76,278,356 BPF oil (tons) SC Packaging unit 89 3,600 71.09 2,872 90.3 3,648 Note: Source of the calculation for converting tons in GJ (for BPF oil): IPCC 2006. In 2012, work began on the calculating the amount motors that can be switched off during an interval without interfering in the production of paper. The possibility to shutdown 43 motors were identified, allowing for economies of thermal and electrical energy in the Paper Mill. This work will continue in 2013. Specific steam consumption Paper Mill 5.98 5.89 Specific steam consumption 5.78 per gross ton 1.44% less 5.59 than in 2011 5.51 5.44 Specific steam consumption per net ton was 1.51% less than in 2011. 2010 2011 2012 51 Steam consumption/gross production (t) Steam consumption/net production (t) In 2012, with the use of videoconferencFuel Consumption (L) ing and air travel, it was possible to reduce 178,509 the number of road trips of employees and, 161,948 consequently, reduce the fuel consumption of the Paper Mill, SC Packaging , SP Packag100,044 100,442 ing and Resins units. 29,438 4,115 2010 2011 2012 Logistics Management Gasoline Ethanol As a way to improve the logistics process, reducing the number of trucks on the roads, the cost of freight and GHG emissions, the project Logistic Cockpit was implemented in 2010 in the packaging business. With the support of software, responThrough this project, the SC Packaging Unit reduced 252 freights sible for routing and load arrangement, it is and increased the average loading of vehicles by 2.80% in 2012. This possible to expedite deliveries and ensure resulted in a reduction of 76.08 tons of GHG. In the SP Packaging Unit greater safety and improve the analytical 130 freights were reduced, and the average loading of vehicles has process of the Expedition. increased by 1.38%. Sustainability Report 2012 Water The management of water resources used adopts a set of actions aimed at ensuring a responsible use of natural resources without harming the environment, contributing to its preservation. The main social and environmental benefits is to ensure communities and employees that the rivers, springs and streams in the areas around IRANI are protected under existing laws. Maintain permanent preservation areas, as well as ensure that the waste water is released under appropriate conditions is critical to the Company. Through the use of closed circuits in productive areas, IRANI seeks to reuse water and generate less waste. This also favors the achievement of desired outcomes with indicators linked to profit sharing program. A set of actions carried out in 2013 for the reuse of water in the production process of Exclusive the Paper Mill made it possible to reduce the on-line content amount of wastewater sent to the Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP). These actions Actions that contributed to the reduction of fiber loss: also contribute to reducing the fiber loss. • routine inspections at main points of fiber loss in order to control, in a timely manner, possible significant losses of fibers originating from the process; 52 • communication between the production and sewage treatment areas, in order to monitor the daily fiber loss trends and the flow of waste water; this allows that immediate action can be carried out to reduce the computed indices; • installation of pipework in the reject of the 3rd stage of Paper Machine IV, enabling the closing the circuit during the production of white paper; • installation of pipework to divert the accepted from the static sieve to the fiber recovery system; • substitution of fresh water for clarified water in several points, mainly for sanitizing the environments. Total water draw off by source (m3) Consumo de água Unit Source 2010 2011 2012 Total Percentage Total Percentage Total Percentage Surface – River 5,829,241 99.49% 5,597,552 99.77% 5,525,973 99.81% Paper Casan 29,636 0.51% 12,701 0.23% 10,732 0.19% Surface – River 8,675 55.53% 9,381 60.59% 11,815.82 70.18% SC Packaging Casan 6,946 44.47% 6,101 39.41% 5,020.65 29.82% SP Packaging Artesian well 35,817 100% 29,172 100% 27,365.90 100% Artesian well Unregistered Furniture Samae 998 Artesian well 45,763 Resins Corsan 788 Total 5,911,312 5,654,907 5,627,458 Note: the Furniture Unit was deactivated, and the consumption in the Resins unit was measured from 2012. 1.3% reduction in water draw off Sustainability Report 2012 Specific water consumption – Paper Mill 29.75 28.70 Specific water 27.98 consumption per 27.68 gross ton 3.50% less Quantity m3 than in 2011 2013 26.81 GOAL 25.87 Specific water consumption per net ton. 3.75% less than in 2011 Reduce to 25 m3 the amount of water per 2010 2011 2012 gross ton produced at the Paper Mill. Power consumption/ton. gross Water consumption/ton. net Specific water consumption Exclusive – SP Packaging Unit on-line Specific water content consumption per gross ton 0.491 0.507 10.13% less than in 2011 0.399 0.415 0.381 Specific water 0.359 consumption per net ton. 8.21% less than in 2011. 2010 2011 2012 Water consumption/ton. gross Water consumption/ton. net 53 Specific water consumption SC Packaging Unit 0.291 0.285 0.275 0.260 0.250 0.252 The water used in the production process returns clean back to the river when it was obtained from 2010 2011 2012 Power consumption/ Water consumption/ ton. gross ton. net Note: in previous years, there was no flow meter of water entering SC Packaging, a calculation was carried out to estimate the amount of water consumed. In 2012, this meter was installed to demonstrate the actual volume consumed. Sustainability Report 2012 Through projects carried out in the Paper Mill, it was possible to implement the reuse of water in some processes. Technologies were adopted that allowed keeping water in a closed circuit. Equipment Quantity of recirculated water To ensure that the m³/h m³/month m³/year WWTP HPB 300.00 216,000.00 2,592,000.00 effluent is returned in TG1 450.00 324,000.00 3,790,573.20 2012 TG2 450.00 324,000.00 1,385,712.36 the appropriate conditions TG3 250.00 180,000.00 2,108,086.20 is critical to IRANI Towers 500.00 360,000.00 4,320,000.00 Total 1,950.00 1,404,000.00 14,196,371.76 Percentage of reused water Paper Mill 2013 Maintain the Goal 74% 73% 72% percentage of reused water at least 70%. 2010 2011 2012 54 Exclusive on-line content Water sources that are significantly affected by water draw-off The uptake of water from surface sources comes from two locations, both located in the Rio Chapecó drainage basin, in Santa Catarina belonging to the Uruguay Basin. A draw off point Paper Mill corresponds to a 5.75 hectares reservoir located in Ribeirão da Anta, one of the tributaries of Rio do Mato, where the most important draw off point is located. The surface sources water uptake comes from the SC Packaging Unit Riacho da Anta, belonging to the Uruguay Basin. The uptake of water comes from wells in the SP Packaging Unit industrial plant. Resins In the Resins Unit, the uptake comes from wells. Sustainability Report 2012 Wastewater Treatment Plant: strict control and management of water resources Wastewater In 2012, the deactivation of an aeration pond allowed for greater Maintain tight control of the waste waefficiency. The implementation of the plastic and fiber recycling plant ter and have procedures for managing water enabled the recovery of approximately 121.1 tons of fiber/year, that resources that determine the analysis to be were destined to go to the landfills. This contributed to the lower fiber performed, and the frequency and paramloss and higher efficiency of the waste water treatment system. eters and applicable laws. It has two wastewater treatment systems where the waste, after going through an anaerobic filter and septic tank, is routed 55 Volume of waste water produced (m³/year) to the aerobic treatment in the Waste Water Unit 2010 2011 2012 Treatment Plant (WWTP) in the Paper Mill. Paper Mill 5,160,957 4,761,352 4,497,216 The BOD parameter (Biochemical Oxygen SC Packaging 4,505 4,628.50 13,034 Demand) is used as an indicator of perforSP Packaging 11,616 9,654.90 10,844.40 mance of the wastewater treatment plant in Resins 1,829 2,001.20 3,670.50 the Paper Mill. Total 5,178,908 4,777,637 4,524,764 Reduction Loss of fiber (monthly average) of 5.29% in BOD in the final waste water the volume 2.05 of effluent 1.93 553 433 1.31 1.40 379 0.94 1.00 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 BOD (kg)/Gross ton of Paper Value for IRANI Value for the environment BOD (kg)/Net Ton of Paper Economy of R$ 17,350.40 for Reduction of 54.22 tons of fiber the year 2011 to 2012 by means intended for ETE, improving Note: the increase in BOD is due to the reduction in sludge extraction. of actions to reduce fiber equipment efficiency. Sustainability Report 2012 Specific volume of effluent – Paper Mill Specific effluent per gross ton 7.64% less than in 2011 24.60 26.20 24.40 Specific effluent per Quantidade m³ 22.76 22.50 21.02 ton net 2013 7.71% less than in 2011. GOAL Reduce the amount of waste water 2010 2011 2012 to 20.5 m³ per W. Water generation W.Water generation gross ton produced. / t gross / t net Specific volume of effluent SC Until 2011, monitoring the amount of Packaging Unit waste water generated only covered industrial equipment. In 2012, an increase of flow 0.213 0.221 in the SC Packaging Unit was seen because Quantity m3 IRANI began to also monitor the sanitary waste water. The alteration in this follow0.074 0.084 0.075 0.078 up methodology included an estimate, cal56 culated from the last three months of the year, representing approximately 70% of the 2010 2011 2012 water consumed. This percentage was repliEffluent generation/t gross Effluent generation/t net cated for all months in 2012. In 2013, IRANI implemented a flow-meter that will make the monitoring of the total waste water Specific volume of effluent SP more precise. Packaging Unit 0.16 0.16 Aeration Pond 0.15 0.14 0.14 Wastewater Treatment 0.13 Plant, Paper Mill, Quantity m3 Vargem Bonita (SC). 2010 2011 2012 Effluent generation/t gross Effluent generation/t net Sustainability Report 2012 The trees contribute Emissions to reducing the greenhouse gas effect The outflow points in the production units are periodically monby removing CO2 from itored by the Air Emissions Monitoring Program, establishing a systhe atmosphere tematic analysis of the frequency and parameters for monitoring emissions from stationary sources, air quality, for the preparation of of Greenhouse Gas Inventory(GHG), the vehicle inspections and monitoring odors. 57 Emissions by category Growth of the emissions – Mg CO2 eq Categories of Emissions %2006 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 a 2012 Direct Emissions 71,850 42,557 8,441 10,846 10,823 13,003 17,454 -75,41% Indirect emissions – Energy 1,188 1,013 2,480 1,400 2,432 1,520 738 -37.91% Indirect emissions – Other sources 4,647 5,741 5,945 6,927 9,315 10,414 9,910 124.66% Total 77,685 49,311 16,866 19,173 22,570 24,937 28,102 -62.87% Emissions per ton produced (tons of CO2eq) 0.600 0.484 0.370 0.250 0.210 0.180 0.140 0.130 0.125 0.098 0.094 0.100 0.083 0.090 0.050 0.0565 0.0522 0.050 0.052 0.075 0.074 0.050 0.050 0.050 0.070 0.041 0.027 0.010 0.010 0.010 0.010 0.010 0.02 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Paper Packaging SC Packaging SP Furniture Resins Sustainability Report 2012 The increase in emissions in the Company was largely caused by • increase in emission factors of the Power low volume in the hydroelectric power stations and the consequent Grid, due to the increased use of thermoincrease in in thermoelectric power stations use. There was also an inelectric power stations by the Federal Govcrease in the production of Resins which contributed to the increase in ernment; chemical oxygen demand (COD) in the wastewater treatment. Accord• continuous disposal of solid waste in landing to the calculation of the GHG´s inventory, the greater the output fills; of COD a higher the emissions will be. • increased production in the Unit Resins, and Over the past nine years, IRANI implemented a series of actions to • increase in the accounting of indirect emisreduce GHG emissions. Among these actions, the two main projects sions from other sources (Scope 3). were: the CDM Cogeneration Plant, which has reduced emissions from 135,299 tons to 77,685 tons, from 2004 to 2006; and the CDM project – Modernization of the Wastewater Treatment Plant, which reduced from 77,685 tons to 16,866 tons, from 2006 to 2008. The emissions increased to 28,847 tons in 2012, for the following reasons: * GRID: made up from various forms of energy generation e.g. wind, solar, hydro, thermonuclear, thermoelectric from coal, etc. Total emissions (in tons of CO2eq) 77,685 49,311 16,866 22,570 24,936 28,101 Total removals 19,173 Balance 58 Toneladas CO2 eq Total emissions -447,776 -525,461 -537,625 -527,849 -515,055 -577,160 -622,971 -603,798 -668,534 -675,637 -651,668 -650,701 -728,741 -700,640 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Evolution of GHG reductions (tons of CO2eq) 135,299 111,674 Toneladas CO2eq 77,685 49,311 24,936 28,101 16,866 19,173 22,570 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Exclusive on-line content BPF oil consumption and emissions – SC Packaging Unit 1,347 89 71 90 4.23 0.29 0.23 0.29 2007 2010 2011 2012 BPF oil (amount in tons) BTF Oil (light oil) (emissions. CO2eq tons) BPF oil consumption and emissions Paper Mill 4,530 Over the years, there has been a reduction in BPF oil consumption in the Paper Mill 59 and SC Packaging unit. With the implemen14.21 179 0.57 121.49 0.39 134.52 0.43 tation of Cogeneration Boiler, it was possible to deactivate five firewood and BPF boilers 2007 2010 2011 2012 at the Paper Mill and a BTF oil boiler at the BPF oil (amount in tons) BTF Oil (light oil) (emissions. CO2e tons) SC Unit Packaging. Indirect emissions – Other sources Mg CO2eq Mg CO2 eq Activity Substance 2011 2012 1 – Transport of supplies; Harvest; Forestry Diesel 7,072 6,906 2 – Chain saws, brush cutter Gasoline 139 100 3 – Chainsaws 2 Stroke Oil 97 60 4 – Employee Transport (Paper) Diesel 640 608 5 – Waste Transport Diesel 238 225 6 – Transportation of supplies; Harvest, Forestry, Agricultural Machinery RS Diesel 1,132 1,000 7 – Employee Transport (SP_Pack) Diesel 116 113 8 – Taxi Travel – ADMs/Paper Gasoline 86 68 9 – Support Transportation + Chain saw (RS Forestry) Gasoline 123 72 10 – Motosserras (Florestal RS) 2 Stroke Oil 19 26 11 – Support Vehicles Ethanol 0 0 12 – Road Transport/Van (Bus Line) Diesel 261 151 13 – Employee Transportation – Air Transport (National and International) Kerosene 237 259 14 – Private Landfills Waste 53 28 15 – Transport of employees – RS Forestry Diesel 200 253 Total 10,414 9,868 Sustainability Report 2012 Emissions of Nitrogen Oxides (NOx) and Particulate Matter (PM) from the boilers of the Paper Mill. Atmospheric emissions from stationary sources Paper Mill 5.71 4.79 3.69 2.91 2.23 2.39 2.31 1.95 2.16 1.85 0.33 0.35 Nox-2010 Nox-2011 Nox-2012 MP -2010 MP -2011 MP -2012 Emission/Gross Ton of Paper Emission/Net Ton of Paper IRANI’s challenge is to reduce the emisGHG emissions from employee sions from stationary equipment in accortransportation dance with CONAMA No. 436 dated Decem951 974 60 ber 2011 with a deadline of 2016. 757 Tons 2010 2011 2012 Note: increase in the year of 2012, due to the monitoring of this indicator was extended to the Unit Resins. Emissions of substances that destroy the ozone layer 1,469 1,074 802 Kilograms 41 54 68 6 4 13.6 The increase in the consumption of R-22 Paper Packaging SC Packaging SP in the Paper Mill, SC Packaging and SP Packaging units occurred because of new air-con2010 2011 2012 ditioning equipment acquired in the year. Sustainability Report 2012 2013 GOAL Reduce 34,000 tons of Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) Projects. CO2eq/year only for the Cogeneration Plant Waste water Treatment Registered in the United Nations (UN) as “Irani Biomass Electricity Plant project. Generation Project”. Approved in 2006 and available on thesitehttp:// cdm.unfccc.int/Projects/ DB/DNVCUK1146170596.51 /view. Between 2005 and 2012, the Certified Emission Reductions obtained totaled 1,111,861 tons of CO2eq, Modernization of Until September 2012, while the project lasted as registered in the Wastewater Treatment Plant UN, the certified emission reductions obtained totaled 1,062,208 tons This is registered in the UN as “Irani of COeq, which enabled a financial return of R$11.8 million from the Wastewater Methane Avoidance Project”. sale of carbon credits. I was approved in 2008 and is available at: http://cdm.unfccc.int/Projects/DB/DNVUK1194334826.24/view. Between 2005 and 2012, the Certified Emission Reductions obtained totaled 213,607 tons of CO 2eq. The financial return For more information visit was made possible by R$5.7 million from the http://www.irani.com.br/pt/info/carbono-neutro. sale of carbon credits. Measurements taken 61 545 Environmental Clean-Up Program A partnership with the National Confederation of Transport (CNT), 395 372 the Federation of Cargo and Logistics Transport Company´s in the State of Santa Catarina (Fetranscesc), Union of Cargo Transportation Quantity Companies in the West and Midwest of Santa Catarina (Setcom) and Union of Cargo Transport Company´s from Catanduvas and Region (Setccar). This is carried out in the Vargen Bonita (SC) units and aims to monitor and control the rate of black smoke emitted by diesel ve2010 2011 2012 hicles, mitigating the environmental impacts of the service of transporting products. Note: in 2012, the number of measurements was lower than expected due to the absence All internal and outsourced fleet of vehicles were incorporated into of the technician responsible for the Clean-Up Program between May to August. the program. The measurements are taken monthly by a specialist technician. Vehicles approved in the vehicle inspection 2013 85% 74% Goal 72% 26% 28% To obtain, at least 15% 75% of approvals. 2010 2011 2012 Vehicles approved Vehicles disapproved Sustainability Report 2012 Pampas fox (Lycalopex gymnocercus) Biodiversity Production of native seedlings About 17 thousand native seedlings were produced . Of these, more than 3,000 were Araucaria and Imbuia, endangered species. Initiatives to mitigate the environmental impacts of Throughout the year, we donated more than 8,000 seedlings to the products and services general public and for reclamation areas. Currently, the nursery has • Reduction in the consumption of wood pallets 32,000 native seedlings of several species. The IRANI Seedling Nursby replacing them with corrugated cardboard ery of has capacity for 6 million seedlings. In 2012, 2.5 million Pinus 62 pallets, of a recyclable source. spp. and 500,000 Eucalyptus spp seedlings were produced. • Development of tamper proof corrugated packaging that does not require the use of adhesives, staples and/or glue to seal it. • Under development, plugs for paper rolls, produced from recycled plastic from the chips, waste from the production process. Exclusive on-line content Monitoring the flora in Santa Catarina IRANI develops and supports research with the aim of improving the knowledge about the local flora and fauna and planted forests. The results of these studies help in the improvement of practices and management methods, as well as the identification and definition of environmental indicators. The Survey data on flora, that was carried out until 2011 by Irani in Santa Catarina, revealed the presence of 125 species of tree flora. Of these, five are on the endangered species list of the Ministry of Environment (Instruction # 6 dated 09/24/2008). The species are: Araucaria angustifolia (Araucaria), Ocotea porous (Imbuia), Dicksonia sellowiana (Xaxim), Butia eryospata (Butia) andQuilaja brasiliensis. In 2012, there was no update of this study. Sustainability Report 2012 In 2012, a new methodology was implemented to control the regeneration of forestry invasive species. This procedure aims to control and suppress individualPinusspp. and Eucalyptusspp that are outside the areas of the commercial forest. A survey was carried out to assess the successional stages of native vegetation in the IRANI forests. According to the study, there are 11,656.37 ha of vegetation in the middle to advanced stage, 446.55 ha are in early stages, 1403.68 ha of wetland and 274.5 ha of APP to be recovered as the Conduct Adjustment Declaration (TAC) signed by IRANI and Iraflor. The replanting of approximately 139 native seedlings was carried out in Permanent Preservation Areas (APP) of the Anta Stream, near the industrial areas of Campina da Alegria (SC). This enabled the revegetation of 15.22 ha, 7.28 ha of the Riacho da Anta APP and 7.94 ha in compensation areas by planting 14,000 seedlings of 16 native species to the region. Monitoring of flora in Rio Grande do Sul Monitoring the fauna in Santa Catarina In 2008, a study on the environmental Some projects are developed with the aim of verifying the behaveffects of the management ofPinus elliottii ior and dynamics of wildlife in the coverage areas in Santa Catarina. in Rio Grande do Sul was initiated through The study of “The capuchin monkey (Sapajus nigritus, Cebidae, a partnership with the Federal University of Mammalia) and commercial plantations of Pinus spp.: the problem, its 63 Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS). The objective of causes and management proposals”, done by a partnership between this research is to evaluate aspects of the Embrapa Forestry and Dieter Liebsch, was continued in 2012. management of this species as distribution The Caipora Cooperative for the Conservation and Protection of potential, allelopathic potential, carbon seNatural Resources, the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro and Salquestration in resin forests and surveys of vador Carlos finalized in 2012, the study for a doctoral thesis entitled the species associated with Pinus forests. It “Ecology of the wild boar (Sus scrofa) introduced in Santa Catarina: is expected that the study will be finalized interaction with native musk hogs and the Conservation of the Arauin 2014. caria Forest “. The results of this study made it possible to verify the In 2012, a project was developed by the extent of the invasion of the species, overlapping native species of Center for Biotechnology at the Federal Unipigs, and the frequency of species and management methodology for versity of Rio Grande do Sul (UFRGS) in orcontainment of wild boar population. Studies on the species in the reder to evaluate new pastes for inducing the gion continue. IRANI in partnership with CIDASC, EMBRAPA, EPAGRI production of resin Pinus. The concept is to and the Araucaria National Park are the supporters. replace the use of active imported compoIn 2012, no new fauna study was conducted . Until 2011, 162 bird nents, that are expensive with cheaper adspecies were identified in the field, and of these, at least five have juvants. For this, we seek to achieve the full a relevant interest from the conservationists point of view: Tinamus manifestation of the resin duct potential solitarius; Pionopsitta pileata (Red-capped Parrot); Sporophila melaalready planted forests through the develnogaster (Black-bellied Seedeater); Sarcoramphus Papa (King Vulture) opment of a new enhancer paste, from the and Hylopezus nattereri (Streak-chested Antpitta), because its bioselection of a suitable adjuvant responsible indicators of environmental quality or because it presents a populato be used on a large-scale. tion decline in part of their distributions, 45 of mammals, and, of the species recorded, three are cited as vulnerable on the list of Brazilian fauna threatened with extinction, namely: Puma concolor(cougar); Leopardus pardalis (ocelot) and Leopardus ssp., and 33 amphibians. Sustainability Report 2012 Monitoring the flora in Rio Grande do Sul The fauna monitoring in Rio Grande do Sul has occurred quarterly, since 2011, and aims to gather and analyze information on wildlife, formed by mammals, birds, reptiles and amphibians. Special attention is given to the species considered sensitive, rare and endangered species, identifying the impacts of forestry activities in these communities, supporting, thus, the development of mitigation and compensatory measures. In 2012, IRANI completed one year of monitoring, covering the four seasons. The results obtained point to the occurrence of representatives of the various animal groups, to a greater or lesser frequency, especially for high diversity in the population of birds, recognized as the best bioindicators species of birds belonging to 28 families. The most representative of terrestrial ecosystems, especially forests. families were Anatidae, Ardeidae, Falconidae,Hirundinidae, Sternidae 64 In forest sites located in drainage basin and Tyrannidae. In the group of amphibians, 14 species were identiof the Tramandaí River 28 species of birds fied, with the most representative being the Hylidaefamily. In the belonging to 21 families were identified, with reptiles group, 14 species were identified, with the familiesChelidae a predominance of species in the families and Liolemidae being the most abundant. Furthermore, 12 species of Columbidae and Cucullidae. In the group of mammals were identified, of which, two (Liolaemus occipitalis and mammals, two species were identified, one Ctenomys flamarioni) are cited as endangered at regional, national native, the South American fox (Pseudalopex and world levels. The species of mammals belong to five species and gymnocercus), and the other invasive, the Eu10 families. The the richest specie was the Carnivora. ropean hare (Lepus sp.) Four species of amThe monitoring of the ichthyo fauna was continued in the influphibians and four reptiles were also identified. ence area of the São Luiz Small Hydropower reservoir, Cristo Rei and Monitoring data in forests located in the Flor do Mato reservoir in Ponte Serrada (SC), in accordance with the East Coast Drainage Basin, allowed to the authorization from the Environment Foundation (FATMA) of Santa researchers to evidence the presence of 53 Catarina. Results of Fish sampling in Reservoirs of Small Hydropower (SHP) – 2012 Number of Number of Number of SHP Reservoir families species Copies São Luiz 5 9 600 Cristo Rei 6 11 369 Flor do Mato 5 9 517 Visit the IRANI website http://www.irani.com.br/en/info/environmental-management for more information. Sustainability Report 2012 Impacts and mitigation measures on biodiversity Planted forests of Pinus spp. and Eucalyptus spp. are the basis of actions of the potential impacts of its activiforest management for the production of wood and resin, considering ties, committed to the conservation of biothe growth potential of these species and respecting current legisladiversity in the regions where it operates, in tion regarding protected areas. To perform preventive and mitigating accordance with the following table. Principal impacts on biodiversity Mitigation measures Preservation of native vegetation and existing natural areas (SC/RS); Reforestation Partnerships (SC/RS); Studies of flora and fauna in protected areas (SC); Extensive monoculture with exotic species Restoration of degraded areas (SC); Protected areas forming corridors (SC); Production, distribution and planting of native seedlings (SC); Use of high productivity species (SC/RS); Use of easily dispersible species (Pinus spp.) Control of dispersion in non-commercial area (SC/RS); Signing of a TAC (Conduct Adjustment Declaration) in December 2011 – Planting of Pinus spp. in APP Recovery Project of Degraded Areas in Santa Catarina; People involved in Environmental Education environmental education 1543 hours of employees time was avail4,442 able for Environmental Education projects. In these activities, 3,709 people were involved 3,709 3,352 (employees, students, vendors, customers, 65 community). Hours available for Environmental Education 1,543 2010 2011 2012 1,489 1,476 Note: due to the change in the formula for calculating the number of people involved in environmental education in 2011 the number reported is less than in the previous Sustainability Report. Environmental investments 2010 2011 2012 R$ 7,850,060 Total investments in R$ 5,887,456 environmental protection Environmental actions represented an investment of R$ 5,887,456.46. Most of this, R$ 1,129,793.73, was applied to the final disR$ 1,323,585 posal of solid waste arising from the production process. 2010 2011 2012 More information about the Environmental Education Program are posted on the IRANI website. Check http://www.irani.com.br/en/info/environmental-management and check! Sustainability Report 2012 We are upright, ethical, courageous, friendly and transparent in all our attitudes and relationships. Sustainability Report 2012 Shareholders RANI is a Public company with shares listed under codes RANI3 (Common) and RANI4 (Preferred) belonging to the traditional segment of BM&FBOVESPA. In December 2012, the percentage of shares outstanding(free float) was 9%, and Directors held 88% of the total capital of the company. IRANI Executive Board Shareholding Structure 12/31/2012 Shareholders Common Shares Percentage Preferential Shares Percentage Total Shares Percentage Controllers 134,478,440 90.08% 8,582,660 67.00% 143,061,100 88.26% 67 Treasury shares 1,338,040 0.90% 2,626,100 20.50% 3,964,140 2.45% Shares of directors 312,320 0.21% 437,060 3.41% 749,380 0.46% Shares in Circulation 13,150,940 8.81% 1,164,440 9.09% 14,315,380 8.83% Total shares 149,279,740 100% 12,810,260 100% 162,090,000 100% Channels of communication In order to keep the market informed about its activities and results, IRANI offers shareholders, investors and professionals of the capital markets an Investor Relations website (www.irani.com.br/ ri), in Portuguese, English and Spanish. Distribution of dividends • The Dialog with shareholders and potential invesEnsures, under the law, as a minimum mandatory, the divitors also occurs through the following channels: dend payment of 25% of adjusted net income. • E-mail of the Investor Relations Director,ri@irani. The Annual General Meeting held on April 29, 2013 approved com.br; the distribution of dividends for the fiscal year 2012, amounting to • Contact Us Tool on the IR website; R$ 9,789 thousand, corresponding to R$ 0.0619 per common and • E-mail Alert; preferred share. Income tax will not impact on these values. • Disclosure of Annual Financial Statements and In August 2012 and February 2013, there were two distribuQuarterly Information (ITR); tions of interim dividends from the Profit Reserve existing on the • Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meetings, and balance sheet prepared on December 31, 2011, totaling R$ 28,533 • Sustainability Report. thousand, equivalent to R$ 0.09 per common and preferred shares in each of the distributions. Sustainability Report 2012 Customers Seeks to disseminate their values and knowledge, reinforcing the concept of Customer Focus. Maintains a transparent trade policy, with clear rules for negotiations. Training has been carried out by the IRANI technical team in various clients. The SP Packaging Unit gave 13 training courses, SC Packaging nine, and Paper Mill six. The initiative is a way to strengthen the partnership and it becomes a unique forum for 68 the exchange of information, assistance and search for joint solutions. Products and solutions offered to meet customer needs Sustainability Report 2012 All IRANI products undergo strict quality control 69 In 2012, the Value Sharing project was implemented, this is a partnership between the Commercial and Sustainability areas. The main goal is to provide clients projects and sustainability initiatives that are developed, engaging them in this commitment and contributing to the sustainability of their businesses. The challenge is to create and foster a competitive advantage for customers who increasingly value sustainability and consider this as a differential purchase. The Company understands that sustainability can also be a business opportunity in that customers value the social and environmental practices, certifications and sustainability report as a commitment to transparency. One of the clients who participated in this project was Tirol, based in Treze Tílias (SC). After the visit, they felt encouraged to develop their own Sustainability Report and assumed the challenge for 2013. Product Development Provides a structure for the development of projects for clients from various sectors in which it operates. In the paper business, efforts are directed to the development of inputs, raw materials and new lines of Kraft and recycled paper. In the Packaging business, the focus is the development of packaging for different refrigerated segments, food, fruit, metal mechanical, chemical and others. Sustainability Report 2012 The projects are developed with the Focus on the Customer and they prioritize projects that reduce costs and seek performance improvements, seeking innovative packaging. They are covered in every step of the process, from the seed to the Paper and packaging finished products. For many customers, adjustments were made in the packaging that have provided gains and improvement in the processes and production. 70 In 2012, the 1st Research and Development Workshop was held, focused on the areas of the Company that carry out R & D projects. The goal was to integrate and mobilize professionals, study goals, indicators and project actions to intensify these activities. Cooler Box and My Fellow Ice Multi-functional cardboard packaging to transport and cool drinks. The Cooler Box is directed to beverage manufacturers and eliminates the need to use heat shrinkable material. Directed to the points of sale, My Fellow Ice is a cheaper and environmentally friendly product that replaces EPS or plastic coolers. In 2012, both were recognized by the Embanews Magazine. Sustainability Report 2012 71 Exclusive on-line content The production process starts with the development of projects for the Research and Development area, which assesses the needs and requests of customers, as well as the consumer market trends and strategies IRANI. With the approval of the project by the client, the finished products are delivered together with technical reports that contain relevant information on the product specification, closely following the technical specifications and procedures of ISO 9001 (2008). The paper and the packaged supplied to the food industry are identified as products that can interfere with food security, that is why the impacts on the health and safety of clients from concept development to its disposal after use, are assessed. They are also aligned to the requirements of ISEGA and RoHS Directive and comply with the ANVISA Ordinance #177/99. Also guaranteed by Good Manufacturing Practices are the FineKraft, FlashKraft, FlatKraft, FlexiKraft Pardo and White lines. The reports of the suitability to this ANVISA Ordinance regarding the total and specific metals migration, optical brighteners and the dye, and the content of polychlorinated biphenyls and halophenols were renovated in 2012. Customer Satisfaction Survey Held annually, the Customer Satisfaction Survey considers factors such as: customer identification with the Company’s values, influence of sustainable actions in the purchase decision, contribution to the customer´s business, product quality and service, indicate IRANI to other companies by the client and the client’s perception by means of a word that summarizes, in his conception, the relationship with IRANI. The customers' satisfaction survey is an important tool to understand customers' perceptions in relation to the Company Paper Customers Packaging Customers AVERAGE SATISFACTION INDEX 72 (Scores 1-5, from (1) “Strongly Disagree” to (5) “Strongly Agree”) Customers Customers surveyed surveyed Packaging Packaging 114 286 Paper SP SC 2010 4.3 4.2 3.9 2011 4.35 4.2 4.1 Total answers Total answers 2012 4.4 4.2 4.1 63 130 (28 Full (44 Full 35 Summarized) 86 Summarized) Scores 1-5, from (1) “Strongly Disagree” to (5) “Strongly Agree” Paper SP Packaging SC Packaging Evaluated Items 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Influence of sustainable initiatives 4.2 4.3 4.3 4 3.9 3.9 4 3.7 4.0 on the customer’s buying decision Contribution to the customers business 4.35 4.3 4.4 4.2 4.1 4.1 4.4 4.1 4.3 Quality of products 4.6 4.6 4.75 4.4 4.4 4.3 4.3 4.2 4.2 Quality of services 4.15 4.35 4.4 4.1 4.2 4.3 3.9 4.1 4.1 If the client indicates IRANI to other companies 4.45 4.5 4.4 4.5 4.3 4.4 4.4 4.6 4.6 If the delivery time is better – 4.0 4.2 – 4.0 4.0 – 3.6 3.6 than that of its competitors If the Company provides a differential – 4.1 4.2 – 4.0 3.9 – 3.8 3.7 service in relation to its competitors If the cost-benefit of shopping with – 4.1 4.2 – 3.3 3.5 – 3.4 3.4 IRANI is the best on the market * Essa questão foi incluída na pesquisa a partir de 2011. Sustainability Report 2012 Suppliers Sustainability in the supply chain Growth of the performance index score of suppliers (IDF) IRANI has specific procedures that comprise the practice of identification, qualification and evaluation of contracted providers. It seeks 92.39 89.62 to identify and prioritize suppliers to develop sustainable practices. The quality of products and services, as well as the effectiveness of business process and communications providers, is determined through an evaluation that results in the providers performance index (IDF). Suppliers are evaluated periodically and different criteria are used according to the specific purchasing group to which they belong, and this assessment generates an absolute value between 0-100 points firmly in the IDF, with annual closing. The frequency of evalu2011 2012 ation varies by buying group which are divided into five categories: provision of critical services, consumable materials and consumption and external critical services, critical products and chemicals, transport service and logistics for dispatch and FSC and forestry products. The IDF is used to strengthen partnerships and ensure the continuity of business relationships, beside informing suppliers about their performance in the supplies and services performed, as well as to provide the means to those who are below the minimum score, so they can develop actions through an Action Plan. 73 IRANI endeavors to identify and boost relationships with supplier customers to develop sustainable practices. Aiming to encourage good practices of transparency and further engage suppliers in the sustainability theme, IRANI adopted the GRI initiative “Report or Explain”. In this practice, one may question the suppliers about the publication of sustainability reports. If the supplier does not publish this, a justification is required and also an invitation to participate in workshops will be sent that will be held on the subject in 2013, by the GRI. Responsible for the development of local business partnerships, Irani seeks to increase the percentage of purchases of products from the localities around its business units. In 2012, the total value of purchases with local suppliers was R$ 58,001,810.88, representing 16.74% of the total purchases made by the Company, and 3% higher than the purchases of local suppliers in the previous year, which totaled R$ 54,063,036.32. In 2010, this represented 14.51% of the total purchased. Sustainability Report 2012 74 Conteúdo exclusivo on-line Shopping with suppliers in the surrounding communities. Municipality 2010 2011 2012 Balneario Pinhal (RS) 691,565.73 821,307.23 128,363.25 Catanduvas (SC) 2,452,227.44 2,877,177.98 2,397,260.72 Cidreira (RS)* – – 361,781.76 Concordia (SC) 3,176,348.08 4,209,350.00 4,941,349.44 Herval d´Oeste (SC)* – – 253,655.85 Indaiatuba (SP) 1,991,281.19 1,538,743.75 963,667.16 Irani (SC) 17,052,084.37 17,768,630.69 17,529,532.55 Joaçaba (SC) 6,766,643.77 7,402,221.60 8,210,107.44 Luzerna (SC)* – – 661,818.93 Ponte Serrada (SC) 7,032,331.48 10,148,331.65 10,983,462.93 Rio Negrinho (SC) 1,437,831.48 139,824.87 48,433.91 Santana de Parnaíba 1,874,401.87 1,179,420.78 – (SP)** Salto (SP)* – – 307,622.30 Sao Bento do Sul (SC) 4,152,223.04 540,265.30 257,599.78 São José do Norte (RS)* – – 2,470,071.51 Vargem Bonita (SC) 6,854,200.83 7,437,762.47 8,487,083.35 Total 53,481,139.28 54,063,036.32 58,001,810.88 Notes: * monitoring of purchases at these locations began in 2012. Operations ** in this city were closed, and the community ceased to be regarded as being in the surroundings of IRANI. Sustainability Report 2012 The 1st Meeting of Resin Producers was held in Balneário Pinhal (RS). Owners ofpinusforests, resin producers, leaders and IRANI employees got together. This allowed them to reaffirm the commitment to these public and disclose the intention to broaden partnerships. In 2012, in Santa Catarina, the 1st Meeting of IRANI Reforestation Partners was. This brought together employees and partners in order to discuss the current situation of the forestry program and foster partnerships in the region where the Company operates. In 2013, IRANI will seek to maintain this initiative to keep nearer to its partners. In 2012, the 3rd Technological Week brought together suppliers, partners, customers, students and employees, promoting the exchange of experiences and the generation of 46 ideas. With the theme “Innova75 tion in the Supply Chain” suppliers presented new product technologies and processes. The event brought together more than 160 people. In Campina da Alegria (SC) the Integration Workshop of Suppliers was held. The integration aligned with issues related to safety, occupational health, the environment and the legal documentation, corporate policy enabled The principal means of communication with the Company to spread corporate policies of suppliers, are the Sustainability Report, the inthe Company. stitutional site and the tool “Contact Us” that is available on the IRANI portal for On-line quotes and direct contact with negotiating team. Adequate remuneration according to the legislation, as well as food, transportation and life insurance are offered to outsourced workers. All forms of child or slave labor are repelled. IRANI performs periodic inspections of the companies that cater for the activities related to forestry operations. A risk assessment of suppliers of wood and paper is made, in line with the standards of FSC certification. There is also a verification program which includes wood suppliers, which occurs through audits, to investigate compliance with the Timber Procurement Policy and FSC principles, including aspects related to human rights. Sustainability Report 2012 The practice of consulting the “black list” of the Ministry of Labor and Employment (MTE), which is carried out at the time of registration was extended to all suppliers. The verification and maintenance of this information is effected according to release of the updated list on the MTE site. Periodic meetings with contractors in the forestry areas are held, in order to provide feedback regarding the provision of the service in their own areas. Matters of common interest are also addressed in the improvement in the development of activities are discussed. There is also the dissemination of legal environmental information related to health and safety at work. The contracts with suppliers and service providers have, since 2009, included a clause relating to human rights, service quality and the environment. Exclusive on-line content Number of service providers 789 76 774 769 The resin extraction process Horto Florestal HF4, Balneário Pinhal (RS) 2010 2011 2012 Number of service providers (per business unit) 420 434 389 230 203 210 67 66 66 78 77 3 3 3 9 9 0 34 0 2 1 3 4 0 0 8 0 0 5 0 3 2 0 Corporative Paper Furniture Packaging Packaging Resins MMM IRANI HABITASUL Iraflor HGE SC SP Trading Florestal 2010 2011 2012 The IRANI Supplier Project ended 2012 with long-term contracts signed with 52.67% of its suppliers. Despite not reaching the 60% target set for the period, there was an increase compared to the results presented in the last quarter of 2011, which was 40.70%. This is justified because of the difficulties encountered in the market in the first half of the year and, consequently, reducing the contractual purchasing volumes of some important items for the composition of this indicator. Sustainability Report 2012 The Urban Forest Project also did not achieved the target set at 2013 GOAL IRANI Supplier Project, retain 80%, ending the year with 72.41% of chip vendors with purchases sta60% of the suppliers with ble. However, they also showed growth, if the result is compared to long-term signed contracts in the Urban Forest Project, retain the last quarter of 2011, which recorded a rate of 61.76%. The reduced 80% of the suppliers of chips availability of chips in Rio Grande do Sul during the year caused IRANI with stable purchases. to reduce the quantities drawn from existing contracts with some suppliers, with their consent, to ensure the economic balance of this raw material. Governments and Society The generation of employment and income is one of the indirect economic impacts of the presence of IRANI in the surrounding areas of its units. Leaders maintain relationships with representatives of municipal, state and In 2012, there was continuity in the federal governments in order to encourage movement carried out by IRANI and Junior the use of public funds in infrastructure and Achievement of Santa Catarina with the welfare in the regions where it operates. It Municipal Educational Secretary of Joaçaba pro-actively supports and develops programs (SC) for the training of teachers, seeking the and social involvement. implementation of the program Our Planet, Our Home in schools. Representatives of the Management of Education working in state 77 schools were also engaged and developed the application of the program Attitude for the Planet in the schools in Joaçaba Herval Pro-actively, IRANI supports and develops d’Oeste (SC). actions and social involvement Sustainability Report 2012 The development of the nuclei of the SESI program; Athlete of the Future supported by IRANI the municipalities of Irani (SC), Vargem Bonita (SC) and Ponte Serrada (SC) and the core from Balneário Pinhal (RS) have support from local governments that are responsible for providing the venue where the activities are performed. In 2012, as part of efforts to strengthen trix (see chapter About the Report) and they engagement with stakeholders, IRANI held will serve as inputs for the strategic planning three stakeholder panels with Communiof the Company. ties, Government and Society in Campina da Through their leadership, IRANI will parAlegria (SC), Balneário Pinhal (RS) and Inticipate with business entities and class asdaiatuba (SP). Customers and suppliers were sociations representing the industry and also consulted through panels. The demands strategic to their business. The main bodies from these groups were discussed internally and associations involved are Brazilian Assosupported in developing the materiality maciation of Pulp and Paper (Bracelpa), Brazilian 78 Sustainability Report 2012 Association of Corrugated Board (ABPO), Gaucho Association of Forestry Companies (AGEFLOR), Santa Catarina Association of Reforestation (ACR), Junior Achievement Association, Association of Pulp and Paper Industries in Santa Catarina (Sinpesc) Cardboard Industry Union in Sao Paulo (Sinpesp), Union of Manufacturers of Pulp, Paper, Cardboard and Cork in Rio National Park, Drainage Basin Committee of Grande do Sul (Sinpasul) and the Commercial the Rio Irani/Chapecó, Chip (Wooden Chips) Association of Porto Alegre and Commercial Committee and the Industrial Waste Comand Industrial Association of Western Santa mittee coordinated by Sinpesc, which is a Catarina (ACIOC). group of pulp and paper companies formed IRANI also participates in discussions of to discuss the proposal for the creation of regional concern regarding the environment the new Conama Law relating to atmoand business environment, such as Forestry spheric emissions in the industry for existing Dialogs, Advisory Board of the Araucarias sources, approved in December 2011. Campina da Alegria Community Vargem Bonita SC 79 IRANI supports health, wellness, culture and leisure actions for the community of Campina da Alegria (SC). Sustainability Report 2012 We believe that people in permanent development, happy and working together makes all the difference Sustainability Report 2012 Employees RANI believes that a company is formed mainly by people and by investing heavily in their development, it is possible to achieve excellence. Creates conditions for the employees to perform to their full potential, developing professionally and personally. Programs, projects and activities are built that assist in this process and offer adequate working conditions, providing the opportunity for development and establishing a positive work environment. CRESCE (GROWTH) Program This aims to qualify and prepare employees for the challenges of the Company, promoting or assisting training, external or in company courses and 81 events related to the work. It focuses on the realization of actions for the technical improvement and behavior of people through the development of 10 competencies that are divided into basic skills (Quality Culture, Leadership, Communication, Planning, Organization and Control, Focus on Results) and the distinguishing topics (Customer Focus, Entrepreneurship, Creativity and Innovation R & D, Technology, and Building Relationships ). In 2012, a review of the skills assessed by the Program was performed, aligning them to the new Strategic Plan. This review will be applied in 2013. IRANI provides conditions for employees to perform at their full potential Investment in Training (in R$) 2010 2011 2012 Training and Development 761,144.73 1,786,599.55 1,759,331.00 Educational incentives through subsidies 303,433.27 646,305.37 848,124.05 Investment in Training and Development 2% lower than in 2011 is justified by the increase of training conducted internally. Sustainability Report 2012 Average hours of training per employee category Category Total hours Number of employees Average hours of training 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Leadership Executive Board 473 612 768 6 6 5 79 102 154 Management 1,602 2,112 4,215 21 27 33 76 78 128 Supervisors 4,758 5,000 6,322 134 141 126 36 35 50 Administrative 5,964 5,607 5,987 191 212 246 31 26 24 Technical 3,483 4,286 5,352 190 198 207 18 22 26 Operational 25,728 26,845 28,341 1,145 1,138 1,149 22 24 25 Total 42,008 44,462 50,985 1,687 1,722 1,766 25 26 29 Schooling 795 737 814 278 182 228 265 155 147 84 198 133 170 120 133 124 120 67 115 103 60 107 82 7 8 Basic Eduction Basic Eduction High School High School Higher Higher Graduate Graduate Masters Not-terminated Terminated Not-terminated Terminated education education Not-terminated* Terminated* Terminated* Not-terminated Terminated 2010 2011 2012 Note: in 2011, monitoring the levels of post-graduate and masters was started. Sustainability Report 2012 Exclusive on-line content The number of employees receiving educational incentives. MBA/Graduate Under-Graduation Technical Languages Unit 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Corporative 31 27 40 19 17 15 0 1 0 18 22 24 Paper Mill 9 54 42 35 50 56 27 93 61 7 4 11 SC Packaging 1 19 14 16 19 18 1 68 43 4 3 6 SP Packaging 23 15 12 11 34 36 0 3 1 1 10 14 Resins 1 0 1 5 2 3 3 1 0 0 0 8 Furniture 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Trading 0 0 0 3 4 3 0 0 0 2 3 4 MMM 0 2 2 1 4 2 0 0 3 2 1 1 TOTAL 65 117 111 90 130 133 31 166 108 34 43 68 Altogether 139 83 employees were trained in technical courses, and graduate qualifications were held in company In 2012, the technical courses in Pulp and Paper, Mechanical and Electrical course and qualification in Industrial Maintenance were finalized. In Company Courses were developed between a partnership with IRANI, School of Basic Education Galeazzo Paganelli and SENAI/ SC units in Campina da Alegria (SC). Likewise, in partnership with Senai / SC, in 2012, the Technical Course in Electrical Engineering in the School Galeazzo Paganelli in Campina da Alegria (SC) was started, based on the National Access Program for Technical Education and Employment (Pronatec). The participants are employees, their children and residents from the surrounding communities. The Graduate Sensu Lato course in Pulp and Paper held in company by an agreement signed with the Federal University of Viçosa (MG), will be completed in 2013 and is projected to train 23 employees. IRANI believes that teamwork is essential to the development of people and the company Sustainability Report 2012 Elida de Freitas e Castro Druck Library, in Porto Alegre 84 To reinforce that employees share knowledge, from 2012 those who participate in external training undertake to pass on their acquired knowledge. In addition, employees who received grants provide a copy of their of course completion work in The Elida de Freitas e Castro Druck Library in Campina da Alegria (SC). The works conducted internally were intensified in 2012. Preparatory and refresher courses were held and addressed the applicable 2013 Achieve 94% of Goal regulatory standards. compliance of the The Cine Popcorn sessions in the Paper Mill and SC Packaging unit expectations in the evaluations to the were continued, seeking the integration of employees and the discusreaction to the trainings sion about skills. The experiential work, complementing the technical conducted by internal staff. skill, aim to develop emotional intelligence, apart from knowledge, skills and attitudes related to the competence of the GROW In addition, there was, in 2012, saw the closure of the current and Program. 392 employees were involved. potential Leadership development cycle of the Academy of Leaders. Was also carried out, internally, and open air The planning a new concept of program will begin, starting in 2013. training course (TEAL) called The IRANI EcoThis is a specific job, in order to enhance the development of the integration Project, focusing on teamwork full exercise of leadership is carried out in partnership with a consulwith employees from the Packaging SC unit . tant, psychologist, using a methodological approach based on the principles of overcoming and reflected action, from a cultural change. The educational actions developed through theater workshops and singing were continued in 2012. The groups are composed of employees and their families, partners and service providers, as well as people from the surrounding communities. Sustainability Report 2012 Elida de Freitas and Castro Druck Library In 2012, the Elida de Freitas e Castro Druck Library continued its acIRANI offers adequate tivities, expanded its collection to 4,300 titles and made 1,998 bookloans.The Library, in Campina da Alegria (SC), is the result of a partworking conditions and nership with SESI/SC. Several actions were carried out in this space, provides development such as training and thematic meetings, in addition to the constant use of the media center by employees, for research and studies. Also, opportunities, establishing in 2012, an action was performed in the mobile library at the Packaging Unit SP. a more pleasant work That same year, a project was implemented called Open your environment. Drawers that encourages employees to donate books to the library with the aim of sharing knowledge. Growth of the results of the MOTIVATE Program Organizational Climate Survey To provide a stimulating and motivating organizational climate is (average in %) the main objective of this program. IRANI believes that this stimulus 75 assists in creating the identity of the employees with the company and the shared responsibility for its growth. Held every two years, the Organizational 65 65 Climate Survey is the main tool of this program. In 2012, a specialized company conducted the research in all units and subsidiaries. 85 2008 2010 2012 The return rate of questionnaires was 84%, while the 2010 cycle was 63%. As a result, we determined the rate of employee satisfaction was 75%, 10 percentage points higher than the last survey cycle. From the diagnosis from this Research, a workshop with the leaders was held for the preparation of action plans for the identified improvement opportunities and will be implemented in 2013. To support the realization of this proThe return rate gram Groups to Support Climate Manageof the satisfaction survey in 2012 ment were created, responsible for assisting was 84% the leadership in organizing events, and raise specific demands of employees and develop actions aimed at integrating people and streamline actions focused on improving the organizational climate. In 2012, three new groups were created, one in the Resins Unit, one in the Administration and Finance Office and one in the Main Office in Porto Alegre. The work of the groups of the other units were continued. Sustainability Report 2012 By investing heavily in the development of people it is possible to achieve excellence SUPERA Program Annually, all employees receive a performance report based on the results obtained in the program which is structured to the manageOverall average of competency assessments of the Supera Program ment culture and individual performance and (Scale 1 to 4) the feedback. This aims mainly at the development of people and stimulates meritocracy. 3.30 The stimulus to productivity, talent identification and recognition of 3.26 differentiated performance are other important goals. According to the result of cross-referencing the assessment of individual skills and results, the SUPERA Program provides for the payment of a portion 3.11 of up to 150% of nominal wage of employees at the end of each cycle. 86 The leaders were trained, after the verification of the results of this program, to provide feedback on the performance of individual employees and trace action plans for their development. 2010 2011 2012 One can perceive a clear impetus for the achievement of goals and teamwork in the pursuit of superior results. 2013 GERA Program Together with other structural programs, this GOAL seeks to internally strengthen the Company This ensures that new employees are suitable and 75% annual retention of are integrated to the organizational culture, and contracted employees. they are accompanied in their development and at the end of the professional relationship, the growth of both the employee as well as IRANI is recognized. The goals include increasing longevity of the teams and the acAnnual retention (in %) tions promoted by the leaders, reduced turnover, increased retention and the development of people. 72.47% 66.81% In 2012, a review of hiring and integration practices was performed and this started the alignments for the process of the termination of employment contract. In 2012, the retention after experience period was consolidated at 93.05%, a result viewed as a benchmark in the market. Employees hired in 2011 who remained in IRANI throughout 2012 totaled 72.47%. The hiring and retention of the period 2010/2011 were calculated to 2010/ 2011 2011/ 2012 be 66.81%. Sustainability Report 2012 Number of Interns (Consolidated) The IRANI Internship Program, another method for retaining talent, favors the development of future professionals, adding value to 57 50 the Company and educational institutions, as reflected in the region 42 where they are located. Internal recruitment The vacancies are only open to external recruitment processes when the requirements for jobs are not attended by employees. 2010 2011 2012 Percentage of positions filled through internal recruitment (consolidated) 52.10 62.5% of interns were 50.53 hired as permanent 49.51 employees. 2010 2011 2012 Exclusive on-line 87 content Percentage of positions filled through internal recruitment (per business unit) 88.88 78.95 66.66 66.67 51.72 50 43.9 47.9 40 32 33.33 0 0 0 0 Corporative Paper Packaging SC Packaging SP Resins 2010 2011 2012 Gymnastics in the workplace: one of the ways to ensure the well-being of employees Sustainability Report 2012 CUIDA Program Number of lost time accidents Structured and constituted with a focus on (Consolidated) human behavior and the environmental conditions at work, the main objective of this pro23 23 24 gram is to reduce accidents through the analysis of causes and elimination of actions and/or conditions that have any possibility of causing 2010 2011 2012 personal or material injury to employees. This aims to establish an integrated model of health management and safety in the workplace. 2013 The methodology consists in the creation of guidelines and procedures prepared by specialists in each unit, in study groups, respecting GOAL their particularities. The work takes into account the current practices, Reduce to 18 the applicable laws and makes an alignment with the OHSAS 18001 stantotal number dard. Once completed and approved by the leadership of the company, of lost time accidents. the employees linked to the issue receive classroom training on the new guidelines and new procedures. In 2012, there were 24 lost time accidents. This is currently in the process of adapting the routines. In all, Although the goal has not been reached, there are more than 20 studies related to health and safety activities there was a 35% reduction in the total numby 2016, deadline for completion of the program. ber of accidents with and without lost time. For 2013, efforts will be intensified, and the goal will be retained. 88 Exclusive on-line content Lost time occupational accidents per unit 16 11 8 7 6 5 5 5 2 2 2 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 Corporative Paper Packaging SC Packaging SP Resins Habitasul/ Florestal 2010 2011 2012 In 2012, there were five accidents with lost time of IRANI service providers. Percentage of the total workforce represented in formal health and safety committees and commissions. Number of participating employees Percentage Committee/Commission of employees Paper Mill SC Pack SP Pack Resins represented Internal Commission for the Prevention of Accidents 22 8 8 6 100% – CIPA Noise Control Committee 12 1 1 * 50% Emergency Brigade 64 19 54 10 100% Safety and Excellence Dialogs (DSE) 655 300 360 60 100% CUIDA Program 8 8 9 5 100% Note: * there are no committees or commissions in these units. Sustainability Report 2012 Safety at work: one of IRANI´s priorities The Service Specializing in Safety and Occupational Health (Sesmt), together with the Internal Commission for Accident Prevention (CIPA) in the units, is responsible for acting in the planning, technical support and guidance to the policies, guidelines and strategies for health and safety, focusing on accident prevention and improving the quality of life of employees. Exclusive 89 on-line content Blood Donation Campaign IRANI encourages its employees to perform a voluntary blood donation and allows this to be held during working hours, as provided in the Volunteer Policy. Throughout the year, 54 employees contributed to the supply of the Blood Bank of Concordia (SC) and the Hematology and Hemotherapy Center of the Santa Catarina (HEMOSC) – Joaçaba Unit. Vaccination Campaign Against Influenza In 2012, a campaign to encourage the vaccination of employees against the common flu and H1N1 was carried out. All together, 1,030 employees have joined the campaign and were vaccinated for free. Training of the Emergency Fire Brigade This is made up of volunteer employees who receive training on first aid, care when working at a height and in confined spaces and are responsible for coordinating the abandonment of the units in case of emergencies. In 2012, the Brigade was reinforced with new members. In 2013, training will be conducted monthly, aimed at actions to improve and enhance the Brigade members. It is intended to form rescue teams to work each shift in the Paper Mill and Packaging units SC. Sustainability Report 2012 Internal Commission for the Prevention of Accidents – CIPA CIPA works in accordance with the Health and Safety Policy at Work and strives for excellence in this area, constantly improving the quality of work life of employees and service providers. In partnership with Sesmt, it develops initiatives that aim to promote the health and well-being of people. Some of the components of this group are elected by the employees of each unit and another part is indicated by the Company. The Internal Week for the Prevention of Accidents (SIPAT) was carried out in 2011, integrating the Paper Mill and Packaging Units and outsourced company´s The highlight was the realization of activities and campaigns aimed at human behavior in health and safety. In the Packaging Unit SP, SIPAT was performed theatrically with events in all shifts. General rules of Occupational Safety and Health were implanted, disseminated through pamphlets and lectures to all employees. 90 Safety and Excellence Dialogs (DSE´s) Sesmt has various instruments to enErgonomics courage the prevention of accidents and the The program covers all units, aiming at the globalization of the emergence of occupational diseases. The service, respecting environmental, labor and cultural differences in DSE´s (SDR´s) are lightning-training that are each unit serviced. The ergonomic analysis of the work were comheld daily, weekly or according to the schedpleted in the Paper Mill and Packaging Units in SC and SP. For these ule of each area, whose goal is to provide ergonomic analysis, tools and specific methods are used that assess prior knowledge to the employees about the physical loads, cognitive and organizational. This is a work of continurisks of the work environment and the preous improvement that can reduce the number of medical certificates. ventive measures that should be adopted. Gymnastics in the Company IRANI offers workplace exercises and Physiotherapy to employees and service providers at the Paper Mill, SP and SC Packaging Units and the Corporate Office in Joaçaba. This is carried out by service provider companies. Since 2011, the SC Packaging unit carries out an innovative project that uses isostreching techniques and other physiotherapy approaches in the search for global preventive work. Worker Hearing Quality Program (PQAT) The PQAT guides the implementation of programs aimed at the prevention of hearing loss induced by high sound pressure levels and the conservation of hearing health. The control is done through periodic assessments in line with the criteria of the regulation standard 7 (NR7). In 2012, now has two more speech therapy professionals who provide services to IRANI, responsible for audiometric testing. Sustainability Report 2012 Integrated Noise and Ergonomics Respiratory Prevention Program Committee (CIRE) This is a program requested by the Ministry of Labor which aims This committee seeks the continuous to ensure that all workers in the performance of their professional acimprovement of working conditions for emtivities, have their health conditions, especially respiratory, preserved. ployees in the Paper Mill for the well-being The program is to assist, train and empower employees. The Sesmt of the employee and the optimization of proprofessionals are responsible for implementing the program in the duction considering the physical, ergonomic units and disseminating the acquired knowledge . In 2012, we started and noise hazards. In 2012, several ideas the environmental review of the Paper Mill and SC Packaging Units of the first campaign of Goods Ergonomics and collected air samples for analysis from various sectors. In a future Practice and Noise Reduction, held in 2011, stage, employees will be monitored to identify possible exposure levwere taken and discussed with leaders and els that may be harmful to health, so that efficient control measures many improvements were made. In 2013, are adopted and implemented. the work will continue to focus on health and worker safety. Anti-smoking Plan In January 2012, a rule banning smoking on Company premises entered into force. This measure aims to improve the quality of life and health of employees. The breach of this rule is punishable by disciplinary punishments described in the Internal Rules. The average number of people person who quit smoking related to those adhering to treatment is 25.47%. This percentage is above the average of the programs offered by government institutions. 91 Total No. of smokers 183 Number of participants in the Anti-smoking training Plan 165 No. of employees who adhered to the treatment 106 No. of employees who ceased smoking 27 Percent Efficacy 25.47% Sustainability Report 2012 Get to know the other initiatives in the area of People Development promoted focusing on employees. Rediscovering Values Project This aims to provide guidelines for employees in a pre-retirement phase. This is an initiative of the Department of Personnel Development, through the area of Social Services with the support of several departments. In 2012, a meeting was held with 13 participants, led by the legal department. Family in the Company In 2012, several meetings were held in the Family in the Company Program. The SP Packaging Unit again received the families of employees and gathered about 250 people. The Resins Unit and the HFLOR subsidiary gathered about 200 people. 92 Juliana, an employee, with her husband at the SP Packaging Unit Sustainability Report 2012 Communication Communication is done through the leadership and with the support of of notice boards in the workplace,blogs on innovation and sustainability, tools that allow employees to include discussions on social and environmental issues that they consider important, and through Mundo IRANI (intranet), in which the tool Contact Us is available for sending manifestations. In 2012 the Internal Communications Management Group was created comprising of representatives from various areas and units, with the aim of improving and integrating internal communication. A diagnosis was conducted by a consulting firm specializing in endomarketing in order to assess the current status of the issue in IRANI. One of the results made it possible to show that when it comes to relevant information, the leadership appears as the most important communication channel. The planning and implementation of actions will be undertaken in 2013. 99% of citations related to IRANI were positive. 93 Sustainability and Growth among the most mentioned words. Labor practices and Decent work The Consolidation of Labor Laws (CLT), the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights uphold the IRANI labor relations, as well as the Code of Ethics, Social Responsibility Policies and adherence to the Global and Business Compacts for Integrity and the Fighting of Corruption. In this sense, it valorizes compliance regarding labor practices and promotes decent work, respecting the privacy and diversity of employees and not contributing to discriminatory attitudes or that interfere with freedom of association and collective bargaining. Child labor, forced or compulsory labor CLT is fully respected, and issues such as child labor and forced or compulsory labor are included in the Social Responsibility Policy. Conducting of monitoring in all units in relation to compliance to the minimum age requirement of 18 years for hiring employees, except as apprentices. Sustainability Report 2012 Number of employees (by gender) Number of employees 1,378 1,394 1,434 (consolidated) 1,766 1,722 309 328 332 1,687 Men Women 94 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Number of employees (by job category) 1,145 1,138 1,150 174 191 212 245 190 198 207 161 164 Leadership Administrative Department Operational 2010 2011 2012 Age group (consolidated) 846 839 837 487 528 457 280 285 284 87 90 96 17 21 21 Up to 30 From 31 to 40 41 to 50 years 51 to 60 years Over 60 years years of age years of age of age of age of age 2010 2011 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Time with the Company (Consolidated) 696 701 597 345 356 288 271 302 317 217 237 177 86 80 103 64 51 58 48 47 41 27 28 38 Up to 1 year 1 to 5 years 5 to 10 years 10 to 15 years 15 to 20 years 20 to 25 years 25 to 30 years Over 30 years 2010 2011 2012 Proportion of men and women (per employment category) 950 945 975 146 179 195 184 193 147 190 175 105 155 110 102 122 123 86 15 11 19 14 17 17 95 Men Women Men Women Men Women 2010 2011 2012 Leadership Administrative Technical Operational Turnover (in %) 28.71 24.87 17.14 2013 Maintain the turnover in GOAL the Paper Mill at 9.5% and achieve a lower percentage than 21% in the other units. 2010 2011 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Exclusive on-line content Number of employees by race (Consolidated) 1,427 1,460 1,507 195 200 195 65 62 64 Whites Brown Negros 2010 2011 2012 Number of employees (by business unit) 690 698 694 96 337 353 366 323 310 280 171 146 139 115 123 129 54 54 60 23 31 35 12 9 9 4 4 4 0 1 1 Corporate Paper Furniture Packaging SC Packaging Resins MMM Irani Trading Habitasul Iraflor SP Florestal 2010 2011 2012 Number of employees (by gender) Corporate Unit 100 Number of employees (by gender) 71 Paper Mill 66 66 57 49 643 636 634 47 62 60 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Men Women Men Women Sustainability Report 2012 Furniture Unit MMM 20 6 6 18 5 5 15 13 4 4 12 11 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Men Women Men Women Packaging Unit SC IRANI Trading 4 4 244 233 3 216 79 77 64 1 – – 97 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Men Women Men Women Packaging Unit SP HABITASUL Florestal 296 315 95 89 93 273 53 40 44 64 57 51 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Men Women Men Women Resins Unit Iraflor 52 1 1 45 46 9 8 8 2010 2011 2012 0 0 Men Women 2011 2012 Men Women Sustainability Report 2012 Average monthly activity 7.4% 7.4% 6.76% 4.99% 4.04% 4.44% 1.66% 1.82% 1.78% 2.03% 2.04% 1.35% 1.08% 1.17% 1.36% 0.93% 0.93% 0.66% 0.79% 0.92% 0.92% 2% 2% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Corporate Paper Furniture Packaging Packaging Resins MMM IRANI HABITASUL Iraflor SC SP Trading Florestal 2010 2011 2012 Absenteeism (per business unit) 9.52% 98 8.14% 5.74% 2.77% 2.58% 2.32% 1.94% 2.21% 2.14% 2.5% 1.67% 0.71% 0.72% 1.10% 0.86% 0.88% 1.07% 0.6% 0.9% 0.55% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% Corporate Paper Furniture Packaging Packaging Resins MMM IRANI HABITASUL Iraflor SC SP Trading Florestal 2010 2011 2012 There is no formal procedure that prioritizes the hiring of residents from the surrounding communities, however this prioritization is observed in practice, as shown in the chart: Members of senior management from the local community (in%) 91,67 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 92,86 66,67 100 100 100 85,71 75 50 75 33,33 50 50 25 8,33 50 50 25 50 7,14 50 50 0 0 14,29 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Community Other Community Other Community Other Community Other Community Other Community Other Community Other Community Other Location Location Location Location Location Location Location Location 2010 2011 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Remuneration The salary and benefits structure offered to employees fully comply´s with rules and legislation. Valuing people, sense of justice, motivation and commitment are also key items considered in this context. 99 Sustainability Report 2012 Exclusive on-line content Proportion of wages paid to men and women, segmented by functional category. 2010 2011 2012 Men Women Men Women Men Women Leadership 1 0.59 1 0.75 1 0.69 (Board, Management, Supervision and Coordination) Administrative 1 0.80 1 0.82 1 0.84 Technicians 1 0.86 1 0.92 1 1 100 Operational posts 1 0.76 1 0.79 1 0.82 Only apprentices have the remuneration calculated on the minimum wage. The average lower earnings practiced equals 1.28 times the minimum wage in Brazil on December 31, 2012. In the Paper Mill, 9.96% of employees fall into this remuneration category in relation to the total number of employees in this unit, in SC Packaging Unit , is 39.64%; SP Packaging, 35.89%, and Resins, 41.67%. In Habitasul Florestal this is 89.73%. Variable remuneration 2010 2011 2012 (in thousand of reais) All employees receive a benefits package, Profit Sharing – PPR 2,651* 3,229 2,979 whose investments are presented in the folSupera Program 2,204** 2,155 2,627 lowing table on a consolidated basis. Notes: * the amount paid in January 2011, corresponds to the program in 2010. ** The value was considered in the Company result in 2011. Values (thousand reais) Benefit 2010 2011 2012 Food 4,130 4,647 3,959 Transport 2,229 2.649 3,450 Life 158 160 155 insurance Health plan 2,335 3,034 3,084 Childcare 24 assistance Total 8,852 10,490 10,672 Sustainability Report 2012 Diversity and equal opportunities Efficient Diversity Program Carried out since 2004, in all units. The actions of this program No. of employees with disabilities aim to encourage individual responsibility, vocational skills, commit(Consolidated) ment and performance through actions such as the adequacy of the 62 environment, accessibility, adaptation for co-existence, besides the integration, monitoring and training of the employees. 56 55 It also aims to meet the Article 93 of Law n. 8.213/91 in relation to the legal reserve post for Persons with Disabilities (PCD). IRANI has not fulfilled the established quota, closing the year 2012 with 62 PCDs. 2010 2011 2012 Exclusive on-line content No of disabled professionals (by business unit) 33 24 25 101 12 9 10 9 9 7 7 8 7 4 3 3 1 1 1 Corporate Paper Mill Furniture SC Packaging SP Packaging Resins 2010 2011 2012 In 2012, a new practice began, systematized in three meetings, to monitor the development of the PCDs. Altogether we gathered about 40 people, including employees, leaders and family members, who discussed issues related to work and personal life and the transformations due to the inclusion in IRANI. These encounters cemented positive comments To send your resume you must be aware of the location of the vacancy: about the inclusion of these employees and • Rio Grande do Sul: oportunidadesrs@irani.com.br highlighted issues such as recognition and appreciation. • Santa Catarina: oportunidadessc@irani.com.br From 2013, a committee made up of rep• São Paulo: oportunidadessp@irani.com.br resentatives from the Development People Dept. with specific skills (physical therapist, In 2012, IRANI received 10 labor notifications regarding forestry social worker, security engineer and psycholproviders in Santa Catarina. These were issued in the name of IRANI ogist) and the leaders of the areas respondue to labor inspections in this state that understands that these acsible for evaluating the work environment in tivities should use IRANI labor and not be outsourced. The Company order to make it better to welcome the PCDs. appealed against these decisions issued by the Ministry of Labor and Employment (DRT-RS), and the fines were not paid. Sustainability Report 2012 We seek with determination superior and sustainable results. Objectivity, simplicity, austerity and performance in the customer focus are our way of achieving excellence Sustainability Report 2012 Economic Performance he essence of the IRANI business is the production and marketing of packaging paper and corrugated boxes. The main raw materials are planted forests of pinus (softwood) owned by the Company and recycled long fiber paper (chips). The main market is the Brazilian domestic market, which accounts for 87% of its sales. The Company has evolved consistently in its economic indicators over the years, as can be seen in the chart below. Consolidated Net Revenues evolved to an annual average of 10.6% over the past 10 years. In this same period, the EBITDA (adjusted) showed an average annual growth of 13.3%, going from R$ 33 million in 2002 to R$ 115 million in 2012. 103 CAGR 10 YEARS ROL: 10.6% pa EBITDA: 13.3% pa 443 472 483 388 350 377 301 286 280 264 177 282 252 247 225 212 171 189 98 115 86 115 61 111 92 92 48 50 38 52 59 33 35 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ROL +49% +8% -2% +8% +16% +11% -3% +18% +7% +2% EBITDA +45% +4% -30% +9% +37% +13% +56% 0% +20% +4% Net Revenue US$ Million Net Revenue R$ million EBITDA Millions R$ CAGR: Compound Annual Growth Rate (Taxa Composta de Crescimento Anual) Note: the 2011 information presented for comparative purposes have been adjusted to reflect the exclusion of the discontinued operation, and differ from information published in 2011. Sustainability Report 2012 Balance Sheets (in R$ thousand) LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS ASSET Consolidated Consolidated ‘EQUITY’ 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 STOCK STOCK Cash and cash equivalents 96,922 74,722 Funding 79,225 102,278 Accounts receivable from Customers 96,781 92,231 Debentures 39,026 26,000 Stocks/Inventory 38,110 38,356 Suppliers 43,747 37,713 Recoverable taxes 4,083 8,687 Payroll and social security 23,657 19,021 Linked Bank accounts 931 5,143 Tax liabilities 6,684 7,031 Other assets 12,845 12,545 Tax and social contribution payable 891 869 Total current assets 249,672 231,684 Tax installments 5,235 4,682 Advances from customers 975 1,159 NON CURRENT Dividends payable 9,957 5,607 Recoverable taxes 2,766 2,162 Other accounts payable 10,485 9,333 Income tax and – 16,632 Total current liabilities 219,882 213,693 deferred social contribution Judicial Deposits 632 1,258 Linked Bank accounts – 3,531 NON CURRENT Other assets 9,218 2,079 Funding 209,001 179,983 104 Related parties 1,553 – Debentures 80,978 60,480 Investment property – 4,997 Provision for civil, labor risks and tax 38,037 41,717 Biological assets 263,292 239,997 Total long-term assets 277,461 270,656 Tax installments 6,379 10,839 Tax liabilities 16,005 11,062 Fixed Assets 679,734 678,311 Other accounts payable – 219 Intangibles 1,223 1,103 Income tax and 183,803 199,511 Total non-current assets 958,418 950,070 deferred social contribution Total non-current liabilities 534,203 503,811 TOTAL LIABILITIES 754,085 717,504 EQUITY Capital 103,976 63,381 Capital reserve 377 – Revenue Reserve 106,405 142,302 Adjustments for equity valuation 243,241 258,547 Equity attributable 453,999 464,230 to controlling shareholders Participation of non-management 6 20 Total shareholders’ equity 454,005 464,250 TOTAL LIABILITIES Total do Ativo 1.208.090 1.181.754 1,208,090 1,181,754 AND EQUITY Sustainability Report 2012 Statements of Income (in R$ thousand) Consolidated 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 Continued operations NET SALES 483,449 471,614 Variation in fair value of biological assets 36,767 14,327 Cost of goods sold (352,251) (348,110) GROSS PROFIT 167,965 137,831 (EXPENSES) INCOME With sales (42,897) (40,598) General and administrative (40,653) (38,272) Other operating income 2,952 6,854 Other operating expenses (9,190) (2,448) Participation of managers (2,931) (5,251) INCOME BEFORE FINANCIAL RESULT AND TAXES 75,246 58,116 105 Income (expenses), financial, net (50,351) (52,433) Financial income 19,538 30,563 Financial expenses (69,889) (82,996) OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE TAX EFFECTS 24,895 5,683 Income Tax and Social Contribution (997) (2,062) Income tax and deferred social contribution (2,052) 5,885 NET INCOME OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS 21,846 9,506 Discontinued operation NET INCOME FROM DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS 4,537 (147) EARNINGS IN THE PERIOD 26,383 9,359 Profit attributable to: Controlling shareholders 26,381 9,354 Non-controlling shareholders 2 5 26,383 9,359 BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER ON SHARE – R$ 0,1368 0,0591 BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER PN SHARE – R$ 0,1368 0,0591 Sustainability Report 2012 Economic context and main results The year 2012 was marked by low growth of the Brazilian economy, coupled with the instability and uncertainty in key global markets, especially Europe. The Brazilian market for corrugated showed moderate growth in 2012, with an improvement mainly felt in the second half of the year, in response to government measures to stimulate the economy. The Brazilian shipments of corrugated tons in 2012 was 2.6% higher than in 2011, according to data from the ABPO in line with the growth reported by the Company in its core segment, which acIncrease of 2.5% of net counted for 58% of its revenues. operating revenues in 106 The consolidated Net Operating Revenue grew by 2.5% in 2012 compared to 2011, totaling R$ 483,449 thousand, highlighting the 2012, compared to 2011. increase in prices and sales volume recorded in the Paper Packaging segment. The dollar closed up 8.5% in 2012 compared to 2011, which contributed to increase in real debt denominated in foreign currency. Net income for 2012 was R$ 26,381 thousand against R$ 9.354 Due to the financial policy of the Company to thousand a year earlier. Net income for the year was affected positivemaintain over time payment levels of comly by Variation s in fair value of biological assets. The operating cash mitments in foreign currency equivalent to, generation, measured by adjusted EBITDA totaled R$ 115,422 thouor lower than, the receipts in these currensand, showing an increase of 4.4% in 2012 compared to R$ 110,536 cies, there is a natural protection of its cash thousand, value calculated in 2011. The adjusted EBITDA margin inflow, not generating additional or unexpectcreased by 0.5 percentage points in 2012, reaching 23.9%, against ed disbursements because of sudden chang23.4% in 2011. The net debt / EBITDA has remained in line with the rees in the price of foreign currencies. sult of the previous year, from 2.58 times in 2011 to 2.69 times in 2012. Still in 2012, the second public issue of simple debentures, not convertible into shares was held, with restricted placement efforts totaling R$ 60 million. The debentures were paid up on December 26, 2012 and the funds were allocated to the Company’s operating activities. In line with the strategic intent to focus on thecore business, IRANI disposed of on December 20, 2012 the interest held in the subsidiary Meu Móvel de Madeira – Comércio de Móveis e Decorações Ltda., 2013 Goal Maintain operating leverage which represented the sale of the furniture operating segment. This subsidiary accounted for during the year 2012, approximately 3% of the consolidated net operating revenues of the Company. (net debt/EBITDA) less than or the same as 3 times. Sustainability Report 2012 Principal Financial Highlights (excluding discontinued operations) Consolidated (R$ thousand) 2012 2011 Net Operating Income 483,449 471,614 Domestic Market 421,303 414,712 Foreign Market 62,146 56,902 Gross Profit (* included) 167,965 137,832 (*) Variation in the fair value of biological assets 36,767 14,327 Gross Margin 34.7% 29.2% Operating profit before taxes and investments 24,895 5,683 Operating Margin 5.1% 1.2% Net Result 26,381 9,354 Net Margin 5.5% 2.0% EBITDA – Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization Consolidated (R$ thousand) 2012 2011 Income Before Taxes 24,895 5,683 Depletion 19,220 17,401 Depreciation and Amortization 40,729 38,078 Financial Results 50,351 52,433 EBITDA 135,195 113,595 EBITDA from discontinued operations (1) 7,002 36 Variation in fair value of biological assets (2) (36,767) (14,327) 107 Stock option/management participation (3) 3,308 5,251 Non-recurring expenses (4) 6,684 5,981 Adjusted EBITDA 115,422 110,536 Adjusted EBITDA Margin 23.9% 23.4% EBITDA is the operational result adding the (income) expenses, net financial expenses and depreciation, depletion and amortization. The Company has chosen to disclose adjusted EBITDA as permitted in art.4 of CVM Instruction No. 527, seeking to show the information that best reflects the gross operating cash generation in its activities. These adjustments have the following reasoning: 1) EBITDA of the discontinued operation: refers to the EBITDA generated by the discontinued operations of the subsidiary Meu Móvel de Madeira – Comércio de Móveis e Decorações Ltda., which occurred at the end of 2012; 2) Variation in fair value of biological assets, did not mean cash generation in the period; 3) Stock option/management participation: the Stock option corresponds to the fair value of the instruments and has a counterpart in the reserve capital in the net equity: the participation of the directors is related to the distribution of the Company’s results, and both do not represent cash disbursement the period. 4) Non-recurring expenses: refers to expenses incurred in the application for registration for the public offering filed in August 2012, and the disposal of assets controlled HGE – Sustainable Power Generation Ltda. Sustainability Report 2012 Net Operating Revenue (R$ million) Net Operating Income 471,6 483,4 In 2012, net operating revenue totaled R$ 483.449 thousand, an 56.9 62.1 increase of 2.5% over the previous year. Domestic sales accounted for 87.1% of total net operating revenues of the Company in 2012, and the +2.5% export market accounted for 12.9%. 414.7 421.3 The composition of the Consolidated Net Operating Revenue in 2011 2012 2012 was presented as follows. Domestic Market Foreign Market Breakdown of Net Operating Net Revenues by Segment (2012) Revenues Consolidated Subsidiaries 4% Paper for Packaging 34% Packaging Corrugated Paper Celulose Irani S.A. 58% 96% 108 RS Forestry and Resins 8% SP Industrial Packaging Unit, Indaiatuba (SP) Sustainability Report 2012 Paper is a recyclable product that is obtained from the planted forests that helps reduce global warming Gross profit Operating Cash Flow (adjusted EBITDA) In 2012, this was R$ 167,965 thousand, against R$ 137,832 thouThe operating cash generation, measured sand in 2011, an increase of 21.9%. Gross margin in 2012 was 34.7%, by the adjusted EBITDA in 2012 totaled R$ 5.5 percentage points higher than in 2011, mainly due to the positive 115,422 thousand, 4.4% higher than the preVariation in fair value of biological assets. vious year. The adjusted EBITDA margin increased from 23.4% in 2011 to 23.9% in 2012. Evaluation of Fair Value of Biological Assets (Forests) As of 2010, the Company has measured the fair value of its biologNet Debt ical assets (forests) periodically, as determined by CPC 29. The VariaConsolidated net debt at December 31, tion in fair value of biological assets produced effects on the Com2012 totaled R$ 310.4 thousand, compared 109 pany’s results for 2012, as shown below. to R$ 285.3 thousand at December 31, 2011. The net debt / EBITDA ratio increased from 2.58 times at the end of 2011 to 2.69 times Effects of the variation of the fair value of biological assets at the end of 2012. The variation was mainly R$ thousand 2012 2011 due to the rise of the dollar in 2012, which Variation in the fair value of biological assets 36,767 14,327 impacted the accounting balances of debt Depletion in the fair value of biological assets (15,851) (13,535) linked to foreign currency. The increase in the market value of the Company’s forests in 2012 was due to the increased volume of wood from forests (forests in stock), in view of its growth (natural increase) in the year and the increase in prices in 2012 compared to those on the previous year. The Variation in fair value of biological assets, as well as its exDebt Coverage haustion, is recognized in Cost of Goods Sold (COGS). This new accounting determination allows to more accurately assess the market 310.4 288.6 280.4 285.3 value of the Company´s forests, providing greater accuracy and adequacy of its financial statements. Operating Income Before Taxes and Interests/Stakes In 2012, operating income before taxes and interest amounted to 3.13 3.04 2.58 2.69 R$ 24,895 thousand, higher compared to 2011, recorded at R$ 5,683 thousand. The increase in operating income is positively affected by the Variation in fair value of biological assets, higher in 2012 compared 2009 2010 2011 2012 to 2011. Net Debt Net Debt/ (R$ million) EBITDA (x) Sustainability Report 2012 Financial Results Net Result Financial expenses decreased from R$ 82.996 thousand in 2011 In 2012, net income totaled R$ 26,381 to R$ 69,889 thousand in 2012. Financial income in 2012 reached thousand, an increase of 182.0% compared R$19,538 thousand against R$ 30,563 thousand in 2011. Thus, the fito 2011 when it was established at R$ 9,354 110 nancial result was R$ 50,351 thousand negative in 2012, down 4.0% thousand, positively impacted by the Variacompared to 2011. tion in the fair value of biological assets. The bottom line is distributed as follows: R$ thousand 2012 2011 Financial Income 19,538 30,563 Expenses (69,889) (82,996) Financial Results (50,351) (52,433) Revenues and financial expenses are presented include the foreign exchange assets and liabilities, as follows: R$ thousand 2012 2011 Active exchange variation 12,457 23,188 Passive exchange variation (17,744) (30,195) Net exchange variation (5,287) (7,007) The financial result without exchange rate variation is shown as follows: R$ thousand 2012 2011 Financial Results (45,064) (45,426) without foreign exchange Sustainability Report 2012 Direct economic value generated and distributed (in R$ thousand) The statement of added value (DVA) shows the figures for the wealth generated by the Company and its distribution between the parties that contributed to the generation of this wealth, such as employees, government, financial intuitions and shareholders. In 2012, the total value added, 31% was distributed to employees, 25% government, 34% as compensation for debt (lenders) and 10% distributed as compensation to equity (shareholders). Consolidated 31/12/12 % 31/12/11 % 1. REVENUE 630,083 621,940 1.1) Sales of goods, products and services 621,536 615,178 1.2) Other revenues 8,921 6,900 1.3) Provision for doubtful accounts constitution (374) (138) 2. SUPPLIES PURCHASED FROM THIRD PARTIES 343,669 333,295 2.1) Cost of goods and services sold 310,127 302,073 2.2) Materials, energy, outsourced services and others 33,542 31,222 3. GROSS ADDED VALUE (1-2) 286,414 288,645 4. DEPRECIATION, DEPLETION AND AMORTIZATION 60,028 55,526 5. VARIATION IN THE FAIR VALUE OF ORGANIC ASSETS (36,767) (14,327) 111 6. NET VALUE ADDED PRODUCED BY THE UNIT (3-4-5) 263,153 247,446 7. ADDED VALUE RECEIVED IN TRANSFER 19,538 30,588 7.1) Financial income 19,538 30,588 8. TOTAL VALUE ADDED TO DISTRIBUTE (6 +7) 282,691 278,034 – 9. DISTRIBUTION OF ADDED VALUE 282,691 100.00% 278,034 100.00% 9.1) Staff 88,174 31.19% 76,193 27.40% 9.1.1 – Direct Remuneration 72,130 62,038 9.1.2 – Benefits 11,921 10,552 9.1.3 – FGTS 4,123 3,603 9.2) Taxes and contributions 69,470 24.57% 69,413 24.97% 9.2.1 – Federal 44,765 43,145 9.2.2 – State 24,060 25,737 9.2.3 – Municipal 645 531 9.3) Remuneration of third party capital 95,735 33.87% 117,823 42.38% 9.3.1 – Interest 69,800 92,487 9.3.2 – Rentals 25,935 25,336 9.4) Renumeration on equity 29,312 10.37% 14,605 5.25% 9.4.1 – Interest on equity – 5,000 9.4.2 – Dividends 9,789 5,511 9.4.3 – Retained Income (losses) for the year 16,594 (1,152) 9.4.4 – Participation of non-controllers in retained earnings (2) (5) 9.4.5 – Directors Participation 2,931 5,251 Sustainability Report 2012 112 Disclosure of Annual Financial Statements The full text of the Annual Financial Statements for 2011 is available on the IRANI Investor Relations sitevia the link: www.irani.com. br/ir The full report covers the Financial Statements, the Explanatory Notes, the opinion of the Independent Auditors and the Management Report, prepared in accordance with the Brazilian Corporate Law and its amendments, and with the standards established by the Securities Commission (CVM). The release of the report took place on March 20, 2013, in newspapers with a large circulation where the Company announces its corporate actions, as well as the websites of the Securities Commission and BOVESPA. Take part in the next report The Sustainability Report 2011 is availableat The channel faleconosco@irani.com. http://www.irani.com.br/en/info/sustainability-report/2012 br is available for those who have quesin English, Portuguese and Spanish. To request this, send an tions or want to provide suggestions for email to faleconosco@irani.com.br. future reports. Sustainability Report 2012 Environment Human Rights GC7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to GC1. Businesses should support and respect the environmental challenges; protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and GC8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and GC2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. GC9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 113 Labour GC3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition Anti-Corruption of the right to collective bargaining; GC10. Businesses should work against GC4. the elimination of all forms of forced and corruption in all its forms, including compulsory labour; extortion and bribery. GC5. the effective abolition of child labour; and GC6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. GRI Global Description Pages/Detailing Indicator Compact Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement by the President 6 and 7 1.2 GC7 Main impacts, risks and opportunities 23, 24, 38 and 69 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 13 2.2 Principal brands, products and/or services 25 2.3 Operational structure 17 2.4 Location of headquarters 13 2.5 Countries in which the organization operates 13 2.6 Type and legal nature 13 2.7 Markets served 31 2.8 Size of organization 13 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 13 2.10 Awards received 13 Sustainability Report 2012 Parameters for the report 3.1 Period Covered in the reporting period 8 3.2 Date of the previous most recent report 8 3.3 Issuing frequency of the reports 8 3.4 Contact data in the case of questions 112 3.5 Process for defining contents of the report 9 3.6 Limit of the report 8 3.7 Limitations on the scope or limit of the report 8 Joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 3.8 13 outsourced operations and other organizations The measurement techniques of the economic, environmental and social data and the bases of calculations used are accurate, based on data extracted from ERP systems Protheus from TOTVS, Simula, Brisa, SIG, Execplan 3.9 Measurement techniques of data and bases for calculations Intelligence Planning. Other environmental data such as emission control, the amount of waste, GHG inventory and measurement of areas are monitored systematically by electronic spreadsheets in the responsible areas. Consequences of the restatements of information provided in There were no restatements of information 3.10 earlier reports provided previously. 3.11 Significant changes in the scope, limits or measurement methods There were no significant changes 3.12 Table identifying the location of information in the report 113 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 3.13 119 assurance for the report Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance Structure 14 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is From 2012, the Board Chairman does not exercise 4.2 also an executive officer executive functions in the Company 114 Number of independent or non-executive directors of the 4.3 14 highest governance body Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 4.4 16 recommendations or guidance to the highest governance body Relationship between compensation for members of the 4.5 highest governance body and the organization’s performance 14 (including social and environmental performance) Processes in place in the highest governance body to ensure 4.6 22 conflicts of interest are avoided Process for determining the qualifications of members of the There is no structured process for determining 4.7 highest governance body to define the organization’s strategy qualification in sustainability for the highest for issues related to economic , environmental and social issues governance body. Statements of mission or values, codes of conduct and 4.8 2 e 22 internal principles Procedures of the highest governance body to oversee the 4.9 identification and management of economic, environmental 14 and social performance. The self-assessment of the performance of the highest The Company has no structured process 4.10 governance body of self-assessment of governance. Commitments to external initiatives Explanation of how the organization applies the precautionary 4.11 GC7 23 and 33 principle Charters, principles or other initiatives which the organization 4.12 31 subscribes or endorses Participation in associations and/or national/international 4.13 79 defence organizations Engagement with stakeholders 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 10 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholderswith 4.15 10 whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 9 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder 4.17 9 engagement Sustainability Report 2012 Economic Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 38 and 111 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for EC2 GC7 and GC8 23 and 61 the organization’s activities due to climate changes Although not offering a pension plan for Coverage of the obligations of the pension plan of benefits EC3 employees, there were several preparatory actions defined that the organization offers for retirement. In 2012, there was no financial assistance received EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government from government. Market presence Variation and proportion of the lowest wage compared to the EC5 GC6 100 minimum wage Policies, practices and the proportion of spending with local EC6 73 suppliers Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior EC7 GC6 98 management hired from the local community Indirect economic impacts Development and impact of investments in the infrastructure EC8 39, 40 and 77 and services provided primarily for public benefit Identification and description of significant indirect economic EC9 29, 33 and 40 impacts Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 45 EN2 GC8 and GC9 Percentage of materials used that are recycled 46 Energy Direct energy consumption broken down by primary energy EN3 46, 48 and 50 source 115 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 48 and 49 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency EN5 GC8 and GC9 51 improvements Initiatives to provide products and services with low power EN6 GC8 and GC9 59 consumption Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and the EN7 GC8 and GC9 51 reductions achieved Water EN8 Total water draw off by source 52 EN9 Water sources that are significantly affected by water draw-off 54 EN10 GC8 and GC9 Percentage and total volume of recycled and reused water 54 Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in EN11 GC8 27 protected areas, or adjacent to them EN12 GC7 and GC8 Description of significant impacts on biodiversity 29 EN13 PG8 Habitats protected or restored 27 and 63 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing the EN14 GC7 and GC8 62 impacts on biodiversity Number of species on the IUCN and National Conservation EN15 GC8 list with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of 62 extinction risk Emissions, waste water and waste Total direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases, by EN16 57 weight Other relevant indirect emissions of greenhouse gases, by EN17 59 weight Initiatives to reduce emission of greenhouse gases and EN18 GC8 and GC9 51 and 61 reductions achieved Emission of substances that destroy the ozone layer, by EN19 60 weight Sustainability Report 2012 NO x, COx and other significant atmospheric emissions by type EN20 60 and weight EN21 GC8 Total water discharge by quality and destination 55 EN22 GC8 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 42 There was no occurrence of a spill of products or substances that might impair the quality of the EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills soil, surface water and/or groundwater on the company´s production site’s. Weight of waste transported, imported, exported or treated EN24 44 that are deemed as hazardous under the Basel Convention. Identity, size, status of protection and biodiversity index of EN25 55 water bodies and habitats Products and services Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and EN26 GC8 and GC9 25, 55, 62 and 70 services and extent of this impact mitigation Percentage of products and their packaging recovered in EN27 GC8 and GC9 47 relation to total sales per product category Legal compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of There was no significant fines resulting from the EN28 non-monetary sanctions resulting from non-compliance with non-compliance with environmental laws and environmental laws and regulations regulations Transport Significant environmental impacts from transporting products EN29 52 e 60 and other goods and materials, and the transport of workers General Total investments and environmental protection expenditures EN30 GC8 65 by type 116 Social – Labor practices and Decent work Employment Total workforce by employment type, employment contract LA1 94 and region Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, LA2 GC6 95 gender and region LA3 Benefits offered to full-time employees 100 There is no management information on the Rate of return to work and retention after parental leave, by LA15 subject, but the Company intends to follow the gender. subject from 2013. Relations between the work force and governance Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 100% of employees in collective bargaining LA4 GC3 agreements agreements with the unions in the category. There is no formalized period, but there is a LA5 GC3 Minimum advance notice regarding operational changes communication to stakeholders whenever necessary. Health and safety at work Percentage of workforce represented in formal joint health LA6 88 and safety committees Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism LA7 88 e 98 and work-related fatalities, by region Programs of education, training, counseling, prevention LA8 GC6 and risk control in place to assist employees, their family or 88 community members regarding serious diseases In agreements with trade unions, specific issues Issues relating to health and safety covered in formal LA9 are not addressed relating to health and safety agreements with trade unions beyond what is laid down in the legislation. Training and education Average hours of training per year per employee broken down LA10 GC6 82 by functional category Programs for skills management and continuous learning LA11 GC6 that support the continued employability of employees and to 81, 86 and 92 manage the end of their careers Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and LA12 83 and 86 career development analysis Sustainability Report 2012 Diversity and equal opportunities Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of LA13 GC1 and GC6 employees per category according to gender, age group, 94 minority group membership and other indicators of diversity. Equal pay for men and women Proportion of basic salary of men to women per functional LA14 GC1 and GC6 100 category Social: Human Rights Investment practices and purchasing processes In all contracts for Machinery and Equipment Financing (Finame) signed with transfer agents of the Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Significant investment agreements that include human rights HR1 Economico e Social (BNDES), there is a declaration clauses or that underwent human rights screening attached to the contract in which the IRANI is committed to issues related to human rights. page 59 GC1, GC2, GC4 Suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on HR2 76 and GC6 human rights and the measures taken Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures HR3 GC1 concerning aspects of human rights relevant to operations, Training was not carried out in 2012 including the percentage of employees that were trained Non-discrimination HR4 GC1 and GC6 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken There was no record of this in 2012 Freedom of association and collective bargaining Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of There is no verification process in the production HR5 GC1 and GC3 association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk chain relating to the risk of a ban on collective and actions taken to support these rights bargaining or union membership. Child labor 117 Operations identified as a significant risk for the occurrence of HR6 GC1 and GC5 child labor and measures taken to contribute to the abolition 75 and 93 of child labor Forced or compulsory labor Operations identified as a significant risk for the occurrence of HR7 GC1 and GC4 forced or compulsory labor and measures taken to contribute 75, 76 and 93 to the eradication of forced labor, child or slave labor Safety Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in policies or HR8 GC1 and GC2 procedures of the organization concerning aspects of human Training was not carried out. rights that are relevant to the operations Indigenous rights There is no record of indigenous lands in the areas Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of HR9 GC1 surrounding the Company. Also, there was no indigenous people and actions taken record of violations of their rights. Evaluation Percentage and total number of operations that have been HR10 75 subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. Remediation Number of complaints related to human rights filed, addressed There was only one case that has been properly HR11 and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. treated. Social: Society Local communities Programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts SO1 GC1 and GC7 of operations in the communities, including entering, 33 operating, and exiting. Operations with significant potential or negative impacts on SO9 33 local communities. Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in SO10 operations with significant potential or negative impacts on 34 and 38 local communities. Sustainability Report 2012 Corruption SO2 GC10 Business units analyzed for risks analysis related to corruption 22 and 23 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures SO3 GC10 22 of the organization No case of corruption has been identified during SO4 GC10 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption the period. Public policies Positions relating to public policies and participation in the SO5 43 and 79 preparation of public policies and lobbying Financial contributions and in kind to political parties, In 2012, Celulose Irani allocated R$ 338,000 to SO6 GC10 politicians and related institutions, discriminated per country candidates and political parties. Unfair competition Total number of lawsuits for unfair competition, anti-trust There were no lawsuits for unfair competition, SO7 and monopoly practices and their results anti-trust and monopoly in the period. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of SO8 non-monetary sanctions resulting from non-compliance with 100 environmental laws and regulations Social: Product Responsibility Health and safety of the client PR1 Phases of the life cycle of products and services 41 and 71 Cases of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes There were no reported cases of this type of PR2 concerning health impacts of products and services on health occurrence in the period. and safety during the life cycle, by type of outcome Labeling of products and services Type of information about products and services required 118 PR3 GC8 by procedures and the percentage of products and services 13 and 71 subject to such requirements Cases of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes There were no reported cases of PR4 related to information and labeling of products and services, this type of occurrence in the period. by type of outcomes. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of PR5 72 surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary PR6 codes related to marketing communications, including IRANI has not adhered to any such program. advertising, promotion and sponsorship Cases of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes There were no reported cases of this type of PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, occurrence in the period. promotion and sponsorship by type of outcome. Customer privacy Complaints regarding breaches of privacy and loss of There were no reported cases of this type of PR8 customer data occurrence in the period. Compliance Monetary value of fines (significant) for non-compliance with There were no reported cases of this type of PR9 laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of occurrence in the period, no fines were levied. products and services Sustainability Report 2012 BSD Consulting carried out the independent verifica(AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008), verification Type 1, tion process of the preparation of the IRANI 2012 Susproviding a moderate level of assurance. The objectives tainability Report, which was prepared in accordance with of the Assurance Statement are to inform stakeholders the guidelines of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). about the findings of the BSD process encompassing The verification process took place for the sixth consecuadherence assessment to process accountability of the tive year and aims to provide IRANI stakeholders with IRANI accounts to three principles: Inclusion, Materialan independent opinion on: the quality of the report, the ity and Responsiveness. The verification of financial data process of engagement with stakeholders, compliance was not the object of the work of BSD Consulting. with the principles of AA1000 2008; and the sustainability management in the company. Methodology The approach to the verification of AA1000 process Independence consisted of: 119 We work independently and we ensure that no mem• Evaluation of the content of the Sustainability Report ber of the BSD has consulting contracts or other com2012; mercial ties with IRANI. BSD Consulting is licensed by Ac• Understanding the flow of procedures for obtaining and countAbility as an assurance provider (AA1000 Licensed generating information for the Sustainability Report; Assurance Provider) under the registry 000-33. • Search for public information about the company and the sector (press, websites and legal bases); Our Expertise • Interviews with managers of key areas in relation to the BSD Consulting is a company specializing in sustainrelevance of the information for the reporting and manability. This work was conducted by a team of professionagement of sustainability; als experienced and trained in procedures for external • Where relevant, confirmation of information on susverification. tainability performance with the understanding of the governing body of the company; The responsibilities of IRANI and BSD • Review of the evidence of consultations with external The preparation of the Sustainability Report as well stakeholders; as the definition of its content is the responsibility of • Analysis of the relevance of the information in the SusIRANI. The appraisal of the contents of the report and the tainability Report from the standpoint of external audiverification of the level of the GRI application level were ences. the object of the BSD work. • Based on sample testing, confirmation of details of the Sustainability Report with support documentation, Scope and Limitations internal management reports and official corresponThe scope of our work includes the information in the dence; full version of the IRANI Sustainability Report 2012, in the • The activities of this assurance process were performed reporting period from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012. at the corporate offices in Sao Paulo – SP and Joaçaba – The independent verification process was conductSC, the packaging unit at Indaiatuba – SP and the paper ed in accordance with the standard AA1000AS 2008 and packaging unit of Campina da Alegria – SC. Sustainability Report 2012 Key Findings on the adherence to the AA1000AS 2008 • The report presents the updated materiality matrix, Principles that provides, in a summarized form, the contents of 1. Inclusion – deal with the participation of stakeholders the stakeholder panels. The specific demands of stakein the development of a sustainability management holder groups could have been presented in more detail process that is transparent and strategic . throughout the report, as the content of the panels was • In 2012 there was a process of consultation with stakequite comprehensive, with unique characteristics and holders that was wider than in previous years. Six panissues related to each audience. els were held, highlighting the meetings with the com• Consultations with stakeholders can be widened, inmunities, in three different locations where the comcluding content related to sectoral impacts and issues pany operates: SC, SP and RS. In addition, three other to identify relevant topics to the IRANI sustainability specific panels were held with suppliers, customers and strategy. In this cycle, issues critical to the sector such employees. As in previous years, we emphasize the imas health and safety, traceability of the supply chain portance of establishing clear criteria for the selection and biodiversity, were not considered as material, from and prioritization of stakeholders, facilitating a greater the external or internal standpoint. involvement of new public who may contribute with • The company is in the process of developing its risk other opinions in order to balance and broaden the dismanagement methodology. This moment is an opporcussions on the reported issues. tunity for IRANI to incorporate the assessment of sus• In the process of interviews with leaders, it was postainability risks into their processes, as well as use the sible to confirm the recognition of the relevance of susresults of these evaluations as inputs to build the intertainability practices to the success and growth of the nal view of the materiality matrix in the future. various IRANI activities. The leadership recognizes the 120 importance of the stakeholder consultation process, 3. Responsiveness – addresses the actions taken by highlighting the new methodology of specific panels by the organization due to the specific demands of the stakeholders, valuing the knowledge and approach stakeholders. of the company with its stakeholders. The results of • The Cuida (Care) Program is being implemented, and the the engagement influence operational aspects of the occupational health and safety aspect is a critical point company, however these can evolve incorporating the in the company. The rates of injuries and accidents are results in the company’s business strategy. monitored and documented by area and should be dis• The Value Sharing Program stands out as the evolution closed in the sustainability report, as well as accidents of the continuous dialog process with IRANI customers, without lost time. The health and safety topic is also focusing on the identification of external demands recritical with respect to third parties in forestry activities, lated to sustainability. This type of activity shows up being a point of attention in certification audits in foras an opportunity to strengthen the relationship with estry activities. This is a recurring theme in Assurance other relevant public and can be disseminated and excycles and should be evaluated for progress in the companded to other areas as a way of querying and continuing years. ous engagement. The performance of Innovation area • There is a procedure for evaluating suppliers, the IDF stands out with the “Valuable Ideas”(“Ideias de Valor”) – Supplier Performance Index, however there is no proprogram, which encourages the participation and encess of critical analysis of the results to map the critical gagement of employees to contribute to the developpoints found in the evaluations. There is an opportument of innovative ideas for products and for internal nity to improve this process, from the analysis of the management of the company. Ideas related to sustainresults, structuring a stream of dialog to implement ability issues were suggested. actions with suppliers, with a focus on improving the performance and management of the these points. 2. Materiality (or relevance) – matters necessary for • There is a practice of consulting the Blacklist of the Minstakeholders to arrive at conclusions on the econoistry of Labor and Employment as a criterion for supplimic, social and environmental performance of the er management, however, this process is not recorded. organization. There is opportunity to establish a formal procedure for Sustainability Report 2012 documentation and systematization of the queries. Final Thoughts • Environmental indicators stand out for being monitored In the evaluation of BSD Consulting, IRANI has excontinuously, with systematic records, traceable and panded its internal practices of sustainability, evolving the regular monitoring of performance, with support the scope of the engagement process. Management tools for management. initiatives on innovation and the Value Sharing Program • The areas involved in the Assurance seek to comply contribute to become closer to the different stakeholders, with the demands generated by the verification activiemphasizing the theme of sustainability in the Company. ties, and demonstrate a clear commitment to internal It is important to develop supplier management, creating improvements to generate information for the sustaina flow of actions arising from the evaluations that were ability report. carried out. The Health and Safety topic should be the focus of sustainability management, with the establishApplication Level GRI-G3 ment of actions to improve internal processes, in order Following the guidelines of the GRI – G3.1, BSD deto reduce cases of accident and expanding the disclosure clares that the Celulose Irani SA Sustainability Report indices in the sustainability report. 2012 is classified as Application Level A +. The report provides information on the items related to the profile São Paulo, March 28, 2013. of the company and provides a broad description of manBSD Consulting – Brazil agement processes and approaches to sustainability. Information is provided related to all categories of performance indicators: economic, environmental, human rights, labor practices, society and product responsibility. 121 Expedient Chairman of the Board of Directors General Coordination Péricles de Freitas Druck Elaine Silva Mariana Regensburger Carlesso Managing Director Pericles Pereira Druck Content, editorial and graphic production Bruna Camassari da Silva Director of Administration, Daniella Renan dos Santos Financial and Investor Relations Director Gabriela Cristhina J. Moroso Odivan Carlos Cargnin Luciana Piva Director of the Paper and Packaging Business Assurance Sérgio Luiz Cotrim Ribas BSD Consulting Director of the Forestry Business Graphic Design Túlio César Reis Gomes D’Lippi Comunicação Integrada Printing D’lippi Print Printed: June 2013 Photos Mário Águas Circulation: 3,500 copies Sirnei Strapassola Distribution: Customers, employees, suppliers, shareholders, government, community and other stakeholders. 123 www.irani.com.br Capa impressa em papel FlatKraft 200g/m2
