Sherif & Shah UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress April 2013 Sherif & Shah endorsed the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in 2010. Since then, these agreements have served as the basic framework for our code of conduct as we deepen our corporate relationships and our commitment to sustainable development. This document aims to reaffirm our commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, and to communicate on our progress over the last 24 months. Signed on behalf of Sherif & Shah, Haider Shah Suhaan Sherif Financial Director Managing Director Sherif & Shah Limited | 3.4 Chevalier House | 60 Brompton Road | London SW3 1BW | United Kingdom | www.sherifshah.com Incorporated in England & Wales: 07637004 | EU VAT: GB 124 5119 43 | EORI: GB 124511943000 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. One core mission of Sherif & Shah’s manufacturing and sourcing operations is to help individuals and societies realise their full potential by accelerating their access to market, technological development, education and modern industrial practices. We believe this contributes to the longterm sustainability of our business, as well as development within the global industry towards sustainable business practices. Within our sphere of influence, we promote networks, opportunities for self-expression, engagement with public issues, and the ability to connect across physical and social borders.  Sherif & Shah’s principally owned and managed manufacturing units go through stringent human resource management processes to ensure our labour policies are in line with globally accepted human rights principles to promote equality, freedom of expression, and education of human rights.  Our quality assurance teams hold all suppliers and subcontractors to account on our corporate guidelines on labour conditions, potential human rights abuses, and to ensure our suppliers and subcontractors continue to promote these principles in their respective spheres of influence. Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We understand that the UNGC’s interpretation of freedom of association does not expand or contract rights under Indian, Chinese, British or other territorial labour laws. We reserve the right to determine our position on recognition of collective activity or a union of workers, and resulting negotiation of proposals, agreements, policies and work rules. Our policies are consistent with such laws and our best judgment of the labour policies that are best suited to our workforce and business needs. We believe in working proactively with the strongest, most responsible, and most productive suppliers that are available to deliver value to our supply chain, and we expect our suppliers to share our corporate values and business philosophy. These include adhering to the same transparency, integrity, and commitment to service and quality we demand from our own employees and teams; behaving responsibly towards the environment; ensuring workforce and supplier diversity in their own supply chains; and providing fair and safe working conditions for their employees. Sherif & Shah UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress April 2013 In this spirit, we audit our leading suppliers annually, conduct semi-annual review meetings, and have escalation procedures in place in case compliance issues are not resolved. Details of our policies are found on our Vendor Code of Conduct. This can be found on our website at: http://www.sherifshah.com/documents/vendorcodeofconduct.pdf  Sherif & Shah’s manufacturing units go through regular education workshops, promoting diversity, and ensuring that our employees have the tools, knowledge, and resources they require to grow professionally. The emphasis is on understanding and valuing differences, and using them to compete effectively in an ever-changing global marketplace.  We ensure all our workplaces, within practical workplace needs, are friendly and conducive towards the productivity of employees with disabilities.  We promote the employment of women. We are committed to attracting skilled women to our workforce with practices such as flexible schedules to promote work-life balance. Our garment manufacturing processes employee women in an approximate 2.4:1 ratio to men.  We strictly monitor our suppliers and subcontractors to ensure legal and safe work hours, remuneration, and age identification of all workers. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Sherif & Shah recognise environmental sustainability as a serious global issue with lasting repercussions for all sectors of society. Within our operations, we promote responsible practices, technology, and business partnerships aimed at reducing our environmental footprint. We are committed to phasing out substances used in textile manufacturing which pose a risk or threatened risk to human health or the environment. We try to restrict the use of such substances within our own operations, as well as those of our suppliers and subcontractors. Among the many environmental challenges we face, energy efficiency is on the forefront of our commitment to better practices.  Within this principle, we have imported and installed energy-efficient machinery, and have commissioned a review of our buildings and infrastructure to identify other areas of improvement. Sherif & Shah are committed to reducing the impact of our operations. We understand that our manufacturing operations, especially within developing economies, often produce waste and pollutants which are not handled adequately by local municipalities. We are working with the Sherif & Shah UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress April 2013 appropriate agencies and authorities to ensure our waste material does not pollute water reserves or plantations, and is disposed of responsibly. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. As a basic philosophy, we believe corruption has perverse effects on the distribution of economic returns from our business operations, and that it directly contributes towards poverty and crime, prohibiting societies from reaching their full potential for economic and social development. Sherif & Shah are committed to observing the principles that are set forth in the UN Global Compact, and to fully comply with the anti-corruption and anti-money laundering laws of the counties we operate in. These are reflected in our Standards of Business Conduct, made available to all our employees, partners, and suppliers. We have adopted and implemented policies that strictly prohibit corruption of government officials, and acts of commercial bribery within our operations. We are further committed to ensuring that our business partners, who represent Sherif & Shah, share these commitment to compliance of anticorruption laws. Sherif & Shah UN Global Compact – Communication on Progress April 2013
