sustainable development Report 2012 CONTENTS 2 Smurfit Kappa at a Glance 4 Packaging Expertise 5 Highlights 6 Letter from our CEO 8 Corporate Governance 10 Engagement with Stakeholders 12 Materiality 13 Strategy 15 Our Commitment and Approach to Sustainable Development 17 Key Risks and Challenges 20 Sustainable Development Commitments 26 Environment 44 Social Development 66 Sustainability in our Business 76 Data Tables 85 About the Report 86 GRI Guidelines 91 Business in the Community Ireland 92 United Nations Global Compact 93 Independent Assurance Report 94 Glossary The first section of the Report summarises our policy on engagement with stakeholders, materiality, our overall approach to sustainability, and our long term commitments. This is then followed by three major sections covering Environment, Social Development and Sustainability in our Business. The Report concludes with a detailed information section and a glossary of technical terms. In preparing this Report we have followed the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 3.1 guidelines. Cover image: Volker Funk (l.) and Mirja Thimm, Simone Angelini from Smurfit Kappa Vignate, Italy. both working at our Brühl plant in Germany. Smurfit Kappa at a glance Totally focused on packaging: With sales in 2012 of over €7.3 billion, Smurfit Kappa is one of the largest integrated manufacturers of paper-based packaging products. Following the acquisition of Orange County Container Group in late 2012, Smurfit Kappa now has 348 facilities in 32 countries in Europe and North and South America (the “Americas”), where the Group also owns and manages forests. It manufactures, distributes and sells containerboard, corrugated containers and other paper-based packaging products and materials such as solid board, sack paper and bag-in-box. Smurfit Kappa is fully dedicated to the sustainable supply of paper-based packaging solutions and has no ownership of significant businesses outside this field of expertise. Mexico Energy and CO2 Cerro Gordo paper mill cuts GHG emissions by using less steam Venezuela Community Involvement Our forestry workers volunteer as local fire brigade Colombia Community Involvement 50th Anniversary Fundación Smurfit Cartón de Colombia supporting local communities Argentina Water Treatment A new water treatment plant commissioned in our Bernal paper mill 2 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Germany Training and Development Over 1,100 employees have now participated in the German sales training programme Russia Supplier commitment Sustainability an important ingredient in Russian partnership a world of sustainability Belgium Product Innovation The smart dashboard box Italy Community Involvement Fundraising campaign at Panaro Spain Health and Safety Mengibar paper mill initiated an extensive programme to raise awareness on health and safety at home SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 3 Packaging Expertise The image below illustrates the product life cycle starting with virgin and recovered fibres being processed through the mills to become paper and board; then on to the box converting plants where they become packaging; then entering the supply chain to the eventual user. The recycling process begins when the used packaging is collected, sorted and then returned to the mills for reprocessing. 4 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Highlights Chain of Custody Certification Europe. February 2013 successful completion of a three year FSC and/or PEFC certification programme for European converting operations reaching our objective to certify all converting plants in Europe for which a certification is relevant. Latin America. All Mexican operations received Chain of Custody certifications under FSC; the same certifications were also received for our integrated converting operations in Argentina. Certified Packaging. The completion of the European certification programme (see above) also led to over 90% of all Group converting operations being certified thereby achieving the Group’s first long term commitment on sustainability two years ahead of schedule. CO2 Reduction Year-on-year, absolute fossil CO2 emissions for the total Group were reduced by 1.8%. Our global mill system reduced its fossil CO2 emissions by 3.1% per tonne of paper and board produced. COD Discharge Reduction Year-on-year, absolute COD discharges for the total Group were reduced by 1.7%. Globally, our mill system reduced its COD discharges by 4.7% per tonne of paper and board produced. Investments in the Environment CO2 Reduction. n Installation of a new shoe press in our Cerro Gordo paper mill, Mexico City in January 2012. n Rebuild of biomass boiler in our Navarra paper mill in Spain and subsequent start-up in September 2012. n Commissioning of a new CHP installation in our Barranquilla paper mill in Colombia in October 2012. n Completion of a new lime kiln in our Cali paper mill in Colombia in March 2013. COD Water Discharges. Commissioning of a new water treatment plant in our Bernal paper mill in Argentina in May 2012. Code of Business Conduct Revised code approved and awareness campaign initiated. Sustainable Packaging Pack Expert tool extended with environmental parameters, enabling customers to measure and compare the environmental impacts of their supply chain management. Acquisitions Orange County Container Group (“OCCG”) was acquired in December 2012, marking our first sizeable acquisition since Smurfit Kappa was formed in 2005. OCCG is a Chain of Custody certified Group active mainly in northern Mexico and the southern USA delivering containerboard and converted corrugated products to the same range of customers as Smurfit Kappa. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 5 Letter from our CEO Introduction by Gary McGann it is very natural for our business. Furthermore, we I am pleased to introduce Smurfit Kappa’s sixth annual explain why Smurfit Kappa is committed to sustainability, Sustainable Development Report. As is shown in this how we make our commitment to sustainability tangible, report, Smurfit Kappa is fundamentally committed to and what our objectives and targets are for the seven key sustainability and social responsibility in its interaction sustainability building blocks that we have identified for with its customers, suppliers, employees, the our business. The scope of our long term objectives and communities in which it is privileged to do business and targets has been widened to include (besides the current in relation to its impact on the broader environment. long term commitments in Chain of Custody certification, Sustainability has become a key business driver and reduction of fossil CO2 emissions and reduction in COD is a platform for differentiation in the market. discharges) a number of other areas that we consider important in the area of sustainability. These areas are As in recent years, economic conditions continue to be waste management, water usage, safety at work and our challenging. Nevertheless, in 2012 and continuing in involvement in the local communities where we operate 2013, we have shown our commitment to sustainability and where we wish to make a difference for the local by not only making significant investments in the population. Our vision on sustainability is a dynamic one: environment but also by reaching the first target of our as we progress our views will evolve and, if opportune, long term sustainability commitments. In 2013, we will we will adjust long term objectives and targets continue the drive to demonstrate to our stakeholders accordingly. that sustainability objectives are achievable, beneficial to our business and economically viable. The best way to do Engagement with Stakeholders that is by creating economic, social and environmental We consider open and transparent communication with win-win situations for all stakeholders involved. our stakeholders to be key in building credibility on the As a further introduction to the 2012 Sustainable issues that are important to our business. We are Development Report I would like to highlight a therefore in continuous dialogue with the different number of developments. stakeholder groups as we try to deepen our understanding of what significant stakeholders consider Our Vision on Sustainability to be important in the area of sustainability. Many of our Over the past year we have worked to set out our customers want to engage with us about issues in this fundamental views on sustainability in a strategic vision area on a regular and on-going basis. The mutual benefit statement. In 2010 we made four major long term of this dialogue is that our customers value what our commitments in the area of sustainability and, as a knowledge brings to their supply chains and we in turn second step, we have now developed a more strategic can take advantage of their feedback to drive our vision on sustainability which we have published and sustainability agenda forward. entitled “The Smurfit Kappa Vision on Sustainability”. In this statement we explain why we consider sustainability to be a key business driver and why 6 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 We also analysed the sustainability reporting of a group Sustainable growth needs ‘level playing of 30 stakeholders, both customers and suppliers, to field’ trading conditions ascertain which issues they deem to be important in the As we have stated in previous reports, Smurfit Kappa area of sustainability. Overall, one can conclude that is fully prepared to play its role in meeting the social, there is a broad overlap between the issues that Smurfit environmental and economic challenges that the world Kappa considers to be important and the issues listed by is facing in order to develop a much needed sustainable this group of stakeholders. More detail of this analysis growth model. For us to deliver our part, it is necessary can be found on page 12 of this report. In addition, that the EU and the various governments in the countries as in last year’s report, we feature short interviews with where we operate create fair and predictable trading representatives from our stakeholder base highlighting conditions. For example, the EU’s Emission Trading sustainability aspects that are important to them. System is at a crossroads. Even though we fully support its objective to curb climate change, we also would argue Progress on our long term sustainable that the absence of international agreements on global development commitments ETS systems in combination with the increased In 2012, good progress was made in the realisation of our availability of cheap fuels such as shale gas in the USA, long term sustainable development commitments. From should not result in the EU continuing or even tightening February 2013 onwards, over 90% of our converting policies that will, in effect, result in inequitable trading operations worldwide are Chain of Custody certified conditions for energy intensive industries such as ours. under FSC and/or PEFC, reaching one of our commitments We want the EU to guide its Member States towards on the sustainable use of fibres, two years ahead of becoming less carbon intensive, focusing on renewable schedule. We are also close to reaching our other 2015 energy and resource efficiency while at the same time targets under this commitment. maintaining the principle of a global level playing field. Relative fossil CO2 emissions by our mill system were In other policy initiatives concerning the use of raw reduced year-on-year by over 3% partly resulting from materials, the EU has the responsibility to ensure that our the completion of specific investments. Our productionindustry has access, at affordable and competitive prices, related COD discharges are now more than 25% lower to wood, recovered paper, and the capacity to secure than in 2005, and 5% lower than in 2011. Our Board of adequate energy and water supply without distortive Directors approved a revised Code of Business Conduct taxes and/or subsidies. Under such a scenario, we will reflecting our commitment to conduct our business to the continue to deliver our share of sustainable growth highest ethical standards. A comprehensive awareness bringing prosperity to our stakeholder communities. campaign in 17 languages will be initiated with the I hope you will find the content of our 2012 Sustainable ultimate objective of ensuring that all our employees Development Report both interesting and informative, are familiar with the new Code and behave accordingly. and look forward to any feedback that you may have. Gary McGann GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 21 June 2013 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 7 Corporate Governance The Board and Management of Smurfit Kappa support the Organisation and Reporting highest standards of Corporate Governance and ethical Sustainability is embedded into our operations and business conduct. It is our view that a culture of high reporting structures in various ways. The sustainability standards of governance must be promoted from the top aspects of our packaging solutions and the benefits they and must be fostered throughout the whole organisation. can bring to our customers are the prime management The following section describes in summary the Group’s responsibility of our sales and marketing teams, both at governance at Board level insofar as it relates to central as well as at local level. Managing environmental corporate social responsibility. The full Corporate issues such as energy and water, and also people issues Governance Statement, together with the Directors’ such as health and safety and local community Report and Remuneration Report, is set out in the involvement, are the responsibility of the management 2012 SKG Annual Report. of the local operations and the divisional management to whom they report. Reporting on these aspects takes Sustainability Governance place through regular monthly and/or quarterly reports Sustainable development is a core principle in all facets to the various management levels or through specific of Smurfit Kappa’s operations and activities. The Board reporting such as the reporting on the progress made has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group on our long term sustainable development commitments. plays an appropriate role in promoting a realistic A Board report on our sustainability activities including sustainable development agenda in the paper-based progress on certain indicators and targets is prepared packaging sector. The development and implementation twice a year. of Smurfit Kappa’s policies in this area are sponsored by the Group CEO. Code of Business Conduct and At executive management level, a Group Steering Group Policies Committee sets out our strategy and objectives for In 2012 the Board of Directors of Smurfit Kappa approved sustainable development and reviews the progress made a revised Code of Business Conduct. Apart from covering in meeting our commitments. This committee comprises new issues such as bribery and anti-corruption, we the most senior executives in the Company including the worked from the Group’s original Code of Business three executive directors (Group CEO, Group COO and Conduct, as well as the various related policies and Group CFO) and management from each division and guidelines (e.g. Environmental Policy Statement, Social from the Group headquarters. Citizen Policy Statement, Model Code, etc.). The new Code embeds the fundamental principles of all of these The Group Steering Committee is supported by policies under one umbrella policy covering how we a Sustainability Working Group comprising key operate ethically as a large multinational. The Code will representatives from each of the main operating also be linked, as applicable, to these detailed policies divisions in Europe and the Americas as well as Group and guidelines. The resulting Code of Business Conduct headquarters. This Group’s task is to monitor the and the associated policies covering areas related to achievement of targets across a wide range of Smurfit Kappa’s management and operations are based sustainability indicators and to promote the theme of upon the following international conventions and codes: sustainable development in Smurfit Kappa’s interface with customers, suppliers and the general environment. 1. International Labour Organisation (ILO) Declaration The Working Group is also responsible for the on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work preparation and production of the Annual Sustainable (core conventions). Development Report. 2. UN Declaration on Fundamental Human Rights. 3. OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. 4. UN Global Compact. 8 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 The Group ensures that the key components of internal In addition to these internal audits, all operating control are in place through the implementation of countries must adhere to the Group’s Financial policies and programmes which aim to define acceptable Monitoring Policy. This includes completing risk business practices, the resolution of conflicts of interest assessment analyses covering over 50% of the Group’s and the expected standards of ethical behaviour. We larger facilities carried out by relevant personnel from have also created specific policy statements in key areas within each country. of sustainability that are integral to the drive to improve The various audits and analyses include risks primarily Smurfit Kappa’s performance. These policy statements related to significant material misstatement of financial cover Environment, Sustainable Forestry, Sustainable results, deliberate or otherwise, arising from a poor Sourcing, Social Citizenship and Health and Safety issues. control framework. During 2012, no such misreporting All of these Codes and policies are available on our was identified. website www.smurfitkappa.com. During 2012, there were no significant incidents reported which the Group considered to be non-compliant with Ethical Standards the Code of Business Conduct. Our Code of Business Conduct provides the underlying modus operandi for each and every employee in every Public Policy jurisdiction. It sets out our position in relation to As a multinational organisation, our businesses are compliance with the law, adherence to ethical standards subject to legislation and rules determined by the and its commitments to those with whom it comes in jurisdictions in which they operate. contact. In that context, Smurfit Kappa adopts positions on a Each Group company and its employees, regardless of variety of matters that are relevant to its business, making geographic location, are required to apply the Code and its views known to the parties concerned, either directly abide by the particular laws and practices applicable to or through industry bodies such as the Confederation their industry and/or required by the jurisdiction in which of European Paper Industries (CEPI), the European they operate. Federation of Corrugated Board Manufacturers (FEFCO) The Group’s Code of Business Conduct makes it clear that and the European Round Table of Industrialists (ERT). personal and professional integrity is the responsibility of It also works closely with the Irish Business and each employee. Employers’ Confederation (IBEC) and equivalent bodies in other countries. Complementing the Code of Business Conduct is the Good Faith Reporting Policy Statement (‘Whistleblower At all times those representing the views of Smurfit Code’) which enables employees to report concerns Kappa do so having due regard to its Code of Business about potential wrongdoing. Conduct and the local laws and regulations applying to the Group’s operations. There were no significant The revised Code has been published on our website criticisms of the Group in this respect in 2012. In line and an awareness programme has been initiated in 2012. with the Group’s Code of Business Conduct no financial This will be rolled-out Group wide and includes an contributions were made to political parties in 2012. No appropriate training programme for current and national government is a direct shareholder in Smurfit newly recruited employees. Kappa. Audits Compliance Each significant business unit is the subject of an It is Group policy to comply at least with the applicable external and independent financial audit conducted laws and regulations in each of the countries in which it by the Group’s External Auditors on an annual basis. operates and to ensure that its employees are aware of Most other business units are the subject of local this and conduct themselves appropriately. No significant statutory financial audits. fines were imposed on the Group in 2012 in respect of any breaches of such laws and regulations. Our Internal Audit Department has its own extensive work programme in the context of the Group’s Financial Risk Management System. During the course of 2012, 86 detailed internal financial and IT audits were completed. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 9 Engagement with Stakeholders Our Stakeholders representation to policy makers as part of an industry We consider a continuous, open and constructive group to having access to relevant industry statistics. dialogue with our various stakeholder groups in all Our efforts in that regard focus on national and countries and areas where we operate to be of key international industry associations such as: importance. We believe that frequent interaction with n CEPI, at Group level and through various national our stakeholder communities offers us a great paper manufacturer associations, opportunity to improve and develop ourselves in all aspects of sustainability. By doing so we aim to meet and, n FEFCO, at Group level and through a number of where possible, exceed our stakeholders’ expectations. national corrugated manufacturer associations, Our stakeholders are crucial to the realisation of our n CEPI Containerboard, sustainability objectives whether their concerns are n the International Corrugated Cases Association (ICCA) environmental, social or economic. and, We consider any person or entity with whom we engage n the European sack kraft manufacturers’ association to be part of our stakeholder community. This ranges (Eurokraft), from any small local customer or supplier to large multinational companies or NGOs. Many stakeholder n ACCCSA, Asociación de Corrugadores del Caribe interactions such as meetings, fairs, community visits, Centro y Sur América. public hearings, open house events or other events Besides contributing to these associations through organised by, or for, stakeholders take place at a local annual membership fees, several senior Smurfit Kappa level where our teams interact on a daily basis with executives are board members of CEPI, CEPI customers, suppliers, employees and local authorities. Containerboard and FEFCO. Also, representatives of We also receive stakeholder feedback through customer Smurfit Kappa are typically involved as active participants satisfaction surveys, dialogue with trade unions and in committees, issue groups and task forces on specific employee questionnaires. topics of interest to these associations. All our stakeholder relations are guided by our Code of Smurfit Kappa is also actively involved as a member Business Conduct and related policy statements setting of, participant in or as a signatory to a number of out the principles that all Smurfit Kappa employees are organisations active in the area of environmental obliged to follow in their relations with stakeholders. reporting and sustainability. These include: More information about this Code is given on page 9. n the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), The different stakeholder groups we recognise are listed overleaf and a summary of how we engage with them is n the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex), provided. Short interviews with representatives of n the Water Footprint Network (WFN) different stakeholder groups are included throughout the report. n the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) Memberships in Organisations n the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC, until 2013 via As part of our interaction with various stakeholder our Colombian organisation, since 2013 also from our groups, we believe it is important to be an active Group office) participant, a member, a signatory or to be otherwise supportive of associations, topical initiatives, advocacy n the World Business Council for Sustainable groups and institutions that represent or bring together Development (via its local chapter in Colombia). relevant stakeholder groups. The value of these n The UN Global Compact (see also page 92). organisations for us can be significant. This ranges from 10 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Membership of or participation in such organisations is European parentage covering a wide range of industrial not passive and customarily involves providing them with and technological sectors. a significant amount of information on our operations, Smurfit Kappa’s subsidiary companies are also members usually in the form of a detailed questionnaire. of a large number of national industry and business The Group CEO is a member of the European Round associations in both Europe and Latin America. Table, a forum of approximately 50 chief executives and/ or chairmen of major multinational companies of Customers As well as the normal business interaction that one would expect, we are continuously intensifying our engagement with our customers and in turn their customers (e.g. retailers) on key sustainability issues. Important areas of interaction are sustainable fibre sourcing, carbon footprint and social compliance. These interactions with customers could be in the form of working together on specific projects in sustainability, attending customer conferences or supporting customers with their specific sustainability initiatives. Employees Our employees are the key to our success. We place significant emphasis on their safety, health and well-being. There are numerous training activities for our employees ranging from training on the job to advanced management courses, both internal as well as external. There is extensive interaction between our management and representatives of our employees through the various employee representative bodies. We revised our Code of Business Conduct reflecting how we conduct our business and the important role our employees play in that. Investors There is an extensive programme involving road shows and investor days where analysts and investors have the opportunity to engage in dialogue with senior operating management. One-on-one meetings, telephone conferences, and participation in industry-related investor conferences also form part of our investor relations initiative. Suppliers As well as the usual levels of communication, there are specific initiatives such as audits and questionnaires. There is specific focus on Chain of Custody certification of our paper suppliers. Supplier programmes are in place that require our suppliers to deliver in conformity with our Sustainability Sourcing Policy. Smurfit Kappa’s operations are required to source products and services from local suppliers where possible, consistent with the need to ensure appropriate quality at the right price and support for sustainability. NGOs Memberships of, or participations in, organisations like Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes (PEFC), the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex), Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and Water Footprint Network. Dialogue, both direct and indirect, (through membership organisations) and cooperation on specific topics such as water and CO2 sequestration. Local We engage in social projects and health, employment and environmental initiatives in the communities countries in which we operate. In Latin America, in particular, there are some extensive programmes involving significant expenditure and our employees’ time and expertise. The aim is to assist communities in self-help. The Smurfit Kappa Group Foundation targets social responsibility initiatives in those countries in which Smurfit Kappa operates. Government Membership of industry associations at national and international level, participation in and society forums related to broader business issues and society in general SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 11 Materiality Our objective when determining materiality is to identify I. environmental, those issues of significance for Smurfit Kappa. These can II. social, then form the basis of our work in sustainability. III. economic and IV. general. In preparing this report, we identified relevant topics taking into consideration the Global Reporting Initiative Individual topics we include under each of these (GRI) guidance on materiality and completeness. We also headings are highlighted in the graph below. used our own Code of Business Conduct, general trends For this year’s report we studied the materiality analysis in the marketplace and regulatory and compliance drivers of a group of 30 companies that we consider important or as input for topic identification. As well as the normal relevant to us including customers, suppliers and peers interactions one would expect, we also interviewed and companies that in other ways are relevant to us. representatives from the different stakeholder groups Issues that are material for our customers and/or for their specific input. These interviews can be found suppliers are considered to be (potentially) material to throughout the report and provide examples of issues us as well. As a first step we analysed how many of the that are important for our stakeholders as a whole. companies performed a materiality analysis and we then Furthermore, we performed an analysis of the topics analysed the frequency with which material issues were that are material for a group of relevant stakeholders. mentioned or highlighted. We considered that the The input from the different stakeholder groups was frequency with which a topic/issue was mentioned as particularly useful in helping us to refine the concept of an indicator of the importance of that topic/issue for materiality and enabled us to focus on the sustainability the investigated group of companies. The graph below issues that we believe our stakeholders find important for reflects that interpretation while also indicating the us to both work and report on. significance of these issues to Smurfit Kappa. These analyses and interactions resulted in an extensive Issues as shown hereunder are plotted according to list of topics that can be classified under four main the GRI guidelines. headings: Health and Safety Climate Change Relations with Customers Non-discrimination & Diversity Energy Usage Child Labour & Forced Labour Compliance to Laws Sustainable Forestry Suppliers & Contractors Level of interest of stakeholders Transparency Product Development & Innovation Community Development & Community Relations Stakeholder Engagement Business Environmental Incidents Water Intake Ethics & Values Land Use & Discharge Biodiversity Certification Food Contact and Food Safety Raw Material Emissions due Corporate Governance Availability to Transportation Waste Management Employee Relations Workforce Training & Development Talent Attraction & Retention Significance of Indicators for Smurfit Kappa General Topics Environmental Topics Social Topics Economic topics 12 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Strategy The Group’s objective is to deliver superior performance To focus on enhancing its operational excellence, in terms of profitability and returns on capital through thereby continuing to improve its customer offering, by the cycle, thereby enhancing shareholder value, and to continuously upgrading its products, processes, services, be the market leader in paper-based packaging quality and delivery in all markets by: in its chosen markets. This objective is underpinned by a focus on delivering superior customer satisfaction, a n leveraging the Group’s increasingly high quality relentless pursuit of cost and operating efficiency, asset base through continuous improvement proactive environmental awareness, and a commitment programmes, transfer of best practice, industrial to the personal development of employees and engineering, innovation and targeted capital continuous improvement in the areas of health investment; and and safety and corporate social responsibility. n increasing the proportion of added-value converting products in the overall portfolio The Group’s objectives and strategies are: through the use of the Group’s development and To profitably build on its market positions in Europe and technology centres, its innovation tools and its in the Americas through selective focused growth, pan-European network in greater value areas such including: as high quality printing, display and litho n organic growth from increased market share lamination; and through consolidating, and where appropriate, extending its leadership position in Western n ensuring that its operations, whether in the Europe. This will be achieved by leveraging the converting or mill divisions, continue to be close Group’s relationships with its customers across to their customers and have a clear market focus its broad product range and enhancing its rather than being production driven. profitability by maximising synergies and optimising the cost base; and To focus on cash flow and appropriate returns on investment in order to maximise shareholder value. n acquisition and merger based growth in areas where market share and/or coverage facilitates it, To secure and retain the optimal balance between debt particularly in the higher growth markets such as and equity capital to facilitate the Group’s growth Eastern Europe and Latin America. strategy in a cyclical industry, while striking the appropriate balance between risk and return. Bert Mik Smurfit Kappa Solid Board, Netherlands. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 13 Aerial view of the Forney paper mill, Texas, USA, part of the Orange County Container Group which was acquired by Smurfit Kappa at the end of 2012. Acquisition of Orange County Container Group further strenghtens Smurfit Kappa’s position in Mexico and USA In December 2012, Smurfit Kappa acquired Orange County Container Group, which is an integrated paperboard and paper-based packaging manufacturer operating within northern Mexico and the southern USA. The company, which has been renamed Smurfit Kappa Orange County (“SKOC”), produces recycled linerboard and corrugating medium at its facility in Forney, Texas and a wide range of corrugated and folding carton containers and point-of-purchase displays in a number of converting operations in northern Mexico and California. SKOC also operates recovered paper centres in Texas, Oklahoma, and Arkansas. From a sustainability perspective SKOC’s operations are Chain of Custody certified under the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and the Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI). SKOC’s converting operations produce recyclable packaging solutions and have packaging on offer with a special focus on sustainability aspects. Its Forney papermaking facility is one of the largest producers of 100% recycled containerboard in the United States, producing currently around 300,000 tonnes of recycled paper on two paper machines per year. The Forney facility operates a wood-fired biomass boiler combusting wood chips that are based on waste wood purchased from third parties. The wood chips would otherwise be landfilled or trench burned. Forney also has a CHP on site. A significant part of Forney’s energy consumption in 2012 was based on renewable sources and more than 30% of its electricity needs were generated on site as well. 14 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Our Commitment and Approach to Sustainable Development Our objective is to be a customer-oriented, market-led Packaging is part of the complex system of delivering company where the satisfaction of customers, the products from where they are produced to where they personal development of employees and respect for are consumed. Our packaging products are used to our local communities and the environment are seen as collect, store, transport, distribute, preserve and market being inseparable from the aim of creating value for our goods. Because of these functions paper-based shareholders. We see sustainability as a platform that will packaging makes a positive environmental impact by help us to reach our objectives. It is therefore an integral preventing products from becoming waste. Research part of our operations and part of our daily business life. suggests that our products, if properly designed and In our view, sustainability is not about corporate altruism applied, can decrease the carbon impact of aspects of but makes perfect business sense as it can help us grow our customers’ supply chains by considerably more than our business. the carbon impact our own products have. In our drive to safeguard the environment we are Our Commitment and Approach committed to: Sustainability for Smurfit Kappa is about improving the quality of life today and in the future, for people and n Complying with national and international for our planet. It is what we do and always have done: environmental legislation. sustainability is about satisfying customers with creative n Applying appropriate environmental management and innovative products and services that extend the systems throughout the Group. longevity of products, using resources and materials responsibly through our forestry and recycling n Using natural resources as efficiently as possible. businesses, providing safe working environments, caring n Achieving best practice in environmental for our people, working to benefit the local communities management through the focus on continuous and protecting our reputation. We take our improvement programmes. responsibilities in sustainability seriously and care deeply about the environment, our people and the n Meeting the reasonable expectations of stakeholders communities where we work. concerning environmental performance. The above implies a clear commitment to the three n Driving the entire paper supply chain to reduce its important sustainability elements: Planet, People and environmental impact. Profit. Our approach to these three elements is as follows: n Supporting our customers to reduce the n Environment – we operate in an environmentally environmental impact of their supply chains. sound manner. 2. People n People – we are socially conscious and pro-active. For the second sustainability element – People n Business – we remain economically viable, doing – our primary focus is on the safety, well-being and business on an ethical basis. development of all our employees. We do so by permanently investing in their safety at work through In doing so we will ensure that the social and natural training and safety equipment, by providing them with environment within which Smurfit Kappa operates is challenging and satisfying jobs and by offering career respected and protected both today and into the future. opportunities. Our other key focus is on the local The Group provides direct income to approximately communities where we have the privilege to operate. Our 41,000 people (including SKOC) and indirectly (via its operating facilities are frequently located in communities suppliers) to at least the same number, and it continues where we are seen as an important partner in the local to carefully use and recycle a wide range of natural economy, providing jobs to our employees and business resources. for local suppliers. Our managers are encouraged therefore, to actively participate in initiatives at 1. Environment the local community level. For the first important element – Planet – we take a special interest in safeguarding the environment as our products are composed of materials that are natural resource based, recyclable and predominantly made from recycled material. We commit to do so not only in operating our facilities but, at least as importantly, in designing and developing packaging solutions for our customers that improve their environmental performance. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 15 Our Commitment and Approach to Sustainable Development [continued] As a Group we are committed to: n Working closely with and demonstrating leadership to customers and other stakeholders when it comes n Ensuring that for health and safety standards, all our to developing and providing packaging solutions with operations comply with local legislation and with best reliable sustainability credentials, taking account of international practice. factors such as packaging optimisation, recyclability n Applying the principle of equal employment and Chain of Custody. opportunities. n Supporting customers, suppliers and others in the n Managing our business in an ethical and equitable supply chain on their own sustainable development manner and meeting all of our social responsibilities. projects. n Ensuring that employees and suppliers are aware of n Providing packaging solutions that improve our the Group’s policy on social responsibility. customers’ environmental footprint, e.g. by minimising customers’ product wastage and n Protecting and advancing human rights, particularly optimising distribution and transportation those of the indigenous communities where we have requirements. operations. n Involving our employees in developing more n Promoting and enhancing strong relationships with sustainable and innovative packaging solutions by the communities within which our businesses have rewarding and honouring them in a Group-wide the privilege to operate. competition of Innovation and Sustainability Awards. 3. Business When dealing with the environmental, social and For the third sustainability element – Profit – we have a business aspects of the Group’s sustainability very simple philosophy. We need profitable growth to programmes, we are committed to: reward our stakeholders and to continue our drive for n As a minimum, complying with all statutory, sustainability. Due to the nature of our business, we see regulatory and legal requirements. many opportunities to combine both the need for profitable growth with the opportunity to advance the n Maintaining codes of business conduct that support various sustainability principles. We consider our core values of integrity, responsibility and sustainability natural to our business and to be a key respect, when managing our business activities business driver. We see sustainability as a differentiating in all locations. factor in the market and it is an integral part of our We recognise that factors such as ethical behaviour, business commitment and product offering. transparency in governance standards, identification of As a Group we are committed to: risks and stakeholder engagement are fundamental for the sustainable success of the Group. Our objective is to n Meeting shareholders’ and other stakeholders’ continuously progress Smurfit Kappa’s recognition as a expectations with regard to profitable, sustainable truly responsible company by all stakeholders and other long term business development in the changing parties. In the remainder of this report information is local and global economies. provided on how we substantiate our commitments and approach to sustainability. Rosario Nielsen from Smurfit Kappa Dyboflex in Denmark. 16 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Key Risks and Challenges Sustainability has become one of our key business drivers. Of particular concern is the potential effect of the 2020 Through our packaging solutions, we not only provide EU Renewable Energy Policy targets on the availability of marketing and retail ready packaging to our customers, we our raw materials. Existing subsidy schemes for wood as a also help to optimise their supply chains and to minimise renewable fuel feedstock are of concern, as this drives up waste by securing the durability of products. The latter the price of our raw materials, negatively impacting the two are both critical considerations in a world where the competitiveness of our industry in comparison with supply of natural resources is finite. Therefore, efficient alternative packaging materials. We strongly favour the and sustainable use of resources is one of our key concept of resource hierarchy, with policy support for objectives. This helps to mitigate climate change and the highest added value applications for fibre such as limits, as much as possible, other environmental impacts producing paper over lower added value applications on air and water systems. From our materiality such as thermal use. identification, we concluded that for stakeholder groups Another reason for adhering to this hierarchy is the fact such as customers, suppliers and NGOs, the efficient and that the European paper industry is already the single sustainable use of natural resources is also a key largest user and producer of bio-energy, with further consideration. untapped potential as is shown in the Forest Fibre The main resources we need in our processes are wood Industry 2050 Roadmap to a low carbon economy and recovered paper as raw materials, and energy and ‘Unfold the Future’. water for the manufacturing process of paper and board. Our risk concerning wood fibre availability is mitigated Another critical element of our business is that our by our ownership of forestry in Latin America and the packaging solutions are fit for use in food contact relationships we have with key suppliers of wood in applications. Food safety is therefore a key concern both Europe and Latin America. for us as well. Paper fibres can be recycled between six to nine times In this dynamic business environment, risks and and the use of recovered (paper) fibres to produce new challenges regarding the issues of fibre availability, cost paper and board is an important contributor to the of energy, regulation concerning CO2 emissions and food sustainable nature of our products. Recovery of used safety are therefore key issues which we and our industry paper is a global necessity and national and international face as a whole. policies should stimulate setting up well-functioning paper recovery systems. 1. Fibre availability We expect that global collection rates will continue to Fibres from wood and recovered paper are the increase. In Europe, collection rates have reached on fundamental raw materials we need and their availability average over 70%, with the highest additional potential at competitive prices is key for our business and industry. for recovered paper collection in Eastern European Sustainable forestry and well-functioning paper recovery countries. According to Resource Information Systems Inc. systems are of paramount importance for companies such (RISI), a leading information provider for the global forest as Smurfit Kappa. products industry, global demand for recovered paper Various factors influence the potential availability of fibre increased by approximately 70 million tonnes (45%) in for our business. These factors range from the need for a the last decade (2001-11). More than 75% of that low carbon, resource efficient economy, and the cost of increase (approximately 60 million tonnes) originates energy to policies adopted by the EU on the need for the from Asian countries, such as China and India, where use of renewable energy. Also more general factors such demand for recovered paper increases fast. These Asian as population growth, changing consumer patterns and countries depend to a large extent on recovered fibre food scarcity can also have an impact. imports due to lack of or lagging local recovery systems, putting an upward pressure on global recovered paper Forecasted global population growth and higher standards pricing. of living demand action to secure future availability of sufficient quantities of wood fibre for its various The quality of recovered fibres is deteriorating as the applications. Our industry faces a number of challenges in amount of recycled paper is growing. Fresh fibre inflow this respect. Need for land and water to feed an increasing into the paper production and recycling system is population may limit land availability for growing wood therefore a necessity, which is another reason why the while new applications for the use of wood fibres in the abovementioned hierarchy of biomass use is important. biochemical industry may limit fibre availability for To ensure the future availability of suitable recovered papermaking. On the other hand, population growth paper, governments and industry collectively need to and the inherent need to decrease food waste, to which continue their drive to increase collection rates. packaging is part of the solution, will increase the demand for (paper) packaging. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 17 Key Risks and Challenges [continued] As for wood fibres, it is also of the utmost importance that These developments are creating significant challenges recovered paper is first used for producing paper and for our operations in Europe in particular. To mitigate our board and only at the end of its life cycle should fibres risks concerning costs and supply of energy, we focus our be used as fuel for energy generation. efforts on further increasing energy efficiency and the use of biomass where economically feasible. We also support Our risk concerning recovered paper availability is our European industry association CEPI, as well as the ERT, mitigated by our position in the supply chain, through our in their advocacy for competitive costs of energy supply own recovered paper operations and long term supply in Europe. agreements with key suppliers. 3. Climate policy impact 2. Cost and supply of Energy Europe has taken the lead in addressing the impact of CO2 Energy policies must focus on security of supply at emissions on climate change. Apart from Australia, only competitive prices while mitigating environmental effects. European countries have accepted binding commitments The differences in the cost of energy in various parts of for the second period of the Kyoto Protocol. Global the world are of increasing concern to us. Our processes negotiations on a future climate regime are due to start are by their nature energy intensive and the cost of in 2015 with a formal agreement anticipated by 2020. energy therefore is an important competitive factor globally as well as in comparison with alternative Smurfit Kappa supports global efforts to curb climate packaging materials. Globally, energy costs are dropping. change if and when a global level playing field is In Europe, energy costs are kept at high levels due to established. We believe that European policies regarding policies that add significantly to the price of energy climate change should not be tightened in the absence itself such as costs for the use of grids, subsidies for of international agreements. The current ETS III system is renewables and other levies, which in a number of functioning well even though the price of carbon is not at countries have outgrown the production costs of energy the expected levels as foreseen. In our view, this is partly itself. This is directly negatively impacting the competitive the result of the investments the European industry has position of European industry in general. made in energy efficient, non-fossil fuelled equipment. Another concern is the apparent shift in the use of certain We recommend that the EU gives priority to providing types of energy. The near nuclear disaster, resulting from guidance for the period beyond 2020 on how it intends the tsunami in Fukushima in Japan in March 2011, has to realise the objectives envisaged in its ‘Roadmap for motivated the German government to move away from moving to a low-carbon economy in 2050’. It is also of the use of nuclear energy. In combination with the shale paramount importance that the biomass used by the gas discoveries in Canada and the United States, the forest products industry remains untouched as billions global energy ‘landscape’ has changed significantly in a of euros have been invested over time in biomass boilers relatively short period of time. Shale gas and shale oil are that operate mostly on residuals such as sawmill dust, expected to bring energy self-sufficiency to North bark, black liquor and stumps. America in the foreseeable future. It has already led to a We have made significant steps in reducing our CO2 decrease in energy costs (notably natural gas) for United emissions and have been instrumental in setting industry States industry and led to the export of coal from North benchmarks that are the basis for free allocation of America to Europe. This development is making the use carbon credits to our industry in the 2013-2020 trading of coal economically more attractive in Europe while period. Given the already disadvantageous position environmentally it has a greater impact than the use energy intensive industries in Europe have vis-à-vis their of natural gas. competitors in other parts of the world, we believe that Within Europe this development has led, in combination the so-called ‘carbon leakage’ status of our industry in with the growing use of (subsidised) renewable energy, Europe must be maintained for the remainder of the ETS to a situation of overcapacity of energy supply. Gas fired III period. power plants, including gas fired combined heat and To mitigate our risks concerning climate policies impact, power installations (CHP), can, in certain market we focus our efforts on reducing specific types of energy conditions, no longer compete against subsidised usage and we are also aiming to reduce greenhouse gas renewables and the use of (imported) cheap coal. This emissions by investing in more energy efficient systems development is of considerable concern to us as we who such as CHP plants, alternative energy options such as the have made significant investments in gas fired CHP use of biomass, and by driving production efficiencies. installations on the basis of their high energy efficiency and their relative environmental friendliness. 18 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 4. Water Water availability and the impact of our water usage on the environment are key issues for us. Sufficient availability of good quality water at an affordable cost Barry Smith (l.) and is fundamental for an industry like ours. Fresh water Mark Winkler from availability is clearly a growing concern for certain areas Smurfit Kappa Yate, UK. of the world. Although the vast majority of our facilities are located in areas where fresh water is currently sufficiently available, as a Group we are committed to reduce our water usage where feasible. As a consequence of the growing concern regarding fresh water availability, we believe water policy makers will 5. Food contact and food safety increase their focus on the consumption of water and the In our opinion, it can be objectively proven that papertreatment of waste water. We treat waste water as a based packaging is the most sustainable form of transport resource containing value that should be recuperated and display packaging for food products. It is a clean and before the water is released to the public water body in hygienic product used for only one delivery. The compliance with legislation. We already retrieve valuable challenge our industry faces to meet the standard of biogas from waste water sludge and we are developing securing safe and hygienic products is made more our insights on how to recover other resources from waste difficult by the fact that we repeatedly recycle our paper water flows. materials in the interest of environmental sustainability Chemicals will be re-evaluated for their impact on waste and cost efficiencies. As our raw material is mostly water flows. Limitations to emissions to water may already post-consumer recovered paper, it is important that we arise from the finalisation of the so-called Best Available ensure that the recycled products we produce comply Technologies Reference document (BREF) by the European with the European Regulation on materials that come Commission this year, with stricter limits on AOX and into contact with food. nutrients in waste water flows. Smurfit Kappa is actively continuing its efforts to further Since 2008 the water intake of our paper and board mill increase the safety of recycled packaging. Specifically for system has decreased by 10% per tonne of product. food packaging Smurfit Kappa follows both Good Although, as with other paper producers, we process large Manufacturing Practice and hygiene standards such as: volumes of water, the paper industry does not actually n European Federation of Corrugated Board consume a significant volume of water. After treatment in Manufacturers (FEFCO) International Good modern water treatment plants, over 90% of the water Manufacturing Practice Standard. intake is returned to the water systems from which it was extracted. We are therefore strongly committed to find n International Featured Standards IFS Food version 5 as ways to further improve water usage efficiency and to it relates to packaging together with the IFS Packaging improve the quality of the water returned to the Guidance document from June 2010. environment. Since 2005 we have achieved a reduction n British Retail Consortium/Institute of Packaging Global of over 25% in the organic load (COD) discharged with Standard for Packaging and Packaging Materials. the effluents. We are committed to continuing our ambitious programme for reducing the impact of our n EN 15593, European Standard in respect of the activities on water. management of hygiene in the production of packaging for foodstuffs. We also support initiatives that develop methodologies to calculate water footprint accounting, water footprint n ISO 22000, International standard for food safety impact assessment, and water stewardship standards. We management systems. are a partner of the Water Footprint Network (WFN) which We also engage actively within the European paper and is a frontrunner in developing such standards. We are also packaging associations, CEPI and FEFCO, to develop closely monitoring the upcoming ISO standard on water industry initiatives and to define best practices to be footprinting and the work of the Alliance of Water applied both in Europe and Latin America. Smurfit Kappa Stewardship and European Water Partners via our industry has an experienced internal team which is dedicated to association CEPI. food contact and food safety issues. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 19 Our Long Term Sustainable Development Commitments Our efforts on sustainability are part of a journey of that principle, both for our virgin fibres as well as striving for continuous improvement. To measure the our recovered fibres that we use as raw material. progress we are making on that journey, we have Our sustainably managed planted forests are not defined specific tangible and measurable targets only productive, they also secure biodiversity within certain timeframes. (pages 30 to 32). In 2010, we adopted four long term commitments with measurable targets to state our ambition to be a leading sustainable company and to provide paper-based COMMITMENT packaging solutions for our customers in an By 2015: environmentally and socially responsible manner. 1. All of our fibres produced or purchased will be from These long term commitments are related to: sustainable origin. n Sustainable use of fibres 2. Over 90% of the paper and board produced will be certified Chain of Custody. n Reducing fossil CO2 emissions 3. Over 90% of our converting operations will operate n Clean water discharge under a Chain of Custody certification. n Ethical business conduct In this section we describe the achievements to date, We aim to deliver packaging solutions to our customers activities in 2012, and current and future activities containing only certified fibres and/or fibres of related to these commitments. non-controversial origin. Furthermore, at any point in As mentioned in the Letter of the CEO on pages 6 time our products should meet the commitments we and 7, we have recently made our long term vision on make in our various policy statements (Forestry policy, sustainability public in a separate publication called Code of Business Conduct, Social Citizenship etc.). ‘The Smurfit Kappa Vision on Sustainability’ (http:// This concerns all fibres and fibre-based products we www.smurfitkappa.com/Resources/Documents/ use or manufacture, whatever the origin or the form The_Smurfit_Kappa_vision_on_sustainability_ of the fibres. May_2013.pdf). We have widened the scope of our Wood and virgin pulp produced or purchased are long term objectives and commitments to include, preferably Chain of Custody certified with the in addition to the current long term commitments, remainder of non-controversial origin. A total of 55% a number of other sustainable development issues of the wood used in the Smurfit Kappa mill system for that we consider important. These issues are waste producing virgin paper or pulp is currently Chain of management, water usage, safety at work and our Custody certified under the FSC and/or PEFC schemes involvement in the local communities where we operate and 45% is of non-controversial origin. This status is and where, as a valued corporate citizen, we want to verified by a third party under the chain of custody make a difference for the local population. We intend to scheme FSC and/or PEFC with the exception of the report in our next Sustainable Development Report on San Felipe mill in Venezuela, due to local conditions. the progress we are making in reaching our objectives and targets. In addition to the commitment mentioned above our final aim is that all the fibre-based products we deliver 1. Sustainable Use of Fibres to our customers are Chain of Custody certified. The sustainable origin of raw material is of the utmost importance for us. Sustainable fibre for us means fibres that are certified or are of a non-controversial origin (see glossary on page 95). We are fully committed to 20 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Pu R Pu Pu re ecy (P rc -a c rc rc h as nd l h h as -p ed as ed os P tc a ed ed W on p Pu Pa oo su er lp p d m er er ) Converting Packaging Forestry Wood Pulp Production Pulp Paper Production Paper solutions to Operations customers Smurfit Kappa Smurfit Kappa Smurfit Kappa commitment No1: commitment No2: commitment No3: 100% of wood products Over 90% of SK papers Over 90% of SK converting from sustainable origin COC certified operations COC certified Origin of Fibre Smurfit Kappa Operations Smurfit Kappa Wood based product External wood based product Commitment No1 applied to raw material Achievements to date n During 2012, all converting operations in Mexico n Our Colombian forests have been certified FSC and integrated converting operations in Argentina since 2003. reached Chain of Custody certified status under FSC. n The complete Smurfit Kappa paper and board mill n In Latin America, the three Mexican paper mills were system in Europe is Chain of Custody certified under Chain of Custody certified under FSC in February either one or both schemes we support in Europe 2012. (FSC and PEFC). This includes mills producing virgin n At the end of 2012, 86% of paper and board and recycled containerboard, carton and solid board, produced in our Group was certified for further sack paper and machine glazed papers. This is labelling Chain of Custody according to either PEFC summarised on page 32 and full details can be or FSC, up from 78% at the end of 2011. found on our website. n We continued auditing our suppliers to ensure that n In Latin America, our Colombian mills and converting no wood fibre originates from controversial sources. operations are Chain of Custody certified under FSC. n In February 2013 we reached our long term Current and future activities commitment to operate over 90% of our global n In February 2013 we reached a level of 92% Chain of system of converting operations under a Chain of Custody certified converting plants, enabling us and Custody certification scheme. our customers to trace the origin of the fibres we use. n All converting operations of Colombia, Mexico and n We plan to start FSC certification activities of our Argentina are Chain of Custody certified under FSC. forest holdings and certain manufacturing facilities in Venezuela in 2013. Activities and results in 2012 n In our publication ‘The Smurfit Kappa Vision on n In 2012, considerable progress was made in the Sustainability’ we introduced further targets in the certification process of converting operations in both area of chain of custody certification, committing to Europe and Latin America. A total of 97 new plants 90% of our paper based packaging being labelled as became Chain of Custody certified during the course Chain of Custody certified under FSC, PEFC or SFI by of the year resulting in 88% of our global packaging 2015. operations being Chain of Custody certified according to either FSC and/or PEFC at the end of 2012 (up from n In March 2013, the new EU Timber Regulation 44% at the end of 2011). became effective. We have taken action where necessary in our own supply chain so that we will be n We completed a three year certification programme compliant at all times with this new regulation. This for our European converting operations in February new EU Regulation is designed to prevent illegally 2013 when the last of all designated converting logged wood and products made from such wood operations in 19 European countries reached Chain from entering the EU. of Custody certified status under either a FSC and/or PEFC scheme. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 21 Our Long Term Sustainable Development Commitments [continued] n For over two decades we have been focused FOSSIL CO2 EMISSION reduction (basis 2005) on reducing CO2 emissions from fossil fuels 0% relative to production. For example, our 2% Nettingsdorfer mill in Austria and our Roermond per tonne produced product 4% mill in the Netherlands have realised over 30% 6% reductions in CO2 emissions per tonne of paper. TA R G E T 8% n Between 2005 and 2012, fossil CO2 emissions 10% per tonne of paper and board produced have 12% decreased by 15.2%. This is illustrated in the 14% 16% graph on this page which shows the annual 18% improvement compared to the base year 2005. 20% 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Activities and results in 2012 n In 2012, the total CO2 fossil emissions of our global paper and board mill system decreased 2. CO2 Emissions by 3.1% compared to 2011. This emission Climate change and ‘global warming’ are widely seen as comparison is volume adjusted. In the course of sustainability issues of high priority. We also consider 2012 a number of energy related investments them to be among the most important sustainability were completed, resulting in another year of issues as they are closely related to our business. Energy good progress towards reaching our objective generation very often also involves significant emissions for 2020. Details of some of these investments from burning fossil fuels. Therefore our fossil CO2 are discussed below. reduction programme is to a large extent directed at n In our sack kraft paper mill in Nervión in Spain, increasing efficient energy usage and increasing the use the investment in a larger steam turbine to of biomass where that is economically viable. We have increase the production of biomass based taken initiatives both in Europe and Latin America to electricity has led to less usage of electricity address this subject. We continuously invest in projects from the grid. The turbine became operational that should lead to higher energy efficiency and in the first quarter of 2012 and reduction of reduction of fossil CO2 emissions. CO2 fossil emission is estimated to be 14,000 tonnes per year. COMMITMENT n In our kraft paper mill in Navarra in Spain, the biomass boiler has been rebuilt and is in 20% reduction in relative CO2 emissions from fossil operation since October 2012. Direct fossil fuels in our global paper and board mill system in 2020 compared to 2005 (CO2 emissions defined as direct and CO2 emissions are estimated to decrease by indirect CO2 emissions from fossil fuel relative to 22,000 tonnes on an annual basis as a result production). of this rebuild. n In our recycled paper mill in Hoya in Germany a multi-year investment project is progressing. Achievements to date In a first phase, the paper machine was n We have been switching from fossil fuel to renewable upgraded in 2011, reducing the use of energy. energy where possible and economically feasible Initial results after the completion of the first (Piteå biomass boiler in Sweden installed in 2007, phase indicate a reduction of approximately new black liquor boiler installed at Cali in Colombia 7% of fossil CO2 emissions per tonne of paper in 2008, biomass boiler commissioned at Cellulose produced for this mill. du Pin in France in 2010 and use of biogas from the new and/or extended water treatment plants in various paper mills). 22 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 n In our recycled paper mill in Cerro Gordo, Mexico COD DISCHARGE reduction (basis 2005) City, a shoe press was installed in the press section of the PM-5 increasing the dryness of 0% sheets entering the dryer section and leading to 3% per tonne produced product 6% an average reduction in natural gas consumption 9% of 14% per tonne of product produced on this 12% TA R G E T machine. Even with a production increase of 15% more than 4%, this equates to an annualised 18% absolute reduction of 4,300 tonnes of fossil 21% CO2 emissions, resulting also in less emissions 24% 27% of NOx. 30% n In our recycled paper mill in Barranquilla in 33% 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Colombia the installation of one large gas turbine, producing both steam and electricity and replacing older units, will lead to an estimated reduction of fossil CO2 emission of 3. Water 13,000 tonnes on an annual basis once the unit Water is seen as a sustainability issue of increasing is fully operational. importance. Water is abundantly present on Earth: yet the availability of fresh water is limited and according Current and future activities to the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the UN it is n In our kraft paper mill in Cali in Colombia the decreasing and unequally distributed. Water is also a installation of a new, more efficient lime kiln was critical resource for the paper and packaging industry and completed in the first quarter of 2013. The new after fibre, water is the most important natural resource lime kiln will use natural gas as fuel whereas the for our business. As we return approximately 90% of the previous lime kiln was using heavy fuel oil. The water we take in, our specific commitment for water and use of much ‘cleaner’ natural gas should reduce our primary investment focus in this area is on the quality fossil CO2 emissions by approximately 13,000 of the water that is returned to the public water body. tonnes per year. The COD content is a good indicator for the quality of the water returned. n In our recycled paper mill in Hoya in Germany the second phase of a multi-year investment project is currently progressing. This second COMMITMENT phase will include the installation of an additional CHP unit which should lead to Reduce the organic content discharged in the process a reduction of fossil CO2 emissions. After water (COD) of our mill system by one third by 2020 compared to 2005. The reduction is relative to the completion of the second phase, fossil CO2 organic discharge measured by COD, expressed per emissions per tonne of paper produced are tonne of paper. estimated to be reduced (including phase I) by approximately 13%. n In our recycled paper mill in Townsend Hook in Achievements to date the UK we will replace the two existing paper n Investments in water treatment plants took place in machines by one new machine with a slightly a number of paper mills since 2005: Alfa d’Avignon, higher production capacity. This machine will Cellulose du Pin and Rethel in France, Mengibar and have an improved energy efficiency compared to Navarra in Spain, Hoya in Germany, Roermond in the the two existing paper machines and therefore Netherlands, SSK in the UK, Ania in Italy and Bernal save on direct fossil CO2 emissions. The start-up in Argentina. of this machine is planned for Quarter 4, 2014. n Since 2008 our Latin American mills have taken n In our recycled mill In Roermond in the initiatives resulting in more than 19% decrease in Netherlands, a project has been approved to water intake per tonne of product produced. modify the PM-1 into a medium/light weight paper machine and to increase its capacity. n Between 2005 and 2012, COD content in the process The changes to the machine will result in more water discharged by our global paper and board efficient use of energy and generate relative system has decreased relative to production by over CO2 emission reductions. 25%. This is illustrated in the graph above which shows the annual improvement compared to the base year 2005. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 23 Our Long Term Sustainable Development Commitments [continued] Activities and results in 2012 4. Code of Business Conduct n In 2012, the total COD discharge of all our paper and As a multinational Group, over the years the employee board operations decreased by 5% compared to base has grown considerably not only in size but also in 2011. cultural and social diversity. This diversity demands the development and adherence to shared core values and n In our recycled paper mill in Ania in Italy the business principles in the area of business practice, anaerobic stage of the water treatment was extended health and safety, employee relations, human rights, in July 2012, leading to a significant improvement of environment and community involvement. The Group’s the quality of the water discharged (see also pages commitment to these principles is confirmed by our Code 40 and 41). of Business Conduct, to which all of our companies and n In our recycled paper mill in Bernal in Argentina the employees alike must adhere. newly constructed water treatment plant was started The Code of Business Conduct is supported, and further up in early 2012 and is operating at full capacity expanded upon, by a number of policies and statements since April 2012. COD discharges at the Bernal facility detailing the Group’s commitment to excellence in our decreased by over 60% in 2012 compared to 2011. relationships with our employees, shareholders, n In our recycled paper mill in Caracas in Venezuela customers and suppliers, and governmental authorities better fibre recovery resulted in a decrease of in the countries in which we operate. approximately one third in the discharge of COD in 2012 compared to 2011. n At the end of 2012, 90% of our paper and board COMMITMENT is produced in mills where best practices are To continuously emphasise the importance of the Code of implemented. Best practice for water treatment Business Conduct to our employees and to integrate includes at least one step with biological treatment these principles into our day-to-day business dealings. before discharging. Current and future activities Achievements to date n There are several investments in water treatment n Established and implemented a number of Groupfacilities in both Europe and Latin America which are wide policies in areas like ethical business behaviour, being planned for implementation in the next few finance, health and safety, environment and sourcing. years. n Established a Code of Business Conduct, which is n We are continuing our programme of best practice in applicable to all employees across the Group. the treatment of our process water both in Europe and Latin America. n Appointed a Group Compliance Officer with an active reporting role to the Group Board (Audit Committee). n Introduced a Good Faith Reporting Policy Statement (‘Whistleblower Code’), which provides channels for all employees to raise confidentially concerns in relation to perceived improper actions. n Signed up to the UN Global Compact initiative. n Audited our strategic suppliers on their code of conduct programmes through our Sustainability Sourcing Policy. 24 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Activities and results in 2012 n Every level of management throughout the Group has n A Safety Opinion Survey was carried out in the first a responsibility to monitor and enforce the Group’s half of 2012 in all our European plants to measure guidelines on Competition Policy. Approximately 900 safety conditions and to identify areas for managing and sales directors, sales managers and improvement. other senior management across the Group confirmed their understanding of the Group’s zero tolerance n Having been benchmarked against an international policy with regard to anti-competitive behaviour. peer group for best practices and appropriately The process required written certification from each revised, the Code of Business Conduct was approved manager that he/she had not been engaged in, by our Board of Directors. The new Code of Business nor was aware of, any such actions. Conduct has been publicised on the Group’s internal and external websites. n A new Group Foundation for CSR co-investment activity started its initiatives in 2012 and approved n In 2012, an internal control questionnaire was participation in two projects in Ireland and one completed across our operations. The Group’s Code in Colombia. of Business Conduct and Good Faith Reporting Statement have been distributed to the plant Current and future activities management and support staff in every Group facility, n The Code of Business Conduct is or will be made which accounts for about 30% of the entire available in the respective languages on the various workforce. All plant general managers and financial national websites of the Group. controllers confirmed their understanding and adherence to the Code of Business Conduct. This n Following agreement on the new Code with the process required written certification that all respective Works Councils, an awareness programme employees had been made aware of the Code of will be implemented group-wide. Business Conduct and Whistleblower Code and that any known or suspected violations had been reported appropriately. n In 2012, an awareness campaign and training programme was undertaken in all our German operations. Ida Ferrière, Christophe Camin and Joël Cazenave – Smurfit Kappa Cellulose du Pin, France. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 25 Environment Respecting the natural environment in which we operate Fibre origin 2012 is part of our overall mission. The world is faced today All operations with a number of global environmental challenges such as deforestation, climate change, energy consumption, water 16% shortages and water quality and biodiversity loss. We are 58% dealing with these issues in our own operations every day. We are forest owners, users of wood and paper, and 6% in need of significant amounts of energy and water for our 1% production process. We are committed to operate in an environmentally progressive manner, which is one of our main principles underlying sustainability. While we aim to minimise 19% the impact our activities have on the environment as much as we can, our principle focus is on those areas where our activities potentially have the largest impact. These areas are the use of fibres and the use of wood, the use of energy and Recycled pulp produced internally Wood pulp produced internally fossil CO2 emissions and the usage and discharge of water. Purchased virgin pulp As forest owners we practice sustainable forestry supporting Virgin paper purchased biodiversity, as users of wood and paper fibres we guarantee Recycled paper purchased the sustainable origin of our raw materials and as users of energy and water we invest continuously in making our processes more energy and water efficient. 1. Sustainable Use of Fibres Almost all of the packaging produced by Smurfit Kappa is Packaging Recycling Rate in EU (%) 2010 made from paper. In this section we explain how our products contribute towards sustainability, how we use both virgin and 100 2009 recycled fibres and our overall sustainable use of fibres. 2010 Efficient packaging solutions contribute significantly to the 80 83 84 sustainability of the total supply chain of goods. Packaging 72 69 68 69 not only protects products during transit, it often helps to 60 preserve the product, carries important product information for consumers and provides marketing opportunities for both 40 manufacturers and retailers. 32 33 Paper-based packaging is a very environmentally friendly 20 form of packaging as the raw material comes from renewable sources and the end product is fully recyclable. 0 Paper & Metallic Glass Plastic A major priority of Smurfit Kappa is to provide customers with Cardboard sustainable and efficient paper packaging. Virgin or recycled papers are the most sustainable choice depending on user Source: Eurostat requirements and the supply chain specifics. 26 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Dirk Schneider (l.) and Alexander Heidland (r.) from Smurfit Kappa Zülpich, Germany. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 27 Environment [continued] As wood fibres degrade every time they are recycled, The targets in our long term sustainable development a fresh virgin fibre inflow into the recycling system is commitment related to sustainable use of fibres show required. The length of a wood fibre is shortened during our drive to apply the principles described in this area. every cycle and after a certain number of cycles, the Our Sustainable Forestry statement and our Sustainable original fibre is totally degraded. Therefore, virgin fibre Sourcing policy are available at our website and describe is constantly added to the system to compensate for the our codes of conduct with regard to all supplies of wood loss of degraded fibre, archival storage of paper, and the products, whether coming from our own forests or loss through normal use and disposal of certain paper purchased from third party suppliers. products (e.g. tissues). Paper-based packaging is almost totally renewable and Use of recycled fibres recyclable. The recycling rate for paper and board In 2012, for our manufacturing operations in Europe, packaging within the EU’s 27 member states for 2010, 75% of our fibrous raw materials came from recycled which is the latest year for which official Eurostat fibres. This figure equated in 2012 for our manufacturing statistics are available, was 83.5% (see graph page 26) operations in Latin America to 67%. thus showing that paper-based packaging has a higher recycling rate than any other packaging material. We consume over 5.1 million tonnes of recovered paper each year. Of this figure, 4.3 million tonnes are in Europe Chain of Custody certification will help us to ensure that and most of this is supplied through our own recovery the natural resources, which we need and depend upon, and recovered paper supply system which makes us the are responsibly managed and that we can provide our clear industry leader in this regard. Over 70% of our Latin customers with the sustainably produced products that American needs are also collected within our own system they require. or secured through contracts with third party suppliers. The pie-chart on page 26 indicates the source of fibres Use of virgin fibres used in our operations. Typical products containing virgin fibres are wood, virgin pulp and certain categories of paper and board. Sustainable fibres Our approach Less than 16% of the wood we use for the production Smurfit Kappa recognises and utilises the Forestry of virgin fibres originates from our own forests. We Stewardship Council (FSC), the Programme for the therefore ensure, together with our external suppliers, Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) and the that the supply of wood is from sustainable origins Sustainable Forest Initiative (SFI), the three major and that our suppliers implement strict policies for international forest certification bodies to qualify the monitoring the origin of wood fibres thus ensuring the wood and the virgin fibre based products we purchase protection of natural resources in the countries from as well as the paper, board and packaging we produce which we source them. The policies in place are based in our operations. on forest certification systems. The Chain of Custody certification process we have Both our own forest operations and our wood purchasing implemented in our operations ensures that assessments practices are based on the principles of environmentally are performed regularly by independent accredited compliant forest management schemes. In 2007, organisations, providing assurance that the wood and we committed to a programme of Chain of Custody fibres we source externally originate from sustainable certification, giving initial priority to our operations and well managed forests and are legitimately sourced. which handle wood. We have extended this management This certification process is important for our own system to our entire mill system (both virgin and recycled operations, our customers and our suppliers. paper and board) and to our packaging operations. Our ultimate aim is to reach Chain of Custody We are both the largest producer of virgin containerboard certification for all of our relevant operations and for all in Europe as well as in those countries in Latin America the products we deliver to our customers. This shows our where we have virgin containerboard production commitment to a sustainable managed supply chain facilities. 69% of the virgin containerboard used for the ranging from sustainable forest management practices manufacturing of packaging is produced internally: the to delivering Chain of Custody certified products to remainder is purchased from third parties. Through a our customers. verification programme with external suppliers we ensure that the supply of virgin paper is either certified or is of non-controversial origin. 28 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Forestry Smurfit Kappa owns and manages approximately 105,000 hectares of forests in Colombia and Venezuela. These plantations Engagement with Stakeholders provide our mills in both countries with almost Russia: Sustainability important all of their virgin fibre requirements. We manage forest holdings based on our ingredient in Russian partnership sustainable development principles, promoting economic growth, a responsible use of natural Dmitry Zylev, resources and fostering social equity in the General Director of Arkhangelsk regions where the forest plantations are located. “Arkhangelsk Pulp and Paper Mill has provided the Russian Smurfit Kappa’s largest forest plantations are in corrugated operations of Smurfit Kappa since the 1990s with Colombia. Here, we have approximately 69,000 kraftliner and fluting. These raw materials are used for the hectares, including 6,400 hectares in production of corrugated packaging. The long-lasting relationship partnerships with private landowners. This area between the two companies goes beyond the product level and comprises over 44,000 hectares of commercial also emphasises the focus on corporate sustainability. plantations, approximately 22,000 hectares of Arkhangelsk’s main activities are the logging and the processing of protected natural forest and just over 3,000 wood into pulp and paper products, such as cardboard, cellulose, hectares for infrastructure. Of the commercial and paper. Arkhangelsk is one of the main producers of kraftliner plantations, 60% are pines, 39% Eucalyptus in Russia and an important supplier to Smurfit Kappa in Russia. and 1% dedicated to forestry research. We operate our Colombian forest holdings under a Arkhangelsk is supporting Smurfit Kappa in its endeavours for management system that has been certified in sustainability. In 2006, Arkhangelsk was the first among Russia’s accordance with the FSC since 2003. pulp and paper companies to operate under the FSC trademark. In March 2013 the scope of the FSC certification was expanded to In Venezuela, we own approximately 35,000 include also kraftliner and fluting. In addition, a number of its wood hectares in three western states of the country. suppliers are operating under management systems compliant with Of this total, 21,000 hectares are commercial FSC requirements. Arkhangelsk aims to reduce the adverse impact plantations, 13,000 hectares are natural on the environment of its activities including the prevention of reserves and the balance is given over to pollution. Arkhangelsk is a member of the Ecologically Responsible infrastructure. Commercial plantations include Timbermen of Russia, which is a part of the Global Forest and Trade 12,600 hectares of short fibre (Eucalyptus and Network (GFTN), established under the umbrella of the WWF. Gmelina) while 6,400 hectares are long fibre from pine. The balance is used for research and Arkhangelsk is also adhering to sustainable social principles. development such as silviculture, plantation As the largest enterprise in its region it is aware of the exclusive management, forest protection and forestry role it has to fulfil in both the social as well as the economic life research. of its local community. It does so by supporting programmes that should ensure its integration in the local and regional communities. The forest plantations in Venezuela have not Arkhangelsk also places labour relations at the core: employees are yet been certified but are well advanced in employed strictly in compliance with regulations, with average pay terms of best practice. We plan to start FSC well above the average for the region and with attention to and certification activities of our forest holdings investments in occupational safety. in 2013. Arkhangelsk is looking forward to continuing its cooperation with The main species harvested in both countries Smurfit Kappa not only as a supplier but also in sharing the same are varieties of Eucalyptus and pine. principles on sustainability.” During the plantation life cycle, Smurfit Kappa conforms to the numerous governmental legal, technical and environmental regulations, for which, in most cases, annual permit renewals are required. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 29 Environment [continued] These percentages reflect the situation at the end of 2012. To simplify the calculation, where a mill obtained the certificate during the year, the annual production of Paper and Board production the mill is taken into account for calculating the percentage. With the exception of our San Felipe mill in Venezuela, all our wood handling operations are Chain of Custody The third section of the table relates to the packaging certified by FSC or PEFC. These include all our mills operations. Here the number of sites operating with producing virgin fibres and our wood supply companies Chain of Custody certification is reported and the second in France and Spain. column gives the percentage of sites with Chain of Custody certification. Our complete paper and board mill system in Europe is Chain of Custody certified since early 2011. This mill Suppliers system consists of mills producing virgin and recycled containerboard, carton board, solid board, sack paper and To make further progress in the certification of our machine glazed papers. Our European mills are certified products, in 2012 we continued our verification both for FSC and PEFC. programme with external paper suppliers to ensure that, as a minimum, all virgin fibres contained in the supplied Certification of our paper and board mills in Latin America papers or board are of non-controversial origin and are is progressing with FSC Chain of Custody certification of preferably Chain of Custody certified under PEFC and/or all paper mills in place in Colombia since 2009 and in FSC. This verification process includes all our external Mexico since May 2012. Our two paper mills in Argentina paper suppliers and is based on physical audits. At the are to be certified by the end of 2013. end of 2012, 79% of all our external virgin supplies in Europe were FSC, PEFC and/or SFI certified or have Packaging operations PEFC and/or FSC controlled wood status. In March 2013, Chain of Custody certified packaging guarantees our this percentage increased to 95%. The remaining 5% is customers that only sustainable fibres are used in their purchased through agents that are not certified. However, packaging. For virgin papers, this means that fibres the majority of that 5% has a certified origin while the originate solely from sustainably managed forests and, balance is from non-controversial origin. for recycled paper, it means that a significant amount of post-consumer recovered paper is used as raw material. Biodiversity The entire supply chain is traceable to prove this to our In Colombia, 31% of our total forest area is protected customers. natural forest; in Venezuela 37% of our total forest area In 2009, we initiated a programme in our packaging is protected natural forest. These protected parts of our operations to supply customers with Chain of Custody forests are kept as natural forest and are not replaced by certified products. Our target is to be able to offer plantations, thus maintaining biodiversity, preserving certified packaging to all our customers from all our watersheds and helping to conserve natural habitats. packaging production locations. The guiding principles of the Group’s forestry policy in Considerable progress has been made during 2012 and in Latin America are to: early 2013, we reached a level of 92% of our packaging n Develop continuously and systematically research operations in Europe and Latin America being Chain of programmes to preserve and enhance soil Custody certified FSC and/or PEFC. This surpassed the productivity. targeted level of 90% in our long term sustainable development commitment for the sustainable use of n Identify appropriate species and forestry practices fibres (pages 20 and 21). that will enable an increase in plantation yields while protecting the environment. Overview of certification in place at end of 2012 n Conserve natural forests located on company lands The table on page 32 gives a detailed overview of our to ensure the sustainability of forest diversity and paper capacity operating under Chain of Custody thereby contribute to the protection of water sources certification per grade of paper together with the number and habitat of flora and fauna. of converting operations also under Chain of Custody In Colombia, we are continuously investing in research certification. projects, frequently in cooperation with other research The first two sections of the table give the percentage of institutes as the following examples show. our paper or board production capacity operating with Together with the National Centre for Coffee Research Chain of Custody certification while the last column (CENICAFÉ) we worked on the potential carbon reports the exact percentage of the paper or board that sequestration capabilities of the pine and Eucalyptus can be sold as Chain of Custody certified. This information species planted by Smurfit Kappa. The “3CFix” (Cartón de is provided by type of paper and board produced in both Colombia Carbon Fix) model was developed and carbon Europe and Latin America. sequestration figures are available since 2007. 30 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Professor Vasquez checking a pluviometer (rain gauge) in one of the forestry areas being researched. In 2012, the combined growth of pines and Eucalyptus in our Colombian plantations absorbed some 1.1 million tonnes of CO2 from the atmosphere thereby fixing 300,000 tonnes of carbon within it. The wood harvested in the same period contained approximately 276,000 tonnes of carbon, giving a positive carbon balance of over 24,000 tonnes of carbon or its equivalent of 88,000 tonnes of CO2. Engagement with Stakeholders Since 1969, when we began our forestry activity in Colombia: university Colombia, we have committed to protect all natural forests located in our expanding land holdings, Guillermo Vásquez Velásquez respecting the existing biodiversity in both types Associate Professor, Forest Hydrology of forests. and Watershed Management In order to effectively protect and promote National University of Colombia (Medellín Campus) conservation, since 2009 we have been working with two local universities (Cauca and Quindío) on studies “The relationship between plantation forestry and water of the flora and fauna populations in our protected resources has often been a controversial one. Scientific natural forests that are within or surround the research conducted over time never seems to be able planted forests. These studies focus on mammals to satisfy both advocates and opponents, since the and birds. conditions surrounding each plantation are too unique Apart from the objective of identifying the existence to generalise. In the Colombian Andes, Smurfit Kappa of the species, we focused on determining which manages 45,000 hectares of plantation forests. These species were categorised as endangered by commercial forests are often situated close to urban international organisations such as the International concentrations and consist of fast growing species like Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). Pine and Eucalyptus trees. The landscape is characterised by a very humid climate, soils susceptible to erosion and At the end of 2012, we completed a second study steep terrain. More than 550 watercourses originate in of our forest holdings in Quindío together with the Smurfit Kappa’s area of management. These streams local university. Four new endangered species were supply small farms and medium-sized municipalities identified. At the end of 2012 and over the past with water. Mountain watersheds in the region used to four years we have identified 1616 species: 905 are be employed for grazing cattle, but now they have been flora, 631 birds and 80 mammals. Of these, 26 are converted for use in forest plantations. In order to endangered to some degree according to IUCN determine the influence of commercial forest plantations categorisation: 12 species of flora, 9 birds and 5 with regard to the hydrological response of small mammals. From this research it is clear that the forest watersheds in the Colombian Andes, both the Forestry plantations and the neighbouring protected natural Sciences Department of the Medellin Campus of the forest form important wildlife corridors which National University of Colombia and the Forest Research contribute to species conservation in the Andean Department of Smurfit Kappa in Colombia established a ecosystem. partnership to develop a research programme in forest The results of this study were presented in our hydrology. Since its initiation in 2011 the research 2012 calendar, which had a 40,000 unit print run programme has been visited by many international and was sent to all our stakeholders. We have also experts in this field and has brought together researchers, published three handbooks on the study findings. students, politicians, farmers and environmentalists The objective of these handbooks is to promote interested in the protective effect of plantations on water species conservation through observation and resources. As a result the programme not only contributes identification. These handbooks have been to practical environmental solutions, but it also helps at distributed to surrounding communities and an academic level in the search for hydro-solidarity and managers of our forestry farms. social sustainability in the Colombian Andes.” SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 31 Environment [continued] Additionally, in 2012 we had meetings with both Eleven of our European sites are located within or employees and customers, to share information adjacent to areas that are part of the Natura 2000 which about the wide range and significant impact of our is an ecology network of protected areas in the territory sustainability actions. Apart from these meetings there is of the EU. The Natura 2000 network has been created also a frequent dialogue with other stakeholder groups through EU legislation in 1992 protecting the most interested in our actions related to forestry and threatened habitats and species across Europe. biodiversity. Forestry studies are actively promoted, we Ten other sites are adjacent to or within areas protected have been involved in numerous publications on forestry by national or local legislation. Additionally, four of our research on topics related to silviculture, tree breeding operations draw from or discharge water to watersheds and forest health for Eucalyptus as well as tropical and that are protected or classified as sensitive. subtropical pines over the past decades. The list containing the names and locations of these sites In Europe we have identified which of our operations are can be downloaded from our website. either within or in close proximity to legally protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value. We are taking necessary steps to ensure both the environmental protection and the sustainability of these sensitive areas. Smurfit Kappa mills and Converting plants certified Chain of Custody under PEFC or FSC Overview Smurfit Kappa certification at end 2012 VIRGIN PAPER Production Production % certified Ktonnes capacity with paper CoC certification EUROPE Kraftliner products 1,485 100% 79% Other virgin papers (sack paper, MG paper) 252 100% 41% LATIN AMERICA Kraftliner, printing & writing paper, SC fluting 294 90% 90% RECYCLED PAPER & BOARD Production Production % certified Ktonnes capacity with paper CoC certification EUROPE Containerboard 2,934 100% 100% Solidboard & cartonboard 869 100% 94% LATIN AMERICA Containerboard 640 69% 53% Cartonboard 131 73% 28% PACKAGING Number of Percentage site sites certified with CoC Certification EUROPE Corrugated packaging 164 90% Solidboard and cartonboard packaging 9 100% LATIN AMERICA Corrugated packaging 19 70% Cartonboard packaging 2 67% Paper Sacks 4 80% 32 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 2 Efficient Use of Energy and Carbon Management Towards a low carbon economy In 2011, the EU published roadmaps towards a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 and its energy roadmap. Together with other policy documents, over time this will lead to a new European climate change and Thirty six years of forestry energy package. The outcome will be crucial for Smurfit research at Smurfit Kappa Kappa and our industry as our operations are affected by all these (future) policies. It is clear that the EU can meet Cartón de Colombia its objectives in this area only if there is sufficient biomass availability. Currently our industry is the largest For 36 years the Forestry Research Department (“FRD”) user of biomass in Europe. Our products are, although to has been essential for the development of the forestry a large extent made from recycled material, ultimately division of SKCC. This department has evolved in three biomass based. Our industry is also the largest and most main areas. efficient generator of energy based on biomass. This is Tree breeding and genetic improvement research realised through the extensive use of biomass boilers programme: The FRD focused its early efforts on the that are mainly fuelled by biomass residuals such as introduction and testing of several tree species to source bark, sawdust, thinnings and stumps. Since 2010 we fibres for the company products. A series of progeny tests have made significant investments in biomass boilers were established to compare among the different in Navarra in Spain, and a steam turbine in Nervión in species. Genetic improvement is based on clonal forestry Spain. Although most of these boilers are connected to for eucalyptus in which the best trees are selected and the production of pulp and virgin fibre based paper, in propagated through rooted cuttings of the same tree; and several countries such as Spain and France, governments family forestry for pines, in which the best seedlings are are supporting energy and fossil carbon saving projects obtained through closed or open polarisation of the connected to recycled paper mills. Smurfit Kappa outstanding trees. No genetic modification practices supports and actively participates in such projects. are used. 90% of our fuel consumption consists of either Silviculture and Productivity (S&P) research programme: With the acquisition of the first farms, new renewable fuel (biomass) or the relatively low CO2challenges appeared such as, how many trees to plant, emitting fossil fuel natural gas. In 2012, 42% of all how to prepare the land, when and how often to control energy used was biomass based. the weeds and how to supply additional nutrients to preserve or amplify the growth potential obtained Combatting climate change through genetic improvement. Investing in efficient energy generation The S&P research programme has developed three Combined Heat and Power generation (CHP) is the most computerised applications: (i) SMURFERC establishment, efficient method of producing electricity and heat for calculating and optimising the amount of fertiliser (steam). Our industry is very suited to install these required for planting each of the six working species in co-generation units given our need for both electricity the 64 different soil units present in our land holdings; and steam. In 2012, the proportion of our energy coming (ii) SMURFERC maintenance, that makes it possible to determine, through foliar analysis at an early stage in from CHP installations was unchanged from 2011. This is pine and eucalyptus plantations, the nutritional status the result of positive effects from the installation of new and growth, to generate nutritional managements CHP installations in a few mills and the negative effects options; and (iii) Cartón de Colombia Carbon Fixation of certain existing CHP installations that operated for Programme or 3CFix, an application that allows the various reasons below their performance level of 2011. forestry division to calculate, with local growth-drain Our Navarra mill in Spain was one of the paper mills calculations and physiological indices, the carbon fix where we invested in 2012 in a boiler. The grate fired and stocks of the plantations, on a yearly basis. biomass boiler has been rebuilt to a bubbling fluidised Phytosanitary protection research programme: As the bed boiler, resulting in the possibility of generating nature of our forest holdings changed, the different 100% of the steam capacity by biomass instead of 50% species of tree were exposed to a more variable set of before the re-build. This re-build also resulted in the environmental conditions. Over time, various diseases idling of a relatively small gas fired boiler which means and pests appeared, giving rise to concerns over forest that all steam now passes the steam turbine before being productivity and fibre quality. The phytosanitary used in the mill, thereby increasing the CHP ratio for protection research programme was started in 1988 this mill. with the aim of solving these problems. It has three main working components: training, prevention, and disease & pest risk management. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 33 Environment [continued] Direct fuel consumption 2012 All operations Another example is the investment in a larger turbine in our recycled paper mill in Barranquilla in Colombia replacing two smaller ones. Before the investment, electricity was generated by these two gas turbines 42% without recovering the waste heat. The new turbine 48% also has a waste heat recovery unit installed with it and therefore the amount of electricity generated through a CHP installation has significantly increased. 7% In our recycled paper mill in Barbosa (Colombia) a waste 3% heat recovery boiler has been installed. This boiler, which is now operating as a stand-alone boiler, will become part Natural Gas Coal of a CHP unit thereby increasing the amount of electricity Other fossil fuels Biofuel generated through a CHP installation. Our recycled paper mill in Birmingham in the UK installed a motor that is fuelled by biogas generated in the on-site Energy, CO2 emissions and other air emissions related data waste water treatment facility. The motor also has a are reported for all our operations (including details for waste heat recovery unit installed with it. Previously, the individual mills in Europe and Latin America) in the tables biogas was burned in a steam boiler. This alternative use on pages 78 to 84. Those tables report energy of the biogas resulted in more electricity generated by consumption for the production of the paper or board a CHP installation than before. manufactured while the two input/output tables on page 76 (European operations) and on page 77 (Latin American Investing in energy reduction initiatives operations) report the total energy consumption of the site, In 2011, we concluded an internal study that generated taking into account the fuels used to produce electricity an overview of all (theoretical) possible savings on energy and/or thermal energy sold externally. The methods needs and fossil CO2 emissions per paper mill. In that study applied for calculations as well as details on specific all our European and Latin American paper mills were definitions are given in the glossary on pages 94 to 96. analysed. For 2013 we plan to analyse our board mills as well. The list of energy and CO2 saving opportunities Investing in fossil CO2 emission reductions resulting from this study forms the basis for energy and Our total fossil CO2 emissions (direct and indirect) CO2 reduction related investments in the coming years. decreased in 2012 by 63,000 tonnes compared to 2011. Most identified projects to reduce energy use and fossil Compared to 2009, our total fossil CO2 emissions have CO2 emissions are part of larger investments which will been reduced by 218,000 tonnes representing a decrease be executed depending on their economic feasibility. of 6%. The reduction in 2012 has been achieved by lower In 2012, several initiatives to reduce the use of energy emissions by the mill systems both in Europe and were approved and/or executed as the following Latin America. examples show. Examples of mills in Europe that contributed to this As shown on page 37, at our recycled paper mill in Hoya reduction are Hoya in Germany (heat recovery system), in Germany, we have invested in the paper machine since Nervión in Spain (installation of a new steam turbine) and 2011, not only to expand the capacity but also to reduce Nettingsdorfer in Austria (shift from the use of heavy fuel energy usage. For example, a film press was installed in oil to natural gas in the lime kiln). 2011, leading to higher energy efficiency. Another For Latin America, CO2 emission reductions were achieved modification made to the paper machine in 2012 was by Cerro Gordo (installation of a shoe press), Barbosa the installation of a heat recovery system in the hood, replacing steam by waste heat. Less energy is now needed (installation of a (waste heat) boiler using natural gas and to evaporate the water contained in the paper during replacing coal) and Barranquilla (installation of a CHP). production. Historic trends in the fossil CO2 emissions for both Europe Another example of energy reduction is the installation of and Latin America are shown in the graphs on next page. a shoe press in one of the paper machines at our recycled To reach the target of 20% reduction of fossil CO2 paper mill In Cerro Gordo in Mexico (see page 36). emissions relative to production by 2020 there are In 2012, the energy intensity on a per tonne basis of our potential projects identified in two main areas. Firstly, paper and board production decreased by 3.5% compared projects that will reduce the need and usage of steam in to 2011. the paper machines, and secondly those that will bring more efficient use of fossil fuels, mainly by additional Also in our converting operations many initiatives to investments in CHP capacity. These potential additional reduce energy usage are taken. Examples of such initiatives investments in CHP installations will decrease CO2 can be found on page 38. emissions in Smurfit Kappa and will also contribute to a further shift to biomass usage as fuel. 34 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Biofuels, fossil fuels, electricity from grid European mills PJ GJ/tonne 32 16 28 14 24 12 20 10 16 8 12 6 8 4 4 2 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Biofuels Fossil fuels Electricity from grid Absolute (PJ) Speciﬁc (GJ/tonne) Engagement with Stakeholders Biofuels, fossil fuels, electricity from grid CDP Latin American mills Frances Way Co-Chief Operating Officer Programmes PJ GJ/tonne Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) 32 16 28 14 24 12 “CDP is an independent global charity that works with 20 10 investors, companies, and governments to drive 16 8 environmental action that will deliver a sustainable 12 6 economy. We were founded 12 years ago with a focus 8 4 on catalysing corporate transparency from the world’s 4 2 largest 500 companies on their carbon emissions and 0 0 energy use. As a result now more than 4,100 of the 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 largest listed companies across most of the major Biofuels Fossil fuels Electricity from grid economies disclose their climate change impacts and Absolute (PJ) Speciﬁc (GJ/tonne) strategies through CDP. We also have a supply chain programme to allow major multinational purchasing organisations to manage climate risks across their global Direct fossil (Scope 1) CO2 emission supply chains. Besides climate change we are now also European mills working on water and forests programmes. Energy, water, climate change and forests are intrinsically linked. The ktonnes kg/tonne impacts of these issues go beyond the direct operations 2,000 1,000 900 of a company. Smurfit Kappa has been reporting to CDP 1,800 1,600 800 on climate change since 2008. In 2012 Smurfit Kappa’s 1,400 700 emissions reporting was of good quality with breakdowns 600 1,200 provided by country, facility and business division, which 1,000 500 400 makes it possible to focus on reducing those emissions. 800 600 300 Emissions reductions were achieved through specific 400 200 reduction activities. Climate change is integrated into the 100 200 business strategy and this is reflected in Smurfit Kappa’s 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ability to identify opportunities as well as risks. CDP suggests that Smurfit Kappa should strengthen its Absolute emissions (ktonnes) Speciﬁc (kg/tonne) emissions reduction target to an absolute target and consider awarding incentives for staff responsible for managing these issues. The next challenge should be Direct fossil (Scope 1) CO2 emission further reporting on Scope 3, especially emissions from Latin American mills suppliers. Deforestation is a key issue for Smurfit Kappa’s ktonnes kg/tonne business model and ensuring wood is procured 2,000 1,000 responsibly is a challenge Smurfit Kappa should 1,800 900 address and report on.” 1,600 800 1,400 700 1,200 600 1,000 500 800 400 600 300 400 200 200 100 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Absolute emissions (ktonnes) Speciﬁc (kg/tonne) SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 35 The new shoe-press on PM5 machine at the Cerro Gordo paper mill, Mexico, helped to realise significant reduction in fossil CO2 emissions. The new lime kiln at the Cali mill, Colombia led to a decrease of CO2 and dust emissions. Mexico: Paper mill cuts GHG emissions by using less steam Colombia: Cali mill reduces CO2 emissions and improves Our Cerro Gordo Mill is located in the metropolitan area of energy efficiency Mexico City, one of the most populated areas in the world. Geographically, it is situated in a basin which inhibits the rapid dispersion of air emissions. Industrial operations are Our virgin pulp and paper mill in Cali recently therefore subject to stringent environmental regulations replaced the existing lime kiln in which Calcium regarding greenhouse gas emissions. Oxide (CaO) for the pulp production process was produced. The old lime kiln was operating well Within this strict regulatory environment, the Cerro Gordo above its design capacity due to several mill realised a significant fossil CO2 emission reduction modifications. Instead of 55 tonnes of CaO per through an investment in a new shoe-press on its PM5 day, it produced between 130 and 150 tonnes. machine in January 2012. The absolute reduction in fossil This led to relatively high fuel consumption. CO2 emissions from the PM5 is over 4,300 tonnes per year. The new lime kiln is fired with natural gas, The Mexican mill produces recycled paper for corrugated whereas the old lime kiln was using heavy fuel oil. boxes and folding carton for packaging for all types of Both the efficiency improvement of 60,000 GJ and industry. The various grades of recycled paper are now the use of a cleaner fuel will lead to a decrease produced with less steam thanks to the new shoe-press. of approximately 13,000 tonnes of direct CO2 As a result, the paper entering the drying section of the emissions. Production is expected to increase to paper machine holds less moisture thus allowing increased 160 tonnes of CaO per day. Odours are reduced production speed and lower steam consumption. Less usage by burning non-condensable gases generated in of steam translates into savings on natural gas consumption. the process. The new lime kiln is also equipped In turn this results in less CO2 emissions and reduces the with an electrostatic precipitator which reduces carbon footprint of the Cerro Gordo Mill. dust emissions. United Kingdom: New lightweight paper machine in Townsend Hook will reduce CO2 emissions We announced in 2012 that we will install a modern, five metre lightweight recycled containerboard machine at the Townsend Hook mill in the United Kingdom. By investing €115 million in 2013 and 2014, the two existing paper machines will be replaced by one new, state of the art paper machine, increasing the 3D picture of the new building at Smurfit Kappa Townsend production capacity of the mill by 20,000 tonnes to Hook which will house the new paper machine. 260,000 tonnes per annum. It is expected that this new energy efficient paper machine will save 25,000 tonnes per annum on direct CO2 emissions. The start-up of the machine is planned for quarter 4, 2014 and its production is intended to meet the growing demand for sustainable, lower weight, high performance packaging papers. Lower weight, high performance packaging papers contribute to optimising the environmental footprint of the supply chain of our packaging customers. 36 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Inside our paper and board mill in Hoya, Germany. Germany: Hoya ready for the future making paper with lower CO2 emissions Our paper and board mill in Hoya, Germany has been transformed many times since it began its operations in 1957. The mill produces containerboard and coated board on two machines. Both machines use 100% recycled fibre as their raw material source. To keep pace with ever more demands on speed, output and efficiency, it recently completed a two-phase transformation project of the containerboard machine, thus making it ready to meet future market demands. The objective of the investments in phase one was to significantly increase the speed and to decrease downtime and maintenance of the machine. These investments in combination with a new energy recovery system in the hood and film press have also led to a significant reduction in specific energy usage and direct CO2 emissions. With the completion of the second phase of this multi-year investment project the containerboard machine is now able to produce low basis weight packaging paper, allowing the packaging operations to offer solutions to customers with less environmental impact. Extending the current Combined Heat and Power plant towards the end of 2013 with an additional gas turbine and a waste heat recovery boiler will minimise the use of electricity from the grid and hence decrease significantly indirect fossil CO2 emissions. The Netherlands: Rofire – a first class secondary fuel We aim to minimise “side stream” The on-site facility at the Roermond paper mill in the Netherlands to convert otherwise unusable organic volumes sent to landfill. Our paper mill in materials into a high calorific fuel pellet: Rofire. Roermond, the Netherlands has found an excellent way to capture the value of such side streams. The mill uses 100% recovered paper as raw material to produce recycled paper. Recovered paper contains mainly paper fibres, but also paper clips, staples, textile, ropes, wood and plastic, which constitute “side streams” of extraneous material. The mill uses processes to enhance separation of these side streams and the local crew has identified useful applications for all streams with a 99.5% success rate. In 2000, the Roermond mill invested in an on-site facility to convert non-useable organic materials into a fuel pellet with a high calorific value: Rofire. This secondary fuel is 50% bio-based and can be used as a substitute for coal in the limestone industry, for example, thereby saving 20,000 tonnes fossil CO2 emissions annually. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 37 Environmental initiatives Energy Most of our energy and water usage takes place in our global paper and board mill system. We operate a manifold number of converting operations that use, compared to our paper and board mills, relatively less energy and water. Nevertheless, in these operations management is committed to be efficient in the use of energy and water discharge as is illustrated by the following examples: Czech Republic: Colombia: Corrugated United Kingdom: Sensor lights make plants reduce use Sustainable energy and sense of energy electricity savings Our Corrugated Converting Thanks to the environmental commitment Our sheetfeeding plants in the UK have been operation in Žebrák in the Czech of all our corrugated plants in Colombia, reducing their carbon footprint in recent years Republic investigated whether significant improvements have been which is most evident in their energy reduction lighting in part of its buildings achieved with regard to sustainability projects. In 2008, the Sheetfeeding sites set a could be improved. issues. The focus of the plants on energy five year target to achieve savings and reduce reduction and also chemicals, like glue carbon emissions through innovation, New sensor lights were installed and ink, has been a successful one. efficiency and employee engagement at its in one of the production halls, three manufacturing plants. The process began cutting back on energy used while In the Medellín plant steam control in 2008 using a single location as a pilot, also reducing the generation of valves were installed in the double backer establishing best practice and rolling it out heat resulting from the original achieving a 20% decrease of natural gas across the region. The success of the approach lighting system. A total of eleven consumption compared to 2011. The resulted in significant savings in energy and new light panels now make sure changes also improved product quality water usage. In the three years after go live that the energy required to light and reduced operating costs. Similarly there was a reduction of 24% in gas the hall is reduced by 50%. The the corrugated plant in Bogotá installed consumption and 22% reduction in electricity sensor lights directly decrease the a system powered by processors in the usage. Many of these ideas for improvement carbon footprint of Smurfit Kappa boiler, which replaced the traditional have now been ‘rolled-out’ through the Smurfit Czech and at the same time mechanical system. The measure Kappa Group. The achievement of the Carbon improve the safety situation, since optimises the air-fuel ratio, improves Trust Standard in Sheetfeeding was another the lights produce far less heat. combustion efficiency and reduces first in addition to the business being the first Soon other halls will also be fitted gas consumption and hence emissions. sheetfeeder in the UK to gain FSC and PEFC with sensor lights. Furthermore, a pump to recover certification. Building on the Sheetfeeding condensates from the corrugator was certification, Smurfit Kappa UK became the first installed. Gas consumption decreased major multi-sited packaging company to be by 6% from 2011 to 2012. awarded the Carbon Trust standard in the UK. Steam boiler at our corrugated plant Smurfit Kappa Turnhout, Belgium. 38 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 in converting operations Water Colombia: Good Mexico: Water use Ireland: Smurfit Kappa practices boost efficiency and reuse Display on a mission to sustainable performance in Culiacán reduce emission Our Corrugated plant in Barranquilla has Our plant in Culiacán is located in an area In 2009, Smurfit Kappa Display concluded accomplished sizeable reductions in the with a semi-arid climate. Although annual that their effluent discharges needed to usage of water (32%), the use of rainfall is over 600 millimetres, the high be adjusted to reduce the amount of electricity (23%) and in the consumption average annual temperatures causes chemicals entering the South Dublin of gas (30%) in 2012 compared to 2011. significant evaporation. Sustainable County Council drains. To help protect the water management therefore is an environment the Operations and Health The programme in Barranquilla important issue at the plant. and Safety departments of this Smurfit demonstrates that good teamwork Kappa plant researched the matter. and production practices can boost New initiatives have improved the productivity and reduce the efficiency of water usage by 48% Fortnightly samples were taken from environmental footprint of a company at in 2012 compared to 2011. Water the drains and tested to identify any the same time. Awareness programmes consumption decreased from 1.19 m3/ discharges over the permitted limits. for personnel in combination with tonne in 2011 to 0.62 m3/tonne of The first ten samples in 2010 identified efficiency checks of various parts of saleable output. Process water eight such cases, all coming from COD the production process have led to discharged was reduced from 0.32 to and BOD. Eventually the process by which employees pro-actively tackling energy 0.18 m3/tonne saleable output. This was chemicals were being used was changed. issues, the replacement of non-efficient realised by closing water jacket circuits An eight step programme was initiated machinery and unnecessary usage of in the corrugator’s single facers and by that entailed measures such as installing electricity, gas and water. Simple reusing wash water in starch adhesive new equipment, raising awareness among measures like closing machine sections, preparation and the washing of printing employees and replacing the ink with a switching off un-used machinery and plates. For the water treatment process more biodegradable alternative. After immediate repairs had a significant an electrocoagulation process was introducing these measures in 2012 the effect. Continuous monitoring was vital implemented. The use of potable water site managed to stay within the required to achieve these goals and is necessary in sanitary services, instead of using effluent limits, to improve efficiency and to guarantee a successful continuation untreated superficial water, improved enhance the protection of the local of this programme. health and safety conditions and environment. decreased the sanitary water discharge. Water treatment system at our folding carton plant Smurfit Kappa Baden Packaging in Weisenbach, Germany. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 39 Environment [continued] CO2 emissions for transport Distribution of transport of raw of raw materials 2012 materials by mode of transport 2012 European operations European operations 250,000 9% 200,000 CO2-eq (tonnes) 150,000 37% 100,000 54% 50,000 0 Rail Ship Road Rail Road Ship Emission from transport returns at a later stage as precipitation into the global In Europe, we calculated the CO2 emissions related to (fresh) water systems. Furthermore, in general, the water the transport of the main raw materials to our mills and we take in, is used multiple times before it is treated in our converting plants. Transportation of our raw materials water treatment facilities. For example, of all water that is and products is mostly outsourced to external parties. in use by a paper and board mill at any point in time, 98% is being re-used before being treated. This includes transport of wood, recovered papers and market pulp used in our mills. The transport of raw Underpinning our commitment, we invest in the best materials to the second stage of the supply chain (reels of available techniques to treat the water before returning paper, corrugated board sheets, solid board sheets, plastic it to the water source. Since 2005, we have made films and other items to the converting plants) is also taken considerable efforts and sizeable investments in upgrading into account. its water treatment facilities. One of our largest paper mills, Zülpich in Germany, is operating a 100% closed loop While the calculation of CO2 emissions for the transport process water system. of paper reels between our own mills and the converting plants (representing 71% of total volume) is accurate, we Water performance believe we have made a good estimate of emissions for the Our global paper and board mill system used 124 million m3 transport of the remaining reels of paper supplied to our of water in 2012, over 98% of our total water intake. The corrugated plants by external parties. balance was used in our global converting system which For 2012, CO2 equivalents for transport of raw materials requires very limited amounts of water relative to amounted to 212 kTonnes. The breakdown by mode production volumes. Our total intake of water is practically of transport is shown in the graphs above. The CO2 stable since 2010, but is 10% lower compared to 2008. emission factors by transport mode are extracted from There are two regions, where our operations face water the European Reference Life Cycle Database version II scarcity. Mexico and the southern part of Spain (Andalucía). (ELCD). Transportation for the above activities represents Our mills in those regions place special attention to limiting 6.2 billion tonne-kilometres and the pie-chart displays the their water intake as much as possible. For example, our split by type of transport. 54% of our transport needs are recycled mill in Monterrey, located in Northeast Mexico in carried out by road, 37% by sea with the balance carried a so called semi-arid climate region, initiated a programme out by train. two years ago to lessen its water intake achieving a decrease of 40% in water intake per tonne of paper produced, We have not been able to do a similar exercise for Latin see details on page 43. America due to the structure of our supplier base. We are in the process of establishing the parameters of the Following investments of over €31 million in water journeys to and from our paper mills. treatment facilities since 2005, the quality of water discharged by our global paper and board mill system has 3. Water Management improved on a relative basis by 25%. We use the COD Water is a vital element in our manufacturing process. (Chemical Oxygen Demand) content as measure for water As fresh water availability is a growing global concern, quality. Compared to 2011, our COD performance we strive to limit water intake where we can, even though improved in 2012 by 5% mainly resulting from the the vast majority of our production locations are located commissioning in April 2012 of a new water treatment in areas with no foreseen water scarcity. We are also facility in the paper mill in Bernal in Argentina. The new committed to return the water used in our processes as facility allowed the relative COD content of Bernal to clean as possible to the public water systems. 90% of the decrease by over 60% in 2012 compared to 2011. Another water used is actually returned to these systems in good significant improvement was realised in our paper mill in condition and most of the remaining water evaporates and Ania in Italy. Through the extension of the water treatment 40 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Water sources 2012 Water sources 2012 Water sources 2012 ALL operations EUROPEAN operations LATIN AMERICA operations 2% 2% 3% 8% 8% 2% 13% 24% 66% 83% 89% Surface Ground Surface Ground Surface Ground Grid Other Grid Grid Other facility, Ania reduced its COD discharge by 18% in Cellulose du Pin 2012 compared to 2011. Other paper and board mills In 2012, our Cellulose du Pin kraftliner mill located in operated their water treatment facilities according to Biganos in France, faced the collapse of one of the black expected levels. liquor storage tanks resulting in the release of effluent The two other indicators measuring the organic content onto the grounds of the facility. Immediate action was of water discharged are BOD (Biological Oxygen Demand) undertaken to contain the spillage. and TSS (Total Suspended Solids). These indicators No physical injuries were reported, however limited showed the same performance trend as the COD indicator. The so-called eutrophication indicators pollution of the nearby river waters did occur. This was (nitrogen and phosphorus) remained stable in 2012 detectable only for a short period thanks to the limited compared to 2011. quantity of effluent (approximately 100 m3 of black liquor) that spilled into the river waters. This spillage In general, the water that we discharge from our paper resulted in a relative limited quantity of approximately and board mills has been treated in water treatment 300 kg of dead fish collected. Site management kept in facilities on-site. In some instances water is being close contact with the local authorities. Bruno Lafon, discharged to community water discharge facilities. In Mayor of Biganos, stated: “The dialogue with the factory general, after the water is treated on-site, it is discharged management was constructive and their efforts to resolve to the surface water systems such as rivers, lakes the problems that resulted from the incident were and/or sea. extensive.” To ensure a safe mill restart, all tanks Over 50% of the volume of the process water discharged concerned were audited by a third party. This action led by our paper and board mill system is biologically to a seven week shutdown of the mill. A committee treated, approximately 10% is discharged to external comprising Smurfit Kappa representatives and local community treatment facilities and the balance receives stakeholders will monitor the mill’s operations by physical and/or chemical treatment before being meeting at least once per year. The mill will also initiate discharged. and fund an independent and public survey on the impact of the production activities on the environment. Water data Despite uncertainty as to the causes of the collapse of The treatment of the process water used in the mills is the black liquor tank, the mill immediately covered the either carried out on-site, as is the case of the majority direct financial losses of surrounding businesses affected of our mills, or is subcontracted to an external third party. by the spillage. For the latter, in all disclosures relating to the process water content (COD, BOD, TSS), we report levels in the The environmental data related to Cellulose du Pin water discharged by the mills prior to this external reported on page 78 are inclusive of the water discharges treatment. and the wastes generated during the clean-up period for the incident. Data also include the water discharged To provide a correct overview of the Group performance which was used to remove the effluent kept in the on-site for all water indicators, BOD discharged is estimated for emergency pond after the incident, in compliance with our paper mill in Nervión in Spain by using COD discharge Cellulose du Pin’s environmental permit. A total of 5,063 in combination with the ratio COD/BOD obtained from a tonnes of liquids containing black liquor resulting from survey performed during 2012 in this mill. the incident was eventually incinerated externally and Water related data for all our operations (including is reported as hazardous waste. details for individual mills in Europe and Latin America) are shown in the tables on pages 76 to 83. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 41 Environment [continued] Water intake Water intake European paper mills Latin American paper mills Mm 3 Mm /tonne 3 Mm3 Mm3/tonne 110 55 110 55 100 50 100 50 90 45 90 45 80 40 80 40 70 35 70 35 60 30 60 30 50 25 50 25 40 20 40 20 30 15 30 15 20 10 20 10 10 5 10 5 0 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Water intake absolute (Mm3) Water intake specific (m3/tonne) Water intake absolute (Mm3) Water intake speciﬁc (m3/tonne) Water released Water released European paper mills Latin American paper mills Mm3 Mm3/tonne Mm3 Mm3/tonne 110 55 55 110 100 50 50 100 45 COOLING 90 90 45 COOLING 80 40 40 80 COOLING COOLING COOLING 70 35 35 70 60 30 30 60 50 25 25 50 PROCESS 40 20 PROCESS PROCESS 40 20 PROCESS PROCESS 30 15 15 30 20 10 10 20 10 5 5 10 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Water released absolute (Mm3) Water released speciﬁc (m3/tonne) Water released absolute (Mm3) Water released speciﬁc (m3/tonne) Process water discharges Process water discharges European paper mills: COD, BOD, TSS Latin American paper mills: COD, BOD, TSS ktonnes kg/tonne ktonnes kg/tonne 30 18 30 18 16 16 25 25 14 14 20 12 20 12 10 10 15 15 8 8 10 6 10 6 4 4 5 5 2 2 0 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 COD BOD TSS COD BOD TSS Absolute (ktonnes) Speciﬁc (kg/tonne) Absolute (ktonnes) Speciﬁc (kg/tonne) 42 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Raggers of PM9 pulpers collect large amounts of strips of The anaerobic reactor with biogas desulphurisation was plastic and other materials, which require specialised recovery. installed at the Ania paper mill in Italy during 2012. Mexico: Monterrey Mill saves Italy: Ania paper mill upgrades water in a water sensitive area water treatment plant The Mexican city of Monterrey is geographically located During 2012 an anaerobic reactor with a biogas in an area which has suffered severe droughts in recent desulphurisation unit has been commissioned and years. As a result there are strong pressures on water installed at the Ania paper mill in Tuscany, Italy. resources and water usage is expensive. To save water Compared to the previous year the mill achieved our paper mill in Monterrey has initiated a two-year a significant reduction of 18% of the Chemical programme which has decreased the fresh water intake Oxygen Demand (COD) load in the effluent. needed to produce one tonne of paper by over 40%. According to the records of the first five months To realise this reduction, changes were made to the water of operation, the Ania mill obtained an overall circuits and cleaning showers of the paper machine PM9. reduction of fossil source energy usage of about The mill has also increased the reuse of process and 100 tonnes of oil equivalent per month. This was primary treated water, thus increasing the closure of the result of making use of the generated biogas the water circuits and decreasing fresh water usage for burned in the boiler house instead of natural gas, preparation of process chemicals. Besides the decreased and also a consequence of a reduction in the use water intake, water costs dropped by 36% and the of electricity in the rest of the water treatment saleable production increased by almost 10%. plant area compared to the previous situation. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 43 Social Development For the second sustainability element – People – our 1. Health and Safety primary focus is on our employees. Our own employees Occupational health and safety is one of our key are the key to our success and they are at the heart of our sustainability priorities. We are aiming for zero accidents business. We operate in highly competitive markets and and we are addressing the various aspects of health and we cannot succeed without a highly skilled, well trained well-being at work. Increasingly we are broadening our and committed employee base. To operate in a efforts to also make people aware of Health and Safety productive way, it is a pre-requisite that our employees issues outside work and in their private lives. Therefore, can work safely. By developing and empowering our our Health and Safety Policy, designed in accordance with people, we aim to create a work environment in which the OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety Management top performance and personal growth of our employees System, contains a Declaration of Intent in which we go hand-in-hand. commit to conduct our business in a responsible manner: To reach these pre-requisites and objectives we aim to be taking care of the health, safety and wellbeing of socially conscious and pro-active on social issues with a everyone affected by our activities. commitment to continuous improvement in the areas of Key elements in ensuring that this commitment has health and safety and focus on the well-being and become and remains a day-to-day focus include: development of our employees. Safeguarding human and other elementary rights that govern labour relations with n Having Health and Safety as an important agenda our employees also form a key element of our social item on all relevant management and employee responsibility. meetings. Involvement in local communities is another key priority n Having Health and Safety as a key element by for us, as we are often seen as an important partner in the which all managers are measured. local society and economy. Our objective is to contribute n Benchmarking of internal Health and Safety positively to the economic and social development of performance through monthly measurements. these communities where we are privileged to operate by providing jobs and responding to the communities’ n Seeking improvements in our current working social needs. We strive to be an integral part of the practices in order to reduce risk and help to protect communities where we are located, by supporting employees, visitors, contractors and the public from community activities and community support injury and ill-health by continuously assessing our programmes. processes. n Taking all practical steps to develop and maintain an appropriate safety culture throughout Smurfit Kappa. This includes: l Circulating reports of all significant accidents to every manufacturing plant General Manager and onward to our employees. In this way, experiences are shared in order to help the prevention of similar accidents elsewhere in Smurfit Kappa. 44 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Bent Petersen, Bent Mærkmose , Bo Asmussen, Birgitte Dam and Jane Østergaard from Smurfit Kappa Denmark. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 45 Social Development [continued] l Conducting cross audits in Health and Safety n The first Biennial Safety Opinion Survey held initially using our own in-house Health and Safety in 2010, in both Europe and Latin America, aimed at coordinators. collecting our own employees’ opinions on their perception of safety inside their department and/or l Providing Health and Safety briefings and training plant. The results of this survey enabled us to identify sessions to all new employees. opportunities to further improve the efficiency of our l Constantly reinforcing to all employees the safety management. A second survey was carried out Company’s expectation, that in the course of their in 2012. The results were benchmarked against the work, each and every employee will follow all first survey from 2010 and showed that, at a global safety policies, use all relevant safety systems level, we were improving. Our operations are now and continually seek out ways to improve identifying what additional actions in the area of processes to ensure the Health and Safety of all. safety should be taken to reach a further improved level of safety and safety perception in our For more information, see the Health and Safety Policy 2014 survey. Statement on our website: www.smurfitkappa.com. n Continued focus on activities such as standardisation In 2012, Group-wide initiatives included: of the approach to risk analysis in operations and a n Emphasis on risk analysis and hazard identification “STOP/THINK/GO” approach to/for assessing risk in across our plant structure: certain situations. l Many of our plants have equipment for which n The reporting of near misses is now part of standard maintenance or checking activities need to be reporting in our plants. We consider this a key carried out on the roofs of their buildings. In development to achieve further safety improvements. 2010, we initiated a programme to equip our In addition, our Group accident reporting tool was roofs with safety and security devices to upgraded in 2012, so that these near misses would safeguard the safety of those performing also be reported centrally, allowing us to share maintenance and checking activities. The majority information immediately throughout all of our of our plants have now equipped their roofs with facilities. collective protection to permit access without n The use of E-Learning for safety is currently being restriction. developed as a complementary tool to traditional l The restriction of access to stores/warehouses training of our employees and subcontractors. when forklift trucks are in use is being In addition to these Group-wide and Regional initiatives, implemented in many of our operations. individual plants have introduced their own Health and Pedestrians are allowed to access warehouses Safety initiatives during 2012 such as health check-ups only after receiving notification that activity of for employees and their family members, first-aid training the forklifts has been suspended. In addition, all for employees’ families and safety risk assessments of new forklift trucks are now equipped with speed employees’ houses. governors/speed limiters and other devices to reduce the risk to both the drivers themselves In addition, employees are being encouraged to become and to pedestrians. Additional devices such as more conscious of the importance of their personal obstacle detection or “blue light” devices have Health and Safety in a wider context and to develop been installed in order to increase the safety level awareness of risks not only during working hours and in of our operations with fork lift trucks. commuting to and from the workplace but also in their homes and non-work related social/sporting activities. l Continued emphasis is being placed on the separation of pedestrian pathways and vehicles, In this regard, we have supported a number of initiatives both indoor and outdoor. across Europe and Latin America focussing on increasing awareness and fostering appropriate behaviour with l Introduction in our plants of Group-wide regard to safety. standards in respect of safety-related painting and signage design and display. 46 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 State of the art forklift truck designed and equipped Several campaigns have been launched both in to improve Health and Safety at the workplace. Europe and in our Latin American facilities to promote a healthy life style and the benefits Engagement with Stakeholders of health checks. The safety of people on our premises is a key priority. We devote considerable time and efforts Trucks lift Health and promoting an awareness of health and safety so that our employees and also subcontracted workers Safety level at the follow the appropriate procedures. It is with great regret, therefore, that we report two fatalities of workplace subcontract workers during 2012, one in Europe (Spain) and one in Latin America (Venezuela). Leading forklift truck producers Hyster and Linde both In Spain the fatal accident occurred when the have a long partnership history with Smurfit Kappa. subcontract worker, who was employed by one of Their state of the art forklift trucks are not only very our cleaning contractors, tried to perform a cleaning dependable performance machines, the vehicles are also task on a belt conveyor system which had not been designed and equipped to improve Health and Safety at stopped. In Venezuela the subcontract worker was the workplace. part of an electrical contractor crew; the work to be Richard Root, major accounts manager of Hyster: “During performed was to initiate some electrical the most recent tendering process, Smurfit Kappa has connections in an area that had been isolated, been particularly conscientious in the consideration of unfortunately the victim approached the incorrect materials handling equipment and pro-active in the electrical panel, which was fully electrified and standard and optional features available. First we sustained fatal injuries. identified the minimum lift capacity and height During 2012, 50% of our European facilities requirements. Then we formulated the standardised remained free of any lost-time accidents and 22% of features on each machine including a reverse alarm, these facilities have succeeded in maintaining a zero a flashing beacon, a traction speed limiter, password lost-time accident record over the last three years. protected operator access and internal mirrors to help For Latin America these percentage were 32% and reduce blind spots. Plants were also given the choice to 7% respectively. add optional features to tailor the forklift trucks to their own specific work environment.” Overall, safety performance of Smurfit Kappa employees improved by more than 10% regarding International key account manager Robert Kovacs of the number of accidents in 2012 compared to 2011, Linde: “Smurfit Kappa ranks amongst the companies in and the number of lost working days due to the industry with the most professional approach with accidents decreased by nearly 20%. A lost working regard to safety efforts. The industry would be better off day is counted when an employee misses the next if Smurfit Kappa’s standardised list of minimal safety regular working day or shift. In the graphs on page specifications was common practise. Unfortunately, we 48 severity and frequency rates are split by region seldom receive such a detailed safety list when managing and by activity for our own employees. Converting similar international tenders. The list covers most safety also includes Smurfit Kappa News Press, EdCo and issues. We do keep in close contact with Smurfit Kappa DLRS Security Concepts. to inform the company when new safety features and technologies become available to constantly help improve Smurfit Kappa’s safety standards.” SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 47 Social Development [continued] Severity Rate: Full Year 2011 vs 2012 30 Employees from Smurfit Kappa Orange 2011 2012 County’s Tijuana plant undergoing 25 training at the Health and Safety Day. 22.3 20 21.5 19.4 Employees at the Smurfit 16.7 17.5 17.0 15 15.3 Kappa Medellín corrugated plant in Colombia reviewing 10 10.9 safety procedures. 5 0 Corrugated Paper Latin America Group Severity rate: Number of days lost x 100,000/Number of hours worked Frequency Rate: Full Year 2011 vs 2012 1.0 2011 2012 0.8 0.85 0.79 0.72 0.75 0.71 0.6 0.64 0.65 0.59 0.4 0.2 0.0 Corrugated Paper Latin America Group Frequency rate: Number of accidents x 100,000/Number of hours worked Days Lost Due to Accidents: Full Year 2011 vs 2012 14,000 2011 2012 12,948 12,000 10,000 10,395 8,000 7,406 6,000 5,728 4,000 3,956 1,847 2,669 2,000 1,999 1,586 0 Corrugated Paper Latin America Group Number of Accidents: Full Year 2011 vs 2012 600 2011 2012 500 502 400 440 300 271 200 219 166 145 100 65 76 0 Corrugated Paper Latin America Group 48 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Tony Smurfit (front row left) with his colleagues attending the Bill Barden (l.) Get Set Training, explaining safe moving and handling Health and Safety Day at Smurfit Kappa Lübeck, Germany. with Chris Canavan Smurfit Kappa Lurgan, Northern Ireland. Annual Health and Safety Day In April 2012, a Safety Day was organised in all our European plants. An address by Tony Smurfit, the Group’s Chief Operating Officer, highlighting the importance of health and safety for employees, was screened in all operations. During the day many activities were organised for and with employees, and all senior executives attended at operating plants on the Safety Day. The Safety Day was a resounding success, drawing on the active participation and intense involvement of management and interaction with our employees, and in many cases with their families. A Health and Safety Day will now be organised every year in all our plants in Europe and the Americas. For the Health and Safety Day in 2013, a video was produced with the help of three employees who had suffered an accident at work. They shared stories from their accident and what they have learned from these experiences. The video was shown to all employees in order to highlight the importance of always putting safety first. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 49 Creating awareness among employees and their families about the importance of health care and well-being at the Smurfit Safety Bridge is the name of a unique concept aimed ad Kappa Health Day held in Yumbo, Colombia. reducing risks in the home environment of employees organised by Smurfit Kappa in Italy. Colombia: Smurfit Kappa Health Day in Colombia Italy: Smurfit Kappa Italy helps employees to create safer homes Our main production facility in Colombia is based on the outskirts of Cali in a small town called Yumbo. On 14 July Safety Bridge is the name of a unique concept aiming 2012, the mill welcomed 570 people who participated in at reducing risks in the home environment of the Smurfit Kappa Health Day. The theme of the event was: employees. With the support of an Italian consultant ‘Cartón a todo corazón’ or ‘Carton with all your heart’. company, Smurfit Kappa Italy has adapted and This health awareness day was organised by employees from promoted such a risk analysis tool successfully. the Medical Services department which had valuable support The idea is simple and effective: why not use the from other areas such as HR, Marketing and Communications, expertise Smurfit Kappa Italy has gained professionally and the Forestry Division. The objective of this event was to to help employees reduce hazardous situations at create awareness among employees and their families about home? In short, risk prevention by transfer of the importance of health care and well-being. In order to knowledge and tools. Safety Bridge stimulates learn how to promote and live a healthy life style, adults employees to assess the safety level of their homes by and children participated in physical activities and sports. making use of a questionnaire. Employees are trained Families enjoyed games, theatre presentations and to make a proper assessment and receive personalised challenging physical exercises. At the Health Fair, stands feedback. By creating a link between safety at home were hosted by institutions and companies providing and safety at work Smurfit Kappa Italy wants to help relevant information while all of those who participated had employees to realise safer home environments and at the opportunity to buy products and collect brochures and the same time improve their safety awareness and manuals related to health, physical activity and wellbeing. perception of risks at work. Venezuela: Smurfit Kappa Venezuela takes Customer Service to the next level Working together with a customer is not only a commercial National and local customers value the time, effort and endeavour. It is about building a mutually beneficial expertise that Smurfit Kappa in Venezuela dedicates to relationship that goes much further than market performance. promote safety and education. For instance the mill division of Smurfit Kappa Venezuela has been very successful in helping its customers improve their own Health and Safety situation. Feedback of South American customers has been excellent. They value the time, effort and expertise Smurfit Kappa Venezuela dedicates to promoting safety and education. The programme has been underway for almost three years and has become a monthly routine. Safety is an important issue within Smurfit Kappa Venezuela which is demonstrated by the regular safety checks at the work place, monthly safety themes, workshops and transportation safety evaluations. The Sales and Customer Service Department has extended the Smurfit Kappa philosophy on safety to its customers by offering training and exchanging best practices. Besides developing closer relationships with customers, the main objective of this initiative is to further improve safe working conditions for Smurfit Kappa Venezuela’s customers. 50 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Spain: Health and Safety is a way of life in Andalucía Why is Health and Safety conduct often restricted only to the work place? The Andalucian Smurfit Kappa plants asked themselves this question and together they came up with an answer. Their opinion: Health and Safety should be an integral part of the daily life of everyone resulting in better quality of life for families. To accomplish this the plants initiated an extensive awareness programme consisting of promotional media, training and awareness activities, guided tours, contests for kids and education about personal protection equipment. All aspects were linked to home risk prevention, safety at school or preventive measures in the work place. The project, originally started by the Mengíbar Mill, has been successfully extended to the rest of the Andalucian plants in Huelva, Córdoba and Almería. The initiative has Smurfit Kappa plants in Andalucía, Spain been recognised by the Andalucian Government and its promotional poster initiated an extensive programme to raise received an international award. awareness on health and safety at home. The poster received an international award. Helmut Lerche and Klaus Schultz Smurfit Kappa Zülpich developed an award-winning special tool which can be mounted at the end of a high pressure hose. Smurfit Kappa employees and their families celebrating Fathers’ Day in the Mexico City Metropolitan area with a performance of Peter Pan. Recognition was given to employees Germany: Thinking out of the a) with a record of ‘Zero Accidents’, or b) with an exemplary headbox improves safety sick leave record and c) also to employees with the largest number of creative participation proposals. Cleaning the razor-sharp, five metres wide, headbox lamella of a paper machine with a high pressure Mexico: Safety takes centre stage cleaner is not without risk as it is located in a tight, in Mexico hot and wet environment, thus increasing the risk of injuries. After an incident where one of their To celebrate Fathers’ Day, employees and families of colleagues incurred serious cuts, Helmut Lerche all the different Smurfit Kappa operations based in and Klaus Schultz from Smurfit Kappa Zülpich the Mexico City Metropolitan area were invited to took it upon themselves to prevent this from a theatrical performance of the play ‘Peter Pan’. happening again. As a recognition, priority was given to employees with The two employees managed to develop an awarda record of ‘Zero Accidents’ during their employment winning special tool which can be mounted at the with Smurfit Kappa, to those employees with an end of a high pressure hose. This device enables exemplary sick leave record and also to personnel operators to clean the area of the lamella in a safe who had contributed with the largest number of way. Special rolls lock and guide the device along creative participation proposals. the lamella while the water jet is positioned for Four performances were booked by Smurfit Kappa optimal cleaning. The invention improves safety and Mexico to accommodate all the families. They were ensures machine efficiency and product quality by welcomed by highlighting the importance of safety and optimising the cleanliness of this critical part of giving recognition to the safe parents. The children were the machine. offered the opportunity to have their faces painted with This project earned the 2012 Special Award of the their favourite animal or character, while the family “German Employers” liability insurance association enjoyed lunch. At the end of the play, actors and families for the sectors of ‘raw materials and the chemical sang the Mañanitas, which is a celebratory song, to industry’. celebrate the safe parents. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 51 Social Development [continued] 2. Social Citizenship n We compensate fairly and review wage and salary levels at regular intervals. Where appropriate we use Guiding principles expert methodologies and input from the current We are committed to managing relationships with fellow jobholder, solely taking the function under review employees, business partners and host communities in a into account. We ensure that pay rates in each socially responsible manner. country in which we operate match or exceed the minimum standard set by its government or We comply with the principles expressed in the United legislature. Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the fundamental Principles and Rights at Work developed by n We celebrate the wide variety of skills, abilities, the International Labour Organisation in all of the backgrounds, experiences and perspectives countries in which we have a presence. represented by every employee in our Group. We respect employee contributions. We operate as a In keeping with this Declaration and these Principles: meritocracy. We promote on the basis of suitability, n We prohibit discrimination on the grounds of race, reward fairly, encourage personal and professional colour, gender, sexual orientation, age, religion, development and promote effective communication national origin, disability or other legally protected at every level of the business. status in the countries in which we conduct business. In the context of the above, we select, and promote No issues of discrimination in any of these categories people, solely on the basis of suitability for the position were identified in 2012. in question. n We support freedom of association. Our employees have the right to become (and remain) a member of a Compensation and Benefits Trade Union, have their representatives negotiate and The Group does not discriminate between men and bargain on their behalf and assist them in grievance women in terms of salary, benefits or any other and disciplinary matters. consideration. The Group applies the policy of ‘same job, The Collective Agreements currently applying in some same pay’. There is no formal system at Group level that 90% of the Group’s sites are the result of either local allows us to measure the precise ratio for remuneration and/or national negotiations in the countries by gender. concerned in both Europe and Latin America. While the basic salary of an individual manager may be We are not aware of either the association or different from that of a colleague in an identical or similar bargaining rights of any individual or group(s) of role, the difference will generally be a reflection of the employees being denied to them during the course of difference in experience, size of the job, performance, 2012. etc. and not as a result of nationality or any other such reason. n We prohibit child labour. We will not employ, in any capacity, anyone who has not either reached the In common with many large businesses, Smurfit Kappa mandated school leaving age or the minimum age set provides a range of employee benefits. Some, such as, for employment in any country in which we operate. maternity and paternity leave, are provided under the No issues under this heading were identified in 2012. legislation of the country in question. n We treat employees humanely. We do not approve of Other employee benefits, such as Pension Plans and Life or tolerate forced labour or physical abuse. We do not Insurance, form an integral part of the employee’s tolerate any other form of abusive behaviour, whether remuneration package provided by the Group in various it originates from within our business (and is directed countries. internally or externally) or its source is an individual (or organisation) with whom (or with which) we have a Employee Demographics and Turnover business relationship. No issues under either heading At the end of 2012, the Group had some 41,000 were identified in 2012. employees. This figure includes both our own employees as well as contracted labour, and also includes 2,900 employees in SKOC that was acquired in 2012. For the remainder of this section the SKOC employees are excluded as that company was acquired only in December 2012. 52 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Total Employees by Age 2012 Total Employee Gender 2012 Management Gender 2012 30+ yrs 30+ yrsFemale 16% 10% <5 yrs 60+ yrs 3% <20 yrsFemale 1% 16% 30+ yrs10% <5 yrs Female 16% Female 16% Femal 24% 60+ yrs 3% <20 yrs 1% <5 yrs24% 10% 21-30 yrs 16% 24% 51-60 yrs 22% 21-30 yrs 16% s 51-60 yrs 22% 21-30 yrs 21-30 yrs 19% 19% 41-50 yrs 32% 31-40 yrs 26% 41-50 yrs 32% 31-40 yrs 26% 0 yrs 11-20 yrs 5% 5-10 yrs 11-20 yrs 25% 5-10 yrs 22% 25% 5-10 yrs 22% Male 84% Male 84% Male 84% Male 84 22% Male 84% Male 84% Length of Service Top 10 Countries Headcount 2012 Total Employees 2012 6,000 30+ yrs Female 16% Female 16% s 1% <5 yrs 10% 5,000 24% 21-30 yrs 16% 4,000 21-30 yrs 19% 3,000 2,000 31-40 yrs 26% 1,000 11-20 yrs 25% 5-10 yrs 22% 0 Male 84% Male 84% Germany France Mexico Venezuela Netherlands United Colombia Spain Italy Sweden Kingdom As can be seen in the graphs above, some 43% of our workforce typically reflects local ethnic diversity, thereby employees are 40 years of age or under, with almost a enhancing the bond with local communities. third of the total between the age of 41 and 50 years. In 2012, 16% of all Smurfit Kappa employees were As shown above, approximately 55% of our employees female and 84% were male – see graph above. Of all have been with us for 11 years or more. More than 10% management functions, 16% are performed by women have been with Smurfit Kappa for over 30 years. Just versus 84% by men. Of the indirect positions in areas under 70% of our workforce is involved in production such as sales and marketing, finance, human resources, and manufacturing activities categorised as direct labour, procurement and administration, almost 40% are with the balance of the employees engaged in occupied by women. management activities and in activities such as sales and Smurfit Kappa’s policy is to increase the level of marketing, finance, human resources and procurement: all participation of women in management roles in the categorised as indirect labour activities. Approximately company. In that context we are reviewing the areas and 5% of our employees are engaged under a temporary roles where the retention level and further advancement contract. of women has the greatest potential for success. Almost 82% of our people were employed in ten In relation to return to work and retention rates after countries (Germany, France, Mexico, Venezuela, parental leave we do not keep central records. In 2012, Netherlands, United Kingdom, Colombia, Spain, Italy and we analysed the situation in two countries (Poland and Sweden), with the remaining 18% of the workforce Sweden) and the statistics for the year 2012 are shown employed in the remaining 22 countries were we have a for illustrative purposes in the table below. production and/or a sales and marketing presence. This distribution generally is in line with Smurfit Kappa’s distribution of activities. Poland Sweden During 2012, some 17 nationalities were represented at 1. on parental leave: 10 1. on parental leave 13 the most senior levels in the organisation. Although we (of which 1 man) (of which 5 men) do not have a policy of selecting local residents and it is 2. return to work after 2. return to work after our policy to select the best person available for any parental leave during parental leave during position, in practice, by far the greater proportion of 2012: 10 (retention rate 2012: 8, of which 4 men senior operational positions are held by local managers 100%) (retention rate 62%) (same nationality as the country where the operation is located). In general, the composition of the Group’s SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 53 Social Development [continued] Total Employee Gender: Top 10 Countries 2012 Number 5,000 Male Female 4,000 3,000 2,000 1,000 0 Germany France Mexico Venezuela Netherlands United Colombia Spain Italy Sweden Kingdom Management Gender: Top 10 Countries 2012 Number 200 Male Female 150 100 50 0 France United Germany Mexico Spain Netherlands Italy Sweden Venezuela Colombia Kingdom At the end of 2012, the total percentage of employee n Performing well turnover in the organisation had increased from 4.4% in n Highly committed 2011 to 4.6% in 2012. Retirements as well as the pursuit n Working as a team of other careers or interests were the reasons for the departure of more than half of the employees in 2012, n Constantly learning while rationalisation and redundancies accounted for n Promoted based on merit. a further one seventh of the departures in 2012. There In 2012, the average number of training hours (including were 2,321 new entrants to the Group during 2012, of the entire range of learning and development initiatives) which 63% in Europe and 37% in the Americas. was 20 hours per employee. Employee Training and Development During 2012, there were numerous training and Our people are the driving force behind our business and development activities, both centrally and locally. The Smurfit Kappa is committed to the continuous training total direct expenditure on training and development and development of employees seeking to achieve their during the year amounted to approximately € 2.5 million, full potential. Apart from our commitment to facilitate the with further significant indirect costs. personal development of our employees, training and On a central level, the Advanced Management development needs to be seen to further raise the Development (AMD) Programme is an example of a standards of business performance needed to compete development activity which has evolved over more as a company in the markets in which we operate. Our than a decade throughout the Group in Europe and training and development programmes focus on areas Latin America in conjunction with the UCD Smurfit such as knowledge of best practice, skill transfer, and Business School. health and safety compliance. These programmes are complemented by a range of efforts aimed ensuring that our business ethics and standards are fully understood by all employees and are reflected in their day-to-day conduct. The ultimate aim of our training and development programmes is to have a workforce that is: 54 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Carolina Atehortua from Smurfit Kappa in Colombia attending an internal training course. In 2012, a new programme has been developed and During 2012, one of our European divisions conducted was added to the central group programme portfolio. on a European level, a “360 Degree Feedback” appraisal The General and Mill Manager (GM) Programme is the system and made use of professional external coaching first of its kind in the company and aims to provide support to provide those executives concerned with a participants with both internal and external perspectives greater knowledge of their strengths and to highlight on leadership and provides insight into their current areas of development. approach. The programme provides the new GM’s with The Junior Management Team Programme concept the valuable opportunity to learn not just from the senior developed in our paper mill in Nettingsdorfer, Austria, has management team and subject matter experts, but also been successfully transferred and applied to other parts from each other. of the business, e.g. in our paper mill in Piteå, Sweden. In addition to these programmes, the working This programme provides an environment for junior relationship with two leading European Business Schools managers to explore new approaches. (London Business School and INSEAD) has been further In our Roermond mill in the Netherlands, our on-going strengthened, providing executive education for our programme called “Project Paper Train”, enables Senior Executives to continue their learning and experienced employees to pass on their knowledge to development. colleagues with less experience. This initiative is now Another programme managed from the Group’s head well established ensuring that valued knowledge/ office and one which has gained great momentum with expertise is not lost over time. over 350 participants since its introduction in 2007 is The organisation currently undertakes an annual the English Immersion Programme. Now an established Performance and Development Review of 90% of its event in our training and development calendar, it is fully managers. Typically, these are conducted on a one-to-one integrated with local language activities, be it e-learning basis involving the individual concerned and his/her or classroom-based learning. This customised programme immediate manager. Performance reviews are also brings together individuals from various functions to conducted with non-managerial employees, currently boost their confidence in using business English in their applying to some 50% of this category of personnel. day-to-day work. During the course of 2012, a further 65 participants were catered for. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 55 Social Development [continued] Engagement with Stakeholders German Sales training programme: Sales Training Programme welcomes 1,100th participant Boris Maschmann, Julia Kullmann, Monika Schaper, Torsten Antosik, CEO Smurfit Kappa Key account manager Sales manager Account manager Germany Smurfit Kappa Smurfit Kappa Smurfit Kappa Brühl Southwest Herzberger Wellpappe “We first introduced our “My expectation was to sales training “I participated in the “Between 2003 and extend my horizon. In programme in 2007. The programme during my 2010 I attended training the four modules I idea for the programme traineeship and took programmes that participated in I was to lift the general part in all the sales covered a wide range of experienced a well level of know-how. Our modules. I quickly got to topics like health and thought out training company stimulates the know the corporate safety, and sales and set-up. All subjects personal development philosophy, learned the finance. I experienced a discussed were clear of employees. As business fundamentals very effective learning and easy to remember. potentials need support and how to deal with method in a pleasant The training to develop, we offer customers and people atmosphere. We programmes were really training programmes in in general. The seminar participated in various helpful in my daily work. many different areas of leaders created a activities and read many I use many small expertise. Up till now we relaxed but efficient case studies. We pointers each day and have trained almost atmosphere which completed numerous still remember most of 1,100 employees. The stimulated the learning quizzes with the support the training content. target was to establish experience. Games were of our creative and Networking with the a “best in class” rate in implemented in the professional trainers. In colleagues from our our sales activities to programme in an the end I feel I got a lot other plants is another ensure a very high interesting and of helpful suggestions great advantage. During quality level in our educational way. I think for my daily business as each training module customer relationship. it is very important to well as new insights into you usually exchange To stay on top we will get trained regularly and my relationship with our your own professional continuously develop Smurfit Kappa facilitates customers and in experiences with the existing and additional that very well. The dealing with our own other participants. In my trainings to cope with variety of the sales team. My opinion the training the changing demands programme is expectations were promotes working in a of our environment – remarkable. I already exceeded! This training team as well as company, customers found some seminars I is very important for supporting the and employees.“ am interested in for the continuous personality of each future.” improvement.“ individual participant.“ 56 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Graduates By far the largest representative group in Smurfit Kappa Graduate Trainee Programmes within Europe and Latin Europe is the European Works Council (EWC), which America continue to provide opportunities for trainees represents about 80% of our employees from the 21 joining the Group on completing their university countries in Europe where we have operations. programmes to kick-start their careers. Over the past The Agreement, renewed in 2011, governing the years the intake has increased gradually and amounted functioning, rights and duties of the EWC, will remain to a total of 139 in 2012. in place for two more years until 2015. Many who have joined the company as Graduate Trainees During 2012 and as per our Agreement, we had our have successfully progressed their career within the two regular EWC forums and three Select Committee company. We have seen the great contribution that meetings. graduates and students can make to our business, adding value and maximising their potential, while helping us to The EWC consists of 30 members, representing all build for the future. employees. The procedure for the nomination and selection/election of its members is in accordance with Retired employees national regulations and practice in each of the countries involved. Although the EWC is not a negotiating forum, it Our retirees have a special relationship with Smurfit does complement existing local and national structures Kappa which is grateful for their contribution to its where information dissemination and consultation growth and success over many years. Today there are occurs. approximately 13,000 pensioners from Smurfit Kappa and there are a variety of different associations in Typically, the topics covered at such meetings include: different countries that manage a host of social activities n The Group’s financial status. which greatly help to maintain the bonds the pensioners enjoyed as working colleagues. n Prospective developments. Whilst most of the activities are managed by the n Relocation, production curtailments or business pensioner associations themselves, there is also on-going closures in any country where there are transnational Group support at local level. implications. n Environmental protection. Internal communication We value regular, timely and efficient communication n Employment opportunities. with our employees and their representatives, conducted n Health and Safety. in an open and constructive manner, to exchange views on all matters affecting our business. Topics include When queries arise from our employees and/or their Health and Safety, working conditions, terms and representatives or meetings are requested, our policy conditions of employment, the performance of the is to respond in a timely manner. business, the business outlook, investment decisions When a decision is taken to introduce change, employee and acquisitions and disposals. consultation takes place promptly. During the course of We are committed to providing our employees with such discussions, the impact of the proposed changes, regular updates on the overall performance of Smurfit together with the implementation plans, are discussed Kappa and the individual business units, and on any with employees and their representatives. issues that may potentially have an impact on them. In The outcome, reflecting local and/or national custom and doing so, we make use of appropriate media which practice or legislation, will result in one or more of the include departmental and function meetings, site general following: severance pay, career counselling, job search briefings and management/employee representative workshops, financial advice (including pension) and early meetings at local, national and regional levels. The retirement where appropriate. internet and Smurfit Kappa’s internal intranet are also used extensively. The periods of notice, measured in terms of the time between the initial communications to the employees Most of our operations have internal communications via concerned and the introduction of the changes, range newsletters, announcements and local intranet messages, from 6 weeks to 24 weeks. these media promote a constant flow of news and employee interchange. Acquisition and procurement practices A key aspect of due diligence in any acquisition process European Works Council involving Smurfit Kappa is an examination of the target Smurfit Kappa recognises the right of employees to freely organisation’s human resource policies and practices, associate and all Smurfit Kappa employees are free to both in terms of their compliance with local, national and join trades unions. In many countries, Smurfit Kappa international laws and in their day-to-day interpretation conducts formal employee consultation processes with and application in the organisation. the local Works Councils. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 57 Social Development [continued] In the event of any potentially serious issue arising as a operations, innovation, safety or sustainability. The result, such as child labour, the acquisition process will awards are visible to the organisation’s entire workforce be reviewed as to the appropriateness of continuing and this helps in sharing the objectives of the with it. organisation, creating an aspirational climate and enforcing its priorities. There were two acquisitions during the course of 2012 and no such issues arose. In Europe, we have internal competitions for Overall Plant of the Year, Health and Safety Awards, Innovation Awards Smurfit Kappa is committed to the principles reflected and Sustainability Awards, each with their own objectives in both its Code of Business Conduct and its Sustainable and purposes. For 2012, our Litho laminated printed Sourcing Policy Statement in all of its dealings with its packaging solutions operation LithoPac in Nybro in suppliers and contractors. Sweden was awarded Overall Plant of the Year for its In keeping with the Sustainable Sourcing Policy excellent and above market performance, vision, desire to Statement, Smurfit Kappa aims to work with suppliers innovate and its commitment to outperform at the high who share its declared values of good social citizenship end of the printing market. in particular in such areas as compliance with the In Health and Safety, the Awards for Excellence in Safety relevant regulations, the provision of healthy and safe were awarded to our recycled paper mill in Mengibar in work environments and demonstrable adherence to Spain, our corrugated operation in Soest in the human rights in all its aspects. Netherlands and in Waren in Germany. These operations Of equal significance to Smurfit Kappa is the commitment achieved a multiyear record of working without any lost of these same suppliers and contractors to similar time injuries or accidents and showed their commitment socially responsible behaviour in the conduct of their to clean and tidy housekeeping while having a local own businesses. management team that demonstrated commitment to Health and Safety. The Award for Excellence in Safety Strategic suppliers are being encouraged to join the UN Improvement was awarded to our recycled paper mill Global Compact initiative and the Social and Ethical Data SSK in Birmingham and our corrugated operation in Diss, Exchange. They are also being encouraged to disclose both in the UK, for their excellent safety record and their relevant data in this regard, either directly to Smurfit respective safety improvement programmes. Kappa or through a recognised organisation. The Innovation Awards and the Sustainability Awards Since 2010, we audit key suppliers in respect of a are European competitions spanning a period of number of indicators including human rights. approximately 18 months. The next Awards will be In Europe, as part of a rolling programme, just over 80% presented in September 2013. of our significant suppliers have so far been audited, In the Americas there are internal competitions for the including screening for human rights. At the end of 2011, Award Plant of the Year by region/country and for the 16 out of a total of 55 strategic suppliers had been Americas as a whole. Our Folding Carton operation in audited. During 2012, 30 more strategic suppliers were Mexico was named Overall Plant of the Year in the audited. The remaining strategic suppliers are planned to Americas for its excellent commercial and operational be audited in 2013. Typically, each audit results in a list performance over a period of 7 years. In Argentina and of action points for the supplier of which the result Chile, our corrugated plant in Chile was awarded for its is then further discussed with our audit teams after resilience after the earthquake in 2010 and its six months. operational recovery since. In Colombia, our corrugated Smurfit Kappa’s Sustainable Sourcing Policy and Social operation in Barranquilla was awarded for its operational Citizenship Policy Statements, together with the Code of improvements and its excellent safety record of zero Business Conduct, can be downloaded from the Smurfit accidents in 2012. In Mexico, our Guanajuato corrugated Kappa website. operation was awarded for good operational performance and recognitions from both the Mexican government for Group Awards their social responsibility program as well as from a Through our Smurfit Kappa Awards competitions in both number of important customers. In Venezuela, our Europe and the Americas regions, we strive to stimulate corrugated operation in Caracas was awarded for its the ambition of our people and our business units to sustained good operational performance and its good always do better. The various award competitions serve relations with its employees despite challenging local several purposes. The core objective is to encourage, economic, social and political conditions. recognise and reward entrepreneurship, innovation and superior performance, whether it is in the area of 58 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Our COO, Tony Smurfit (front middle standing), amid employees celebrating 150 years of paper making at the Smurfit Kappa SSK mill in Birmingham, United Kingdom. The SSK mill today plays a vital role in providing local employment. United Kingdom: 150 years of paper making in Birmingham Founded back in 1862 by three Victorian entrepreneurs, the Smurfit Kappa SSK paper mill today plays a vital role in providing local employment as well as reducing the Birmingham’s carbon footprint. Almost 40,000 tonnes of paper and cardboard (recycled by Birmingham’s residents in their Birmingham City Council kerbside collection boxes or in Smurfit Kappa Recycling paper banks) is taken to the paper mill every year which is then used by the mill as a raw material to make new packaging papers. Sharon Lea, Strategic Director for Environment and Culture, Birmingham City Council: “Being able to recycle Birmingham paper and cardboard in Birmingham whilst creating local jobs for Birmingham people was a fantastic good news story for the City and that recycling continued to be a very important part of the Council’s strategy to further reduce the amount of waste that goes to landfill. Recent initiatives between the City Council and Smurfit Kappa Recycling have targeted Birmingham schools to provide information and local recycling facilities to young people and work is starting to encourage local businesses to recycle recovered paper and cardboard. From 1993, when just 750 tonnes of paper was segregated for recycling, the relationship between both organisations had become increasingly important to the local economy and helping to reduce harmful greenhouse emissions. 3. Our Involvement in the Community We do this in two fundamental ways, through making Community involvement is a key corporate responsibility financial contributions and/or by volunteering. already practised in many locations where we have In the course of our business transactions, we also take operations. into account the concerns of the wider community, Our objective is to contribute positively to the economic including international, national and local interests. Each and social development of the communities of our host plant manager is expected to represent the company as countries where we are privileged to operate. While our part of the local community and play a positive part in its biggest contribution to our communities is in the jobs we development. create through our investments, we are also committed to It falls to each plant manager to maintain an active respond to the communities’ social needs. We strive to dialogue with the communities living in close proximity be an integral part of the communities where we are to his/her facility, respond in the first instance to any located, by supporting activities and community support complaints or issues of concern and initiate appropriate programmes focusing on areas such as education and remedial action where necessary and possible. health programmes and areas of our specific expertise. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 59 Wilson Obando, father of two William Lopez, former student Antonella Baldini, Mayor of Camposanto, Italy. students at ITAF. of ITAF. Engagement with Stakeholders Engagement with Stakeholders Italy: Fund raising Colombia: “Smurfit Kappa campaign Panaro School has improved my Antonella Baldini, Mayor of Camposanto, Italy standard of living” “In the night of 20 May 2012 an earthquake came Smurfit Kappa fully recognises the responsibility that into our lives with unprecedented violence. We never comes with its participation in the rural communities expected a catastrophe of this kind, but the fact that surrounding its forestry land base. In conjunction with the the earthquake had caused no victims was a new Smurfit Kappa Cartón de Colombia Foundation, Smurfit starting point for the 3,300 inhabitants of the City of Kappa helps to improve the living condition of the Camposanto. We immediately started to restore our communities within the area of influence of the forestry buildings, but it was the second earthquake of 29 operations. In addition, continuing education and training May that literally brought us to our knees. About 230 programmes are held for forestry workers, with forestry people found refuge in an emergency camp. Almost skills and health and safety at work being the most all Smurfit Kappa employees suffered damages from important. The Instituto Técnico Agropecuario y Forestal earthquake: the houses of 61 people were seriously Smurfit Kappa Cartón de Colombia (ITAF) provides formal damaged and 63 more lightly affected. Despite this, high school level education to teenagers of the many of them volunteered to help others. People communities surrounding the Smurfit Kappa forestry went on working in spite of the damages. The operations. William Lopez is a former student and Wilson management team focused on its people first Obando is the father of two students. They tell us how also helping them to cope financially with this education, that was made possible by Smurfit Kappa, catastrophe. The company has demonstrated great impacted their lives. commitment to our community by remaining in the William Lopez: “I studied agriculture, livestock and town and contributing to its rebirth. I want to thank forestry practices at the ITAF. It not only helped me to Smurfit Kappa, particularly the plant manager improve the production of our family farm, but also to Moreno Donati, on behalf of myself and the whole raise our crop quality and to become more competitive. community. He never failed to help where the We grow Pergamino coffee that is exported. At the need was urgent. The plan of reconstruction will Smurfit Kappa School I learned about environmental, be long and difficult, but we must view this terrible social and economic sustainability issues. I apply that earthquake as an opportunity to rebuild our city even knowledge on a daily basis at our farm and volunteer better than before. We must pass a better future on for social projects.” to our children, the citizens of tomorrow.” Wilson Obando, father of two ITAF-students: “My two girls are now studying at the University. It is a great experience. Through special loans, I was able to expand my activities like farming beans and coffee beans, and operating a bakery and a paper and supplies shop. This made it possible to earn enough to fund the education of my daughters. Access to ITAF services, like training for me and my wife, has improved my standard of living. At ITAF people care about us and motivate us.” 60 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Smurfit Kappa TWINCORR in the Netherlands aimed for a practical solution, special book-like boxes, in which the local community Companies and people can contribute to the ‘Seeds for could participate and be encouraged to visit the new library. El Caracolí’ so that more children will have a better future. The Netherlands: Putting books in Colombia: El Caracolí welcomes their box the Library project 108 new children Smurfit Kappa TWINCORR in Hoogeveen found a very El Caracolí, the Centre for Integral Early Childhood creative approach to help its community. It was asked to Development, is located close to Smurfit Kappa Cali in support an initiative in which five local libraries closed the municipality of Yumbo. The centre which offers help their doors to form one large library. to in total approximately 150 young children has the support of the Fundación Smurfit Cartón de Colombia The challenge was to remove and store more than and some other institutions. 100,000 books and CD’s for a period of five weeks. Instead of making a financial contribution Smurfit Kappa El Caracolí seeks to generate a positive and essential TWINCORR aimed for a practical solution in which the change in children, younger than five years of age, and local community would participate and eventually would their families. To achieve this El Caracolí promotes be stimulated to visit the new library. In cooperation integral care and early education in low income with the library management and sponsors, Smurfit communities. Companies and people can contribute to Kappa TWINCORR developed 10,000 special book-like the ‘Seeds for El Caracolí’ so that more children will have boxes. Library customers could fill the boxes with books a better future. Employees of Smurfit Kappa in Colombia and CD’s and return them to the new library five weeks can make additional contributions to El Caracolí by later. To involve the youth as well, a book (box) cover joining the initiative ‘Zero Waste’. Each kilo less of food drawing competition was organised. Together these wasted from the cafeterias of the Cali, Bogotá, and boxes formed a huge wall as part of an exhibition at Medellín plants, results in more healthy food for the new library. the children provided and sponsored by Sodexo, the company that manages the cafeterias in those plants. Colombia: Biofuel Briquettes open a world of opportunities Smurfit Kappa in Colombia, Gases de Occidente and the training organisation, Centro de Capacitación Don Bosco have joined forces on a local project for the production of biofuel briquettes. By using forestry residues from local trees such as pine and Eucalyptus trees and the stumps of coffee plants as raw material for these biofuel briquettes multiple sustainability objectives were realised. The project generates employment and income for the community, prevents logging of natural forests and recycles waste products. The briquettes are also an innovative and environmentally friendly fuel for heating boilers and cooking stoves. A thirty centimetres briquette can generate heat for six hours. Most raw materials come from the forestry plantations of Smurfit Kappa Cartón de Colombia. The coffee stumps are Checking on the local project, for the production of biofuel supplied by local farmers. The production plant for the briquettes, between Smurfit Kappa in Colombia, Gases de biofuel briquettes is located in Santander de Quilichao Occidente and training organisation Centro de Capacitación. From left to right: Paula Andrea Vivas Centro de Capacitación, and the necessary machinery was donated from Arturo Gutierrez Gases de Occidente, Bernardo Guzman Switzerland. Smurfit Kappa Cartón de Colombia, and Fr. Germán Londoño Don Bosco Centre. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 61 Richard Ellerbeck at work at Smurfit Kappa in Zwiesel, Germany. The systematic involvement of stakeholders Smurfit Kappa’s Group head office in Dublin, Ireland organised with different backgrounds in a special six month a multi-day charity cycle event with all the proceeds raised programme, called Joblinge, is designed to help young going towards LauraLynn, Ireland’s only children’s hospice. people to start a career. Ireland: Smurfit Kappa charity cycle in Germany: Smurfit Kappa aid of LauraLynn, Ireland’s first South Germany fights youth children’s hospice unemployment Smurfit Kappa’s Group office in Dublin organised a multi-day About 10% of all young adults in Germany cannot charity cycle event from Edinburgh to Dublin in September 2012 find entry into vocational training. Thanks to the with all proceeds raised going towards LauraLynn, Ireland’s only systematic involvement of stakeholders from children’s hospice. industry, government and society a special six months programme, named “Joblinge”, is able to The volunteer cyclists completed a 50 km climb from Edinburgh help young people start a career. to Lanark on day one, day two entailed a 160 km cycle to Stranraer and finally they completed the almost 400 km that Smurfit Kappa Wellpappe Zwiesel, part of Smurfit divides Edinburgh from Dublin with a cycle of 180 km from Kappa South Germany with integrated corrugated Belfast to Dublin where they were joined and cheered by a large plants in Plattling, Neuburg and Feucht, supports number of colleagues from the Group head office completing a the programme that was initiated by The Boston successful event. Consulting Group and the Eberhard von Kuenheim Foundation of BMW AG. The results are The joint effort raised over €52,000 for LauraLynn, who plan to remarkable: 60% of the young participants use part of this money to build a Multi-Sensory Garden. manage to enter a company training programme. LauraLynn has been described as a ‘home from home’ that cares Smurfit Kappa Wellpappe Zwiesel is dedicated to for children and their families living with life-limiting and help fight the growing youth unemployment life-threatening conditions. LauraLynn strives to put life into a problem in Germany. Their focus is to support the child’s day, making the most of their short and precious lives. young adults to learn to trust their own talents, Supporting initiatives such as LauraLynn is how Smurfit Kappa develop new skills and secure employment, so makes its commitment to invest in local communities tangible. that they can improve their social circumstances. Venezuela: Control vegetation fires – extinguish community problems The Venezuelan Forestry Division of Smurfit Kappa has found another way to help the community around forest farms near to the town of Ospino. Twenty years ago the Forestry Division initiated a vegetation fire brigade to combat the fires that occur during the dry season from December to April. The fire-fighters from the “Forest Protection Centre” are very motivated to give their services to the nearby communities to protect people and crops. The Venezuelan western plains and its savannah are very prone to woodland fires. During 2012 the Smurfit Kappa fire brigade assisted the local community by fighting 81 fires outside our own forests. These fires typically occur in The Forestry Division of Smurfit Kappa in Venezuela assisted the local community by fighting 81 fires outside our own forests. natural forests or on agricultural land. 62 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 “The Sunchales Municipality acknowledges the support from Smurfit Kappa for the programme called “a better life”. From left to right: Ezequiel Bolatti Mayor of Sunchales and Gerardo Lattanzi Plant Manager of the Smurfit Kappa Sunchales plant in Argentina.” Argentina: Smurfit Kappa in Sunchales cooperates with municipality in Quality of Life project Smurfit Kappa Sunchales together with a number of other local stakeholders signed an agreement with the municipality of Sunchales aimed at improving the standard of living in the city and the region. Through this cooperation, which is initially for a period of three years, the involved parties commit themselves to cooperate on issues like electricity supply, the handling of city waste, transportation, logistics, and the development of sustainable production areas. Efforts will be made to realise an agri-food industrial park, a cogeneration power plant, a logistical hub and a treatment plant for solid and liquid waste. Furthermore the In 2012, Smurfit Kappa in Mexico (picture above) and Smurfit Kappa in Venezuela (top picture) supported parties will cooperate on adopting common policies to protect education by sponsoring the renovation of some the environment, conserve natural resources, promote neighbouring schools. Support ranged from providing sustainable development and exchange information on tools, expertise and the finances to renovate facilities. environmental issues. In addition the parties have agreed to promote scientific research and the development of clean technologies. Venezuela/Mexico: Building the future by renovating schools Italy: Solidarity in aftermath of major earthquake In 2012, Smurfit Kappa in Venezuela and Mexico supported education by sponsoring the renovation of some neighbouring schools. Support In May 2012 the region around our plant in Camposanto sul ranged from providing tools, expertise or the Panaro, close to Bologna and Modena in Italy, was struck by two finances to renovate facilities. earthquakes measuring 6.0 and 5.8 on the Richter scale. Many people died or were injured. Churches, factories and houses The sales department of our Valencia paper mill collapsed, leaving 14,000 people homeless. of Smurfit Kappa in Venezuela, initiated a self-financing project to help High School To provide immediate help to those colleagues who suffered Bolivariano, located close to the mill. Two damage to their homes, Smurfit Kappa Italy organised a fundclassrooms were remodelled, woodwork materials raising campaign. A total of €157,000 was raised for Smurfit and tools donated, and Smurfit Kappa helped the Kappa employees who were victims of the earthquake. This sum school to set-up a programme to sell their was achieved through an initial donation by Smurfit Kappa’s woodwork so they can generate income 1,300 Italian employees of around €60 each. The total employee themselves with which more apprenticeship donation was then doubled by Smurfit Kappa. Two-thirds of the programmes can be financed. Another example is total sum was divided among 15 colleagues who had suffered School Vicente Guerrero in Mexico located next to major damage to their homes. Local authorities had prepared the Smurfit Kappa Cerro Gordo paper mill. More “safe/unsafe declarations” for the houses in the area, and these than 900 students, parents, teachers and Smurfit provided objective criteria for the fully transparent process of Kappa employees came together for a festive deciding where the funds were most needed. The remaining opening of the refurbished bathrooms that were one-third of the money was granted to 46 employees whose made possible by Smurfit Kappa. The school itself homes had suffered minor damage. did not have the finances to undertake the project. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 63 Social Development [continued] Colombia 50th Anniversary Fundación Smurfit Cartón de Colombia Sustainable development management practices have been an integral part of Smurfit Kappa in Colombia since From left to right: Oscar Rojas and Beatriz Eugenia Mejía its operations started in 1944, long before the term was Fundación Smurfit Cartón de Colombia, Germán Jaramillo introduced in the business world. For example, 50 years Fundación Empresarial para el Desarrollo de Yumbo, María ago the company founded Fundación Smurfit Cartón Eugenia Carvajal wife of Cali mayor, Andrés Felipe Muñoz de Colombia. and Nicolás Pombo Smurfit Kappa Cartón de Colombia. The foundation was initially established to improve the living standards of the local personnel and their families, and to help their children get an education. Over the Colombia 50th Anniversary Fundación years the latter has become the main focus of Fundación Smurfit Cartón de Colombia Smurfit Cartón de Colombia. Landmarks Development of local community 1959 When the Forestry Division was established in 1969, Educational fund for children in memory of the scope of the Fundación broadened, also assuming MD Frank C. Carder (deceased). responsibility for facilitating the development and 1962 improvement of communities located in proximity Predecessor of Fundación Smurfit Cartón de to its plantations. Colombia (non-profit) established. “The economic strength of the Fundación has been 1969 noteworthy”, states Edgar Muñoz, an attorney and former Forestry programme in Cauca region, foundation aware employee of Smurfit Kappa in Colombia, who actively of regional social reality. participated in the development of the Fundación. 1984 “In addition to being a shareholder in Smurfit Kappa Founding of high schools and medium technical Cartón de Colombia, we have secured the commitment education institutions. of domestic and international organisations with whom 1995 we have implemented programmes for farmers and Various partnerships and establishment of financial urban communities.” independence through ownership of company shares. Education, Income Generation and 2002 Empowerment of Citizens Social contributions to schools close to customers and grassroots participation. Education continues to be one of the priorities for the Fundación. Through education people can truly become 2003 part of their society and attain the social equity the country Continued education for forestry employees, needs. It makes people competitive, provides helpful social their families and communities. responsibility and reinforces democratic values. Formal and 2004 non-formal strategies have been implemented ranging FOCUS fund and Public Private Partnership project from basic high school education, to university with contribution of GTZ. scholarships and continued education for adults. 2008 The Fundación also contributes towards the eradication Productive Partnerships to improve agricultural of poverty by improving the income of the neighbouring technology. Won award. communities. The Income Generation programme 2009 stimulates local start-up initiatives run by local citizens Smurfit Kappa Social Responsibility Award for who learn to show leadership through these initiatives. PPP Project funded by GTZ. It offers technical assistance and advisory services, and 2010 promotes social and community networks. In this way Co-founding of El Caracolí Integral Early Childhood the Fundación ensures effective use of resources and Centre Foundation. mixes it with social support measures that generate 2012 empowerment and autonomy in people and Grass Root The Fundación celebrates its 50th anniversary. Organisations; values the Fundación will continue to pursue in the coming years. 64 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Fledglings: The Foundation also supports Fledglings Early Years Education & Care project that provides education and after-school care to children in the local area. The Irish Minister for Children and Youth Affairs, Frances Fitzgerald, is shown with some of the participants. Early Learning Initiative: The ELI focuses on helping marginalised communities through the provision of innovative parent and child-learning support programmes. Caracoli: the Foundation supports El Caracolí, an early childhood development centre created by the Smurfit Cartón de Colombia Fundación, in close cooperation with other foundations working in the country. International Update on the Smurfit Kappa Foundation The Foundation was established in February 2011, after-school care to children in the local area. This service when the Board of Smurfit Kappa agreed to establish a offers parents the chance to return to education or work €3 million fund and, over the subsequent three years, and also provides employment in the local area. With the €500,000 could be invested annually to finance projects support of the Foundation, Fledglings plans to open four that came within the objectives of the Foundation. The new centres each year, over the next three years. This remainder of the funds are now invested and the interest social enterprise aims to be self-sustainable by 2016, will continue to be available to fund worthwhile projects. transforming the lives of hundreds of children and families in the process. The Foundation supports projects in the countries where we have the privilege to operate, with the initial focus on In Colombia, the Foundation supports El Caracolí, an early projects involving young disadvantaged children (some childhood development centre created by the Fundación 7 years of age and under) in the areas of health and Smurfit Cartón de Colombia in close cooperation with nutrition, basic care and early education. Currently the other foundations working in the country. It is located in Foundation supports three such projects two in Ireland Yumbo, on the outskirts of Cali, where Smurfit Kappa’s and one in Colombia. main production plant in Colombia is based. The centre provides an integrated programme which includes One of these is the Early Learning Initiative (ELI) at the education, nutrition and basic care. The Smurfit Kappa National College of Ireland. This is a community-based Foundation has pledged to provide funding for El Caracolí education initiative in Dublin’s inner-city. The ELI focuses to construct a new centre for 300 under-privileged on helping marginalised communities through the children in the region. provision of innovative parent and child-learning support programmes. Its aim is to widen the participation in The Foundation created its own website in 2012: education for all and to allow children to take advantage www.smurfitkappafoundation.com, providing information of the Irish education system and have the same on the type of projects the Foundation is focusing on and opportunities as children from more affluent areas. how to apply for funding. The Foundation also supports Fledglings Early Years Education & Care. This project is based in an underprivileged part of Dublin and provides education and SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 65 Sustainability in our business Smurfit Kappa aims to make the difference in its key area Providing paper-based packaging solutions is our core of expertise: providing creative and innovative paperbusiness. Packaging allows the global population to have based packaging solutions that support our customers’ access to essential products such as food, clothes or growth and development. medicines. We help millions of consumers to minimise waste by securing the durability of products they As a customer-focused innovation-driven integrated purchase, while providing that support in a most company our principle objective is to create economic sustainable way as our packaging solutions rely on value for our customers and other stakeholders while renewable raw materials and are fully recyclable. acting responsibly in all aspects of our business. We consider profitable growth as a pre-requisite to advance 1. Our Business our drive for sustainability. We believe that when we can Smurfit Kappa is one of the world’s largest integrated develop our business in a sustainable way it will also manufacturers of paper-based packaging products, with allow us to provide our stakeholders with the operations primarily in Europe and the Americas. We contribution they are looking for. manufacture, distribute and sell containerboard, a wide Better packaging solutions will help our customers variety of corrugated packaging and other paper-based advance their own business, progressive dividends and packaging products and materials such as solid board, share price growth will reward investors for their financial bag-in box, sack paper and machine glazed paper. support, fair pay, other benefits and personal In 2012, the Group’s total revenue was €7,335 million, development will compensate our employees for their generating an operating profit of €634 million and contributions, payments for delivered goods and services earnings per share of €1.08 (pre-exceptional). Total will help suppliers to develop their products and their employee wages and other benefits amounted to business. €1,818 million. Approximately €4,000 million was paid to As a significant employer in many of the communities suppliers for products and services such as raw materials, and regions where Smurfit Kappa operates we stimulate energy and transportation services. For the year 2012 a the economic development of these communities. final dividend of 20.5 cents per share was declared and Our involvement in local community projects through our corporate income tax amounted to €71 million. financial support or volunteering activities contributes to Smurfit Kappa’s end customers primarily use our local economies. Our tax payments locally and to country packaging products to transport their goods and as a governments further contribute to economic, social and marketing, display and merchandising aid. Approximately environmental development in the countries in which 60% of our corrugated products customers are in the fast we operate. moving consumer goods sector comprising food, beverage and household consumables, the remainder being split across a wide range of different industries. 66 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 67 Sustainability in our Business [continued] 2012 Financial Performance Overview 2012 2011 €m €m Revenue 7,335 7,357 EBITDA before exceptional items and share-based payment Engagement with Stakeholders expense (‘EBITDA’) 1,020 1,015 Ireland: Sustainability EBITDA margin 13.9% 13.8% Operating profit 634 590 and Investors Profit before income tax 331 299 Barry Dixon, Head of Research, Davy Research Free cash flow 282 394 Growth, returns and value remain the key criteria for the Net debt 2,792 2,752 investment community. At this point, Corporate Social Responsibility or sustainability is relatively low on the list Net debt to EBITDA 2.7x 2.7x of criteria employed by most investors. Basic earnings per share (cent) 111.2 93.0 What is emerging however is a new segment on the investment Pre-exceptional earnings per market whose main focus is to find growth, returns and value share (cent) 108.3 100.1 among companies who are more environmentally aware. Thus we have seen the emergence of a number of environmental 2. Working together with Customers indices, such as the FTSE4Good series, designed to measure the performance of companies “that meet globally recognised For Smurfit Kappa, packaging is not only about corporate responsibility standards”. Or the Dow Jones series of collecting, storing, transporting, distributing preserving Sustainability indices. Equally, we have seen the emergence of goods and optimising supply chains. It is even more so a number of sustainability-focused funds and investment about enabling. Our packaging solutions enable our houses. While small currently, we believe this is a fast growing customers to make things happen, to put their business part of the investment market. models to work. We are part of the supply chain of responsible and reputable customers who are So what are potential environmental investors looking for committed to sustainability. We are proud to be the in addition to the core financial valuation metrics? Often partner of choice in our field of expertise for many of sustainability issues feed into financial metrics, like the number these customers. Our commitment to sustainability will of accidents at a company. This reflects the corporations caring strengthen the partnerships we have and help to form (or otherwise) attitude towards its workforce, but accidentmore. It will put us in a position to develop even better related downtime also impacts margins and returns. Equally, and more sustainable packaging solutions for our energy efficiency is a critical factor for many company’s customers, enabling them to meet their own targets profitability in an environment of steadily rising fuel costs and commitments. and an important factor for investors. Increasingly, customers require packaging to be Smurfit Kappa is well positioned to further develop this theme. sustainable, innovative, fit for purpose, as well as cost Paper-based packaging is one of the few truly renewable effective. Smurfit Kappa works closely with customers to packaging media. Through significant investments Smurfit make supply chains more sustainable. For example, to Kappa is actively improving the production efficiency of energy completely protect the packaged product during its trip and water intensive kraftliner. This will help improve margins through the supply chain, we deliver “right-weighted” and attract managers of sustainability funds. packaging. By taking both primary and secondary There is no doubt in my mind that the issue of sustainability packaging requirements into account our transit and respect for the environment will continue to grow in packaging often allows the primary packaging to be importance among the investment community. Partly driven optimised leading to an overall lower sustainability by genuine altruistic reasons, partly because sustainability impact of our customers supply chain. Our creative adds to the bottom line. design teams explore what is possible in the most open minded way. Working innovatively together with customers on packaging design and supply chain optimisation has two main sustainability aspects to it. 68 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Firstly, Smurfit Kappa credibly guarantees its customers that the packaging it supplies is produced sustainably, using materials from sustainable sources and utilising the collective design skills of our global team of designers. Secondly, we also focus on how our packaging can minimise the total sustainability impact per unit of customer product delivered to the consumer. According to a study done by INCPEN, the energy component and hence the CO2 impact of packaging products is less than 5% in a typical customer’s supply chain. The packaging related positive indirect impact (less damage/destruction of the packed product, optimised logistics, less waste, disposal, etc.) is much more significant for the sustainability of a customer’s supply chain. Engagement with Stakeholders It is in these two aspects – packaging design and optimising our customers supply chain – where our packaging can make the delivery of our customers’ International: Joint product to consumers more sustainable. Responsible Sourcing In practice this means that for many customers we carry out evaluations with the help of the Smurfit Nestlé and Smurfit Kappa Kappa web-based suite of design software, Innotools (Pack Expert, Paper-to-Box, Innobook), seeking to “Responsible sourcing is part of the top 3 priorities of optimise the direct and indirect impact of our Nestlé Procurement. Smurfit Kappa, being one of Nestlé’s packaging on sustainability through the entire supply long lasting and prominent corrugated box suppliers, has chain of our customers. For example, by changing the been fully engaged in responsible sourcing since 2010”, pallet pattern or case count, it is possible to increase says Mr Vincent Quilici, European Lead Buyer from Nestlé. the quantity of products loaded on a pallet, reduce the number of road trips, and thereby reduce the “The aim of the Responsible Sourcing Audit is to CO2 emissions from transportation. demonstrate that all of Smurfit Kappa’s conversion plants comply with Nestlé’s ethical and sustainability Customer satisfaction requirements. It also involves assessment with regard to As Smurfit Kappa strives to be a customer-oriented the Nestlé Responsible Sourcing Guidelines specifying and market-led company, the satisfaction of our requirements for practices throughout the supply chain, customers is of utmost importance to us. Besides such as fibre traceability and mill management.” aiming to provide our customers with optimal “Since the beginning, Smurfit Kappa has been fully packaging solutions, we also want to ensure that they committed to support Nestlé in its Responsible Sourcing are satisfied with our proactive approach and approach. We have achieved great results together since services. In a number of our mills, we have a ‘first the initiation of the programme in 2010 up to the present time right’ monitoring system in place measuring the in 2012. To continue this journey and ensure further percentage of production delivered to the customer’s progress, a joint three year working plan has been satisfaction. implemented by Nestlé and Smurfit Kappa. It is monitored In our converting operations, major customers on a monthly basis.” perform routinely quality checks on our delivered “Looking ahead of us, the focus of our upcoming activities products and also perform regular audits on our will concentrate on traceability, water and energy operational processes and services, and other quality consumption, our carbon footprint and the impact related performance indicators. To ensure customer on biodiversity”, concludes Mr Quilici. satisfaction, each customer is served by dedicated teams of designers, sales and service people and this important consideration is frequently discussed with every customer. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 69 The new water resistant liner, which includes a 100% Adconnect pallets are delivered to clients as flat sheets biodegradable PE layer, has helped to save a significant of corrugated board. As a result, only one truck is needed number of catalogues from the waste bin every year for to transport the same number of pallets that used to Home Retail Group. take eight trucks. UK: The ‘Aquashield’ Case saves Germany: Flat pallets, high catalogues from spoilage rewards Home Retail Group is the UK’s leading home and general Six years ago innovation processes at Smurfit Kappa merchandise retailer. Home Retail Group produce millions of Wellit Wellpappenwerk in Delbrück in Germany resulted Argos catalogues each year for distribution throughout their in a special glue named adconnect. During the last six customer base. The catalogues are generally stored outside years this product has enabled our German operation in often damp conditions at the distribution warehouses and to realise various sustainable packaging solutions, the at stores which result in large numbers of catalogues being most recent one being the adconnect pallet. written off each year due to water damage. Adconnect pallets are delivered to customers as flat To solve this problem Smurfit Kappa UK Abercarn worked sheets of corrugated board. As a result just one truck closely with the Packaging Managers at Home Retail Group can transport the same number of pallets that used to to develop a corrugated solution which incorporated an take eight trucks. Customers need far less storage space ‘Aquashield’ liner which is waterproof, secure, durable and and the pallets are ideal for recycling, because they only 100% recyclable. The new water resistant liner, which consist of one material: recyclable board. Assembly is includes a 100% biodegradable PE layer, has helped to easy, quick and does not require any tools. The areas save a significant number of catalogues from the waste bin which need to be interconnected are coated with the every year for Home Retail Group, thereby reducing carbon self-adhesive glue, which is activated by being pressed emissions in both transport and printing processes. against another part with adconnect. Once connected Aquashield not only protects paper products throughout the areas become inseparable. Adconnect pallets are the supply chain, it also reduces the assembly time of the unique and reduce the carbon footprint of our catalogue pallets, generating significant cost-savings. customers. Belgium: The smart dashboard box Smurfit Kappa Olen, in Belgium, designed a new sustainable packaging solution with far less CO2 emission for their customer 4Flow, by optimising the packaging for Mercedes Benz dashboard frames. The dashboard frames were originally packed in F0201 packaging with PE-foam and plastics. The PE-foam is not only expensive and non-sustainable, it also makes the packaging rather bulky thereby limiting the number of products that can be shipped in a container. Smurfit Kappa Olen was able to replace the PE-foam and plastic components with fully recyclable material. This provided 4Flow with sustainable packaging with far less CO2 emission and a significant cut Smurfit Kappa in Olen, Belgium was able to replace in the costs of logistics. To package the same quantity of the PE-foam and plastic components with fully dashboards 4Flow now achieves a reduction of almost recyclable material. This provided 4Flow with 6,000 boxes and some 180 less container shipments, sustainable packaging resulting in far lower CO2 saving Mercedes Benz considerable costs in transportation. emissions and a significant cut in the costs of logistics. 70 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Our marketing communications are essentially business3. Contribution to Local Economies to-business by nature. In this regard we ensure on a We favour procuring our products and services from local continuous basis that these are in line with all generally suppliers where possible. Procurement of goods and accepted ethical and cultural standards such as avoiding services represents the largest single category of privacy intrusion or dual standards, not influencing expenditure. In 2012, the Group purchased almost vulnerable audiences such as children or portraying €4 billion of products and services such as raw materials, gender roles in a disrespectful way. As part of our Code energy and transportation. The procurement of a number of Business Conduct, we voluntarily adhere to the OECD of major items of expenditure like recovered paper, Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises which explicitly paper, energy, chemicals, starch and inks is coordinated mentions consumer interests. Smurfit Kappa has no centrally to achieve economies of scale. Still, a significant recorded incidents of non-compliance with regulations or part of the actual supplier deliveries for these categories voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. could be considered as local deliveries as many of the goods and services are provided to us from suppliers’ Innovation in sustainable packaging solutions production locations in the same geographical area as As a market-focused company, Smurfit Kappa knows our operations. Due to their nature, the remaining goods innovation is of strategic importance in securing and and services are sourced locally by our operations. In retaining our customers’ business. Innovative design total approximately 70% of our suppliers’ deliveries can is a unique selling point for Smurfit Kappa and serves to be classified as local. These interactions between our differentiate us in the marketplace. To foster innovation, operations and local operations of suppliers provide we share best practice among the plants and divisions in support for local economies. Smurfit Kappa using our web-based tools such as Innobook. We hold Innovation Award competitions to 4. Product Responsibility and assess the effectiveness and originality of our joint Product Safety developments with customers. The competitions are held As a business-to-business company, we produce both the in both Europe and Latin America, with judging panels raw material for packaging and the packaging itself. Most drawn from our key customer base. These measures packaging produced by us is used for distribution, promote the pursuit of excellence in design and, most transportation and retail display purposes. crucially, a close alignment with the needs of our customers. We introduced a Sustainability Award We have always demonstrated a strong commitment to competition in 2012 to show our ability to combine product safety. Not only will we comply with any innovation and sustainability in the design and legislation on health and safety aspects of our products, development of high quality customer products. we also have agreed to voluntary codes of conduct which, The 2013 Innovation and Sustainability Awards will be among others, are based on the OECD Guidelines for announced in September of this year and will be featured Multinational Enterprises. in our Sustainable Development Report 2013. In 2012, there were no recorded incidents of nonWhen using design innovation as a means of developing compliance with regulations or voluntary codes in the sustainable packaging, we focus with our customers on area of product safety and product responsibility. the following aspects: At all stages in our production process, from the design of n Design packaging solutions that are both efficient our product to its delivery to the customer, we assess and user friendly. product safety. As many of our products are used as transport packaging, product safety mainly ensures that n Optimise the supply chain, including palletisation, our products are safe and easy to use for those handling transportation, warehousing and distribution. and using them. A significant part of our packaging is n Develop fit for purpose “right-weighted” packaging intended for the agri-food industry. For this sector, the based on experience and empirical modelling instead product safety aspects mainly involve ensuring that food of historical data. can be safely packed in our products whether there is direct or indirect contact between the packaging and the n Reduce complexity in the packaging portfolio thereby food. All our products are therefore assessed for health achieving higher productivity, less material usage and and safety considerations. less waste. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 71 Sustainability in our Business [continued] In the course of 2010 some research indicated that traces of undesirable mineral oil could enter packaged food possibly resulting from mineral oil present in the recycled raw material for paper making and/or the inks used for printing the packaging. At the end of 2011 CEPI, together Our Product Safety Department was set up to manage with some other trade associations, published a voluntary such issues, in particular with regard to packaging in commitment calling on paper and board producers and direct contact with food. The department is equipped converters to phase out the use of mineral oils in paper with a laboratory that tests the purity of our products additives and printed inks. Several public authorities (papers, boards, corrugated and solid board packaging). have reviewed the published research. In May 2012, It conducts research and implements development the Bundesinstitut für Risikobewertung (BfR, or German projects in the area of food contact. We regularly submit Federal Institute for Risk Assessment) published an our products to the set of analyses recommended by analytical method for mineral oils analyses for testing various European and national legislation applying to by the various European laboratories. our products. This department is third party accredited according to the ISO 17025 standard. According to the BfR, the research is still incomplete. Also, the UK Food Standards Agency’s position is that The knowledge developed here has been transferred there is no concern for consumers’ health. In June 2012, throughout all our production operations in both Europe The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) identified and Latin America. We follow the evolution of regulations food packaging as one of the many sources of mineral in all countries and are active at European and national oil in food and suggested setting up a monitoring industry association level with regard to product safety programme to identify sources of mineral oil at various issues. stages of food production. EFSA also suggested that in European regulations that apply to packaging intended cases where exposure to these mineral oils can be for food contact have been revised and reinforced over attributed to packaging, methods should be developed recent years. As required by the European regulation that that would effectively prevent mineral oils from migrating applies to packaging intended for food contact, the from the packaging into the packaged food. implementation of Good Manufacturing Practises (GMP) Although none of the research and opinions so far in paper mills and converting operations producing published indicates that there should be any concern for packaging for food applications is mandatory. GMP that consumers’ health, we are together with the European fulfils the requirements of EU regulation has been industry association CEPI, cooperating with the various implemented since 2007 at all our European paper and parties involved to develop adequate solutions for board mills. Since September 2012, all our European this issue. paper and board mills are third party certified. 79% are certified according to the European standard on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and management of hygiene in the production of packaging Restriction of Chemicals: (REACH) for foodstuffs (CEN-EN 15593) and the remaining 21% We are mainly affected by REACH as downstream users are certified according to the International Good of chemicals and we therefore liaise closely with the Manufacturing Practice for Corrugated and Solid Board suppliers of chemicals to ensure that they fulfil their Packaging standard (FEFCO/ESBO GMP Standard). obligations with regard to assurances that the chemicals In response to customer needs, some 54% of our we introduce in our products do not contain any converting plants now have processes in place and are Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) in certified by one of the following recognised hygiene concentrations above the level of 0.1%. Our centralised codes or standards: ISO 22000, CEN 15 593, British Retail procurement organisation provides us with an efficient Consortium (BRC), American Institute of Baking (AIB) or way to accomplish this task. International Good Manufacturing Practice for Corrugated The overarching objective of REACH is to minimise or ban and Solid Board Packaging (FEFCO/ESBO GMP Standard). the use of SVHC, most of which are already identified for It is our aim to certify all our converting plants for which the tonnage band of 1000. this is relevant. These substances will be thoroughly re-examined and As a result of our central set-up, we are able to monitor will then be added to the SVHC candidate list for further our progress in performance with regard to both safety measures. The SVHC candidate list is updated once or and hygiene for food and this in turn allows us to twice a year. respond to any market concerns. Our Product Safety When the updated SVHC-list is published on ECHA’s web department is keeping a close watch for any food safety site, our customers routinely request information whether alert issued by the European Commission or national our products contain SVHCs or not. We have procedures authorities. Our analyses and knowledge permit us to in place that enable us to issue such statements modify our papers in response to these alerts in the continuously. shortest possible time. 72 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Ross Howat, Global Marketing Director from PPI Award Charles Thwaites, Executive Director, Forest Stewardship sponsor Elektrokemiska AB assisted by PPI Award host Council UK (left), presents the FSC 2012 Outstanding Laura Esposto presented the Global PPI Award in the Contribution Award to Mike Fadden, Smurfit Kappa category ‘Advances and Innovation in Sustainable Regional Director East. Packaging’ to Miguel Angel Franco, Smurfit Kappa Spain. 5. Recognitions Spain Global PPI Award for innovative Eco Tray United Kingdom Recognition for raising The PPI (Pulp & Paper International) awards are the only awareness of responsible forestry global awards dedicated to recognising achievements in Smurfit Kappa UK has been recognised for its outstanding the pulp and paper sector. Smurfit Kappa won an award contribution to raising awareness of responsible forestry in the ‘Advances and Innovation in Sustainable Packaging’ following its nationwide support for the Forest category for the Eco Tray, a special corrugated tray that Stewardship Council’s international awareness day. offers a ‘green’ alternative to traditional polystyrene and FSC Friday, the international awareness day, is a plastic trays. celebration of the world’s forests and helps to raise The experts at Smurfit Kappa developed a thermo-formed awareness of the importance of managing these forests corrugated board solution for the fruit and vegetable responsibly, and the role that FSC plays in this. Smurfit market, which can also be applied in other sectors. The Kappa was chosen to receive the FSC UK award in Eco Tray is 100% recyclable, optimises storage space and recognition of the educational and awareness raising leads to savings on CO2 emissions. Moreover, as it is activities it undertook on FSC Friday 2012 and has been suitable for flexographic print, high quality print and commended for its success in reaching out to local pre-print, it can be customised to fit the customer’s communities. A number of Smurfit Kappa sites took part wishes thus enabling an improved point-of-sale profile in celebrating FSC Friday, many working with local for the consumer. schools and communities to educate the children on the importance of responsible forestry. Internal communications and activities were also organised to further raise awareness among our own employees. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 73 From left to right: Orlando Cañaveral – Unilever, José Joaquin González – Smurfit Kappa, Luis Fernando Gomez – Unilever, Laura Realpe – Unilever, Jorge Parra – Smurfit Kappa, Angela Aguilar – Smurfit Kappa, William Muñoz – Smurfit Kappa, Andres Arango – Smurfit Kappa. Colombia – Smurfit Kappa Colombia approved Colombia Actively involved in good supplier for Unilever forest management In September 2012, representatives of Unilever visited According to the Forestry Certification Guidelines of the Smurfit Kappa Colombia manufacturing plants in Cali, World Wildlife Fund (WWF) in Colombia, Smurfit Kappa in Medellín and Bogotá with the objective of identifying Colombia was actively involved in the formulation of the synergies and to discuss how both companies could Generic Indicators for voluntary certification of forestry mutually benefit from those improvement opportunities. plantations and has been working closely with the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) national office in Colombia for Smurfit Kappa is a leader in the production of corrugated over ten years. WWF Colombia mentioned Smurfit Kappa packaging, pulp and paper in Colombia and was very in Colombia as a successful story on forestry certification pleased to host the visit. As a result of the visit and in South America. because of its solid performance in Colombia, Unilever has acknowledged Smurfit Kappa as an approved Since 1997 Smurfit Kappa Cartón de Colombia has been supplier. The Smurfit Kappa companies were able to meet an active member of the FSC and in 2003 the FSC label the requirements regarding performance and continuous was granted to our forest plantations in Colombia. We improvements demanded by Unilever during twelve have one of the first companies to receive such consecutive months. Smurfit Kappa in Colombia has a accreditation for its forest holdings. We have been clear focus on innovation and quality, and a long term instrumental in helping the FSC national office over that strategy on sustainability. The company is proud to be period, through regional workshops in the harmonisation an official partner of Unilever. of indicators for voluntary certification of forestry plantations, as well as participating during the revision of Standards and Principles as a member of FSC. Our plantations in Colombia measure approximately 69,000 hectares, with an annual net growth of approximately 100,000 cubic metres in 2012. 74 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Smurfit Kappa employees (left to right): Hugo Romero, Luis Fernando González, Juan Pablo Perez, Maritza Ochoa, Sergio Segura, Alvaro Zambrano were presented with the prestigious award for recognition for Smurfit Kappa’s sustainbility efforts and results in central Colombia. Colombia Public recognition for content of its ink even more, without losing performance environmental excellence or increasing costs, Siegwerk will further research its For the second year in a row Smurfit Kappa employees in hybrid technology. It strives to demonstrate that water Bogotá received public recognition for their sustainability borne inks can make the world greener and still perform efforts and results in central Colombia from the satisfactorily for commercial usage. environmental authorities who handed the company We welcome suppliers that continuously search for and a prestigious award. develop products that help to make our packaging Smurfit Kappa was awarded the trophy for its continuous solutions more sustainable. improvements during the year 2012 with regard to sustainability and for its environmental management International Sustainability key element in system. To stimulate sustainable efforts the district has relationship with Flint Group set up an Environmental Excellence Programme. The Flint Group is one of our largest ink suppliers in Europe Mayor of Bogotá, on behalf of the District Environmental and has been a supplier for many years. The two Department, publicly recognised Smurfit Kappa’s win in companies have developed a long term constructive the Environmental Excellence category and stated that relationship with a focus on a number of key aspects of the company is a leader in environmental management the sustainability agenda like anti-corruption, labour, and environmental performance in the district. The jury human rights and the environment. evaluated various aspects such as: environmental Jan Paul Van der Velde, Senior Vice President management, cleaner production and corporate social Procurement, Sustainability, Regulatory and IT, Flint responsibility. Group, elaborates: “Fundamentally, we believe that our partnership revolves around sharing best practices and 6. supplier initiatives finding a ’better way’ together. With the help of Smurfit International Ink supplier Siegwerk colours the Kappa we have already initiated a programme to develop planet green an even greater range of “environmentally friendlier” inks and while I believe that the two companies can both be Siegwerk is a world-leading supplier of printing ink proud of what we have already achieved I also believe for packaging and publication purposes with its that we have greater achievements ahead of us as we headquarters located in Siegburg, Germany. The company look to share a sustainable future for our industry.” recently introduced a new generation of sustainable ink products based on innovative hybrid technology. “Flint Group has adopted the UN Global Compact framework and a very modern Code of Conduct. The breakthrough was realised after extensive research in Furthermore, it utilises the Dow Jones Sustainability a partnership with major chemical companies. Siegwerk Index to report on its progress in an annual Sustainability concluded that environmental and economic advantages Report. This combination of Flint Group’s own mission can very well be achieved through a combination of and guiding principles, adopted by all employees and renewable materials with classical chemical production aligned to the world’s leading sustainability models, and/or fossil products. A totally new polymer, a ‘hybrid’ ensures that we ‘not only do what we say, but say what of bio-monomers, is utilised as a binder with ‘standard oil we do’.” derivate’ acrylic monomers. This allows the formulation of premium quality ink. To increase the renewable SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 75 Input/Output for 2012 All European Operations INPUT OUTPUT Wood and fibre Production Wood(1) 4,690 kTonnes ar Papers (All grades) 4,671 kTonnes Market virgin pulp 104 kTonnes ar Corrugated Packaging * 4,490 kTonnes Other pulp 21 kTonnes ar Board and laminated Boards * 869 kTonnes Recovered Paper 4,300 kTonnes ar Converted Board * 312 kTonnes Paper or Board purchased 1,602 kTonnes ar Sacks kTonnes Plastic films, other plastic item (BIB) 18 kTonnes Other packaging 17 kTonnes Starch (all types) 255 kTonnes ar Inorganic raw materials 232 kTonnes ar Direct emissions to air Other organic raw materials 186 kTonnes ar CO2 fossil 1,827 kTonnes CO2 biogenic 3,169 kTonnes Dust from fuels 0.4 kTonnes SOx from processes 0.6 kTonnes NOx from processes 3.8 kTonnes Energy Energy output Energy from fossil fuels 30,605 TJ Electricity to third party 305 GWh Energy from biofuels 5,229 TJ Thermal energy to third party 226 TJ Electricity from grid 1,707 GWh Biomass sold 2,040 TJ Wastes Hazardous wastes 10 kTonnes Non Hazardous Wastes sent to landfill 248 kTonnes Non Hazardous wastes recovered 292 kTonnes Other Non Hazardous wastes 29 kTonnes Water Discharges to water Water intake(2) 90 Mm3 Water released 82 Mm3 COD 21 kTonnes BOD 7.6 kTonnes Total Suspended Solids 3.7 kTonnes N 0.5 kTonnes P 0.07 kTonnes kTonnes ar: kiloTonnes as received (1) wood & sawmill chips as delivered to the mill * partly produced with Smurfit Kappa paper or board (2) water intake includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation The table reports total energy consumption of the site, taking into account the fuels used to produce electricity and/or thermal energy sold externally. This results in different figures for these parameters compared to those on pages 78 to 83. The latter pages show the energy consumption for the production of the paper or board manufactured. 76 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Input/Output for 2012 All Latin American Operations INPUT OUTPUT Wood and fibre Production Wood(1) 1,000 kTonnes ar Papers (All grades) 896 ktonnes Market virgin pulp 4.9 kTonnes ar Corrugated Packaging * 743 ktonnes Other pulp kTonnes ar Board and laminated Boards * 168 ktonnes Recovered Paper 856 kTonnes ar Converted Board * 61 ktonnes Paper or Board purchased 231 kTonnes ar Sacks * 51 ktonnes Plastic films, other plastic item (BIB) 1.9 kTonnes Other packaging 1.9 ktonnes Starch (all types) 27 kTonnes ar Inorganic raw materials 94 kTonnes ar Direct emissions to air Other organic raw materials 39 kTonnes ar CO2 fossil 988 kTonnes CO2 biogenic 483 kTonnes Dust from fuels 0.2 kTonnes SOx from processes 2.7 kTonnes NOx from processes 0.9 kTonnes Energy Energy from fossil fuels 14,832 TJ Energy output Energy from biofuels TJ Electricity to third party GWh Electricity from grid 554 GWh Thermal energy to third party TJ Biomass sold TJ Wastes Hazardous wastes 2.5 kTonnes Non Hazardous Wastes sent to landfill 317 kTonnes Non Hazardous wastes recovered 31 kTonnes Other Non Hazardous wastes 2.4 kTonnes Water Discharges to water Water intake(2) 36 Mm3 Water released 32 Mm3 COD 15 kTonnes BOD 3.9 kTonnes Total Suspended Solids 4.0 kTonnes N 0.2 kTonnes P 0.02 kTonnes kTonnes ar: kiloTonnes as received (1) wood as delivered to the mill * partly produced with Smurfit Kappa paper or board (2) water intake includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation The table reports total energy consumption of the site, taking into account the fuels used to produce electricity and/or thermal energy sold externally. This results in different figures for these parameters compared to those on pages 78 to 83. The latter pages show the energy consumption for the production of the paper or board manufactured. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 77 European Mills 2012 Environmental Data Nettingsdorfer, Cellulose du Pin, Morava, Czech Navarra, Spain Piteå, Sweden CD Haupt, DE Hoya, DE Viersen, DE Zülpich, DE Mengibar, ES Austria France Republic bkl, tl tl, mg bkl, wtkl, bkl tl, fl fl, tl, sb, fl, tl, fl, tl fl, tl fl, tl, paper wtkl, wttl cart wttl wttl PRODUCTION PRODUCTION kTonnes 434 105 394 658 60 316 395 75 470 202 ENERGY Electricity Co & Self Generation GWh 155 58 322(1) 339 67 91 172 108 Hydro power GWh 0.1 2.0 0.2 Net Grid supply GWh 141 80 249 22 31 72 23 20 -(2) Total electricity GWh 296 139 322 588 24 98 163 23 192 108 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ 3,687 1,989 7,819 9,987 17 40 67 256 Fossil fuels TJ 1,106 441 449 303 319 1,567 2,218 344 3,243 1,488 Total fuels TJ 4,793(3) 2,429 8,269 10,290(3) 336 1,607 2,285 344 3,499 1,488 WATER WITHDRAWAL Surface Mm3 13 5.2 8.4 34 0.4 0.4 2.0 1.6 Ground Mm3 0.9 0.8 2.1 0.3 0.4 Grid Mm3 0.05 0.01 0.02 0.10 0.2 0.01 0.1 Total water(4) Mm3 13 5.2 9.3 34 0.4 1.2 2.3 0.3 2.4 1.7 DISCHARGES To air CO2 fossil direct kTonnes 63 28 27 26 18 88 124 19 261 84 CO2 fossil indirect kTonnes 23 24 11 11 13 31 10 8.8 CO2 biogenic kTonnes 396 221 900 1,191 1.3 3.5 5.6 22 4.7 Dust Tonnes 54 20 49 277 0.15 0.4 0.4 0.2 NOx as NO2 Tonnes 234 109 603 785 10 50 95 6.4 262 381 SOx as NO2 Tonnes 25 28 132 91 5.3 0.2 1.4 0.3 73 12 To water Process water Mm3 5.3 2.8 8.8 13 0.3 0.4 1.7 0.3 1.4 Cooling water Mm3 7.1 2.2 21 0.4 0.02 1.3 COD Tonnes 7,076 321 4,293 2,151 39 97 334 N/A 229 BOD Tonnes 4,273 60 1,182 294 2.4 4.5 17 N/A 18 Total Suspended Solids Tonnes 457 75 593 572 4.1 2.6 N/A 90 Total N Tonnes 41 10 88 66 6.3 0.3 19 N/A 43 Total P Tonnes 3.4 0.6 11 16 0.3 0.2 1.2 N/A 2.7 Solid wastes Total non-hazardous wastes Tonnes 23,618 18,837 33,012 40,002 7,523 18,167 30,114 7,694 24,144 31,994 Landfill Tonnes 3,288 1,123 11,611 5,863 3,743 89 11,821 31,857 Recovery Tonnes 20,097 17,714 21,384 34,139 3,780 18,078 30,114 7,693 1,416 137 Other Tonnes 233 18 0.2 10,907 Hazardous wastes Tonnes 136 31 5,294 235 1.5 80 90 2.4 42 15 bkl : brown kraftliner mg : machine glazed wtkl : white top kraftliner cart : carton board sb : solid board wttl : white top testliner fl : recycled flute tl : testliner water emissions in grey italics: external waste water treatment 78 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Townsend Hook, Oude Pekela, NL Alfa D'Avignon, Nieuweschans, Roermond, NL Herzberger, DE Coevorden, NL Baden Karton, Rethel, FR Saillat, FR UK Hoogkerk, NL Nervión, ES Total Mills FR Ania, IT SSK, UK DE NL tl tl fl, tl fl, tl tl, fl tl, fl fl, tl cart sb sb sb sb sb sack paper 70 60 248 207 568 203 218 138 245 57 73 92 106 147 5,541 59(1) 34 117 65 82(1) 61 76 16 12 29 110 1,974 1.5 1.7 5.5 30 21 60 41 35 0.3 8.8 -(2) 10 -(2) 14 13 -(2) 81 954 30 21 120 75 152 66 91 63 87 16 14 24 29 192 2,933 15 124 12 140 50 2,733 26,935 368 286 1,475 1,149 2,849 1,376 2,081 1,055 1,571 359 310 344 605 121 25,430 368 301 1,599 1,161 2,990 1,426 2,081 1,055(3) 1,571(3) 359 310 344 605 2,854 52,364 0.7 1.9 1.5 2.2 1.2 1.5 3.4 0.0 0.3 0.3 0.4 2.6 80 0.5 0.9 0.3 0.0 0.2 0.2 6.6 0.01 0.01 0.1 0.1 0.02 0.03 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.1 0.1 0.02 1.0 0.7 0.5 1.9 1.5 2.3 1.0 1.5 1.5 3.5 0.2 0.3 0.6 0.4 2.6 88 21 16 84 64 161 78 117 59 88 20 18 20 34 7.8 1,528 2.7 1.9 5.4 16 13 0.6 4.0 4.5 5.2 4.7 24 215 1.0 1.2 18 0.9 11 4.6 4.6 0.6 338 3,124 0.3 0.8 0.45 41 443 17 28 86 77 130 128 374 32 72 21 6.0 16 40 174 3,735 11 5.3 1.5 0.5 27 1.7 70 0.5 11 0.05 0.03 0.1 2.3 91 590 0.6 0.4 1.6 1.2 1.7 0.6 1.2 1.3 1.3 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.3 1.9 47 0.1 1.9 0.3 34 74 48 954 125 316 1,026 161 161 175 25 35 868 51 795 19,355 10 5.1 252 9.1 10 460 7.3 10 13 0.7 1.6 379 2.2 189 7,200 17 6.4 398 22 24 916 40 12 22 4.1 4.7 22 4.9 71 3,358 2.7 2.6 87 23 31 23 4.4 0.8 1.8 1.1 2.0 3.8 1.7 9.5 468 3.3 0.5 15 1.8 3.0 11 0.3 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.8 72 4,083 5,215 23,312 22,225 37,761 23,400 35,297 12,258 19,091 5,470 2,095 4,950 7,535 82,501 520,297 4,079 1,532 20,279 12,274 602 21,909 26,686 79 78,291 235,125 4.2 3,683 3,033 9,952 37,071 1,491 8,611 311 19,012 5,470 2,095 4,950 7,407 4,169 261,809 89 11,947 128 41 23,363 4.7 7.2 6.8 9.0 21 37 64 231 14 8.3 3.3 20 10 65 6,429 (1) CHP is outsourced N/A: not available (2) net electricity exported by CHP (3) part of heat exported (4) Total water includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation Individual cell entries have been rounded. The figures in the total column may not tally due to rounding differences. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 79 European Operations 2012 PAPER & INTEGRATED OTHER OTHER TOTAL BOARD CORRUGATED PACKAGING OPERATIONS OPERATIONS MILLS OPERATIONS OPERATIONS PRODUCTION kTonnes 5,541 4,234 586 1,924 ENERGY Electricity Co & Self Generation GWh 1,974 15 1,988 Hydro power GWh 5.5 5.5 Net Grid supply GWh 954 489 81 2.8 1,526 Total electricity GWh 2,933 503 81 2.8 3,520 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ 26,935 138 27,073 Fossil fuels TJ 25,430 4,137 201 83 29,851 Total fuels TJ 52,364 4,275 201 83 56,923 WATER WITHDRAWAL Surface Mm3 80 80 Ground Mm3 6.6 0.4 0.01 7.0 Grid Mm3 1.0 1.3 0.1 2.4 Total water(2) Mm3 88 1.7 0.1 90 DISCHARGES To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 1,528 239 12 6.1 1,785 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 215 151 27 1.2 394 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 3,124 15 3,139 Dust tonnes 443 4.5 0.2 0.01 448 NOx as NO2 tonnes 3,735 95 3.9 4.1 3,837 SOx as SO2 tonnes 590 53 2.8 3.8 649 To water Process water Mm3 47 0.6 0.1 47 Cooling water Mm3 34 0.1 34 COD(1) tonnes 19,355 1,806 N/A N/A 21,160 BOD(1) tonnes 7,200 397 N/A N/A 7,597 Total Suspended Solids(1) tonnes 3,358 350 N/A N/A 3,708 Total N(1) tonnes 468 15 N/A N/A 483 Total P(1) tonnes 72 0.6 N/A N/A 72 Solid wastes Total Non hazardous wastes tonnes 520,297 31,347 7,467 9,982 569,093 Landfill tonnes 235,125 9,912 1,336 1,885 248,258 Recovery tonnes 261,809 16,683 5,698 8,009 292,199 Other tonnes 23,363 4,753 433 88 28,636 Hazardous wastes tonnes 6,429 3,310 592 1.0 10,333 N/A: not available (1) sum of available data (for mills details are reported in the individual tables) (2) Total water includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation. Individual cell entries have been rounded. The figures in the total column may not tally due to rounding differences. 80 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Latin AmericaN Mills 2012 Environmental Data Los Reyes, MX Monterrey, MX San Felipe, VE Barranquilla, Cerro Gordo, Barbosa, CO Caracas, VE Valencia, VE Total mills Coronel Bernal, AR Suarez, AR Cali, CO CO MX fl, tl fl, tl P&W, tl, fl fl, wttl fl, tl, cart, fl, tl tl, cart tl, sc fl, Sack cart, fl cart, fl paper, tl, wttl wttl cart, virgin pulp, tl, bkl, sc fl, wttl, wtkl PRODUCTION kTonnes 69 48 263 62 73 75 284 40 16 36 98 1,064 ENERGY Electricity Co & Self Generation GWh 242 31 4.4 35 104 416 Hydro power GWh Net Grid supply GWh 34 19 95 2.1 40 50 162 21 5.7 10 3.1 442 Total electricity GWh 34 19 337 33 40 50 162 21 10 46 107 858 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ 4,422 441 4,864 Fossil fuels TJ 470 230 5,605 920 384 535 1,172 202 209 1,084 2,995 13,804 Total fuels TJ 470(1) 230 10,027 920 384 535 1,172(1) 202 209(1) 1,084 3,436 18,668 WATER WITHDRAWAL Surface Mm3 0.8 21 1.1 0.6 0.5 24 Ground Mm3 0.3 0.1 0.2 1.6 0.1 1.0 5.3 8.5 Grid Mm3 0.01 0.04 0.3 0.1 0.5 Total water(2) Mm3 0.8 0.3 24 1.1 0.6 0.3 1.6 0.1 0.8 1.1 5.3 36 DISCHARGES To air CO2 fossil direct kTonnes 27 13 448 52 31 30 66 11 13 62 172 924 CO2 fossil indirect kTonnes 12 6.7 17 0.4 7 23 74 10 1.1 2.1 0.6 152 CO2 biogenic kTonnes 0.4 430 53 483 Dust Tonnes 187 8.9 0.9 0.7 1.9 0.06 15 215 NOx as NO2 Tonnes 15 13 248 72 22 30 51 4.8 47 92 230 825 SOx as SO2 Tonnes 2.0 0.3 2,582 1.3 109 0.05 0.6 0.02 1.0 17 6.0 2,718 To water Process water Mm3 0.7 0.2 24 1.0 0.3 0.2 0.7 0.06 0.8 0.6 3.5 32 Cooling water Mm3 COD Tonnes 272 53 7,197 2,058 1,541 32 165 59 1,246 170 1,610 14,404 BOD Tonnes 117 8.5 1,276 1,027 606 2.3 8.1 15 589 32 145 3,825 Total Suspended Solids Tonnes 59 5.8 2,168 657 95 2.4 21 19 724 50 228 4,029 Total N Tonnes 4.8 1.6 166 11 3.7 1.0 4.2 3.1 12 3.2 15 226 Total P Tonnes 0.5 0.1 11 0.2 0.2 0.4 2.5 0.2 1.3 0.4 1.5 18 Solid wastes Total non-hazardous wastes Tonnes 6,462 6,272 218,615 2,690 6,926 1,998 44,417 6,271 853 9,103 38,124 341,732 Landfill Tonnes 6,348 6,272 216,694 2,616 5,398 1,888 19,162 5,966 816 8,943 37,987 312,091 Recovery Tonnes 112 1,406 72 1,521 111 25,255 305 37 159 137 29,116 Other Tonnes 1.9 515 1.5 6.7 525 Hazardous wastes Tonnes 12 4.4 208 19 6.5 8.3 39 6.6 1.3 15 985 1,304 bkl : brown kraftliner P&W : printing and writing grade virgin pulp : virgin pulp sold externally cart : carton board sc fl : semi-chemical flute wtkl : white top kraftliner fl : recycled flute tl : testliner wttl : white top testliner Individual cell entries have been rounded. The figures in the total column may not tally due to rounding differences. (1) part of heat exported (2) Total water includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 81 Latin AmericaN Operations 2012 PAPER & OTHER TOTAL BOARD MILLS OPERATIONS OPERATIONS PRODUCTION kTonnes 1,064 2,434 ENERGY Electricity Co & Self Generation GWh 416 416 Hydro power GWh Net Grid supply GWh 442 113 554 Total electricity GWh 858 113 971 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ 4,864 4,864 Fossil fuels TJ 13,804 1,028 14,832 Total fuels TJ 18,668 1,028 19,696 WATER WITHDRAWAL Surface Mm3 24 0.05 24 Ground Mm3 8.5 0.3 8.8 Grid Mm3 0.5 0.2 0.7 Total water(1) Mm3 36 0.6 36 DISCHARGES To air CO2 fossil direct ktonnes 924 64 988 CO2 fossil indirect ktonnes 152 38 191 CO2 biogenic ktonnes 483 483 Dust tonnes 215 1.8 217 NOx as NO2 tonnes 825 26 851 SOx as SO2 tonnes 2,718 27 2,745 To water Process water Mm3 32 0.1 32 Cooling water Mm3 0.01 0.01 COD tonnes 14,404 100 14,504 BOD tonnes 3,825 51 3,876 Total Suspended Solids tonnes 4,029 15 4,044 Total N tonnes 226 2.4 228 Total P tonnes 18 0.4 19 Solid wastes Total Non hazardous wastes tonnes 341,732 8,258 349,991 Landfill tonnes 312,091 4,997 317,088 Recovery tonnes 29,116 1,397 30,513 Other tonnes 525 1,865 2,390 Hazardous wastes tonnes 1,304 1,176 2,480 Individual cell entries have been rounded. The figures in the total column may not tally due to rounding differences. (1) Total water includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation. 82 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Total Group Operations All operations 2012 2011 2010 2009 ENERGY Electricity Co & self Generation GWh 2,405 2,401 2,250 2,169 Hydro power GWh 5.5 5.5 8.3 11 Net Grid supply GWh 2,081 2,049 2,321 2,446 Total electricity GWh 4,491 4,456 4,580 4,626 Fuel usage Biofuels TJ 31,936 33,102 32,769 29,391 Fossil fuels TJ 44,683 46,046 46,628 47,134 Total fuels TJ 76,619 79,149 79,397 76,525 WATER WITHDRAWAL Surface Mm3 104 103 109 121 Ground Mm3 16 15 15 16 Grid Mm3 3.1 3.0 3.2 3.8 Total water(3) Mm3 126 122 127 141 DISCHARGES To air CO2 fossil direct kTonnes 2,773 2,851 2,861 2,917 CO2 fossil indirect kTonnes 584 568 658 658 CO2 biogenic kTonnes 3,622 3,606 3,517 3,100 Dust Tonnes 665 699 772 1,004 NOx as NO2 Tonnes 4,688 4,767 5,595 6,566 SOx as SO2 Tonnes 3,395 3,893 3,691 3,832 To water Process water Mm3 79 78 82 96 Cooling water Mm3 34 32 33 32 COD(1) Tonnes 35,665 36,278 35,024 38,961 BOD(1)(2) Tonnes 11,473 11,638 11,404 11,875 Total Suspended Solids(1) Tonnes 7,752 8,504 8,033 8,384 Total N(1) Tonnes 711 643 653 420 Total P(1) Tonnes 91 97 109 86 Solid wastes Total Non hazardous wastes Tonnes 919,084 906,389 888,775 918,692 Landfill Tonnes 565,345 525,854 453,239 453,498 Recovery Tonnes 322,712 329,880 377,493 337,529 Other Tonnes 31,026 50,655 58,043 127,666 Hazardous wastes Tonnes 12,813 10,717 12,448 10,289 (1) sum of available data (for mills details are reported in the individual tables) (2) Nettingsdorfer BOD’s values from years 2011, 2010 and 2009 have been adjusted, with the accurate ratio COD/BOD measured in 2012. (3) Total water includes rainwater and waste water from another organisation. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 83 Management Systems Certification Forestry Forest Wood Sourcing Chain of Latin America Management Europe Custody CO Colombia Forest FSC ES Central Forestal PEFC & FSC VE Venezuela Forest FR Comptoir Du Pin Aquitaine PEFC & FSC External Paper Sourcing Chain of Europe Custody European Paper Sourcing (EPS) PEFC & FSC European Mills Quality Environmental Health and Chain of Management Management Safety Custody System System System ISO 9001 ISO 14001 OHSAS Virgin mills 18001 AT Nettingsdorfer • • PEFC & FSC ES Navarra • • PEFC & FSC Nervión • • PEFC & FSC FR Cellulose du Pin • • • PEFC & FSC SE Piteå • • PEFC & FSC Recycled mills CZ Morava • • • PEFC & FSC DE Baden Karton • • • PEFC & FSC CD Haupt • • • PEFC & FSC Herzberger • • • FSC Hoya • • • PEFC & FSC Viersen • • • PEFC & FSC Zülpich • • • PEFC & FSC ES Mengibar • • PEFC & FSC FR Alfa d’Avignon • • PEFC & FSC Rethel • • PEFC & FSC Saillat • • • PEFC & FSC IT Ania • • PEFC & FSC NL Sbm Coevorden • • • PEFC & FSC Sbm Hoogkerk • • • PEFC & FSC Sbm Nieuweschans • • • PEFC & FSC Sbm Oude Pekela • • • PEFC & FSC Roermond • • • PEFC & FSC UK Ssk • • • PEFC & FSC Townsend Hook • • • PEFC & FSC Latin American Mills Virgin mills CO Cali • FSC VE San Felipe Recycled mills AR Bernal Coronel Suarez CO Barbosa • FSC Barranquilla • FSC MX Cerro Gordo • • FSC Los Reyes • • FSC Monterrey • • FSC VE Caracas Valencia Feb 2013 84 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 About the Report The information in this report covers all the international reporting system implemented in all operations of activities of the Smurfit Kappa Group for the calendar Smurfit Kappa. year 2012 and also includes some information for early This tool is integrated into the Group’s intranet, enabling 2013 when mentioned specifically. Data included are for sites to report their environmental data online according the year 2012 only. to the GRI guidelines. As the information is stored The report describes Smurfit Kappa’s vision and activities centrally, this allows for easier and faster processing. on sustainability in the environmental, economic and We make continuous effort to introduce new functionality social areas. to allow the individual operations to compare their At the end of 2012 our operations included 348 facilities performance with the previous reporting periods, to in 32 countries in Europe and the Americas. This includes extract data for further and individual processing of their a small number of joint ventures and minority holdings, own data, and to alert them where significant deviation none of which is material. Information from all those occurs. Reporting procedures have been revised and operations is included in this report except for Smurfit further strengthened during 2012. Kappa Orange County (see below). For this company data In 2012, we developed specific protocols for reporting are only included when specifically mentioned in the energy and air emissions data for certain paper and relevant section of the report. board mills. Our intention is to develop such protocols for all other paper and board mills in the next two years. Acquisitions and Divestitures 2012 Intention is to develop protocols not only for energy In January 2012 Smurfit Kappa acquired Baguin, a data but for the reporting of all environmental indicators, bag-in-box packaging solutions company in Buenos contributing to our objective to ensure continuous Aires, Argentina. For 2012, only environmental data of consistency of reported data across our global this company are included in this report. In December operational system. 2012, we acquired Orange County Container Group, a corrugated and containerboard manufacturer with For the most part, data is based on measured or operations in northern Mexico and the southern United metered quantities, or on best estimates based on States. This company was then renamed Smurfit Kappa industry knowledge and established calculation Orange County (“SKOC”). There were no divestitures factors. CO2 emission calculations have been based in 2012. Apart from the acquisitions mentioned, no on established fuel consumption and specific CO2 significant changes in the scope, boundary and emission factors. Definitions and calculations for the measurement methods were applied to the report performance indicators can be found in the glossary compared to previous years. on pages 94 to 96. We are making on-going efforts to further standardise the Topics, issues and targets data gathering system in Smurfit Kappa to improve data Smurfit Kappa fully recognises that sustainable quality and consistency in the use of Group definitions development embraces social and business subjects and scope requirements of our key indicators. as well as environmental topics. These subjects and topics have been selected on the basis of input from We requested an external assurance provider, KPMG, to the various stakeholder groups. Smurfit Kappa collected provide limited assurance on the data and the text of the data from all its manufacturing operations that were report. The assurance report of KPMG can be found on operational at the end of 2012 with exception of the page 93. SKOC as mentioned above. When quantified performance or targets are mentioned in this report, they are related to production levels. Other information is reported in absolute figures, unless otherwise stated. Reporting guidelines, data collection Among the various references used for the development and identification of baseline data included in this report are the G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), an independent institution whose mission is to provide a trusted and credible framework for sustainability reporting. Smurfit Kappa applied the GRI at an A+ level. Every effort has been made to provide data that is as accurate as possible. Data relating to environmental matters are gathered through a Group-wide IT based SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 85 Relationship To GRI Guidelines The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a large worldwide The index below has been prepared using the current GRI network of experts whose mission is to provide global Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (version G3.1) and it standards for sustainability reporting. provides a list of the GRI indicators reported by Smurfit Kappa for 2012. All core Indicators have been addressed The GRI network has developed a Sustainability and are included in the table. The index refers to Reporting Framework, the core of which is the information in our 2012 Sustainable Development Report Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The Guidelines (SDR), our 2012 Annual Report (AR), our website: www. consist of principles for defining report content and smurfitkappa.com and the Carbon Disclosure Project ensuring the quality of reported information as well as website. standard disclosures comprising performance indicators and other disclosure items. These guidelines provide an We declare that our 2012 reporting applies to a GRI “A+” internationally recognised framework for voluntary application level. An “A” application level requires reporting on an organisation’s economic, environmental reporting on a specified range of criteria, on the and social performance. management approach to disclosures for each indicator category and a response on each core G3 indicator. We have sought assurance from an external party which expands the application level to “A+”. GRI-G3.1 DESCRIPTION Level of SOURCE/COMMENT PAGE(S) reporting Profile 1.1 CEO Statement on relevance of sustainability to the Full SDR 6-7 organisation and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Full SDR 17-19 Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation Full SDR Cover 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Full AR 3-5 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation Full Website 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Full SDR Inside back cover 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates Full AR 3-5 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Full AR 114-115, 117 2.7 Markets served Full Website 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Full AR 2-5 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period in size, Full AR 113-114 structure and ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Full Website Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for information Full SDR 85 provided 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Full SDR 6 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Full SDR 6 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Full SDR Inside back cover 3.5 Process for defining report content Full SDR 85 3.6 Boundary of the report Full SDR 85 AR 3-5 3.7 Any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Full SDR 85 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. Full SDR 85 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Full SDR 34, 85 3.10 Explanation of effect of re-statements of information provided Full SDR 83 previously 3.11 Significant changes in scope, boundary, or measurement Full SDR 83 methods 86 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 GRI-G3.1 DESCRIPTION Level of SOURCE/COMMENT PAGE(S) reporting 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the Full SDR 86-90 report 3.13 Policy and current practice on seeking external assurance for Full SDR 86, 93 the report Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation Full AR 38-44 4.2 Indicate if Chair of the Board is also an executive officer Full AR 40 4.3 The Board members that are independent and/or non-executive Full AR 38 members 4.4 Ways for shareholders and employees to provide Full SDR 57 recommendations or direction to the Board AR 43 4.5 Link between compensation of Board and management with Full AR 47 SDR performance 4.6 Processes in place for the Board to ensure conflicts of interest Full Website are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the Full AR 39 Board 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of Full SDR 8-9 conduct, and principles AR 13, 38-43 Website 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing identification and Full AR 40 management of performance 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s own SDR performance Full SDR 8 AR 40 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or Full AR 43 principle is addressed by the organisation 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social Full SDR 8 charters & principles 4.13 Memberships in associations Full SDR 10-11 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation Full SDR 11 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Full SDR 6, 10, 12 whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Full SDR 10-12, 16 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder Full SDR 10-12 engagement Economic Indicators Disclosure on management approach Full SDR 6, 10-12 AR 13, 30-33, 64-73 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Full AR 74-76 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Full CDP 2012 Investor Section 5 organisation’s activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations Full AR 70, 72, 93-97 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Full AR 58, 69 EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of spending on locally-based Full SDR 11,70 suppliers at significant locations of operation EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior Full SDR 53 management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. EC8 Development and infrastructure provided primarily for public Full SDR 59-64 benefit Other than local community involvement, no engagement by Smurfit Kappa Environmental Indicators Disclosure on management approach Full SDR 8, 15-16, 85 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Full SDR 76-77 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Full SDR 28 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Full SDR 34-35, 76-83 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Full SDR 35, 76-83 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Full SDR 34, 38 EN6 Energy-efficient or renewable energy products and services Full SDR 33-36, 38 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Full SDR 41, 76-83 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Full SDR 40, 76-83 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 87 GRI-G3.1 DESCRIPTION Level of SOURCE/COMMENT PAGE(S) reporting EN11 Location and size of land by protected areas and areas of high Full SDR 29-30 biodiversity value Website EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products and Full SDR 30-33 services on biodiversity EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Full SDR 35, 76-83 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Full SDR 40, 76-83 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions Full SDR 36 achieved EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Full We do not add any ozone-depleting substances (ODS), that have been regulated following the Montreal Protocol, to our products during our manufacturing processes. Consequently, our products do not emit any ODS during their life cycle. EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight Full SDR 76-83 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination Full SDR 40-42, 76-83 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Full SDR 76-83 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Full SDR One significant spill occurred at 41 Cellulose du Pin EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and Full SDR 15-16, 26-43 services, and extent of impact mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that Full SDR 26 are reclaimed by category EN28 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for Full SDR 9 non-compliance with environmental law EN29 Significant environmental impact from transport Full SDR 40 Labour Practice Indicators Disclosure on management approach Full SDR 12, 44-58 LA1 Total workforce by employment type and region Full SDR 52-54 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, Full SDR 54 gender, and region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees Full SDR 52 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Full SDR 52 agreements LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational Full SDR 57 changes LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and Full SDR 47-48 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and risk-control Full SDR 46 programmes in place to assist workforce members, their families or community members regarding serious diseases LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee Full SDR 54 category LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning Full SDR 54-57 LA12 Employees receiving performance and career development Full SDR 55 reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Full AR 38-39 employees per category according to gender, age group, SDR 52-54 minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Full SDR 52 Same job, same pay LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by Partial SDR 53 gender (partial reporting) Detailed information not currently available Human Rights Indicators Disclosure on management approach Full SDR 12, 52 HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment Full SDR 57-58 agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening 88 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 GRI-G3.1 DESCRIPTION Level of SOURCE/COMMENT PAGE(S) reporting HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have Full SDR 58 undergone screening on human rights and actions taken No formal assessments in place. Our Code of Business Conduct provides the principles to operate for all our operations globally. Our Code of Business Conduct is based on international conventions and codes such as The UN Declaration of Fundamental Human Rights and the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at work (core conventions). Approximately 15% of our production volume originates from countries considered high or extreme risk (according to the Maplecroft Human Rights Risk Index 2013). Also for countries with high or extreme risk, our Code of Business Conduct is basis for doing business. Therefore, we consider the risk that our operations in those and other countries violate human rights as low. HR3 Total hours training on policies and procedures concerning Not reported We have no such training programmes. human rights Employees are made aware of relevant policies through awareness programmes regarding Code of Business Conduct. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Full SDR 52 Website HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the Full SDR 52 right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights HR6 Operations with significant risk for incidents of child labour, Full SDR 52 and measures taken to eliminate HR7 Operations with significant risk of forced or compulsory labour, Full SDR 52 and measures to eliminate HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s Not reported Not applicable policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations HR9 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people Full see comment under HR2 and actions taken HR10 Percentage and number of operations subject to human rights Full see comment under HR2 reviews HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights addressed and Full No such grievances were reported to Group and there resolved were no such reports to local operations either. Social Disclosure on management approach Full SDR 12, 59 SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community Partial SDR 59-65 engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for Partial SDR 8-9 risks related to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s antiFull SDR 8-9 corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Full SDR 8-9 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Full SDR 8-9 development and lobbying SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political Full SDR 8-9 parties, politicians and related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, Full SDR 8-9 anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Full SDR 8-9 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 89 GRI-G3.1 DESCRIPTION Level of SOURCE/COMMENT PAGE(S) reporting SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impact Full In general, we recognise that our operations are of on local communities economic significance for the local communities in which they are located. It is our policy to be actively involved socially in our host communities. Environmentally, our paper and board mills may pose a risk of effluent leakages which, if they occur, may temporarily affect local water streams with increased COD/BOD or TSS levels. Our operations do not pose a significant risk of emissions to air of substances that may affect human health. Our operations do not pose a risk to their host communities regarding the use of natural resources with the possible exception of those areas where water is scarce. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures in operations with Full In general, by complying with local and international significant potential or actual negative impact on local laws, there is no need for further prevention and/or communities mitigation measures with regard to potential environmental risks that could possibly impact host communities. For the handling of the negative environmental impact of the black liquor spillage in Facture see page 41. In those cases where a local operation discontinues its operations, any negative economic effects on its host community are mitigated by actions described on pages 80 and 81. Product Responsibility Indicators Disclosure on management approach Full SDR 12, 71 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products Full SDR 72 and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Full SDR 72 codes on Health and Safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes PR3 Type of product and service information required by Full SDR 72 procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations Full SDR 72 and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of Full SDR 69 surveys that measure customer satisfaction PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary Full SDR 69 codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations Full SDR 69 and voluntary codes on marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of outcomes PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches Full No substantiated complaints identified of customer privacy and losses of customer data PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with Full No fines and/or substantiated claims for nonlaws and regulations concerning the provision and use of compliance with laws or regulations concerning the products and services provision and use of products and services were identified 90 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 BUSINESS IN THE COMMUNITY IRELAND External Commentary – Smurfit Kappa Sustainability Development Report 2012 This, the sixth sustainability report published by The new Code of Business Conduct 2012 and ongoing Smurfit Kappa, is a very impressive, clear and awareness programme is likely to pay dividends too. comprehensive report. Safety at work continues to be a priority alongside strong practices in place on employee management and As a company dedicated to “the sustainable supply of development. paper-based packaging solutions”, sustainability is not only a key business driver for Smurfit Kappa, but a As in previous years, independent assurance is platform for differentiation in the market. Through provided by KPMG on how Smurfit Kappa has applied innovative packaging design and customer supply chain the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3.1 Guidelines. Our optimisation, Smurfit Kappa has become a key enabler in recommendations made last year were fully taken on ensuring the delivery of customers’ product to consumers board with the use of graphs and ‘at a glance’ is optimally sustainable. illustrations. Smurfit Kappa produces both the raw material for Recommendations packaging and the packing itself. A strong commitment to continuous improvement has resulted in significant The 2012 report is very comprehensive and perhaps strides being made on the company’s own sustainability somewhat repetitive in places. We suggest that Smurfit journey. Kappa consider making greater use of the corporate website to feature the main elements of the report, Particularly impressive is the fact that 90% of converting divided into sections e.g. impact of Smurfit Kappa at operations worldwide are Chain of Custody certified a glance; innovative packaging design for customers; under FSC or PEFC – achieved 2 years ahead of schedule. approach to risk management; engagement with The approach to ensure complete traceability in the stakeholders; objectives and targets for the coming year. supply chain and continuous investment in sustainable forestry management is evidence of leadership in their Further, while excellent examples of packaging design sector. In addition, we wholly endorse the company’s and customer supply chain optimisation are included in engagement with suppliers to align their policies and this report, we recommend that additional emphasis is objectives on sustainability with those of Smurfit Kappa. given to these in the next iteration. Indeed, the value placed on stakeholder engagement as On a final note, the extent to which sustainability is a whole stands out in this report. Practical examples are integrated into the Smurfit Kappa business strategy, provided on how Smurfit Kappa engages on an ongoing operations and activities suggests to us that the company basis with customers, employees, local communities and is ready for the challenge of an integrated report where NGOs (regarding environmental impact). Input from all financial, social & environmental data, approach and groups is drawn upon to aid the company refine the impact is disclosed in one document. According to the issues most material to the company. GRI, “the future of corporate reporting is the integration of financial and sustainability strategy and results.” Through the narrative and detailed data supplied, it is evident that tremendous effort is being made in all In placing sustainability at the heart of Smurfit Kappa’s operating locations to achieve a balance of economic, business strategy and in driving ongoing, continuous social and environmental aspects. We commend the improvement, both in global operations and level of data disclosed on energy, water and waste communications, a leadership opportunity is available management. to the Group in integrated reporting, that we warmly recommend is seized and acted upon. The example of innovation being delivered by Smurfit Kappa in Colombia, in partnership with local organisations, on biofuel, is worthy of specific mention. The section detailing the risks and challenges regarding the issues of fibre availability, the rising cost of energy, regulation concerning CO2 emissions, water and food safety, faced by both Smurfit Kappa and the paper packing industry as a whole is articulated well. Each Tina Roche challenge is dealt with comprehensively and following on Chief Executive from the disclosure of the achievements made to date, Business in the Community Ireland we look forward to reading in the coming months, how Smurfit Kappa is continuing in its risk management strategy. SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 91 UN Global Compact Smurfit Kappa became a participant in the United Nations support for the ten Global Compact principles in its Global Compact, a worldwide corporate citizenship everyday business. Measurements of performance related initiative, in 2010. This is now a network of more than to the Global Compact principles are given using 10,000 corporate participants and other stakeholders indicators provided by the Global Reporting Initiative from over 130 countries who promote ten core principles (GRI), wherever feasible. In particular, GRI performance in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and indicators relating to human rights, labour and antianti-corruption. These principles are listed in the table corruption principles are presented in the Social below. Development section while environmental performance indicators reported in the Environment section. As a part of this commitment, Smurfit Kappa will report A complete GRI index can be found on pages 86 to on the Company’s corporate responsibility activities and 90 of the Report. performance in an annual Communication on Progress (COP), using the annual Sustainable Development Report The following table shows how our performance in as the platform for this communication. relation to each UN Global Compact principle can be reported using a number of GRI performance The Sustainable Development Report provides a number indicators. This is based on guidance documents of examples of ongoing activities, as well as relevant key published by the UN Global Compact. performance indicators, which illustrate Smurfit Kappa’s UNGC principles GRI indicators Human Rights 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human HR1-11, LA5, rights; and LA7-8, 13-15, PR8 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HR1-11 Labour 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right LA4-5 to collective bargaining; 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; HR7 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour; and HR6 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and EC7, LA2, 13-15, occupation. HR4 Environment 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; EC2, EN18, 26 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and EN1-29, PR3-4 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly EN2, 5-6, 10, technologies. EN18, 26-27 Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. SO2-4 92 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Independent Assurance Report To the readers of the Sustainable Development Report 2012 of Smurfit Kappa Group plc. Introduction Work undertaken We were engaged by the Board of Directors of Smurfit Our procedures included the following: Kappa Group plc (further: ‘Smurfit Kappa’) to provide n A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify assurance on the Sustainable Development Report 2012 relevant sustainability issues for Smurfit Kappa in the (further: ‘the Report’). The Executive Directors of Smurfit reporting period; Kappa are responsible for the preparation of the Report, including the identification of material issues. Our n Evaluating the design and implementation of the responsibility is to issue an assurance report based on systems and processes for the collection, processing the engagement outlined below. and control of the information in the Report, including the consolidation of the data for the Report; Scope n Interviews with relevant staff at corporate level Our assurance engagement was designed to provide responsible for the sustainability strategy, policies, limited assurance on whether the Report is presented communication and management, as well as other fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the G3.1 relevant staff at corporate level responsible for Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. providing the information for the Report; We do not provide any assurance on the achievability of n Visits to production sites in Wrexen and Düsseldorf the objectives, targets and expectations of Smurfit Kappa. (Germany), Nervión and Mengibar (Spain), Valencia Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of (Venezuela) and Cali (Colombia) to review the source assurance are aimed at determining the plausibility of data and the design and implementation of controls information and are less extensive than those for a procedures at local level; reasonable level of assurance. n Evaluating internal and external documentation, based on sampling, to determine whether the Reporting criteria and information in the Report is supported by sufficient assurance standard evidence; Smurfit Kappa applies the Sustainability Reporting n An analytical review of the data and trend Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (G3.1) as explanations submitted by all production sites for described in the section Relationship to GRI Guidelines. It consolidation at corporate level. is important to view the performance data in the context of these criteria. Conclusion We conducted our engagement in accordance with the Based on the procedures performed, as described above, International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the 3000): Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Report is not fairly presented, in all material respects, in Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the accordance with the G3.1 Guidelines of the Global International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. Reporting Initiative. This standard requires, amongst others, that the assurance team possesses the specific knowledge, skills Amstelveen, 21 June, 2013 and professional competencies needed to provide KPMG Sustainability, assurance on sustainability information and that they part of KPMG Advisory N.V. comply with the requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants of the International Federation of Accountants to ensure their independence. Wim Bartels, Partner SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 93 Glossary BOD Biochemical Oxygen Demand (one element of the COD, unit: mg O2/litre) refers to the level of oxygen uptake by micro-organisms in a sample of water measured over a period of five days. Biodiversity General term to describe the variety of life forms (flora and fauna) in an ecosystem. Biofuels Fuels coming from biomass (wood rejects, bark, black liquor produced during the production of virgin pulps, pitch oil, biomass part of mixed wastes and biogas produced during the anaerobic treatment of water). Black liquor Residue from pulping that contains organic compounds (like lignin). This residue is burnt in paper mills to produce energy. CDP The Carbon Disclosure Project is an independent not-for-profit organisation holding the largest database of primary corporate climate change information in the world. CEN Comité Européen de Normalisation. The European Committee for Standardisation is major provider of European standards and technical specifications. CEPI CEPI, the Confederation of European Paper Industries. It is a non-profit organisation representing the European pulp and paper industry. Certified wood product Certification is given to companies and landowners to verify that their forestry practices are consistent with requirements laid down in these standards. Only certified wood product might carry a label. The label on wood products guarantees that consumers can trust the sources. Actual certification is carried out by independent certification organisations that are accredited by FSC or PEFC or SFI to carry out. CHP Combined Heat and Power: a combination of a boiler and a gas and/or steam turbine that simultaneously produces electricity and thermal energy (steam) by burning fuels. This system is considered to be the most efficient technology in industries using both steam and electricity. When mills sell part of their produced steam to an external party or have net electricity export (selling more to an external party than purchasing), the consumption of fuel and emissions reported for this mill is adjusted to report only that part used to produce paper. This adjustment is based on a reference heat boiler with an efficiency of 90%, which is also used by CEPI and the European Commission for EU ETS benchmark calculations. CHP (outsourced) A CHP installation, belonging to an external party, located at or near a Smurfit Kappa site for delivering electricity and steam to the Smurfit Kappa production facility. All fuels and electricity used for the production of paper as well as emissions related to that are included in the figures for the Smurfit Kappa production facility. COD Chemical Oxygen Demand is the most commonly used test to measure the amount of organic compounds in water (unit: mg O2/litre). The result indicates the level of all organic compounds that can be oxidised by a strong oxidising agent. CoC Chain of Custody Certification applying to wood/fibre material and products. Chain of Custody is an information trail about the path taken by products from the forest or, in the case of recycled materials, from the reclamation site to the consumer including each stage of processing, transformation, manufacturing, and distribution where progress to the next stage of the supply chain involves a change of ownership. Co-generation Electricity generated by a CHP system belonging to our organisation or from a CHP outsourced. Containerboard Papers and boards mainly used in the manufacture of corrugated board. They are made from virgin or recovered fibres. Included are kraftliner, testliner, semi-chemical fluting and recycled fluting. Corrugated board Structured board made by a corrugator usually formed by gluing one wave formed liner (called fluting) in the middle to two flat-facing sheets of containerboard (kraftliner or testliner) outside. CO2 biogenic Carbon dioxide emitted when burning biofuels. This CO2 is considered to be carbon neutral as it is removed from the atmosphere and stored in biomass within a short period of time. CO2 fossil Carbon dioxide emitted when burning fossil fuels for the production of paper. The calculation is made according to international guidelines from the carbon content of each fuel (WR/WBSCD GHG protocol). CO2 indirect Fossil carbon dioxide generated, externally to the site, to produce the electricity purchased from the grid by the company. Source: International Energy Agency Data Services. 2009: “CO2 emissions from fuel combustion (2009 Edition)”. Carbon dioxide A metric measure used to compare the emissions from various greenhouse gases based upon their climate change equivalent CO2-eq potential (CCP). The CO2-eq carbon dioxide equivalent for other emissions is derived by multiplying the amount of the emission by the associated CCP factor. CSR Corporate Social Responsibility: a concept whereby organisations consider the interests of society by taking responsibility for the impact of their activities on customers, suppliers, employees, shareholders, communities and the environment in all aspects of their operations. Dust Particles coming from the combustion of fuels. Dust emissions are measured mainly by the mills. Where dust is not measured (converting plants), emissions are calculated from fuel consumption using the emission factors listed in the Ecoinvent database version 2.1. EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation. ELCD European Reference Life Cycle Database. The ELCD has been developed within the “European Platform on Life Cycle Assessment” that is a project of the European Commission, carried out by the Commission’s Joint Research Centre, Institute for Environment and Sustainability (JRC-IES). 94 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Environmental A set of processes and practices that enable an organisation to reduce its environmental impact and increase its Management System operating efficiency. Emissions Trading Scheme A scheme calculated to allocate greenhouse gas allowances for a list of specific activities. Fluting The wavy formed middle layer in corrugated board. Fossil fuels Fuels originating from natural resources (gas, oil, coal, peat and lignite). FSC The Forestry Stewardship Council is an independent, non-governmental, organisation established to promote the responsible management of the world’s forests through independent third party certification. Gigajoule Unit of energy that generally applies to fuel. 1 gigajoule (GJ) = one billion joules = 109 joules. GRI The GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) reporting framework is the generally accepted framework for reporting on an organisation’s economic, environmental and social performance. The sustainability reporting guidelines give the reporting principles, and the list of performance indicators, for each of the three key areas that should be disclosed in a sustainability report. Grid supply Electricity purchased from a national distribution network. GWh Unit of energy, generally applies to electricity – 1 GWh (GigaWatt hour) = 1 Million KWh (KiloWatt hour). Hectare A unit of area. One hectare (Ha) = 10,000 m2. One hectare = 2.471 acres. ILO International Labour Organisation. Inorganic raw materials Raw material used for manufacturing our products that are not organic such as: fillers, sodium hydroxide, sodium sulphate and calcium oxide. Innotools Innotools is a unique software suite for developing fit-for-purpose packing. It comprises: Innobook, an internal library with almost 5,000 proven design solutions used extensively by designers in Smurfit Kappa; Pack Expert, an advanced statistical model used to determine the packaging performance in the customer’s supply chain; and Paper-to-Box, a sophisticated software tool used to predict box performance based on board design and composition. ISO 9001 Scheme certified by independent third party that ensures that the operation certified applies internationally recognised standards and procedures of quality management. ISO 14001 Scheme certified by independent third party that ensures that the operation certified applies internationally recognised standards and procedures of environmental management. ISO 17025 This international standard lists the requirements to allow the accreditation by authorised third party of a testing laboratory and to verify its proficiency. ISO 22000 This standard specifies requirements for a food safety management system where an organisation in the food chain needs to demonstrate its ability to control food safety hazards in order to ensure that food is safe at the time of human consumption. kTonne One kTonne = 1,000 tonnes, where one tonne (metric tonne) = 1,000 kilograms. Kraftliner Paper made mainly from virgin wood fibres. Mm3 1 million cubic metres. MJ Megajoule, a unit of energy. 1 megajoule (MJ) = 1 million joules = 106 joules. MWh Unit of energy, generally applies to electricity – 1 MWh (MegaWatt hour) = 1,000 KWh (KiloWatt hour). Natura 2000 Natura 2000 is an ecological network of protected areas in the territory of the European Union. In May 1992, governments of the European Union adopted legislation designed to protect the most seriously threatened habitats and species across Europe (the Habitats Directive). NGO A Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) is a legally constituted organisation created by private persons or organisations with no participation or representation of any government. N (Nitrogen) Total Nitrogen is the sum of organic nitrogen, ammonia, NH3 and ammonium, NH4+ discharged with the process water. NOx Mix of nitrogen oxides (NO and NO2) calculated as NO2 (nitrogen dioxide) coming from combustion of fuels. They can contribute to the acidification of soil and water. NOx emissions are measured mainly by the mills. Where NOx is not measured (converting plants), emissions are calculated from fuel consumption using the emission factors listed in the Ecoinvent database version 2.1. Non-Controversial origin Virgin wood or wood fibre which has been verified as having a low probability of including wood from any of the following categories, in line with FSC and PEFC schemes: a) Illegally harvested wood; b) Wood harvested in violation of traditional and civil rights; c) Wood harvested in forests in which high conservation values are threatened by management activities; d) Wood harvested in forests being converted from natural and semi natural forest to plantations or non-forest use; e) Wood from forests in which genetically modified tress are planted SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 95 OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development. Other organic raw Raw materials used for manufacturing our products that are organic excluding fibres, starch or plastic raw materials materials which are reported individually. This category includes oil, lubricant and organic additives such as colorant or dyes. PEFC Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification. PEFC is an independent, non-governmental organisation which promotes sustainably managed forests through independent third party certification. P (Phosphorous) Total phosphorous is the sum of phosphorous compounds discharged with the process water. PJ Petajoule, a unit of energy. 1 petajoule = 1,000 terajoules = 1015 joules Process water Quantity of water containing organic compounds released to the environment (river, sea) after internal water treatment or released to an external treatment plant (municipal water treatment). In all cases, levels of pollutants released are reported as outputs of the company even in the case of operations that send process water to external treatment. Purchased pulp Pulp produced by third party companies and purchased by our mills to produce paper or board (the pulps are mainly bleached). REACH REACH is the Regulation for Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals. REACH applies to all chemicals: not only chemicals used in industrial processes but also chemicals in articles such as paper and packaging. Recovered paper Recovered paper refers to used paper and board separately collected and classified for the purpose of recycling for use as raw material in the manufacture of new paper and paperboard. Renewable energy Energy coming from sources that are naturally renewable (e.g. biomass, hydro power). Sludge A solid waste that is produced during water treatment from biological activity (mainly aerobic stage). Sedex Sedex, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, is a membership not-for-profit organisation for businesses committed to continuous improvement of the ethical performance of their supply chains. Sedex focuses on four pillars: Labour Standards, Health and Safety, Environment and Business Integrity. Solid Wastes Wastes are classified as non-hazardous wastes or hazardous wastes and are reported separately. Wood wastes and corrugated board shavings are excluded. All amounts of wastes are reported in mass as disposed. Total non-hazardous Sum of all solid non-hazardous wastes that are going to landfill or are recovered or comprise other wastes. Each wastes category of non-hazardous wastes is defined and reported. Non-hazardous wastes Part of the non-hazardous wastes that are disposed of in either internal or external landfill in accordance with Landfill national legislation. Non-hazardous wastes Part of non-hazardous wastes that are reused or recycled or composted or used in agriculture or incinerated with Recovery energy recovery. Non-hazardous wastes Part of non-hazardous wastes that does not belong to the two previous categories. This includes wastes incinerated Other without energy recovery or wastes for which the final disposal is uncertain. Hazardous wastes Residues of oils and other hazardous wastes (building wastes containing asbestos, ink residues, etc.). SOx Mix of sulphur oxides calculated as SO2 coming from combustion of fuels. Sulphur dioxide contributes to the acidification of soil and water. SOx emissions are measured mainly by the mills. Where SOx is not measured (converting plants), emissions are calculated from fuel consumption using the emission factors listed in the Ecoinvent database version 2.1. SVHC Substances of Very High Concern are defined in Article 57 of REACH Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 and include substances which are Carcinogenic, Mutagenic or toxic to Reproduction (CMR) or Persistent, Bioaccumulative and Toxic (PBT) or very Persistent and very Bioaccumulative (vPvB). Testliner Paper manufactured from recycled fibres. TJ Terajoule, a unit of energy that generally applies to fuel. 1 terajoule = 1,000 gigajoules = 1012 joules. Total Suspended Solids Total Suspended Solids refers to the level of small solid particles released with process water. Virgin fibre Pulp obtained through a chemical process used to remove lignin from wood. As a result, the fibre can be used to produce paper. The lignin residue and other organic compounds are subsequently collected and used in the formation of black liquor. WFN Water Footprint Network (WFN) is a non-profit international network. The mission of the WFN is to promote the sustainable, fair and efficient use of fresh water resources worldwide. 96 SMURFIT KAPPA SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2012 Smurfit Kappa Group plc Beech Hill Clonskeagh Dublin 4 Ireland Tel: +353 (0)1 202 7000 Fax: +353 (0)1 269 4481 Email: sustainability@smurfitkappa.com Web: www.smurfitkappa.com
