CA Technologies Sustainability Summary 2012 future ready CA Technologies is At CA Technologies, we believe that success comes from a relentless focus on innovation and execution. These concepts are not only vital to our software development, but also to our sustainability efforts. Innovation in sustainability means doing things better and smarter. It means making Since I last wrote to you about our the most of our resources, empowering people to do what they do best and using the power sustainability work at CA Technologies, we’re of diverse ideas to overcome challenges. And it means helping our customers do all of seeing the results of many of our programs this, too. and initiatives. People throughout the company are increasingly involved in working toward Combining innovation and execution makes us Future Ready—the theme of this report—as a our goals. company and in our sustainability efforts. By pursuing strategies that decouple environmental impact with business growth, we are driving efficiencies at our offices around the world and Our GHG emissions have decreased by 25% advancing toward our commitment to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 35% by 2020 since 2006. While our results are flat in 2012 (using a 2006 baseline). over 2011, our goal of a 35% reduction by 2020 remains realistic. We were also honored As companies seek to do more with less, they will find a worthy partner in CA Technologies. to place fifth out of 500 in Newsweek’s 2012 Our products help customers manage and secure their IT environments, from mainframe to Green Rankings of U.S. companies, ranking second mobile, across the enterprise and the public, private and hybrid cloud. At the same time, we within our industry sector. CA Technologies help companies manage their energy, carbon and sustainability efforts, and use leading-edge was also named to CR Magazine’s 100 Best technology to measure, manage and report on their progress. Corporate Citizens 2013 list for the first time. This approach is not just helping us reduce our environmental impact; it is attracting new At CA Technologies, we think of sustainability customers in industries such as healthcare and utilities. as a team sport. We are all working together toward the same goal. While we are pleased We’re proud of our leadership role in sustainability because we believe in leading by example. with our progress, there is much more It’s hard to think of a better example we could set than that of a responsible global citizen. work ahead. Mike Gregoire Chief Executive Officer Art Weinbach Chairman of the Board Cynthia Curtis VP and Chief Sustainability Officer CA Technologies Sustainability Summary 2012 goal and performance 2012 highlights *E quivalent to annual GHG from 11 4,924 passenger vehicles 25 58 reduction in greenhouse % 20 Green Teams that % 100 on Corporate Equality % THOUSAND hours of community gas emissions from represent 58% of our Index (Human Rights service contributed by operations since 2006* global employees Campaign) employees FY 2012 Commitment What we did ENVIRONMENT Reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 35% by 2020, Due to our operational improvements, we have reduced our carbon footprint by approximately off of a base year of 2006 25% since 2006. Our GHG measurement process has also expanded to include Scope 3 emissions in our reporting. Purchase 25% of electricity from renewable sources by 2015 17% percent of the electricity we purchased globally in 2012 was from renewable sources. Implement water management program We currently have metered water data for 13 facilities and plan to expand the measurement of our consumption to other offices. For our Islandia office, we used approximately 26.7 million gallons of water in 2012 compared to 28 million gallons in 2011. Adopt a green lease policy for all new and renegotiated leases We now have 330,000 square feet of office space under green leases, up from 297,950 square feet in 2011. GOVERNANCE Use third party to verify future sustainability reports, including Our Scope 1, 2 and 3 (commercial business travel) GHG emissions data in this report is assurance of processes, methodologies and data independently verified by KPMG. Work with Ceres to develop a broad stakeholder In March 2012, we held our first external stakeholder meeting organized by Ceres. We also joined the engagement program BICEP coalition in December 2012 to advocate for innovative climate and clean energy policies. EMPLOYEES Maintain at least 75% employee satisfaction rate We achieved a 79% job satisfaction rate in our annual Employee Opinion Survey. In our semi-annual in annual survey Culture Index Survey, 72% of respondents indicated that they recommend CA Technologies as a great place to work and 76% said that they’re happy in this organization. Expand Green Teams globally As of March 2013, 58% of our global employees are represented by Green Teams. COMMUNITY Increase employee volunteerism 2012 marked the seventh anniversary of CA Together in Action, our global employee volunteer month, with more than 110 volunteer activites around the globe and more than 11,000 hours of community service throughout 2012, versus 10,000 in 2011. 1 Customer Solutions Maximizing ROI, Minimizing consumption CA Technologies has become a leader CA WORLD 2013 The theme for CA World 2013, the largest global gathering of CA Technologies customers and partners, was Go Big with in environmental sustainability Impact. In one very important way, we went big with zero impact: CA management. Our cloud-enabled CA World 2013 was a 100% carbon-neutral event. Energy and Sustainability Management VERDANTIX RECOGNITION We were gratified that our efforts to help solutions use leading-edge technology our customers better measure, manage and optimize their energy performance were recognized by Verdantix, which in 2012 named to help our customers measure CA Technologies a “Leader” in energy management software for the second consecutive year. and report on energy, water, waste and carbon. CA TECHNOLOGIES STRATEGIC ALLIANCE: INFOSYS CA Technologies and Infosys have partnered to deliver greater client value with less risk by combining CA Technologies world-class DCIM solutions with Infosys’ CA Data Center Infrastructure Management (DCIM) solution provides global business delivery model. Our two companies share not just the companies with visibility into power, space and cooling in their data common goal of delivering DCIM to organizations looking to transform centers to more effectively manage capacity, reduce risk and improve their data center operations, but also a commitment to sustainability. energy and water efficiency. We also provide other solutions in cloud computing, virtualization and automation, and Software as a Service (SaaS) that can help organizations reduce costs, increase efficiency, improve sustainability performance and extend the life, capacity and efficiency of legacy systems. The future is coming. We help make sure our customers are ready. CA World 2013: Go Big with Impact. CA Technologies Sustainability Summary 2012 2 The benefits Logicalis is achieving in its data center contributed to an ROI of 159% and an 11-month payback on CA DCIM. CA DATA CENTER INFRASTRUCTURE MANAGEMENT (DCIM) CA ecoDesktop Logicalis achieves 159% ROI with CA Systembolaget uses CA ecoDesktop to cut DCIM solution. energy consumption from IT devices in half, enhancing its reputation. Leveraging the CA DCIM solution to help reduce power costs and other service delivery overheads is enabling U.K. service provider By deploying CA ecoDesktop across 4,500 point-of-sale and Logicalis to bring competitive pricing structures to the marketplace. workstation computers in Sweden, Systembolaget reduced energy consumption by 50% in one year, and nearly halved the CO2 emissions of its IT operations. 159 ROI with CA Data Center Infrastructure Management (DCIM) solution % As a result of using CA ecoDesktop, Systembolaget has seen the average “on” time of its devices reduced from 93% to 43%. 3 Operational Efficiency Maximizing knowledge, Minimizing footprint We continue to pursue our own We created CA Energy and Sustainability Management solutions by leveraging our capabilities in areas such as systems management, sustainability activities by gathering project and portfolio management, and governance, risk, and compliance knowledge and forming strategic management. These solutions help corporations throughout the world improve their sustainability performance and drive efficiency. The alliances in an effort to minimize our portfolio comprises CA DCIM, CA ecoGovernance, CA ecoMeter and environmental footprint and, in many CA ecoDesktop. cases, reduce costs. Here are some of We developed CA ecoGovernance to meet our own need to track, the ways we improve the efficiency monitor and report on GHG emissions and to facilitate our reporting processes. We also use the software to track waste and water. of our own operations. Similarly, realizing we needed more insight into our energy use to enable greater efficiency, we created CA DCIM to measure and manage — ​in real time — ​power and cooling and overall physical capacity in our data centers and facilities around the globe. 23,615 = 4,924 Metric tons of CO2e of greenhouse gas emissions PASSENGER VEHICLES Total GHG emissions reduction from 2006 We have reduced our own GHG emissions by 25% since 2006, keeping us on track to meet our GHG reduction goal of 35% by 2020. Since 2006, CA Technologies sustainability efforts have saved 23,615 metric tons of C02e, the equivalent of annual GHG emissions from 4,924 passenger vehicles. Source: U.S. EPA provided equivalencies CA Technologies Sustainability Summary 2012 4 RENEWABLE ENERGY 17% of the electricity we purchase globally DATA CENTERS Labs on Demand is CA Technologies enterprise-ready, is from renewable sources and we have established a goal of using hybrid cloud (a cloud computing environment in which some resources 25% renewable electricity by 2015. Renewable electricity is primarily are hosted on-premise and others are accessed remotely) that enables consumed at Darmstadt, Germany; Sydney and Melbourne, Australia; our software developers and service and support technicians around Hyderabad, India and Framingham, Massachusetts, U.S. the world to immediately develop and test innovative solutions. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY We have implemented server ENERGY USAGE Among the ways we are reducing our carbon consolidation in our data centers, which allows us to combine several footprint is by acting on opportunities for lighting reduction, smartunderutilized physical servers into one. This reduces our energy spacing our facilities, and continued efficiencies in our data centers consumption and associated expense, as well as our software and and labs. hardware maintenance costs. WASTE / WATER / PAPER MANAGEMENT One way we minimize our STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT ON ENERGY We held our first external landfill waste is through composting, which is underway at three of stakeholder meeting with Ceres in March 2012, providing expertise our major sites. and insights on evolving sustainability at CA Technologies. One outcome of this meeting was our decision to join BICEP, the policy Employees at CA Technologies Hyderabad, arm of Ceres. India have voluntarily eliminated 75% of food GREEN BUILDING AND GREEN LEASES waste. The remaining amount is composted. 330,000 square feet of CA Technologies As a software company, our operations are not water-intensive. Water office space — about 10% of our total office discharges stem primarily from operating our office buildings. All of our space — is now LEED-registered or under a data centers have a closed-loop water system and therefore use minimal water. In addition, we reclaim 100% of rainwater at our Hyderabad facility green lease. and use it for our landscaping needs. STRATEGIC ALLIANCES WITH BUSINESS PARTNERS We have Due to a number of paper conservation efforts, more than 34 million formed strategic alliances with a number of leading organizations, pages have not been printed at CA Technologies locations in North including Cisco, Deloitte, Jones Lang LaSalle, Capgemini, Wipro America and Asia Pacific & Japan since 2009. EcoEnergy, Infosys and Fujitsu to expand and support our energy and sustainability management business. 75of food waste eliminated at % CA Technologies Hyderabad, India CA Technologies LEED-certified Executive Briefing Center in Manhattan, NY. 5 Community Involvement Maximizing resources, Minimizing barriers CA Technologies is a global corporation SESAME WORKSHOP CA Technologies and Sesame Workshop, the nonprofit, educational organization behind Sesame Street, recently with a local commitment. We work announced a partnership to encourage young children, educators to improve the quality of life in and parents to engage in science, technology, engineering and math (STEM) learning. To support this effort, CA Technologies has pledged communities where we live and work $1 million to Sesame Workshop. worldwide. We do this by supporting ADVANCEMENT OF WOMEN IN IT Since 2005, CA Technologies organizations, programs and initiatives has supported the Anita Borg Institute for Women and Technology, that enrich the lives and well-being of a nonprofit organization dedicated to increasing the influence of women in all aspects of technology and increasing the positive impact others through education & technology, of technology on women. Anita Borg develops tools and programs designed to help industry, academia and government recruit, retain advancement of women in IT and health and develop women technology leaders. and human services. HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES CA Technologies employees were active volunteers in disaster relief efforts when Hurricane Sandy hit the U.S. eastern seaboard in October 2012. On Long Island and in New York City, employees held food drives for Island Harvest; collected clothing for New York Cares; scheduled blood drives for the New York Blood Center, and donated toys to children affected by the hurricane through Family-to-Family and the Salvation Army Angel Tree program. ™/© 2013 Sesame Workshop. All Rights Reserved. CA Technologies Sustainability Summary 2012 6 Grace Hopper Celebration in India, December 2012. Hurricane Sandy relief efforts with American Red Cross. CA Together in Action brings together employees to participate in local activities. CA Technologies employees volunteer for Earth Day. 7 Employee Empowerment Maximizing collaboration, Minimizing limits At CA Technologies, our employees are CA CHAMPIONS In 2012, we introduced our CA Champions program, a social loyalty program that recognizes and engages customers, our most valued asset. For the past partners and employees in CA Technologies online community, MyCA. few years, we have been successful at The CA Champions program rewards customers and guides users to contribute value to the communities. developing and retaining top talent. We have a competitive global compensation CA SUSTAIN In 2012, we launched CA Sustain, an interactive Webbased platform that provides a resource for our employees to learn structure, health benefits at the top of more about, and take actions toward a more environmentally friendly and socially responsible lifestyle. CA Sustain utilizes gamification the scale and on-site child development technology to create a dynamic community where employees can earn centers and wellness programs. points and badges, and challenge colleagues to adopt specific actions. 100 % CA Technologies received a 100% rating by the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) in its 2013 Corporate Equality Index (CEI) report, the premiere national benchmark for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender (LGBT) workplace inclusion, up from 80% the previous year. The HRC’s CEI report, released each fall since 2002, provides an on Corporate Equality Index in-depth analysis and rating of large U.S. (Human Rights Campaign) employers and their policies and practices pertinent to LGBT employees. CA Technologies Sustainability Summary 2012 8 GREEN TEAMS Our Green Teams are employee-led groups that WORKFORCE DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION CA Technologies encourages volunteer their time to work on sustainability by managing office the formation of employee network groups (ENG) among colleagues. greening activities and encouraging behavior that is better for These groups play an important role in helping to create an inclusive the environment. We now have 20 Green Teams at locations that work environment in which diverse perspectives are respected and represent 58% of our employees worldwide. valued. ENGs are open to all employees globally to unite and celebrate commonalities such as race, gender, ethnicity, background, age, social In Barcelona, the new Green Team introduced itself to the rest of the identity, interests and experiences. office by distributing individual mugs and glasses to each employee to replace the plastic glasses and cups the office had been using. First introduced in 2011, participation has increased in 2012 with That single step will eliminate the use of 18,000 plastic water cups the addition of seven groups, including a Hispanic ENG. The groups, and 25,000 coffee cups each year — reducing plastic waste by about which provide networking, personal development and professional 330 pounds annually. growth opportunities, can be formed locally, regionally or virtually. CA Technologies ENGs include Families, Islandia Families, LGBTA (lesbian, The Lisle, Illinois Green Team had a successful launch in October 2012 gay, bi-sexual, transgender allies), Women @ CA, Lisle Women, when CA Technologies staff at the location brought in 120 pounds of Pittsburgh Women and Young Professionals. batteries to be recycled. At the team’s second big event, office staff brought in 700 pounds of electronics for recycling. 20 Green Teams at locations that represent 58% of our employees worldwide 9 awards & memberships Awards & Recognition In 2012, we achieved a significant increase in our CDP score: 84 out of 100, up from 68 in 2011. Also in 2012, CA Technologies was named as a component of both the Dow Jones Sustainability World and North America Indexes for the second consecutive year. In the same year, we were honored to place fifth out of 500 in Newsweek’s 2012 Green Rankings of U.S. companies, up from ninth place in 2011 and ranking second in our industry sector. Also, for the first time, CA Technologies was named to CR Magazine’s 100 Best Corporate Citizens 2013 list. The FTSE Group confirmed that CA Technologies has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series. Stakeholder Engagement We are expanding our engagement with stakeholders in many ways. Since 2011, CA Technologies has been a member of the Clinton Global Initiative. Also, CA Technologies continues its six-year participation with the UN Global Compact and expanded our engagement with Ceres by joining its policy arm, BICEP (Business for Innovative Climate & Energy Policy). Engaging with these organizations enables us to increase our interactions with a network of companies, investors, environmental organizations, public interest groups and governments that seek to address sustainability challenges. Learn More To learn more about CA Technologies sustainability initiatives and products. ca.com/sustainability-report sustainability@ca.com community.ca.com/blogs/greenit ca.com/energy-sustainability-management facebook.com/CATechnologies Copyright © 2013 CA. All rights reserved. All trademarks, trade names, service marks and logos referenced CA Technologies herein belong to their respective companies. One CA Plaza Photo Credits (to come) Islandia, NY 11749 USA Design by Addison www.addison.com ca.com
