KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 About This Report This is the third Sustainability Report published by Kyobo Life Co.(KLI). Under our slogan of 'pursuing co-development with all stakeholders' and to communicate with our stakeholders regarding Kyobo Life Co.'s sustainable development activities, we have been publishing this report annually since 2011. The most recent series of this report was released in June 2012. Report Period This report deals with Kyobo Life's sustainability management from the fiscal year of 2012(April 2012 March 2013). To facilitate understanding of quantitative performances, three years' worth of previous data has been enclosed to help understand present progress, and data outside the fiscal year 2012 has been labeled separately. Report Scope The scope of the report covers the head office of Kyobo Life and its branch offices throughout the nation as well as customer PLAZAs, and does not include offices situated abroad. Some environmental data does not encompass all domestic workplaces, and has been labeled as so when this was the case. Kyobo Life will gradually widen the scope of the report. The currency used in the report is Korean won(￦), and other values have been quoted together when using other currencies. Publishing Standards This report has been published in accordance with the international guidelines of sustainability management reports, provided under the GRI(Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 and ISO 26000. The report also reflects prominent issues raised through the participation of our stakeholders as well as the factors implied in the 10 principles of the UNGC(UN Global Compact). Accreditation To increase credibility, the report has been inspected according to the three principles provided by AA1000AS(2008), the assurance standard for sustainability management reports required by the KSA(Korean Standards Association), and has also been certified by the GRI for Application Level Checks. The written third-party assurance opinions and the GRI Application Level Check Statements can be found in 56, 58 page. 02 Message from the CEO 04 Company Overview 10 Governance 12 Sustainability Management System 16 Participation of Stakeholders Customers 22 We will always listen to our customers and manage the company through their eyes. and the Future 26 We will continue to improve the quality of our service from underwriting to payment. Financial Planners, 32 We will maintain our corporate culture of joy, confidence and trust. Employees 34 We will provide all employees with equal and the Future opportunities and reward them based on fair evaluations. 36 We will enhance the expertise of our financial planners and employees. Investors 40 We will continue to generate additional profits through sustainable growth. and the Future 41 We will increase our corporate value with preemptive risk management skills. Government, 46 We will be proactive in leading and participating in community service projects. Local Community 49 We will carry out conservation activities in and the Future a manner that is reflective of our business. 52 We will grow with our peers through fair competition. Appendix 56 Third Party Assurance Report 58 GRI Statement 59 Index (GRI, ISO 26000) 63 UN Global Compact 64 Awards and Association Memberships Related to Sustainability Management 65 Summary of Financial Reports 66 Kyobo Life's Code of Professional Ethics 2 Message from the CEO KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 Dear respected stakeholders. 2012 has been a year where there has been continuous global economic downturn due to the European Financial Crisis, which also caused Korea's symptoms of prolonged low economic growth and low interest rates. In response to this, financial authorities have strengthened policies regarding standards of financial soundness and risk management for financial companies. Despite these uncertainties through Kyobo Life's new business policy of 'Customer Assurance Innovation, Strengthening Profit Creation', we have maximized our efforts to reach our 'Vision 2015' of 'being the best company in customer assurance'. 3 Through our two previous sustainability management reports and our philosophy of co-development with all of our stakeholders, we have promised you four things. Kyobo Life has striven to fulfill these pledge in our last business year, and we shall keep doing so in the future. In order to address our first pledge of always giving utmost priority to customer service, we have accelerated our 'Life Long Care Project' which was first launched in June 2011. As a part of this effort, the 'Life Long Care Project Services' designed for advanced customer assurance has been revised to better fit customer expectations. To minimize customer dissatisfaction we have steadily made efforts to establish a full-underwriting process culture, and we have opened a 'VOC Management' department to more effectively listen to customers and reflect it to our activities to improve our products and services. To address our second pledge of growing together with its financial planners and employees, we have opened seminars that share the company's annual business operations as well as future outlooks with our employees. Through the seminars we also had chances to communicate with the mentioned personnel through direct participation from the Board of Directors. We have also strengthened our insurance marketing education, and activated our intra-company job circulation program to expand employee opportunities to grow. Our third pledge of continuing to be an attractive investment to investors is being realized through our continuous investment and thorough risk management in growing markets(B2B2C, emerging areas, the upper class). Given the recent low interest rate and low development phenomena we have increased our investment in long-term bonds to secure steady profits, as well as increased investment in high-interest rate assets within manageable risk areas to enhance profitability. The fourth pledge of progressing together with the government and community is being realized through persistent social contribution activities. 2012 was a special case where 'Kyobo Dasomi', our volunteering organization comprising our financial planners, executive, and staff members celebrated its 10th year of establishment, which gave further meaning to Kyobo Life's cause of social contribution. We will further concentrate our efforts toward local communities that need us and areas of public interest that are relevant to our industry's characteristics. In 2012, Kyobo Life has been granted much social acknowledgment and support through its diligent sustainability management. In the sustainability management competition sponsored by the KSA which is under the Ministry of Knowledge Economy, we have been named first place for three consecutive years among all life insurance companies in the country. Other recent performances are receiving the grand prize in the area of life insurance in 'Financial Customer Protection', being nominated to be the best company in 'Labor and Management Culture' sponsored by the Ministry of Employment and Labor', receiving the grand prize as the 'Best Asian Insurance Manager'. However, Kyobo Life will not let it go to our heads and will further put in our best efforts to better realize our pledge for our stakeholders. As a member of the UN Global Compact which provides its 10 principles involving human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption, Kyobo Life would like to express our enduring support. We are trying in diverse ways to apply the mentioned Principles in our decision-making processes. The recent economic difficulties in both domestic and foreign settings is said to be likely to continue for the next few years. It is predicted that this will cause the insurance industry to shrink and increase the amount of risk involved, having a negative effect in the insurance business as a whole. But Kyobo Life's determination and efforts to realize sustainability management and fulfill our social responsibility at all costs will act as a solid foundation to overcome such crises. We thank the stakeholders for your support. Chang-Jae Shin, CEO & Chairman of Kyobo Life 4 Company Overview KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Kyobo Life is a firm specializing in life insurance, striving to achieve its vision of becoming the 'best company in customer assurance(Customer Assurance No.1)'. To 'become the best in customer assurance' means to provide 'financial assurance' and 'psychological comfort' in levels that reach far beyond what is anticipated, in order to actively fulfill our mission of 'helping all people to prevent them from being frustrated by their future ordeals'. The Kyobo Life head office is made up of 3 regions 4 divisions 3 departments 53 teams and (including 2 centers) and 1 office, and the company operates 654 branch offices and 66 customer PLAZAs. We also operate foreign offices in New York, Beijing, and Tokyo, and an asset-managing local corporate body in the US. Primary Business Indexes Establishment Date August 07, 1958 Personnel 4,704 Head Office Location Jongro 1(Jongro 1-ga), Jongro-gu, Seoul Capital 5.9 trillion won CEO Chang-Jae Shin Total Assets 70 trillion won No. of Financial Planners 20,193 Operation Revenue 12.7 trillion won Operation Locations KYOBO LIFE NEW YORK KYOBO LIFE TOKYO REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE KYOBO LIFE BEIJING REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE REPRESENTATIVE OFFICE KYOBO LIFE ASSET MANAGEMENT CO., LTD Customer Customer (AMERICA) Category Locations PLAZA Category Locations PLAZA Seoul 187 16 Gyungbuk 37 4 Incheon 35 4 Daejeon 18 2 Gyunggi 120 12 Chungnam 18 1 Gangwon 20 2 Chungbuk 19 2 Busan 44 5 Gwangju 18 2 Gyungnam 38 4 Jeonnam 20 3 Daegu 30 3 Jeonbuk 23 3 Ulsan 18 2 Jeju 9 1 Organization Chart CEO Chief Channel Officer Chief Marketing Officer Chief Investment Officer AM FA Investment Product Support Management Bancassurance Direct Marketing Management Support Retail & Loan GFP Business Support Corporate Finance Gangbuk FP Center Retirement Pension Gangnam Special FP Center Institutional Sales 1 Kyungin FP Center Institutional Sales 2 Busan FP Center Institutional Sales 3 Jungbu FP Center Institutional Sales 4 Daegu FP Center Institutional Sales 5 Honam FP Center International Corporate 5 Kyobo VISION The VISION of Kyobo is comprised of core purposes, core values, and a visible future. The core purposes are something that must be permanently pursued as long as Kyobo Life exists, and the core values are the foremost values that affect all personnel's decision-making processes and taken actions. The 'visible future' has to do with strong objectives that all employees must concentrate their best efforts to achieve during a certain period of time. Kyobo Vision 2015 Core Purpose Our missions is to help people not to despair The Company that Provides Optimum hardships in their lives. Insurance Coverage and On-Going Services ［No.1 Provider in Insurance Coverage and On-Going Services］ Core Value Customer Centricity Customer We give the top priority to our customers. Centricity Honesty and Sincerity We are fully accountable and always endeavor to serve our customers in an honest and sincere manner. Our missions is to help people not to Challenge and Creativity despair hardships in We strive to accomplish goals with a sense of their lives. creativity to develop both the company and Honesty Challenge ourselves. and and Sincerity Creativity Vision 2015 Our vision is to become a company that provides optimum insurance coverage and on-going services by 2015. 6 KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 Current Business Conditions The process of life insurance is comprised of three levels of underwriting, maintenance, and payment. During the underwriting phase we recommend and explain the best solution that fits the customer's needs and economic capabilities through outlining a design of their lives, during the maintenance phase we guide the customers regarding the contents of their contract as well as their future guaranteed details and help them handle diverse tasks, and when payment is needed the provision of their promised insurance to help the customers overcome their ordeals takes place during the payment phase. The valuable insurance payments by the customers are steadily managed with a long-term perspective. In terms of the 2012 business year Kyobo Life has signed 2,162 new contracts, have provided maintenance services for 4,492 customers, and has provided 6.7 trillion won of insurance on 2,268 payment occasions. Life Insurance Process Customer : Subscription·Persistency Kyobo Life : Payment Subscription Retention Payment 2,162 thousand cases 4,492 thousand people 2,268 thousand cases New Subscription Customer Payment Initial Premium In-force Premium Claims Paid 2.8 trillion won 9.9 trillion won 6.7trillion won Asset Management (unit:trillion won) Loans 15.2 Real Estate 12.2 *Paid Insurances include Accident Insurance(death, disability, hospitalization), Midway insurance(educational Securities 34.8 expenses, health funds, congratulatory funds), Remaining Insurance(refund from contract cancellation, withdrawals, dividends), Other(insurance contract loans, retirement insurance, income compensation), expiration and pensions(expired insurance, surviving insurance) and others. 7 New economic value created from insurance revenue from insurance operations and investment profits from asset management are distributed to Kyobo Lifes primary stakeholders. The total revenue of Kyobo's 2012 business year is 15.8 trillion won, and this has been distributed into 13.4 trillion won in insurance payment to our customers, 694.9 billion won for commissions paid to financial planners and education costs, 458.3 billion won for employee wages and welfare costs, 76.9 billion won for dividends paid to investors, and 501.3 billion won for taxes paid to the government and donations to local communities. Economic Value Creation and Distribution Among Stakeholders 694.9 billion won Financial Planners_ commission, costs for education 13 trillion 458.3 billion won 371.5 billion won Employees_ wages and costs for welfare Customer_ paid insurance and Income from Reserve Funds Total Revenue 15.8 trillion won Investment Profits 3.1 trillion won Revenue from Insurance 12.7 trillion won 76.9 billion won 709.6 billion won Other_ profits and Investors_ dividends miscellaneous costs 501.3 billion won Government and Local Community_ taxes, donations 8 KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 Primary Products Kyobo Life provides diverse financial products for individuals and corporate entities, such as insurance, loans, funds, and trust. By focusing on 'family life assurance' and 'elder life assurance' which are the most important areas of life insurance, we help customers rationally prepare for potential future ordeals. Introduction of Insurance Products Integrated CI Insurance Lifetime / Periodic This product supports the Insurance entire family with a single This product provides the contract, and a CI(Critical beneficiary insurance should Illness) insurance policy conan insured person die. There sists of paying a portion of the are diverse forms such as insurance when a critical illuniversal lifetime insurance ness occurs and providing the which allows the customer to rest of the insurance payment control periodic payment or upon the death of the insured opt for midway withdrawal, customer, which includes the or periodic insurance where a strengths of both health incertain period is insured, and surance and life insurance. others. Pension / Deposit Education / Child Insurance Insurance This product is used for the This product helps the customcustomers' accumulation of ers prepare for their children's assets and to secure their academic funds. Customers lives after retirement. The cusmay choose from being paid tomer can choose to desigtwice the insurance payment nate when to be paid or may upon the death of the parents, ask to be paid with pensions or may choose a special conuntil death. The deposit insurtract that prepare for the child's ance is utilized by customers disabilities, diseases, or accito accumulate their assets or dents. This is a product that into create a target amount of creases provision for the child's funds. accidents, sicknesses, and other disasters. Retirement Pension Health / Accident Insurance Insurance This product is provided based This includes health insuron the law for the guarantee of ances that provides comretirement payment for laborpensation should there be ers. Retirement pension manany diagnosis or surgery reagement and asset managegarding a disease, long-term ment services are provided. recuperation insurance that provides for daily disabilities or dementia, actual medical loss special contracts that pay insurance regarding direct medical costs, and others. *Further details for each product can be found at Kyobo Life's homepage (www.kyobo.co.kr) 9 Major Shareholders The largest shareholder of Kyobo Life is CEO & Chairman Chang-Jae Shin with 33.78%, followed by OTPP(Ontario Teacher's Pension Plan) with 9.93% and Corsair Capital with 9.79%. Another primary shareholder in the last report, Daewoo International, sold its 24% worth of shares as of September 5th, 2012. Shareholder Composition (unit : %) Chang-Jae Shin 33.78 Baring PE 5.23 OTPP 9.93 GIC 4.50 Corsair Capital 9.79 AXA 2.24 Affinity 9.05 Triumph ll 1.07 KEXIM 5.85 Employee's Stock 1.02 Ownership In-Jae Shin and 2 others 5.65 Finventures KBL LLC 5.33 Meiji Yasuda Life 1.00 IMM 5.23 Others 0.33 Affiliates Kyobo Life has affiliates based on life insurance, and together with them, pursues synergy effects that take the role of helping to heighten its brand and corporate values. Affiliate Ownership Capital Ownership Category Company Name Major Businesses Date Founded (100 million won) (%) Kyobo Securities www.iprovest.com Securities brokerage 1949.11.22 1,800 51.63 Kyobo AXA Investment Managers Asset management 1988.07.07 300 50.00 www.kyoboaxa-im.co.kr Financial KCA Claim Adjustment www.kcasonsa.co.kr Other insurance and pension related services 2002.07.05 20 100.00 Saengbo Real Estate Trust www.sbtrust.co.kr Real estate trust 1998.12.08 100 50.00 A&D Credit Information www.andamc.com Credit investigation & debt collection 2002.02.28 50 19.50 Kyobo Life Asset Management Marketable securities investment 1996.10.21 US$ 1 100.00 (US local corporate body) Kyobo Book Centre www.kyobobook.co.kr Books, publications, magazines and retail 1980.12.24 17 89.55 Kyobo Realco www.kyobobldg.co.kr Management of commercial real estate 1979.11.15 22 100.00 NonKyobo Information & Communication Computer system integration & advisory 1971.07.24 50 89.83 financial www.kico.co.kr Kyobo Data Center Leasing of commercial real estate 2008.10.10 360 99.99 *Kyobo Life Asset Management (US local corporate body) is consisted of $1 of paid-in capital and a capital surplus worth of $2,199,999. 10 Corporate Governance KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 The Board of Directors and the General Meeting of Stockholders are the two main decision-making bodies of Kyobo Life. Through active participation from outside directors, Kyobo Life enhances transparency and efficiency. Corporate Governance Chart General Shareholders' Meeting Board of Directors Outside Director Audit Committee Risk Management Management Compensation Recommendation Committee Committee Committee Committee Board of Directors The Board of Directors decides issues designated by the legislation or its articles, issues delegated by the General Meeting of Shareholders, and those related to the company's basic policies or business operations, and supervises the directors' execution of their tasks. Board of Directors Composition The Board of Directors is composed of three inside directors and five outside directors, and there are no female directors as of now. Each director is selected through having their qualifications evaluated by the standards provided by relevant industry regulations, then is appointed through the General Meeting of Shareholders. Outside directors in particular are closely investigated by the Outside Director Recommendation Committee regarding their expertise as well as their relationships to the management, so that any possibilities of private transactions, harmful competition and clash of interests using confidential company information are prevented. Board of Directors Composition Classification Name Position Expertise Chang-Jae Shin (Born 1953) CEO and Chairman of the BoD Inside Directors Sun-Han Lee (Born 1952) Executive Auditing Director Sug-Gi Lee (Born 1965) Business Support Directorr Pil-Hwa Yu (Born 1954) Dean of the Graduate School of Business, Sunggyungwan University Marketing Planning, Business Hyeong-Cheol Gim (Born 1953) Former CEO and Vice President of Jeil Fire & Marine Insurance Outside Management Directors Jang-Wu Lee (Born 1957) Professor of Gyungbuk University, Department of Business Business Strategy Nicholas B. Paumgarten (Born 1945) President of Corsair Capital Finance Yeong-Taeg Park (Born 1959) Affinity Equity Partners, Managing Partner Finance, Accounting Operation of the Board of Directors The Board of Directors operates through monthly meetings, and if the Chair or the Board deems it necessary temporary meetings take place. There have been 26 board meetings during the fiscal years of 2010~2012. The Company posts on its website(www.kyobo.co.kr > Notice > Outside Directors ) the participation of Board members by committee, opinions of outside directors regarding the agenda, and voting results. 11 Board of Directors Operations_Meetings Primary BOD Agenda Related to Sustainability Management (unit : time) 10 FY2010 9 2nd (May 19, 2010) Results of operation evaluation of internal accounting controls for FY 2009 7 On evaluation results related to the operation of internal controls in the 5th (Oct. 19, 2010) first half of 2010 6th (Jan. 18, 2011) Completion report on HQ building remodeling project On progress of the implementation of anti-money laundering measures On progress of the implementation of the fair trade compliance program 2010 2011 2012 7th (Mar. 29, 2011) On evaluation results related to the operation of internal controls in the second half of 2010 FY2011 1st (Apr. 19, 2011) On the establishment of preventive labor-Board relationships due to the Board of Directors Operations changes of labor environments 2nd (May 19, 2011) Results of operation evaluation of internal accounting controls for FY 2010 2010 2011 2012 On progress of the implementation of anti-money laundering measures Voted/Reported 9th (Mar. 27, 2012) On progress of the implementation of the fair trade compliance program 25/25 17/33 28/27 Agenda (case) On evaluation results related to the operation of internal controls in the BoD participation (%) 85.7 84.9 92.4 first half of 2011 Outside Director FY2012 82.4 80. 0 88.0 8th (Nov. 20, 2012) participation (%) On improvement of internal control standards Board Committees In order to enhance the efficiency of the decision-making process at Kyobo Life, the Board delegates to other committees all business-related functions except for those of itself. All committees have outside directors on board to maximize the efficiency and quality of their decision-making process. Outline of Board Committees and Their Meetings Meeting Frequency Classification Role 2010 2011 2012 Evaluates and enhances the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Company's business activities and internal control systems. Audit Committee 6 6 6 4 members out of 5 are composed of outside directors in order to maintain independence from the Board and other executive institutions Management Reviews and makes decisions regarding important business/finance issues, Chair and executive 5 6 5 Committee issues, and other matters that have been delegated by the Board Outside Directors Searches for, evaluates, and nominates candidates for outside directors Recommendation Outside directors are first nominated by the Outside Directors Recommendation Committee and are 1 2 3 Committee selected through the General Meeting of Shareholders Risk Management Sets up and confirms major policies concerning risk management 9 12 8 Committee Reports its periodic risk analysis and monitoring results to the Board Manages compensation and reward programs for those in the Board as well as certain employees, and makes decisions regarding its appropriateness of design and operation Compensation All of this committee are outside directors in order to maintain its independence, and by having a Committee member of the risk management committee as a member here, manages compensation programs 2 3 3 so that they do not affect the financial integrity of the company Designs compensation programs so that they abide by international guidelines and ultimately achieve soundness Performance Evaluation and Compensation The Company's top management and its executive directors are entitled to compensation based on their performance and its comparison to annual performance objectives by area, which is reported to the Board at the end of every fiscal year. The reward to the top management is decided by the General Meeting of Shareholders, and the rewards are announced at our webpage (www. kyobo.co.kr > Notice > Outside Directors). 12 Sustainability Management System KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 Kyobo Life's Sustainability Management is 'Seeking Prosperity Together with All Stakeholders'. By inserting the phrase 'a company that seeks long-term co-prosperity between stakeholders' in the outline of our articles of association, we have strengthened our determination toward sustainability development both inward and outward. Through such philosophy regarding sustainability management, we have established out Sustainability Management System, comprised of 10 Principles and 12 KPIs. Sustainability Management System Sustainability Management To pursue prosperity together with all stakeholders Philosophy The company that provides optimum insurance coverage and on-going services VISION 2015 (No.1 Insurance Service Provider) Grow together with Continue to be an Progress together Pledges to the Always give utmost its financial planners attractive investment with the government Stakeholders priority to customer service and employees to investors and the community Principles to 1 We will always listen to our customers and 3 We will maintain our corporate 6 We will continue to generate additional 8 We will be proactive in leading and Stakeholders manage the company culture based on joy, profits through participating in through their eyes. confidence and trust. sustainable growth. community service projects. 2 We will continue to 4 We will provide all 7 We will increase improve the quality of our service from employees with equal opportunities and our corporate value with preemptive risk 9 We will carry out conservation underwriting to reward them based management skills. activities in a manner payment. on fair evaluations. that is reflective of our business. 5 We will enhance the expertise of our financial planners 10 We will grow with our peers through fair and employees. competition. Employee Community KPI to Persistency Rate Support Rate / Training Hours Total Assets Stakeholders (13th Month) per Head Spending Amount Financial Planner Socially Customer Return on Equity & Employee Responsible Satisfaction (ROE) Satisfaction Investment(SRI) Index Index Portion Financial Planner RBC(RISK BASED Market Share Retention Rate Energy Usage CAPITAL) Ratio (13th Month) 13 Consultative Groups for Sustainability Management Kyobo Life operates consultative groups to support top management efforts to pursue sustainability management and to foster active communication. The 'Sustainability Management' conference increases top management understanding on major issues related to sustainability management and draws an agreement which supports the decision-making process of the Chairman and CEO. Issues that are brought to discussion are put to 'Sustainability Management' working-level conferences to collect the opinions of the heads of each department to maximize the efficiency of the 'Sustainability Management' conferences. Past Meetings and Performances of the Sustainability Management Committee Reviewed third-party proposals on publication of a sustainability 1st (Oct.04, 2010) management report FY 2010 2nd (Dec.17, 2010) Reviewed an analysis of issues on sustainability management direction and task selection Reviewed sustainability management pursuit framework and report 3rd (Jan.26, 2011) publication directions 4th (Mar.08, 2011) Reviewed an interim report of sustainability management pursuit strategy project 5th (Mar.16, 2011) Selected a cover title and contents for the sustainability management report 6th (Apr.25,2011) Final report of the sustainability management project Collected shareholder opinions and revised the Kyobo Life's Code of 7th (May 27,2011) FY 2011 Professional Ethics and regulations to be practiced 8th (Aug.01,2011) Results of opinions collected from shareholders 9th (Sep.08,2011) Results of surveys regarding FY 2010 10th (Nov.03,2011) Analysis of the current state of sustainability development KPI 11th (Jan.03,2012) Results of the shareholders' meeting Analysis of the long-term prospects of the sustainability management KPI, 12th (Feb.21,2012) choosing the direction of the sustainability management report publishment 13th (Apr.17,2012) Results of integrated surveys regarding FY2011 The adoption of socially responsible investment(SRI), simulation of 14th (Jun.15, 2012) FY 2012 supporting funds for public good 15th (Aug.08,2012) Results of the shareholders' meeting during the first half of FY 2012 Progress report of main issues following the collection of opinions from 16th (Nov.02,2012) individual stakeholders 14 KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Management Progress In the first report, Kyobo Life has established and set our tasks for the entire company regarding its sustainability management, and in the previous report has reported the tasks' progress, From this year's report the sustainability management tasks will be reports in accordance with pledges to the stakeholders, Principle, KPI another major issues, and will be systematically carried out with the business environment and the traits of the tasks in mind. Stakeholders Pledges Principles 1. We will always listen to our customers and manage the Kyobo Life will always company through their eyes. give utmost priority to 2. We will continue to improve the quality of our service Customers customer service from underwriting to payment. 3. We will maintain our corporate culture of joy, confidence Kyobo Life will grow and trust. together with its 4. We will provide all employees with equal opportunities and Financial financial planners and reward them based on fair evaluations. Planners and employees 5. We will enhance the expertise of our financial planners and Employees employees. 6. We will continue to generate additional profits through Kyobo Life will continue to sustainable growth. be an attractive investment to investors 7. We will increase our corporate value with preemptive risk Investors management skills. 8. We will be proactive in leading and participating Progress Together with in community service projects. the Government and 9. We will carry out conservation activities in a manner that is Government and Local the Local Community reflective of our business. Community 10. We will grow with our peers through fair competition. 15 KPI 2012 KPI Results Task 2012 Highlights Page Persistency Rate 84.6 (%) (13Th Month) Reinforcing protection of customer Steadily pushed for task 21 information Customer Satisfaction 75.9 (point) Market Share 11.4 (%) Retention service innovation project Carried out Life Long Care Project 27-28 Employee Training Hours Expanding and strengthening duty110 (hours) Steadily pushed for task Per Head oriented HR system Fps Employees Satisfaction 69.6 (point) Sharing and managing corporate culture Steadily pushed for task 32 Index 64.9 (point) company-wide Creating excellent working conditions(hygiene, safety, health and Steadily pushed for task 33 working environment) Financial Planner Retention Devising measures to enhance financial Creating a 'Kyobo Life story' Holding 39.2 (%) 33 Rate (13th Month) planners' loyalty seminars to introduce new products Reflected human rights matters Improving human rights-related system in Professional Ethical Action 34 Guidelines Reinforcing programs to support retirees To be pushed for after FY2013 Managing performances of each 21, 31 Total Assets 70.0 (trillion won) Managed KPI by stakeholders stakeholder 39, 45 Returns On Equity (Roe) 10.4 (%) Developing new growth engines To be pushed for after FY2013 Strengthening duty-oriented risk Steadily pushed for the task RDC 258.3 (%) management Enhancing brand value Steadily pushed for task 16, 28 Upgrading specialized social contribution Steadily pushed for the task 46-50 activities Changing home page to be friendlier with Social Contribution Completed stakeholders Support Ratio / Amount 3.2 (%) / 18.4 (billion won) Conducting activities to expand people's Steadily pushed for task awareness of sustainability management Improving stakeholder engagement Completed process Mapping out plan to push for Reflect in the definition of SRI and Sri Ratio 8.1(%) 50 mid-to-long-term SRI related company regulations Forming sustainability management To be pushed for after FY2013 supply chain(purchase, procurement, etc) Building environmental management Energy Usage 20,013 (TOE) To be pushed for after FY2013 system Managing environmental data Steadily pushed for task 51 (CO2 and energy) 16 Stakeholder Engagement KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 In relation to legal responsibilities that affect business activities as well as their influence, Kyobo Life has identified customers, financial planners, employees, investors, the government, and local communities as key stakeholder groups. In order to realize our sustainability management philosophy of 'co-prosperity with our stakeholders' we are collecting opinions and sharing main issues through diverse communication channels for each stakeholder group. Classification Method Subject Period Main Issues Page 2,000 policyholders that Determining satisfaction levels compared to competing have underwritten their companies 21 Customer contracts within the last Satisfaction 3 years(1,000 of those Analyzing financial planning activities 25 that hold policies in other companies) Determining customer needs Customers Producing life insurance company brand indexes 1,500 ordinary Examining Kyobo Life's brand image Brand November~ people(Ages 20~59) December Determining needs that are expected 2012 frominsurance(companies) Determining satisfaction levels Financial 1,550 financial planners Discovering comparative advantage/disadvantages Stakeholder Planner (620 of those that work regarding financial planning activities 31 Satisfaction for other companies) Survey Financial Determining inconveniences and needs from Planners and financialplanners Employees Employee Satisfaction Index(ESI): 13 factors 2,087(675 HQ employees Employee July 09~17, / 1,142 service Performance immersion rate, employee loyalty, corporate 31 Satisfaction 2012 employees) culture, comparison to rivaling companies, etc. Investors 180 opinion leaders in November Awareness toward Kyobo Life(CEO), positive image, Government 2012~ respective reputation per aspect, methods to improve and Local Reputation the area of the insurance Communities business January 2013 images Classification Method Subject Period Main issues Ideas to realize full membership Customers Discussion Panel of customers July, October 2012 Ways to increase maintenance service quality Opinions regarding webpage improvement Strengthening policies to realize Life Long Care Prime Leaders Club July, November Project services Discussion Financial members 2012 Opinions regarding insurance products Planners and Other suggestions Employees Discussions through May~June, October~ On-site employees Issues regarding personnel management on-site visits November 2012 Interview through Credit appraisal Investors visits, sharing opinions company personnel, When possible Issues regarding profitability, growth, and stability through phone/email analysts Group Issues related to taxing systems for insurance Discussions products Recent main Determining and Regular annual Decreasing insurance contract loan spreads and policies and monitoring main issues monitoring commissions for equity-linked life insurance systems Government Strengthening regulations for RBC(RISK BASED and Local CAPITAL) Communities The role of Kyobo life to coexist with the local community Non-profit organizations, Strengths and weakness of Kyobo Life's social Discussion July, December 2012 professors in social contribution activities contribution Conditions for sound partnerships with non-pforit organizations 17 Materiality Test Kyobo Life performed an importance evaluation based on the two axes of 'stakeholder interests' and 'company interests' which comprise the two by two matrix analysis of the importance evaluation. The results drawn from the evaluation are the main contents of this report. Importance Evaluation Process Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Identifying Main Issues Analysis of Stakeholder Interests Selecting Major Issues Analysis of Company Interests Step 1 : Drawing Main Issues By analyzing internal and external environments, we have identified issues that Kyobo Life must consider during its support for sustainability management. Identifying Issues Through Environmental Analysis No. of identified Method issues Searching the web using the keyword 'Kyobo Life' Media Analysis 3,364 articles during April ~ August 2012(2,302 valid articles) 37 Grouping 49 issues that were dealt with at least 10 times Identifying 11 sustainability management reports from domestic financial companies Financial Business Report S Life, D Fire Insurance, H Marine Insurance, S Fire Insurance , D Investment Corp, K 64 Analysis Investment Corp, S Investment Corp, H Finance, D Securities, M Securities, W Securities Grouping 138 issues that were drawn Analyzing sustainability management indexes such as GRI and ISO 26000 Grouping 48 issues that were identified when sustainability management was Related Index Analysis 69 initially established, in the perspective of 2012 KSI(Korean Sustainability Index) issues(Impact 40, Trend 39). Issues in Previous Report Issues in previous report 60 Discussions and Surveys by Issues identified through stakeholder surveys and discussions 36 Stakeholder Groups Total 266 FP Prime Leader's Club Meeting Customer Panel Meeting 18 KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 After analyzing the contents of the 266 identified issues, they were grouped into 183. Through an internal evaluation regarding the importance of these issues as well as the spread of each stakeholder group her issue, 88 issues were finally drawn in accordance with the 10 pledge of Kyobo Life's sustainability management. Issues by Principle Classification Strengthening efforts for customer satisfaction Strengthening private information protection Receiving customer dissatisfaction effectively Active communication with customers Principle 1 Increasing customer response quality Customized customer control reflecting customer traits Directly listening to diverse opinions from customers Developing superb products that meet customer expectation Customers Strengthening customer assurance and maintenance services Increase understanding of insurance paperwork underwriting Making peremptory notice of payment clear Abiding by full-membership processes Accurately guiding the rates of returns for equity-linked life Providing accurate information regarding the Principle 2 insurance wantedproducts and services Simplifying paperwork for insurance payment demands and Diverse and convenient insurance payment services the process of its payment Better working conditions for financial planners Protecting financial planners' human rights(preventing Welfare for financial planners sexual harassment, and others) Communication between the company and its financial Operating programs to decrease conflicts between financial Principle 3 planners planners Better guidelines for financial planners if new underwriting / Increasing royalty payments for financial planners regarding payment evaluations are delayed products Financial B2B2C marketing support Planners Strengthening communication for commission systems Educational programs for financial planners Strengthening support for new financial planners Providing finance-specific education Principle 4/5 Supporting financial planners with excellent performance Training programs for new financial planners Strengthening support for financial planners that volunteer Customized education for individual financial planners to work on-site Strengthening corporate culture of family-like employees Human rights protection(preventing sexual harassment in the Labor-management relations for coexistence workplace) Clear definition of employee health/safety, followed by Expanding employment of the handicapped and improving Principle 3 relevant education working conditions Increasing welfare provisions Developing and running retired employee management Strengthening intra-company communication programs Employees Fair performance evaluation/rewards Expanding opportunities for educational training and selfMaintaining appropriate personnel placement development Operating a work-centered human resources system Strengthening job posting and bidding systems Principle 4/5 Operating training programs for developing talented Prohibiting discrimination based on gender, age, hometown, academic background, etc. personnel Operating team learning programs Advertisement and interest targeting potential customers Developing new businesses Improving brand value Improving asset management profitability Principle 6 Targeting developing markets Equal distribution of economic values created Establishing and executing ways to increase profitability Initial Public Offering(IPO) Investors Preventing financial accidents Responding to the expansion of reverse margins stemming Risk management from low interest rates Principle 7 Preventing and uncovering insurance fraud Maintaining sound corporate governance Evaluating insurance payment capabilities Strengthening IT security Preparing for the aging population Operating social contribution programs that support support Social contribution that befits the essence of life insurance the 'value of love' from insurance policiesAdvertisement in practices Principle 8 Gwanghwamun Employee volunteer activities Supporting culture and art Developing and running youth leadership programs Providing socioenvironmentally-friendly products and services Supporting youth support programs Supporting and participating in activities responding to Strengthening efforts to conserve supplies and increase climate change recycling Government Increasing socially responsible investment(SRI) for Establishing and carrying out environment-friendly purchases and Local Principle 9 environment-friendly areas Expanding environment-friendly contributions to society Community Strengthening efforts to decrease energy usage Operating programs to expand environment protection Environment-friendly activities with stakeholders perspectives Increasing transaction transparency Communication efforts between partnering companies and Strengthening programs to voluntarily practice fair trade agencies Principle10 Never fixing prices with other life insurance companies Expanding interaction with foreign life insurance companies Holding discussions with asset managers Strengthening support to partnering companies Running workplace ethics programs for employees 19 Step 2 : Analyzing Stakeholder Interests 'Stakeholder interests' were evaluated based on the responses to surveys for each group of stakeholders. To increase credibility of the surveys, we only asked questions regarding sustainability management principles that were relative to each stakeholder group. Stakeholder Survey Investor, Government, Stakeholder Customer Financial Planner Employee Local Communities Content Principle 1, 2, 8, 9, 10 Principle 3, 4, 5 Principle 3, 4, 5 Principle 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 Randomly selected from Randomly selected from Target Online customer panel Opinion Leaders financial planners employees No. of people 500 1,000 1,000 324 Method e-mail Financial planner-only Intranet Employee-only Intranet e-mail Period October 17~23, 2012 November 06~09, 2012 October 22~26, 2012 October 23~31, 2012 Responses 338 (67.6%) 217 (21.7%) 499 (49.9%) 59 (18.2%) Company Interest Analysis 'Company interests' were evaluated based on questions related to issues for each principle regarding their importance in the eyes of the company. The questions were asked to the executives and chiefs in the head office. Executive / Chief Level Surveys No. of people Method Period Responses 83 Employee-only Intranet Oct. 20 ~ Nov. 02, 2012 43 (51.8%) Step 3 : Selecting Major Issues Through the analyzed 'shareholder interests' and 'company interests', 15 out of the total 88 issues were selected to be major issues. The details of each issue can be found in the respective pages through this report. Major Issues High Our Customer Financial Planners Material Handling customer complaints well P.24 Increasing royalty payments for financial Issues managers for products sold P.33 Strengthening private information protection P.24 Strengthening communication regarding commission systems P.35 Strengthening customer assurance and maintenance services P.27,28 Low Low High Employees Investors Government and Local Community Reinforcing intra-company communication Measures to manage risk P.41 Operating social contribution programs P.32 that support the 'value of love' from Measures to prevent financial insurance policies P.46 Preventing discrimination based on accidents P.42 (Gender, age, hometown, academic Increasing transaction transparency P.52 Preventing and uncovering insurance fraud background) P.34 P.43 Strengthening operations for voluntary Equal performance evaluation / rewards realization of fair trade P.52 P.35 To not fix prices with other life insurance companies P.53 Customers and the Future Kyobo Life exists for the customers who are the most precious to us. We will listen to the customers and will increase our service qualities regarding underwriting, maintenance and payment, and become the 'company that best provides customer assurance'. Executive Channel Director, Byung-Sung Lee Pledge to the Customers Principles to Fulfill Our Pledges Kyobo Life will always 1. We will always listen to our customers and manage the company through their eyes. give utmost priority to customer service 2. We will continue to improve the quality of our service from underwriting to payment. Progress on Our Pledges (KPI Changes) Results of Materiality Test *The criteria for importance evaluation can be found in page 19. Persistency Rate* (13th month) (unit : %) 2010 81.3 2011 84.6 Receiving customer 2012 84.6 dissatisfaction effectively P.24 Customer Satisfaction_P. 25 (unit : points) Providing accurate information regarding the Strengthening customer 2010 74.3 wanted products and service Strengthening private assurance and information protection maintenance services 2011 74.5 P.24 P.27, 28 Customer Interest 2012 75.9 Diverse and convenient insurance payment services Increasing customer Market Share* (unit : %) response quality Strengthening efforts for Accurately guiding the rates customer satisfaction of returns for equity-linked 2010 13.0 life insurance Abiding by fullSimplifying paperwork for membership processes 2011 12.2 Developing superb products that meet insurance payment demands customer expectations and the process of payment 2012 11.4 Increased understanding of insurance paperwork underwriting Directly listening to *Persistency Rate=(Contract maintenance fee / Underwriting fee)×100 diverse customer opinions *Market shares are based on insurance revenue, and FY 2012 is derived Customized customer control from data acquired up to December 2012. reflecting customer traits -From 2012, N Life has been added to the calculation of market shares, Making peremptory and has been retroactively applied from 2011 which also resulted in Active communication notice of payment clear with customers the revision of data from the previous sustainability management report(2011 indexes were 12.4) Company Interest Principle1 Principle2 22 We will always listen Communicating with Customers Through KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 Online Services to our customers and As a response to the diversification of customer needs and the vast changes of the Internet, Kyobo Life is strengthening its communication manage the company through online channels. In December 2012, we integrated the original homepage with the retirement pensions and Direct homepages to newthrough their eyes. ly open our new webpage(www.kyobo.co.kr). Frequently used services such as checking insurance contracts, insurance contract loans and insurance payment application were all simplified so that these assurance maintenance services can be easily used in more concise menus, and now it is possible to use these functions on diverse IT devices and Internet settings such as smartphones. In response to the related laws, now it has become easier for the physically challenged to use our webpage which increased accessibility. Customers and the Future In accordance with the digital trend through our twitter account opened in December 2011(twitter.com/kyobotwit), and facebook page(www.facebook.com/kyobolife) in February 2012, we have also opened we opened our official blog 'family, dream, and love'(www. kyobolifeblog.co.kr) where diverse contents and stories make it possible for us to provide useful information to the customers as well as joyfully communicate with them, which are all a part of our efforts to operate official social media channels. To increase communication with the 2030 generation we have started a marketing challenger program called 'Cheongchun Gagok' program, and has also opened a respective blog(www.kyobochallenger.com) as well. Such activities and efforts led us to be nominated first place in the 5th annual South Korean Social Media Awards sponsored by the Korean Internet CommunicaKyobo Life_Newly furnished website Grand prize for Korean Internet Communications tion Association in November 2012. Product Development_ Main contracts/Special contracts (unit : case) Product Development 2010 15 All insurance products of Kyobo Life are developed according to sci2011 16 17cases 2012 17 entific rationality, following the law of large numbers, the balance of earnings and expenditure, and so on. The fairness of the new product's design is evaluated by the approval of the Financial Supervisory Ser*The Law of Large Numbers : When observation frequency of a certain event increases, there is a steady rate of occurrence possibility, which is usually fixed. vice. When a certain period of time has passed after the release of a According to the Law of Large Numbers, an individual's possibility of accidents occurring can be predicted. new product, repricing is taken place by analyzing the expected expe*The Balance of Earnings and Expenditure : The law which mandates that the rience ratio and the actual experience ratio. This shows our effort to total amount of insurance that the policyholder pays and the total amount that the insurance company pays stays the same. maintain fairness of product design. Product Development / Management Process Establishing Product 01 Development Plans 02 Product Design 03 Pricing 04 Review Reflect the needs of customers Product Development Management Council, Risk Management Council, Marketing Council Approval (Financial Monitoring and Modification or 05 Supervisory Service) 06 Release 07 Repricing 08 Suspension Business Plan, Insurance Provisions, PremiProduct Profit and um or Reserve Calculation Plan, Submission Loss Management Council of Basic Paperwork (Newly Established in November 2011) 23 Providing Specialized Services Kyobo Life provides specialized services for all of our customers. The Kyobo Healthcare Service is a Developing Insurance Products that health support service provided to customers that have underwritten Share Social Values insurance policies that surpass a certain amount of payment, and the Kyobo Life strives to remain in accordance with govKyobo Educare Service is an education service provided to customers ernment policies to support the underprivileged classes who have underwritten policies regarding their children, which is a and develop insurance products that share social valhealth support system where we inform them of their children's deues. By developing diverse insurance products for the velopment status. We also provide a Kyobo Silvercare Service so that socially deprived and allowing many customers to bencustomers can plan a happy and healthy life after retirement. efit from practical measures, we are indirectly contributing to the society. Actual Experiences of Kyobo Healthcare Service Donation Insurance Donation insurance is a product Daily Health Health counseling (phone calls with expert doctors), providing Management that entrusts the rights of insurance contracts the orgahealth information (Internet, text messages, email), health Service checkup reservation services nization that the policyholder wants to support, thereby (When diagnosed with cancer, heart/brain-vascular/hyperallowing the organization to collect the insurance at Treatment tension diseases, or diabetes) Hospital/medical team guide Support Service services, visiting services(nurses), second opinions, advice on the death of the donator. It allows you to donate your medical law(in case medical accidents occur during treatment) insurance simply to the organization of your choice Disease Control Disease control education services through visits(nurses, to Education without separate legal measures through periodic payminimize aftereffects and complications), providing recent Service health information for each disease ments of small amounts. Family Support Caring for premature babies, reserving medical checkups and Service preferential treatment, providing related information (unit : case) 2010 114 Beginning in July 2012, we have developed and provided the Kyobo Momscare Service, which is a mentoring service designed to support 12 cases 2011 58 Donation 2012 12 moms from pregnancy, birth, and fostering. From the needs that rose Insurances Sold due to the increasing age of pregnant mothers and rapid nuclearization of families where it has become harder for mothers to find child(unit : 10 billion won) care experts, this service has been developed. In July 2012, Kyobo 2010 17.8 Momscare Service was approved of its excellence through the acquisition of a patent which granted exclusive rights. 1.7billion won 2011 9.0 Stipulated Insurance 2012 1.7 Payment Upon Provisions of the Kyobo Momscare Service Death DeunDeunCall Telephone counseling for pregnant women, health of the fetus Special Products for The Disabled There are no Service and infant and raising them (when needed, guides and reservations for medical treatment) restrictions against the disabled for membership. We Services for providing essential information for pregnancy, determine their risks in the same way we determine birth, and childcare by period (Customized information during Allimi Service pregnancy by weeks, more customized information provided those of non-disabled people. But for those that benefit after birth) relatively less from insurance, we have developed disMentoring Thematic 1:1 customized health and childcare services for pregabled-only products for them. Service nancy, birth, and childcare (Periodic emails sent for customized services and coaching phone calls from designated nurses) 244 215 Services for providing recent specialized information for Clickmom pregnancy, birth, and childcare (Can be utilized personally after Service joining the Kyobomoms homepage (www.kyobomoms.com)) Helpmom Nurse visits and education in care of sick premature or under57 Service weight babies and infants (Hospital guides and reservations) 244 cases Customers by Service (unit : person) Disabled-Only Products 2010 2011 2012 Sold Classification 2010 2011 2012 (unit : case) Kyobo Educare Service 159,177 160,265 171,307 Kyobo Healthcare Service 593,921 612,340 644,987 Kyobo Silvercare Service 69,517 77,201 82,408 Kyobo Momscare Service 8,400 24 Receiving Customer Complaints Customer Information Protection KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 Kyobo Life recognizes the process of receiving and processing customer As a response to increasing social interest in customer information procomplaints as 'service recovery, and takes action according to such stantection and customer demands, Kyobo Life has established a department dards'. Our opinion of 'service recovery' does not end with simple receiving solely dedicated to customer information protection, and has been operand processing of customer complaints. Rather, it is a process of restructurating its Digital Rights Management(DRM) to further carry on its effort to ing the faith and reputation of our company in the eyes of the customers by actively protect customer information. solving the problems occurring from service failures, and carrying out our best efforts to accept, process, and provide after-treatment for the comAfter designating information protection personnel for each department plaints when they are received. from FY2011 and implementing 'Customer Information Protection Evaluation' throughout the entire company, from January 2013 we have nomProcess Kyobo Life operates diverse registration channels so that cusinated 'Information Security Personnel' to protect customer information in tomers can send complaints regardless of time and place. Customers with workplaces where the information is actually handled. complaints can use traditional channels such as telephones, mail, or visits, and can also inform us through our homepage and SNS services. Each information security personnel placed in the workplace carries out tasks such as monitoring information security measures in the business All customer complaints that have been provided through diverse channels and service sites, on-site information security education based on moniare received by our VOC (Voice of Customer) integrated system, 'Soritgwi'. toring data, finding danger factors to information security and more. Also, The complaints are automatically notified to the head of the respective orthere are continuous efforts to instruct all financial planners and employganizations and the service recovery personnel. ees on protecting customer information. From FY2012 we have strengthened the existing education programs, and there have been no complaints In February 2013, the original system was upgraded to 'Soritgwi System regarding customer information leakage or violation of information protecV2'. By providing statistics and analyzed data regarding customer comtion laws during the covered period of this report. plaints and systematically managing VOC history, we have switched from receiving complaints after they occur to preventing them from occurring. Customer Information Protection Education Results (unit : hours) 2010 2011 2012 Related Organizations Kyobo Life is operating service recovery Financial Planners 4 4 10 centers in seven regions (Gangbuk, Gangnam, Gyungin, Busan, Jungbu, Executives 4 4 4 Daegu, Honam) in the country whose main purpose is to receive customer Employees 4 4 10 complaints. The 45 employees that work in each service recovery center as Employees of April 2013 directly visit customers so that the processing of their comIT Personnel 4 4 13 plaints takes place in a fair manner. Such service recovery activities allow Information protection personnel 4 4 13 swift processing of customer complaints, as well as experts' profound responses to those with problems. We have also newly established customer protection executives in April 2012, and have placed service recovery centers, customer satisfaction centers, and insurance compliance. Through such measures it has become possible to strengthen protection for our customers as well as reflect the voice of the customers in our business by analyzing their complaints on a real-time basis. We have also started utilizing SRMs(Service Recovery Manager) that are Poster to reduce customer complaints Soritgui System specialized in dealing with complaints in customer service centers that receive the most complaints(60% of all complaint centers), so that inconveniences that the customers encounter can be actively dealt with to prevent VOC Processing* the spread of discontent among customers. 2,369 3.9 74 Case of Registered Average Time VOC Processing Complaints Taken for Process Satisfaction (days) ( /100) *According the regulations to unify the business notifications of insurance companies, the results were open since 2012(www.kyobo.co.kr > Announcements > Business Announcement > Periodic Business Announcements. 25 Customer Satisfaction Kyobo Life has been carrying out annual customer satisfaction surveys since 2000 to more effectively carry out our core value of being 'customer-centered', which can be realized through analyzing and responding to the expectation levels and the needs of the customers. The customer satisfaction survey of FY2012 was done on 2,000 people regardless of gender, as long as they were those who have underwritten an insurance policy within the last three years. The results of the 2012 customer satisfaction survey showed an increase of 1.4 points to reach 75.9 points, which was higher than last year and maintained continuous increase since FY2010. Specifically, there were increased satisfaction levels regarding insurance products, maintenance services and customer PLAZA-related services. Satisfaction Levels by Classification (unit : point) Company Image Insurance Products Underwriting Procedures Loan Products Response Attitude 76.2 78.4 77.9 79.0 77.0 76.9 77.2 76.0 76.0 74.4 73.9 73.1 74.2 74.0 72.2 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 77.2 point 76.0 point 76.2 point 76.0 point 79.0 point Maintenance Services Insurance Payment Customer PLAZA Customer PLAZA Environment Response from Call Centers 83.7 82.9 81.1 80.4 80.3 77.9 77.4 78.0 77.1 76.7 76.5 76.4 74.5 73.9 71.5 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 77.1 point 77.9 point 83.7 point 82.9 point 80.3 point 26 We will continue to The Start of Customer Assurance, KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 Realizing Full-Membership improve the quality One of Kyobo Life's FY2012 business procedures is 'customer assurance innovation', under which we try to provide the most appropriate customof our service from er assurance. underwriting to Customer assurance in the eyes of Kyobo Life is 'to have customers obtain payment. financial guarantee and psychological comfort through our life insurance products'. By underwriting policies that balance their family life, healthy lifestyle and life after retirement they can prepare for steady financial guarantee throughout their entire lives, through which they can earn psychological comfort. Such customer assurance starts from full-membership, meaning that we help the customers appropriately understand the value of life insurance and Customers and the Future guide them to underwrite policies that fit their needs. Full-membership has to do with abiding by the 3 basic provisions, faithful notification of pre-contract obligations, and informing them of all they need to know and so on. Full-Membership Realization Classification Contents Written signature of both contractor and insurance beneficiary Providing the terms of agreement and giving 3 basic provisions specific explanation Providing an application form for the contractor Results of the FSS' Equity-linked Insurance Sales Mystery to keep Shopping Evaluation _No. of companies (unit : No.) Faithful notification of Guide customers to faithfully notify all pre-contract Excellent Acceptable Moderate Inadequate Lacking pre-contract obligations obligations (90 or above) (80 or above) (70 or above) (60 or above) (below 60) Inform customers about the traits and provisions Informing customers of of the product, and anything else that need to be everything mandatorily discussed Kyobo Life 3 12 Kyobo Life constantly provides education for all financial planners reResults of the Mystery Shopping of FSS' Fund Sales garding full-membership, and to help full-membership take place we are _ No. of companies reinforcing the application system as many times as needed. There is a clause that censures those that did not achieve full-membership, motiExcellent Acceptable Moderate Inadequate Lacking (90 or above) (80 or above) (70 or above) (60 or above) (below 60) vating strict observation of company regulations. Such efforts resulted in our ratio of incomplete insurance product sales shows a continuous deKyobo Life crease in those figures. 2 others 12 7 2 6 As a result of 'fund full-membership mystery shopping' sponsored by the Financial Supervisory Service(FSS), carried out in September-OctoRatio of Incomplete Insurance Product Sales (unit : %) ber 2012 on 600 customer PLAZAs ranging through 30 different finanAverage Insurance Company Kyobo Life cial companies, we have also received an excellent-grade approval of 1.64 95.2(76.6 points average for all companies) points out of 100, resulting 1.28 in 'excellent' grade, and in the equity-linked life insurance complete sale 0.96 evaluation done upon 400 financial planners in 16 different insurance 0.85 0.62 0.62% companies in November~December 2011, we were the only company to receive an 'acceptable' grade with 81.2 points out of 100(53.7 points 2010 2011 2012 average for all companies). *The average of life insurer in the year 2012 will be released in July 27 Prior Approval of Product Advertisement and Insurance Guide Data for Customers Because insurance products are inevitably invisible, the portion that advertisements and guiding data take up when we explain our products to the customers is very high. Therefore it is essential that we use advertisements and guiding data that is not inaccurate or exaggerated. Kyobo Life operates an interim inspection system that allows only advertisements and data that have gone through prior review to be provided to customers. Not only do we check whether the data meets the criteria given by insurance laws and other regulations, but we also emphasize the matters that require attention in larger fonts and change difficult terminolInspection of Product Advertisements and Insurance Guiding Data ogy into easier expressions so that the data is written for the eyes of our (unit : case) customers. 2010 2011 2012 Product advertisements and 420 600 609 Also, we have an internal reporting channel designed to eliminate the usinsurance guiding data age of unapproved insurance data and operate our company homepage in accordance with these regulations, and sanctions are imposed on financial 4 Core Activities for Assurance Maintenance planners and managers that use undesirable data. Classification Contents Remind customers of contract contents Guarantees for existing contracts that they may have forgotten Life Long Care Project Checks and guides for non-claimed Check missed insurance payments and Kyobo Life initiated the 'Life Long Care Project' starting in FY2011. The accident insurance payment help claim them core concept of this project is to switch from the conventional 'New conCheck altered customer information and tract-centered' business culture to 'customer assurance-centered' insurCustomer information cleansing correct them ance business culture to secure customers, and to achieve this we have Coverage diagnosis and product/ Suggest new products and services approestablished four core activities for assurance maintenance and a roadmap service guidance priate for changing lifecycles showing our plans. 'Life Long Care Project' Roadmap First Phase (2011 ~ 2013) Second Phase (2014 ~ 2015) Developing competencies for assurance maintenance and habituation Advancing efforts to enhance Creating empathy regarding the assurance maintenance services Objective purpose and necessity of the Life Long Pioneering a new trend in the domestic Care Project VISION 2015 life insurance business Accomplishment Finding what only Kyobo Life can do and apply it to create performance Leading to keep assurance promises with Starting from exclusive meeting channels Expanding all channels customers Adoption of a point system for the Directly connecting the standard activities Improving images 'standard activities of the Life Long Care of the Life Long Care Project Service and regarding life insurance Method as well as increasing Project Service'(Commission + a) financial planner commissions Adoption of the Life Long Care Project Full initiation of the Life Long Care Project credibility Service qualification exam(FY 2012) Service qualification exam(relevant Contributing to awards are to be determined) the quality of life of customers *Standard activities of the Life Long Care Project Service' Point System: Granting points for the four core activities for assurance maintenance, and paying points in cash after calculation 28 Efforts During FY2012s FY2012 was the second year of the Life KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 Long Care Project, and core tasks such as increasing communication, strengthening assurance maintenance service competencies, and improving relevant systems and standards were selected to be initiated. To efficiently carry out the project, we are selecting relevant KPI and proceeding with continuous measurement and monitoring. From the progress of the Life Long Care Project up to FY2012, a total of 20.1 million customers experienced Life Long Care Project Services and 80.9% of them were 'satisfied'. The total retention rate of customers from the 2nd~25th month that experienced the Life Long Care Project Service was 2,188.6%, which was higher than the company average by 200%. Life Long Care Project Service KPI (unit : %) KPI 2011 2012 Life Long Care Project Service experience ratio 41.1 51.7 Life Long Care Project Service satisfaction rate 75.2 80.9 Total retention rate of experienced 2,190.1 2,188.6 Life Long Care Project Service CF customers (2nd~25th month) Pure increases in patrons 7.6 7.1 *Life Long Care Project Service experience ratio: ratio of customers that have experienced Life Long Care Project Services *Life Long Care Project Service satisfaction rate: ratio of those that have answered 'satisfactory' or higher when surveyed regarding standard activities *Experienced customers and patrons: customers that pay over 300,000 won per month in insurance and hold at least two policies Promise of the Life Long Care Life Long Care Project Service's Project Service Activities Core Tasks of the Second Year of the Life Long Care Project Increasing Communication_ Increasing Communication_ Strengthening Assurance Improving Relevant Internal External Maintenance Service Competencies Systems and Standards Carrying out communication efAdvertisements that deliver values Improving financial planner trainImproving the Life Long Care forts to create empathy toward the of the Life Long Care Project ing systems by their class Project Service Point System and project on the enterprise scale Service Expanding convening education properformance evaluation standards Developing a storytelling mascot grams, strengthening training within Improving Life Long Care Project Periodic sharing of the project's of the Life Long Care Project, and agencies Service monitoring and satisfaction progress and its performance putting it to use Supporting activities to strengthen surveys Current management state seminar(once a quarter), recording it in the External advertisements using financial planner competencies company MIS(management informaDigital-based competency reinforcediverse digital customer convertion system) ment, developing and providing gence points standard activity guidelines and other Operating an ombudsman for the educational material Life Long Care Project Operating the Life Long Care (composed of financial planners) Project Service qualification exam Periodic collection of on-site opinions (Financial Planners) to reflect them in policies and systems 29 Efforts for Convenient Insurance Payment When claiming insurance payments that need additional evaluation procedures, documents proving the necessary causes of payment need to be submitted. Customers tend to feel uncomfortable asking for insurance payments when this happens. Kyobo Life is doing its best to pay the customers' insurance in a more convenient and accurate way. Operating Receiving Counters Other than the Customer PLAZA Claiming insurance and its payment is done in 66 customer PLAZAs all over the nation. But when there are no Kyobo Life customer PLAZAs near the area or in cases where it is difficult for customers to visit us, it becomes difficult for them to claim or obtain their insurance payment. To address these inconveniences we are also accepting insurance claims in 91 other counters. The insurance claim documents registered through these counters are sent to the nearest customer PLAZA which enables the insurance to be paid. 43 of these counters allow simple insurance payments that can further increase customer convenience. Visiting Registrations and Payment Services Provided Registration Counters by Region (unit : No.) Financial Planners' Proxy Registration System for Accident Insurance Payment Registration Counters Registration Counters 2010 225,411 Classification (payments possible) Classification (payments possible) 364,603 Time Used (case) 2011 2012 306,534 364,603 Seoul 3 (1) Busan 2 (1) Incheon 1 (0) Gyungnam 11 (5) Gyunggi 18 (12) Daegu 1 (1) 2010 2,490 3,818 2011 3,189 Gangwon Gyungbuk 9 (4) Ulsan 13 (6) Gwangju 2 (0) 0 Claims Paid ( 100 million won) 2012 3,818 Daejeon 0 Jeonnam 10 (2) Chungnam 9 (6) Jeonbuk 7 (3) Visiting Insurance Payment Service Chungbuk 3 (1) Jeju 2 (1) 2010 32,829 63,513 2011 2012 47,740 63,513 Visiting Services The 'financial planners' proxy registration system Time Used (case) for accident insurance payment' is a service where the financial planner visits the customer's home to obtain insurance claim documents and 2010 2,024 2,647 2011 2,227 registers to the customer PLAZA in their stead, and upon request from a customer that cannot visit customer PLAZAs the a financial planner Claims Paid ( 100 million won) 2012 2,647 will visit and pay the insurance, which is called the 'visiting insurance payment service'. Through these services, we help customers that cannot visit registration counters claim and obtain their insurance. Security Cards for the Visually Impaired A separate security card is compulsory when using electronic financial transactions, which made it impossible for the visually impaired to use the security cards. To minimize such inconveniences we have started issuing 'Braille security cards for the visually impaired' since July 18, 2012, which made it possible for them to use electronic transaction conveniently and safely. Security card for the visually impaired Financial Planners, Employees and the Future When financial planners and employees diligently carry out the tasks that they are designated to, and at the same time, feel that they are being rewarded fairly on the basis of their performance and growth, voluntary commitment for the customers follows. Kyobo Life will provide diverse opportunities for growth through our corporate culture of fostering talented people, and become a company that 'grows together with its financial planners and employees' through fair evaluation and reward procedures. Executive Marketing Director, Yeol-Hyun YoonPledge to the Financial Planners Principles to Fulfill Our Pledges and Employees 3. We will maintain our corporate culture of joy, Kyobo Life will grow confidence and trust. together with its financial 4. We will provide all employees with equal opportunities and reward them based on fair evaluations. planners and employees 5. We will enhance the expertise of our financial planners and employees. Progress on our Pledge (KPI Changes) Results of Materiality Test *The criteria for importance evaluation can be found on page 19 Employee Training Hours Per Head* (unit : hours) Strengthening communication for 2010 109 Welfare for financial planners Increasing royalty commission systems payments for financial P.35 2011 102 Better working planners regarding products P.33 conditions for 2012 110 financial planners Training programs financial planners Interest for new financial planners Communication between the Providing financespecific education company and its financial planners Financial Planner & Employee Satisfaction Educational programs Index* (unit : point) for financial planners Protecting financial planners' human rights (preventing sexual harassment, and others) 2010 74.9 B2B2C marketing support Strengthening support Better guidelines for financial for financial planners that planners if new underwriting / 2011 70.0 volunteer to work on-site payment evaluations are delayed Strengthening support for 2012 69.6 new financial planners Operating programs Customized education for Financial to decrease conflicts 64.9 Supporting financial planners between financial planners individual Planner with excellent performance financial planners Financial Planners Employees Company Interest Financial Planner Retention Rate (13th month)* (unit : %) Human rights protection Prohibiting discrimination based (preventing sexual Expanding opportunities for on gender, age, hometown, 2010 40.6 harassment in the workplace) educational training and selfdevelopment academic background, etc. P.34 2011 40.9 Strengthening corporate culture of family-like Strengthening inter-company employees 2012 39.2 communication P.32 Operating training programs for developing Employees Interest the talents of our personnel Fair performance *Employee satisfaction rates of FY2010 and 2011 were not Increasing welfare provisions evaluation/rewards surveyed due to internal circumstances. Win-win labor/ P.35 Clear definition of employee management culture *Financial planner retention rate = (No. of financial planners health/safety, followed by retained / No. of registered financial planes)X100 relevant education Maintaining *Retaining financial planners for 13th month: As of the 13th Expanding employment of the appropriate personnel month, financial planners that have underwritten at least 1 new handicapped and improving placement contract, and those maintaining at least 10 other contracts. working conditions Operating a workStrengthening job posting centered human and bidding systems resources system Operating team learning programs Developing and running retired employee management programs Employee Company Interest Principle 3 Principle 4, 5 32 Intra-Company Communication We will maintain our KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 To create our corporate culture of joy, confidence, and trust, Kyobo Life is corporate culture of joy, strengthening intra-company communication between executives and financial planners & employees, and the head office with on-site branches. confidence and trust. Communication Efforts from Top Level Executives (Business Status Briefing) To increase comprehension and strengthen communication regarding current issues of the company by employees. Since the last FY, we have carried out seminars to explain our business status. Under conditions of low interest rates, reverse margins and stronger regulations of RBC, during this FY, the main issues were centered around communicating company policies and tasks. Inter-Company Communication Campaign : 'Thanks' To create a healthy organizational culture by strengthening positive communication between employees, we have initiated an inter-company campaign, Financial Planners, 'Thanks'. One activity includes a 'thank you note,' listing5 things to be Employees and the Future thankful for each day. Other activities include an inter-company satellite broadcasting campaign, UCC competitions, online 'Relay Thanks', and other diverse programs. Also, in the 2012 Customer Assurance Awards ceremony, the CEO parodied a standup comedy routine called 'Thank You' with an actual Gag Concert where 'Thank You' team members who brought positive responses were recognized, further stilling the campaign's purpose within the company. Intra-Company Communication 'Thanks' Program Seminars Classification Contents 1st 2nd 'Thank You' video Broadcasting video clips with campaign messages August 20 ~ 29, 2012 March 21, 2013 clip series through the intra-company satellite broadcasting 6 Times / Venue : Head Office, 1 Times / Venue : Head Office systems (With the Gag Concert 'Thank You' Team) Gyeseongwon(Training Institute) 'Thank You' UCC Production of UCCs holding campaign messages Contents contest by employees (rewards to the best UCC clips) Business performance and business environments Thanks letter Letters of thanks to family, co-workers and acMarketing directions under the global economic downturn contest quaintances(rewards to the best letters) Communication regarding human resources Relay 'Thanks' Operating a 'Thanks' relay menu in the Current customer complaints and main VOC / CEO communication company Intranet 2012 Kyobo Life Showing gratitude through photos of the past year Intra-company Satellite Broadcasting System and Newspaper photo exhibit Through producing and broadcasting in the intra-company satellite broadcasting system and publishing company newspapers, we are sharing important company issues and information with our financial planParticipation for 'Compliment Corner' ners and employees. To foster communication regarding main company policies and issues, we have increased inter-company broadcasts from 4 Classification 2010 2011 2012 days a week to 5 days a week, beginning in August of 2012. As of March No. of participants (person) 3,247 4,451 4,115 2013, our company newspaper 'Kyobo Community' witnessed its 253rd Points (point) 126,924 136,059 165,045 edition, which further provides a wide array of information to our finanParticipation rate ( %) 74.2 98.3 87.5 cial planners and employees. To increase friendship between employees and to create an interesting and bright corporate culture, we are running clubs within our company. To date, there are 31 company clubs in total at all of our national branches with 1,238 employees participating as of March 2013. By supporting the expenses regarding renting facilities, inviting instructors and planning CEO's visits Business status briefing events, we are encouraging further club activities in the company. By running a 'Compliment Corner' on the company's Intranet where it is possible to send 'compliment points' along with the reason for compliments, we are facilitating mutually sound communication between employees. We also invite employees with high compliment points to the 'ComCEO Gag Concert gig 'Thank You' Kyobo Life Dasomi Nursery pliment Luncheon' supervised by the CEO, and from 1999 to March 2013 performance there have been a total of 751 employees that were invited to this event. 33 Labor-Management Relations for Coexistence Healthcare Support Through Kyobo Life's membership of the UN Global Compact, the company Classification 2010 2011 2012 has made it clear that it supports the right to create unions and the right Employee health checkups 3,790 2,734 3,614 to collectively bargain. The labor unions are seen as cooperative partners, Flu vaccines 2,064 2,207 1,682 and there is a relationship that coexists between laborers and the management. As of March 2013, the number of members in the labor union is Utilization of the 33 20 10 3,281, which accounts for 76% of all employees. 'healthcare counseling channel' Kyobo Life's laborers and management hold quarterly councils and semiCreation of Family-Oriented Cultures Kyobo Life operates diverse nars to discuss important issues for employee working conditions such as programs so that employees can maintain a balance between work and employment, safety, and welfare. Annual wage negotiations and biannual family, allowing the individual and the organization to grow together. We collective negotiations take place and all employees are affected by their allow half-day leaves so that employees can participate in family events or results. If major modifications happen in the company, Article 7 of the Coltake care of each other when a family member is sick.By adopting policies lective Regulations stipulates that the changes be swiftly notified to the such as 'flexibly in coming to work,' 'flexible lunch hours,' and 'telecomlabor union. By sharing the progress of major issues beforehand, a coopmuting,' we allow employees to manage their working hours themselves, erative labor-management relationship is maintained. In FY2012, agento increase autonomy and satisfaction. We also allow childcare leaves and da such as the adoption of incentives on the organizational level and the provide child fostering costs, along with spousal maternity leave (paid, installation of corporate childcare facilities were discussed. Through such three days). Also included are fetus checkup leaves, designed to protect efforts, we were nominated as an excellent company regarding labor-manpregnant employees who can also take advantage of information centers agement relations in July 2012 by the Ministry of Employment and Labor. for childcare, so that a working environment exists that emphasizes the protection for expectant mothers and their children. Harmony Between Work and Life Childcare Leave Application and Returning Rates* Given the nature of our business, none of our employees work in a job that Classification 2010 2011 2012 has a high rate of accidents or disease outbreaks, and there is no discriminaNo. of applicants for Male 3 2 tion regarding wage systems. The basic wage levels of new college-graduate childcare leave employees as of March 2013 was 242% compared to minimum wage rates Female 99 119 130 of 2012. In order to increase productivity through full employee concentraReturn rates of applicants Male 100 100 tion of work, there are many welfare systems available. of childcare leave(%) Female 100 93.6 91.2 *Return rates are in terms of those that returned within the given FY Employee Welfare Systems Classification Contents Establishment of 'Kyobo Life Dasomi Nursery' In order to create Legally mandated welfare (4 major insurances), academic scholaran environment where employees with young children have both less of ships, travel expenses, life insurance for employees, supporting pera burden of childcare and greater work stably, in January 2013 we esLife stability sonal pension membership, supporting family events, commemoratablished an intra-company childcare facility called the 'Kyobo Dasomi tion gifts for retiring employees, clothing support, supporting childcare expenses, Kyobo Life Dasomi childcare operation, funeral support Nursery'. It was built near the head office in Jongro-gu Shinmunro 2ga. It has three floors; one underground and two above ground each, taking Residence House purchase loans, house renting loans, provision of company stability housing and training camps care of children from ages 1 to 5. Healthy cultural Health control, recovery centers, intra-company athletics compeactivities tition, intra-company clubs Increasing Royalty Payments for Financial Planners Regarding Products Pension Support for Elder Life Stability Kyobo Life pays 50% of Creating 'Kyobo Life Stories' In order to strengthen consultant and employthe employees' national pension payment and a portion of their personee pride toward Kyobo Life and to reinforce storytelling competencies, we al pension insurances. According to the Retiring Employee Pension Payhave made a video clip named 'Kyobo Life Story'. During the video, the 'histoment Guarantee Law, our company runs a retirement pension program ry of challenges and innovation' section includes the company's development where we save 1 month of average wages for an employee per 1 year of of innovative products as well as its development of its first-ever insurance time spent in the company in a safe financial institution, and the compaproduct, which clearly shows Kyobo Life's product excellence. ny pays the employee in either a pension or a lump sum. Opening Briefings for New Products Kyobo Life operates briefing sessions Supporting Healthcare of Employees and Family We have all emto give explanations to customers regarding insurance products, and to conployees take an annual health checkup. Additionally, upon the requests tribute to the increase in new underwriting and the improvement of customer of an employee, their spouses and children, it is possible for them to competencies. We explain the insurance product's value, characteristics and receive flu vaccines in 7 healthcare centers nationwide at a price lowcompetitiveness. These briefing sessions target operation managers and coner than the market price. Also, we have opened a 'healthcare counselsultants and is carried out by a designated instructor from the product develing channel' where employees can easily seek advice from Kyobo Life's opment department headquarters, which also contributes to the observance healthcare center experts. of the insurance underwriting and membership processes. 34 We will provide all Current Personnel KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 As of the end of FY2011 the number of regular workers employed in employees with equal Kyobo Life is 4,704, along with 20,193 financial planners. 43.3% of the regular workers are female, and there are 57 employees with disabiliopportunities ties. During FY2012, 131 employees retired showing a retirement rate of 2.8%, and 85.4% of the financial planners are women. and reward them based on fair evaluations. Efforts to Protect Human Rights Kyobo Life supports internationally proclaimed human rights issues, and is diligent in its efforts to not be involved in human rights violations. By establishing a 'Protection for Internal Reporters' regulation in May 2012, we were able to boost the efficiency of the original internal reporting systems. Also, by specifying the rules necessary for protecting those who report, we Financial Planners, strengthened the prevention of any human rights violations that may hapEmployees and the Future pen during the process of registering and processing internal reports. Programs to Prevent Sexual Harassment in the Workplace By recognizing sexual harassment to be one of the major cases of human rights violations in the workplace, Kyobo Life is doing its best to prevent it from happening. When training surveillance personnel, we put special emphasis on this issue, and we carry out prevention programs toward all financial planners and employees under the supervision of each organization's head. Other than periodic conventions, we are increasing the efficiency of our education by using animation, comics, the Intranet and our satellite broadcasting systems regularly. Abolishing Discrimination in Employment and Work We are providing equal opportunities to the applicant regardless of their gender, age, religion, or hometown. Employees' promotion, rewards, education, and retirement issues are not influenced by anything other than individual competencies and performances, which grant them fair opportunities. ParticCurrent Employees_Regular Workers (unit : person) ularly, in June 2011 we have turned customer satisfaction center workers Female Male 4,704 and temporary contract-based insurance inspectors into regular workers, 4,377 4,529 and have established relevant human resources measures. 2,504 2,511 2,665 2,018 2,039 In FY2012, we added a clause regarding the eradication of factions at 1,873 the start of each FY in Kyobo Life's Code of Professional Ethics, which increased workers' awareness of unwitting discrimination in the workplace. 4,704 persons 2010 2011 2012 No. of Females that are Chief or Above(Ratio) (unit : person, %) Person % 46 47 5.9 5.4 32 4.2 교보인의 직무윤리실천 다짐 5.9% 2010 2011 2012 CEO-supervised workplace ethics resolution oath 35 Prohibiting Child Labor and Forced Labor Not only do we prohibit Disabled Personnel (unit : person) children under 15 to work, but we have restrictions against adolescents 2010 52 under 18 from getting jobs. We also prohibit all forms of forced labor that go against workers' rights of free labor. 57 2011 2012 60 57 persons Call Center IT On-site Head Office Fair Evaluation Counselors Employees Workers We hold periodic evaluations regarding competencies and performance 26 3 16 12 for all employees. Competency measurement deals with individually demanded competencies for achieving goals and executing tasks such as knowledge, technology, and attitude. Performance evaluations mean assessing the results of fulfilling individual objectives that are set in acNon-regular Workers (unit : person) cordance with the objectives of the company or high-level executives. It 2010 160 is possible to raise objections toward the process and results of the evaluation for fairer outcomes. The contents that were subject to objections 188 2011 2012 223 188 are reviewed by the Human Resources Executives Committee to decide persons whether to modify the ratings or to dismiss them. Evaluation Process Retired Person Ratio (%) Self Evaluation Evaluation of the Verification Notification Evaluation Interview Interviewer (By by Identifier of Evaluation 250 High Executives) Results 5.7 165 When Objections are Raised 3.6 131 2.8 Writing / Submitting Review from the Human Individual Quit Rate Resources Executives Notifications of the Paperwork for Objection 2.8% Committee Results 2010 2011 2012 Communication Regarding Financial Planners' Recruitment Status (unit : person) Commission Systems Financial planner commissions are paid based on previously set rates, so 2010 325 it is very important that the financial planner accurately understands the commission system. Financial planner commission systems are revised 373 2011 2012 374 373 occasionally. When this happens, diverse methods are used to share the persons information such as intra-company satellite broadcasting, other means of intra-company communication, education provided by business managers, 2012 Local Recruitment and other forms of communication from responsible departments. Com7persons mission revision takes place when necessary, in accordance with the business direction that the company decides upon, so communication regarding the commission system is an important tool that aligns the activities of financial planners with the business direction of the company. Current Financial Planners (unit : person) Female Male 19,492 19,480 20,193 16,430 17,237 16,430 Financial Planners 20,193 3,682 3,050 2,956 persons 2010 2011 2012 36 We will enhance the Improving Education Programs for Customer KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 Assurance Innovation expertise of our financial Kyobo Life provides diverse and efficient education programs that help financial planners grow to be experts who are acknowledged by their planners and employees. customers. From FY2012, in order to strengthen one of our business procedures of 'customer assurance innovation', we have modified our educational system. Financial planners watch intra-company market support programs each morning in their offices and through the morning education sessions and monthly development programs, increase their competency for customer assurance. This happens from the moment the financial planner enters the company. Training New Financial Planners To support new financial planners to become experts in their field, it is essential to provide them with sysFinancial Planners, tematic education from the beginning. A rookie financial planner who has Employees and the Future finished the monthly 'Life Long Care Project program' undergoes further training in each office called the Basic Training Program(BTP) for the next year as well as monthly-scheduled company trainings. Opening a Special Course for Financial Planning in Customer Assurance To faithfully fulfill our goal to 'provide customer assurance values' through the objective of life insurance of 'full membership' by strengthening finanTraining for Rookie Financial Planners by Month cial planner competencies, Kyobo Life has created an objective of turning all financial planners into 'customer assurance experts' by March 2014. 0 1st Life Long Care Beginner 2 months / Course support group For this purpose in January 2013, we have recently opened expert financial planner training centers in all of our 64 support groups and have es2nd 3rd Life Long Care DeunDeun 5 weeks / Advanced Course support group tablished the Expert Customer Assurance Financial Planner Course . 4th 2 days / Assurance Design Course Headquarters The Expert Customer Assurance Financial Planner Course strives to turn financial planners into customer assurance experts who have equal5th 2 days / Kyoboin Course Gyeseongwon ly balanced abilities in the four core competencies of knowledge, attitude, technology, and habits. The 6-week program focuses on instilling a 6th Retirement Planning Course 2Headquarters days / sense of duty in financial planners and challenging attitudes to innovate 1-2 days / their minds, through which competencies necessary for realizing the true 7th 12th Thematic Courses in the Head Office Headquarters purpose behind a financial planner: a customer's life goals and the plan 2 days / to achieve them. It also allows them to habituate their activity process to 13th month Challenge Leaders Course Gyeseongwon make all of these things possible. Expert Customer Assurance Financial Planner Course Contents Knowledge Habit Increased comprehension regarding products Core competencies to realize activity processes -understanding the strengths and weaknesses of the Choosing Customers, Preparing for Visits, product Activities During Visits, Feedback Increased competencies for underwriting products that Back to provide a family's life guarantee the Basic Methods to increase lifetime / CI insurance membership Skill Knowledge related to health issues involving CI insurance Core competencies to realize lifetime design processes Approaching through phone calls, analysis of original Attitude contracts, analysis of family assurance, The essentials of the Sense of ownership Life Long Care Project Service business, FP-Ship Core competencies for customized design according to each Establishing objectives 7 habits of successful people customer trait 37 Tablet PC-based 'Kyobo Dream on' Team Learning Program Team learning programs are categorized Service Open into Action Learning. Through mutual learning between employees, immediate problems of the organization are solved. Two of our most effective In October 2012, we opened Kyobo Dream On, a site-centered business are Community of Practice (CoP), which are learning clubs related to persupport system that provides underwriting, maintenance and payment sysformance production in the company; and Socio Drama, where intra-comtems anytime and anywhere using a tablet PC as long as there is customer pany conflicts and solutions are shown through role play. All employees convergence. Through this, it became possible for consultants to more conparticipate in at least one form of team learning programs. veniently carry out customer assurance related to Life Long Care Project Service as well as customer assurance which increased work efficiency and Voluntary Learning Program These include participating in cyber insurance activities. courses, reading communication courses, insurance training institutes and acquiring special licenses provided by the company voluntarily. Expenses reSupporting Employees Competency lated to learning are supported through competency development costs, and Development all employees are participating in at least one voluntary learning program. Kyobo Life provides diverse employee competency development programs, and all employees are required to establish and carry out individual learnCompetency Development Support Costs (unit : thousand won) ing plans. By using organization heads as learning leaders, we added justi2010 2011 2012 fication to competency development by reflecting results and participation Total Amount 1,093,871 1,077,867 985,944 rates of compulsory courses into promotion standards. Per Person 322 312 284 Competency Development Learning Process Employee Education Plan Do See Utilize 2010 2011 2012 Annual Learning Hours (hours) 475,676 472,056 507,100 Establishing Carrying out Feedback on results Utilization of annual educational plans education programs of educational educational results Learning Hours per Person (hours) 109 102 110 programs Educational Expenses per Person (thousand won) 828 878 1,040 Establishing compeTaking courses acCoaching and Annual feedback on tency development cording to enterprise counseling by learning results by plans, checking indieducation plans, organization head organization head vidual competencies carrying out voluntary Continuous Training Courses for Business Managers Working in and identifying weak studies points the Head Office We have initiated continuous training courses for Establishing learning Applying what was Feedback on Reflecting learning business managers working in the head office since December 2012. This plans(counseling and learned in work learning results results approval done by allows us to attain effective cooperation between the head office and its organization head branches as well as to retain personnel qualified enough to become branch heads at all times. Not only do these courses induce work cycles for people Compulsory Educational Programs Compulsory educational proto become business managers through systematic education regarding the grams are divided into enterprise level compulsory education for all eminsurance business, but it also increases the comprehension of branches ployees, education for specific-level employees, and competency-develand actual business sites of head office employees. We have operated work oping education for certain jobs and roles. Enterprise level compulsory knowledge courses, process initiation courses, and branch operation courseducation is selected based on the essential things that all employees must es for one month each, and all head office employees with no experience know for each FY. For FY2012, we established and operated a Vision as a business manager until December 2013 will receive the same. Course to create empathy and alignment on the enterprise level regarding the newly created Vision 2015. Outline of Team Learning Programs Community of Practice Classification Action Learning Socio Drama Problem Solving Competency Development Reading and Discussions Unit Division/Department Head office and on-site units Division/Department Members per 6~ 8 4~ 8 6~10 5~10 8 ~10 team Main objectives for FY2012 Tasks that help carrying Solving conflicts between Subject Tasks that need to be Issues related to developing that are related to the said out tasks or creating core values that may arise improved regarding work competencies division/department performance during work Participation 18 teams, 135 employees 158 teams, 1,035 employees 195 teams, 1,130 employees 76 teams, 601 employees 10 teams, 80 employees Investors and the Future Creating long-term and stable performance is very important in the eyes of the investor. This is because it is only possible for a company to be truly approved of its value when there is trust that the company can create sustainable profit for the future. For this, Kyobo Life will not only administer profitability in all business sectors, but also preemptively deal with risk to become a company that is attractive to investors . Business Support Department Head, Sug-Gi Lee Pledge to the Investors Principles to Fulfill Our Pledges Kyobo Life will continue 6. We will continue to generate additional profits through sustainable growth. to be an attractive investment to investors 7. We will increase our corporate value with preemptive risk management skills. Progress on Our Pledge (KPI Changes) Results of Materiality Test *The criteria for importance evaluation can be found on page 19 Total Assets_P.40 (unit : trillion won) 2010 57.9 2011 62.4 Preventing financial accidents P.42 2012 70.0 Risk management Returns on Equity(ROE)*_P.40 (unit : %) P.41 2010 15.1 Preventing and uncovering Investors Interest 2011 11.1 insurance fraud P.43 2012 10.4 Targeting developing markets Improving brand value Advertisement and interest Establishing and RBC* (unit : %) targeting potential customers executing ways to Preparing for the increase profitability 2010 222.6 aging population Improving Strengthening asset Maintaining sound 2011 247.1 IT security management corporate governance Developing new profitability 2012 258.3 businesses Responding to the expansion of reverse margins stemming from low interest rates Equal distribution of economic values created *Return On Equity (ROE)=Net Profit/{(Capital at the start of period) Evaluating insurance +(Capital at the end of period)/2}×100 payment capabilities *RBC(Risk Based Capital) Ratio=Usable capital for insurance payment(payment capability)/Capital needed for risk management Initial Public Offering(IPO) (Total RBC risk)×100 Company Interest Principle 6 Principle 7 40 We will continue to Growth KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 Through the increase of insurance revenue by expanding sales of assurgenerate additional ance-related portfolios, acquiring excess profit through utilizing the volatility of a low interest rate financial market, increasing profitability for profits through new investment assets and strengthening preemptive risk management to prevent the weakening of our retained assets, company assets are insustainable growth. creasing consistently. As of FY2012, total assets were 70 trillion won, total equity capital was 5.9 trillion won, and operating revenue was 12.7 trillion won. These were all top figures on the national level. Total Assets (unit : trillion won) '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 29.8 32.4 35.5 38.5 43.0 46.2 50.0 54.1 57.9 62.4 70.0 Investors and the Future Profitability Despite the global financial crisis through customer-centered and profit-centered growth, we have constantly increased profitability. Since FY 2008, we have maintained a steady average ROE (Return on Equity) rate of 11%. Even though the profitability of the financial industry is showing a steady decrease, for FY2012 Kyobo Life had a record rate of 0.86% of ROA (returns on assets), and a net quarterly profit of 572.3 billion won which was an acceptable rate, given the industry's conditions. ROE (Returns on Equity) (unit : %) '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 '11 '12 38.7 8.4 32.4 16.6 17.8 20.6 11.0 15.6 15.1 11.1 10.4 Growth Index (unit : trillion won) Net Capital Net Profit Stability Kyobo Life has expanded its capital through constant customer-centered 12.7 10.9 and profit-centered business and by operating assets through comprehen10.6 sive asset operating. According to risk management, we have maintained our RBC (risk based capital) ratio at a stable rate. RBC ratios show the pro5.1 5.9 Net Profit 4.6 priety of a company's capital, which is steadily improving for Kyobo Life. In 12.7 trillion won FY 2012, the RBC ratio showed 258.3%, which is far above the regulatory standards of 100%. The weighted weak asset ratio, an index that shows 2010 2011 2012 the soundness of asset operations, were 0.05% in FY 2012, which was the * Net profit (insurance revenue+investment revenue+others) refers to lowest among all companies. the revenue of a certain company. Propriety Index_Weighted weak asset ratio (unit : %) Profitability Index ROA (%) Net Profit (10 billion won) 2010 0.15 6,389 2011 0.10 5,455 5,723 0.05% 2012 0.05 1.14 ROA 0.91 0.86 *Weighted weak asset ratio (ratio of weak assets among all assets)=(Weighted weak assets) / (Total assets to be considered)×100 572.3 billion won *Total assets to be considered : Assets that need to be considered under the provisions of the statue for insurance company asset soundness *Weak assets : The total value of 20% of 'fixed assets', 75% of 'questionable for collect2010 2011 2012 ing' assets, and 100% of 'assumed to be lost' assets *ROA(return on assets)=net profit for period/{total assets at the start of *As of FY 2012 the assets that are used to evaluate RBC ratios have been changed period}+(total assets at the end of period)/2 }×100 (applied from FY 2011) 41 We will increase Risk Management Risk is the set of possibilities that may cause negative influence reour corporate value garding meeting business objectives while completing our tasks, and Risk Management is to manage these uncertainties that may hamper with preemptive risk our accomplishment of business objectives. management skills. Risk Management Process The risk management process of Kyobo Life is consisted of 'Recognition evaluation and measurement response and control monitoring and feedback'. Risk Management Actions 'Risk limit management' refers to activities where the risk management committee designates the amount of risk that can be endured give our risk capital, and to maintain appropriate levels of risk with the respective risk management departments and divisions. We analyze the amount of risk through monitoring market risk levels for each type of risk, and when its levels meet our limit or certain Investors and the Future tipping points we carry out phase by phase measure of risk decrease, retaining, and avoidance. 'Prior risk review' is a process where the risk management department reviews the risk before making important decisions, and we have reflected this in the process of publishing documents in our Intranet to realize these efforts. The 'non-financial risk management personnel' in each department deals with tasks such as recognizing and evaluating operation risks together with the organization head, make and execute solutions, and educate personnel regarding the contents. The 'risk management support team' supports the activities of the non-financial risk management personnel's activities through periodic education sessions. Risk Management Organizations and Risk Are all risk factors at a What are some risks that manageable rate? deter business objective accomplishment? Are risk response/control mechanisms appropriately operated? What factors cause losses? Are there any problems? Monitoring and Feedback Recognition Accomplishment of Business Objectives (Long-Term, Persistent Profit Accomplished) Response and Evaluation and Control Measurement What are some ways to Can risk be quantified? eliminate, spread, minimize, and transfer risk? If it can be quantified and/or measured, how much risk to us do we have? 42 Risk Management Organization and Risks Risk Management Organizations The risk management commitKYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 tee, the highest authority in the area of risk management, consists of one inside directors and two outside directors. We have held 8 meetings in FY Risk Management Committee 2012 and the agendas and voting results can be seen on our homepage Decision-making regarding risk management (www.kyobo.co.kr > public announcements > outside director public anand final responsibilities nouncements). ALM Committee Risk Management Council The risk management committee is an organization that discusses factors regarding the agreements within the risk management committee Risk Management Financial Affairs Team Support Team and other relevant factors, and the ALM* Committee examines main ALM Integrated Integrated Risk issues regarding interest rate risks and risk margins. The 'Plans(blueManagement Management prints)' and 'Sees (evaluation)' for risk management is the responsibility Asset Portfolio of the risk management support team, and 'Do (execution)' takes place Management Team Market Risks in each risk management department. Investment Asset *ALM(Asset Liability Management) : Asset/Liability management Evaluation Team Credit Risks Preventing Financial Accidents Financial Affairs Team Internal Control has to do with all systems, procedures, and tasks Interest Rate Risks, Volatility Risks carried out continuously by all employees to fulfill business objectives. Insurance Management Kyobo Life has selected law observance personnel to be in charge of all Support Team internal control systems. Insurance Risks Equity-Linked Products Team We also have law observance support personnel for each organization Equity-Linked Insurances to support each organizational head and law observance personnel reGuarantee Risk Team garding the organization's law observance and internal control affairs. Each Department Through internal control measures such as abiding by transaction proceNon-Financial Risks dures, eliminating wrongful insurance fees, strong protection of customer information, strict management on insurance pay, and strengthening control of financial planner and employees' personal information as well as creating standards to prevent financial accidents and strengthening relevant information we prevent financial accidents from happening, and when they do happen the person responsible is dealt with according to internal regulations. Money Laundering Prevention Money laundering is an activity where people fake their acquirement or disposal of assets to avoid taxes or to hide the assets altogether. Money laundering prevention activities refer to preventing financial companies from being used in money laundering practices that increase social risks. Kyobo Life thoroughly carries out activities that are deemed necessary by the 'special financial transaction reporting law', such as 'duty to check customers' to check the status of customers that provide transaction and services, 'reporting suspicious transactions' in any cases of transactions that seem like money laundering activities, and 'large transaction reports' where all transactions that exceed 20 million won are directly reported to the Korea Finance Intelligence Unit. Status of Financial Accident Occurrence Classification 2010 2011 2012 The person in charge of reporting activities of money laundering prevention is the law observance personnel, and we educate our employees reNo. of cases (case) 3 3 2 garding money laundering once a year so that realistic actions to deal Amount (million won) 67 56 21 with money laundering is maintained. 43 Business Auditing Activities To minimize business dangers and to contribute to sound business activities, we carry out procedures to audit our business activities through diagnosis, evaluation, and coming up with rational solutions. The Kyobo Audits from Financial Authorities Life auditing procedures take place according to the approval of the Audit 2010 2011 2012 Committee each year systematically and periodically. Auditing measures take place in all branches, and we increase our efficiency through analyzing Fines (million won) 2.5 366 weak points and potential problems, according to potential business danCensures (person) 4 2 6 gers, to select central observation points for all of these branches before*For FY2010 there are 2 retired personnel included in those that were hand. We also undergo inspection from financial authorities periodically. censured. Insurance Risk Management Insurance Risk Management (unit : %) Insurance risks means the possibility of losses that occur when death insurance and survival insurance is paid at a higher level compared to 2010 2011 2012 when the insurance payments were initially calculated due to increased Danger rate profit rate 19.1 16.4 15.5 risk rates. By managing insurance risk, we can protect customers and acDanger rate profit rate quire steady profit. Kyobo Life has understood the importance of insur12.0 10.7 11.3 (average in industry) ance risk management and has carried out insurance risk management *Danger rate profit rate={(risk Insurance–accident insurance) / opportunities on the enterprise level. risk insurance fee}×100 *Risk insurance fee : Fees given from the customers for the company to pay them insurance when accidents that require insurance payment occur. Virtuous Cyclical Risk Management Kyobo Life strives to create a *Source of industry average : Financial Supervisory Service virtuous cyclical risk management system, through excellent competen*Period used for calculation was revised (April~March~January~Decemcies of controlling insurance risk in processes of product development, ber), so there has been a revision of 3 yearsworth of data service provision, and underwriting-maintenance-payment processes. Preventing and Reporting Insurance Fraud Insurance fraud, such Virtuous Cyclical Insurance Risk Management as claiming insurance payment from accidents that have not happened or those that have happened on purpose (hard insurance fraud) or claim1_Product 2_Customer Development ing for excessive insurance payment (soft insurance fraud), give negaAdopting tive influences to the soundness of insurance company financial states. Considering and training the risk and excellent They also increase money-centered thinking, decrease the will to work, customer consultants Virtuous Cyclical and support the negligence toward human life on a social level. Curneeds Insurance Risk rently, soft insurance fraud cases are increasing, which are thought to be Management caused by the worldwide economic downturn and low growth rates. This provides threats to insurance companies' financial states as well as fiscal 5_Payment 3_Membership healthcare measures. Preventing Full membership wrongfully claimed insurance Kyobo Life has established a Special Investigation Unit (SIU) for insurpayment 4_Maintenance ance fraud since 2006 to prevent insurance payment leakage and report Life Long Care Project maintenance service insurance paid through fraudulent reasons. The SIU has been eliminating factors that contribute to insurance fraud since 2009 by the establishment of the 'regulations to prevent insurance fraud'. In 2012, to efProduct Developing products that collectively Development reflect risk and customer needs fectively respond to increasing levels of soft insurance fraud, we have Providing services through excellent strengthened measures to prevent insurance fraud and we are frequently Customer consultants spreading the importance of preventing insurance fraud to all employees through our intra-company satellite broadcasting systems. Membership Realizing full membership Maintenance Life long care project maintenance service Insurance Fraud Prevention (unit : million won) Payment Swift support to customers for overcoming 2010 2011 2012 hardships Insurance payment prevented Preventing wrongfully claimed insurance 11,082 10,022 10,454 from insurance fraud payment Government, Local Community and the future As opposed to temporary, sporadic support, Kyobo Life provides periodic and persistent social contribution activities that allow the beneficiary to acquire a basis of self-sustenance. We will also actively participate in activities that benefit the public – that may not be well-known – but, are nevertheless meaningful; to become a 'company that progresses together with the government and the community'. CSR Director, Chi-Soo Park Pledge to the Government and Principles to Fulfill Our Pledges Local Community 8. We will be proactive in leading and participating Progress together with in community service projects. the Government and the 9. We will carry out conservation activities in a manner that is reflective of our business. Community 10. We will grow with our peers through fair competition. Progress on Our Pledge (KPI Changes) Results of Materiality Test *The criteria for importance evaluation can be found on page 19 Community Support Rate / Spending Amount*_P.46 Increasing transaction 2010 1.9 118 transparency P.52 2011 2.6 143 Never fixing prices with other life insurance companies P.53 2012 3.2 184 Strengthening support Community support rate (%) Amount (10 billion won) to partnering Strengthening programs to companies voluntarily practice fair trade P.52 Government and Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Communication efforts between Operating social contribution programs that Portion*_P.50 (unit : %) Operating programs that partnering companies and agencies support the 'value of love' expand environmentfriendly mindsets from insurance policies P.46 Expanding 2010 6.7 Running workplace ethics Local Community Interests environment-friendly contribution to society programs for employees 2011 7.6 Operating social contribution programs that 2012 8.1 Providing society/ environment-friendly support love between family members Supporting youth Increasing socially responsible investment (SRI) for products and services environment-friendly areas; operating programs to expand support programs environment protection perspectives Energy Usage*_P.51 (unit : TOE) Strengthening efforts to decrease energy usage Developing Environment-friendly and running youth Strengthening efforts to conserve activities with stakeholders 2010 19,333 leadership programs supplies and increase recycling Establishing and 2011 19,480 carrying out Supporting environment-friendly 2012 20,013 culture and art purchases Employee volunteer activities Holding discussions with asset managers Supporting and participating Advertisement in Gwanghwamun *Community support rate / spending amount : Community in activities responding to support amount / net profit climate change Expanding interaction with foreign life insurance companies *SRI (Social Responsibility Investment) portion: (SRI amount÷ Total assets)×100 Company Interest *TOE (Tonnage of Oil Equivalent): Energy produced through the Principle 8 Principle 9 Principle10 combustion of 1 ton of oil 46 Operating social Contribution Programs that We will be proactive in KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 Support the 'Value of Love' from Insurance Policies leading and participating Kyobo Life supports important values sought by mankind, and it is our vision to help all those realize these values. We are committing to social conin community service tribution activities through our deep understanding and love of mankind. projects. Goals of Kyobo Life's Social Contribution Kyobo Life prioritizes social contribution based on the company's business philosophy as well as areas relating to our business such as health, finance, and knowledge. Through partnerships with non-profit organizations who employ expertise and transparency, we are supporting the increase in social value through coexistence. Our long-term social contribution activities allow many individuals in society to benefit from our actions, so that structural improvement, on a social level, may take place within our society. Government, Local Community and the Future Social Contribution from Kyobo Life One way Kyobo Life contributes socially, is through the establishment of the 'Kyobo Dasomi' volunteer organization within our company.We focus on helping our neighbors overcome challenges that may be due to issues of health, finance, or knowledge. We also perform diverse social contribution activities that allow people to learn the value of families, carry out their love toward their neighbors, and to have teenagers not despair in their hard environments but to pursue their dreams, and operate a systematic volunteer support policy that allow the employees and consultants to use their capacities to solve local societies' problems the best they can. Kyobo Life will continue to operate social contribution programs that support the 'value of love' from insurance policies. Social Contribution Support Social Contribution Support Amount (10 billion won) Ratio of Social Contribution Support Amount (%) 184 150 143 139 118 106 110 97 101 92 18.4 69 10.9 billion won 3.2 % 1.9 2.5 4.4 3.7 3.5 4.8 2.0 1.9 2.6 3.2 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Expenses by Area (unit : million won) Volunteer work Classification 2010 2011 2012 Classification 2010 2011 2012 Social welfare 6,859 9,762 14,191 Registered volunteer 251 217 232 Education 1,604 1,442 2,470 teams (No.) Culture 1,633 1,528 1,247 Annual volunteer 54,958 52,465 45,087 Environment 232 487 296 hours (hours) Other (Citizen Finance) 1,505 1,103 176 Annual participants (person) 11,787 12,134 10,900 Total 11,833 14,322 18,380 Employee participation rate (%) 48.0 50.1 51.1 47 Volunteer Leader Education Youth Leadership Development Programs Kyobo Life supports the youth that so that they can become the center of 2010 2011 2012 Date our future in diverse ways, including leadership development. Jun.16~17, 2010 May 24~25, 2011 Sep.19~20, 2012 Venue Undergraduate Northeast Asia Run To provide undergraduates a Gyeseongwon Gyeseongwon Yang Pyeong, Gyunggido chance to travel to our historic/economic partners and rivals of northeast Participants Asia and by supporting their leadership and followership, we are oper60 volunteer leaders 80 volunteer leaders ating an 'Undergraduate Northeast Asia Run' program. A total of 1,050 and social welfare and social welfare 40 volunteer leaders college students have participated since 2002, all of whom have broadspecialists specialists Issue ened their vision for the future. Strength that changes Creating beneficiaStrengthening compesociety ry-centered volunteer tencies to increase volAdolescent Volunteer Camp Happy Together Through this comprograms unteer program quality munity experience program, we strive to change the perspective that adolescents may have toward the disabled. We support these children to become healthy social individuals through their 3 days of volunteer work. Undergraduate Northeast Asia Run 2010 2011 2012 Kyobo Life 'Hope Dasom Scholarship' The 'Kyobo Life Hope Dasom Date Scholarship' is a program that helps youth that are restricted from eduAug.04~11, 2010 (8 days) Aug.04 ~11, 2011(8 days) Aug.06~14, 2012 (9 days) cational opportunities due to social prejudices and economic hardship, Venue and is for those living in orphanages, group homes, or child heads of China (Inner Mongolia) China, Tibet Mongolia, Russia households. Through programs such as scholarship support, camps, and Participants volunteer work, we support the local community and their associations 77 78 100 so that these children can grow; becoming independent, healthy indiCatchphrase viduals. We have helped a total of 235 children since 2003 with a total Let's open the road Embrace dreams From the plateaus of to the future from the toward the future Mongolia, in Lake Baischolarship amount of 3.371 billion won. highest and roughest in Mongolia, where kal where our people road of East-West civilichallenges and open originated, interact with Kyobo Life JA Economic Education Volunteers We also provide zation, the Tea Road! cultures await! the new future! volunteer work utilizing the financial expertise of our financial planners and employees. Kyobo Life JA Economic Education Volunteers, in a joint effort with JA Korea, a non-profit organization, strive to help children and adolescents understand the basic concepts of the economy and finance through education regarding the market economy, business management and so on. Such activities both increase the meaning of volunteer work through bonds between Kyobo and local infant education Undergraduate Northeast Asia Run Adolescent Volunteer Camp institutions and schools, and increases the meaning of volunteer work as well as the positive images of Kyobo Life. Adolescent Volunteer Program 2010 2011 2012 Date Jul.19~August 19, 2010 Jul.20~Aug.12, 2011 Jul.23~August11, 2012 Venue Gapyeong, JangbongYangpyeong, JangbongYangpyeong, Jangbongdo, Jecheon, Igsan, Yeodo, Jecheon, Igsan, Yeodo, Jecheon, Igsan, Yeosu, Andong, Geojedo, su, Andong, Geojedo, su, Andong, Geojedo, Asan, Yongin, etc. Kyobo Life JA Economic Education Volunteer Work Results etc. Asan, Yongin, etc. No. of camps 2010 2011 2012 22 23 20 Volunteers (unit) 207 192 245 Contents Institution beneficiaries (case) 7 7 80 Forest camp with the visually disabled 'Forest & Becoming One' Class beneficiaries (case) 123 130 299 'Beautiful Homestay,' which involves living together with the disabled within their facilities Students beneficiaries (person) 4,500 4,550 8,977 48 Strengthening Industrial-Educational Networks Family Love Support Programs KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 Kyobo Life is working hard for the development of insurance in the acFamilies are the basic unit of society, and Kyobo Life is helping them ademic field. The International Insurance Society (IIS) has acknowlovercome their hardships through diverse types of social contribution. edged this effort, and has named an award after the founder of Kyobo Life, called the 'Shin Yong Ho International Insurance Academic Award.' Dasomi Jageun Sumgeul Saligi 'Dasomi Jageun Sumgeul Saligi' is The award has been given to those who have greatly contributed to the the only program that supports premature babies born into low-income development of the insurance industry since 1997. The 'Daesan Shin families. The support includes hospital and rehabilitation costs, and Yong Ho Commemoration Association' awards individuals and orgaemotional support for the babies' families. Partnering with 'Areumdaun nizations who have contributed to the enhancement and internationFoundation,' a non-profit organization, the funds for the 'Dasomi Jageun al prominence of domestic insurance services, since its sponsorship by Sumgeul Saligi' program are supported by Kyobo Life's financial planKyobo Life since 2005. Also, beginning in 2012, we have co-awarded ners' periodic funds, donations from Kyobo Life, and donations from citthe APRIA-Kyobo Life Commitment Award to those who have carried out izens to the 'Areumdaum Foundation.' From September 2004 to March excellent research and volunteer programs for the development of the 2013, 'Dasomi Jageun Sumgeul Saligi' has raised 4.966 billion won and Asia-Pacific region's insurance industry, along with the APRIA (Asia-Pahas supported the healthy growth of 1,623 premature babies. cific Risk & Insurance Association), and are providing subsidiaries to 10 insurance researchers in developing nations in the Asian region. 'Dasomi Jageun Sumgeul Saligi' Results 2010 2011 2012 We have also opened the Korean Insurance Academy and the Korean Risk Management Academy in our training institute, Gyeseungwon, to Financial planner participants (person) 5,947 5,834 5,500 strengthen industrial-educational networks. We have established a MOU Support fund amount (financial planner funds + donations from Kyobo Life) 6 6 6 with the Chinese Insurance Academy in November 2011 for research (10 billion won) funds, to whom Kyobo Life provided 550,000 yuan annually for research Supported babies (person) 290 146 143 purposes until 2013. Family Love Farm Life Experience Program 'Family love farm life experience program' is a program operating for families with children attending kindergarten or elementary school, which enables families to not only harmonize among the members, but also understand the value of farms and agriculture, as well as the importance of our domestic agricultural products. This program also supports revenue for the participating farm villages, and during the past 4FYs 764 million won's worth of profits were created, and our program provided inspiration for other profitable programs in the villages to be developed internally. Connecting the 'Band of Love' This is a program where employees contribute a certain amount of money each month, while the company matches that contribution. These funds are created to support 5 specific types of children, who are children with a lack of nutrition, who need academic fees, who have medical and psychological expenses, who need Academic Conference of Korean Insurance Academic Society education and family stabilization support, and those children looking for an art career. From 2000 to March 2013, on average by month, 1,900 employees have participated, and a total of 3.21 billion won has been sent as donations. Love-Family Agricultural Experience Program Family Love Farm Life Experience Program 2010 2011 2012 Participating families (No.) 711 720 746 Participants (person) 2,796 2,822 2,976 Participating villages (No.) 11 16 15 Participating frequencies (time) 73 78 80 Giving a Life to Dasom 49 We will carry out Social Contribution Activities to Protect the Environment conservation activities in a Kyobo Life has actively pursued social contribution activities that reflect our business. We also support principles provided by the UN Globmanner that is reflective of al Compact, which involve preventive environmental measures and increasing environment responsibility as well as the development of our business. eco-friendly technology and their expansion. Kyobo Life Environmental Awards The Kyobo Life Environmental Annual Award is an integrated environmental award that nominates and awards those individuals who have contributed toinspiring citizens to protect the environment, and to realize social values related to environmental protection. In the three different fields of environmental education, life culture, and ecological alternatives, we select the recipients based on the sustainabilGovernment, Local Community ity of their actions, social meaning and impacts, and specific, visible results. and the Future The 14th Kyobo Life Environmental Award Recipients and Their Activities, 2012 Environmental Education Recipient : Jong-Gil Lim (Teacher) Carried out consistent environmental education at school Conducted vivid environmental education outside the school, along with local communities, environmental campaign movements, and social organizations Life Culture Recipient : Yun-Ha Lee (Architect) Created buildings and space in the eyes of ecology and eco-friendly structuring Contributed to spreading the values of life culture through research, lec tures, and education Ecological Alternatives Recipient : Energy Justice Initiative In a world where there is an increased recognition regarding nuclear power and its dangers, strove to advance ecosystems and the value of life International Recipient : Board Green Energy Team By creating refugee camps, immigrant schools and childcare facilities with volunteer workers from various nations in refugee camps of the Karens – between the boarders of Myanmar and Thailand – spread and educated on diverse technologies related to renewable energy production and provided educational programs to spread medical services and expanded livelihoods Ecology Tour Educational Institution : 'Supjarami' Kyobo Life Kyobo Life Environmental Awards trained retired workers to be forest experts and in 2003 launched a 'Kyobo Dasomi forest expert volunteer' program. Retired workers were provided jobs as forest experts so that they could enjoy a worthwhile retired Supjarami Activities life. For children, this program allows them to experience their nation's 2010 2011 2012 natural beauty, developing a deeper appreciation for the environment. 'Supjarami' is an educational institution focusing on the ecology experiEducation participants (person) 13,205 20,319 31,476 ence that was developed from the 'Kyobo Dasomi forest expert volunteer' Supported expenses (million won) 100 300 280 association. 50 Eco-friendly Dasomi Family Volunteers By supporting eco-friendly FY 2012 Eco-Friendly Dasomi Family Volunteer Participants KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 family volunteer programs, the participating families can understand the value of families and can learn the importance of protecting the environment. Tree March 24 / Jeonbuk / 20 families, 62 people planting Contents : Planting trees with the disabled, for hope labeling trees with names Support Funds : 5,500 (thousand won) Strengthening SRI Make our March 24 / Namhan Sansung / 15 families, 55 people (Social Responsible Investment) forests Contents : Lectures to understand the ecosystem, Kyobo Life achieves the objective of asset operations of creating steady green planting trees and labeling them and long-term profit, and is also expanding SRI (Social Responsible InSupport Funds : 5,500 (thousand won) vestment), which is appropriate for contributing to public good. Protect August 25 / Ganghwado /15 families, 66 people our seas Contents : Understanding mud flats (gaetbeol), In FY2012, we have applied the rules of SRI in our asset operation regmonitoring marine trash Support Funds : 5,500 (thousand won) ulations to methodize the culture of SRI, and we also consider both the financial performances of a potential investment product and also its soWildlife November 24~25 / Cheolwon / 15 families, 58 cial value when we review our investment options. protection people project Contents : Understanding wildlife, looking for cranes and eagles, volunteering in the wildlife As of FY2012, SRI investment portions to normal standards assets are protection center 8.1%, which showed an increase of 0.52% compared to FY2011. InSupport Funds : 5,500 (thousand won) vestments for the environment as well as the portion of SRI are all steadily increasing. SRI Investment (unit : 100 million won) 1,955 2,004 5,206 6,230 7,611 10,708 Efforts to Decrease Energy Usage 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 To decrease energy usage for heating and cooling, the Gwanghwamun 17,192 23,258 30,912 38,286 45,869 head office building and other branches are required to keep tempera2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 tures above 26 degrees Celsius in summer, and under 20 degrees Celsius in winter. We also have a 3 main voluntary saving of energy and supplies' campaign, which consists of all employees' turning off of unnecesEnvironment-Related Investments sary lighting, unused computers, and saving office supplies. 2010 2011 2012 Environment-related investment To create eco-friendly offices, we have remodeled our head office build3,714 6,671 10,843 (million won) ing in 2010 to be more eco-friendly. The Daejeon and Gwangju NuPortion of above amount in SRI (%) 12.0 17.4 23.6 mundong company buildings were remodeled in the same way in 2012 and the remodeling designs were finished for the Incheon and Jeonju company buildings in 2013. All business/service centers now have satellite broadcasting systems that allow employees to participate in major events of the company through listening, and not direct participation. The video conference system on the 3rd floor of the head office is used for company-level meetings such as for the Board of Directors, and when employees are required to be educated in Gyeseungwon (the training institute). They are banned from using their individual vehicles but rather have their travel expenses reimbursed. Through these efforts, we have Volunteer work to build bird houses reduced the levels of CO2 emissions from travel and have minimized the impact of our business on the environment by reducing energy usage. Earth Hour Support And Participation Kyobo Life has participated in and supported the launching of the 'Earth Hour' campaign, designed to increase awareness regarding climate change. This event began in Sydney in 2007 and is one of the largest sustainable development camVolunteer work to 'turn our forests green'(Supul Puhruhge) paigns to have international participants from all over the world. The 'Earth Hour' event took place in Seoul Gwanghwamun and Seoul Square on March 23rd, 2013. Kyobo Life's head office, as well as its company building in Seochodong, participated in the lights-out campaign. 51 Managing Environmental Data The life insurance business is less susceptible to dangers and opportunities stemming from climate change. Despite this, Kyobo Life has decreased costs through managing environmental data and is striving to decrease negative effects on the environment. Energy Usage (unit : TOE) Office Papers and Toner Usage 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Gas 2,406 2,114 2,237 Office papers (box) 3,480 3,819 3,662 Direct energy Oil 887 774 657 Toners (No.) 3,656 3,921 4,352 Total 3,293 2,888 2,894 Electricity 15,998 16,554 17,084 Indirect Regional heating* 42 38 35 Waste Emission energy Total 16,040 16,592 17,119 2010 2011 2012 Total 19,333 19,480 20,013 Total usage (ton) 544,399 543,589 570,948 Compared to previous year -887 147 810 Recycled amount (ton) 18,117 17,850 7,816 *While 'regional heating' was designated to the 'direct energy' category in the FY2010 Recycling rate (%) 3.3 3.3 1.4 report, we have moved it to the 'indirect energy' category from the FY2011 report. Energy (Direct, Indirect) Water Office Papers 20,013 TOE 570,948 ton 3,662 boxes *This is based on the data of 53 company buildings managed by Kyobo Realco out of the total 66 company buildings of Kyobo Life. Also, office paper, toner, and waste data was only collected for the head office. *TOE : Amount of energy produced when burning a ton of oil, standardized in units of calory. CO2(Direct, Indirect) Recycling of Water Waste 42,256 tCO 2 7,816 ton 381ton Recycling Combustion 301ton 80 ton CO2 Emission (unit : tCO2) Waste Emission* 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Direct 8,343 7,313 7,241 Total emission (ton) 523 703 381 Indirect 35,077 35,695 35,015 Recycled amount (ton) 253 281 301 Total 43,420 43,008 42,256 Recycling rate (%) 48 40 79 *Waste refers to standard office waste from company buildings 52 Growing Together by Enhancing Transaction We will grow with KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 Transparency our peers through fair Kyobo Life strives to grow together with its partners through establishing transparent trade customs. When we select our partners, we consider competition. not only price, quality, and other conditions but also their observance of the law. Their personal information management, work ethics and other ethical business activities, along with audit reports are also considered. All purchases and contracts are paid in cash so that we can help our partners circulate their capital well. Clean Contract We practice a 'Clean Contract' system where we will not ask for, nor receive goods and other treats during, the process of purchasing company products, labor, or carrying out construction and other contract executions to consolidate systems to increase transparency. We Government, Local Community have reflected this in our standard contracts to make it clear, and we are and the Future sending Clean Contract notices twice a year for companies that have traded with us at an amount larger than 20 million won within the past year. Present Return Center In accordance with the 'Kyobo Life's Code of Professional Ethics,' we do not accept any presents from outside stakeholders. When this inevitably occurs, it is mandatory to return them right away. If immediate returns are difficult, we have a Present Return Center where we register the present and send it back with polite comments. If the giver refuses to take it back or returning the present is impossible in any way, we donate it to social organizations. Present Returns (unit : case) 10 14 8 2010 2011 2012 Fair Trade Compliance Program Kyobo Life is running a Fair Trade Compliance Program to establish transparent competition. The Program is a series of mechanisms that encourage voluntary observance of fair trade regulations and systems. The Fair Trade Compliance Program is supervised by personnel that have been recommended by the CEO and voted for by the Board of Directors. Contents of the Fair Trade Compliance Program Improving Systems and Processes Education Monitoring Establishment of internal reporting systems (May 2012) Education of employees : Voluntary observance perMonitoring meetings to prevent sonnel (twice a year), organization heal (annual), new collusion (monthly) Making the responsibilities of law observance personnel employees (upon recruitment) clear through the revision of the 'law observance personMonitoring procedures that inspect nel regulation' (February 2013) Collusion prevention education: Head office organization advertisements for retirement heads, primary employees in the product development pensions Improving regulations for fairness in the 'advertisement and accounting teams approval statute' (October 2012) Prior auditing of illegal trade activiEducation to prevent violations of the 'life insurance ties when trading with subsidiaries Improving internal control processes related to meetings advertisement law': Personnel for advertisement projects in the industry (November 2012) Education regarding Kyobo's becoming of 'mutual inOpening up current progress of fair trade voluntary vestment restriction companies': employees in subsidiarobservance operation on the webpage (February 2013) ies and other relevant personnel 53 Preventing Collusion Since June 2006, Kyobo Life has banned the sharing of information such as applied interest rates, and other things that can imply prices or insurance claim conditions that may be seen as collusion. When participating in business meetings, it is mandatory to get approval from the law observation personnel. We have also proclaimed for voluntary realization of fair competition and other means to support fair trade. We will further specify internal control processes and continue to monitor our employees regarding fair trade regulations. Fair Trade Violation Reports (FY 2010~2012) Date December 15, 2011 March 21, 2013 Measures Fines of 134.7 billion won Fines of 4.1 billion won Colluding in interest rates for Fixing commissions for Reasons individual insurance and equity-linked insurances publicly announced rates Realizing Workplace Ethics In February of 2013, Kyobo Life provided employees their 'Kyobo Life's Code of Professional Ethics' based on Kyobo Life's core objectives and values, and a rulebook named 'Kyobo Workplace Ethics Practice Regulations' is to follow. We have also stipulated 'special rules for workplace ethics practice' regarding presents, entertainment, and expenditure for congratulations and condolences to provide a more specific and clear guideline for action in this issue. Workplace Ethics Education To increase the power of execution for employees, we are operating diverse programs for workplace ethics. Periodic conventions and tours take place to increase communication between management and employees as well as encourage them.An organizational level 'education for law observance and ethics' course is operated monthly to share compliance and workplace ethics issues as well. In FY2012, we operated cyber learning programs for law observance personnel in each department. Task education by the 'law observance personnel' Reporting Instances of Core Values Violation The 'Core Values Violation Report' is an internal reporting procedure of Kyobo Life in cases where illegal or unjust conduct is related to high officials or neglected by Workplace Ethics Education_Managers (unit : hours) them. It is possible to report directly to the CEO or independent law ob2010 13.5 servance personnel. The 'Core Values Violation Report' makes it possible to Managers prevent accidents from happening and solving them at an early stage when 2011 16.5 they do occur. These instances, where fair solutions are observed, increase 12.4 hours 2012 12.4 the morale of employees. We also have periodic service education for those with guard duties at company buildings. We teach them issues regarding human rights violations and what to do when responding to visitors. Workplace Ethics Education_ Non-Managers (unit : hours) Educating Company Guards Non2010 15 2010 2011 2012 Managers 2011 18 No. of guards (person) 198 198 192 13.2 hours 2012 13.2 Education participation ratio (%) 100 100 100 *An error has been corrected regarding the indexes in the reports of FY 2010 2011. Appendix 56 Third Party Assurance Report 58 GRI Statement 59 Index (GRI, ISO 26000) 63 UN Global Compact 64 Awards and Association Memberships Related to Sustainability Management 65 Summary of Financial Highlights 66 Kyobo Life's Code of Professional Ethics 56 Third Party Assurance Report KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 Messrs. Kyobo Life's Board of Directors and Stakeholders Foreword The Korean Standards Association (hereafter 'Assurance Provider') was asked for an independent assurance request regarding its 'Kyobo Life 2012 Sustainability Management Report (hereafter 'the Report')'. The purpose of this assurance report is as follows: to investigate the existence of serious mistakes or prejudice in the Report, to investigate whether or not the information collection system works, and to review the selection process and results of the sustainability management materiality test in order to provide opinions that can increase the quality of the Report. The Assurance Provider's responsibility is to provide to the Board the results that came from the assurance procedures. The Assurance Provider provides an independent assurance opinion based on the data included in the Report and the validity of the evidence related to performance and relevant systems. The accountability for all assertions in the Report as well as the collection, analysis, and organization of data for publishing the Report lies with Kyobo Life. Independence The Assurance Provider does not have any common, profit-related interests with Kyobo Life regarding its business activity except the tasks regarding the provision of the Third Party's Assurance. As an independent assurance institution, we hold no other interest that may decrease our independence. Assurance Standards and Levels With the AA1000AS 2008 Assurance Standards at the core, the Assurance Provider has also applied GRI G3.1 guidelines as well as ISO 26000. We have identified the scope of inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness according to the assurance standards of AA1000AS 2008 as well as the credibility of the data that was included in the 2012 Report. The credibility of the data included in Kyobo Life's Sustainability Management Report was found to be of a 'Moderate Level' of assurance. Assurance Types and Scope The Assurance Provider carried out Type 2 assurance according to the AA1000 Assurance Standards. Type 2 assurance means that the exactness and quality of the sustainability management performance information and Kyobo Life's assertion were evaluated under the accountability principles of AA1000 2008 Assurance Standards. The scope of assurance was during FY2012(April 1st, 2012 to March 31st, 2013). The Assurance Provider has carried out assurance activities regarding Kyobo Life's sustainability management policies, objectives, business activities, standards, and performances, mostly within their systems and activities. We have also assured its environmental, social and financial data relating to its broad sense of performance, and the involvement of the Assurance Provider regarding stakeholder participation was limited to the review of the materiality tests. Assurance Methods The Assurance Provider has used the following methods to collect necessary information, data, and evidence related to the assurance scope, and has performed the assurance procedures. Analysis of major issues in sustainability management through benchmarking of companies in the same industries or those with excellent sustainability management The gathering of performance information and written questions and answers to evaluate the coherence of reported information On-site interviews with personnel that manage the sustainability management team and work-site departments by visiting Kyobo Life's Headquarters Reviewing of the management systems and processes used in the publishing of the sustainability management report Evaluation of the correspondence of the financial performance data and FY2012 audit reports in the sustainability management report with the publicly announced data Tracing and reviewing of internal documents and basic data · Economic Performance: Business growth, profitability, stability indexes, current state of economic value creation and division, mid-to-long-term financial planning, financial statements, risk management processes and activities, and financial accident occurrence. · Environmental Performance: Energy usage and CO2 emissions, usage of water and wastes, and ratio of recycling. · Social Performance: Results of socially responsible product development, results of prior approval of product advertisement booklets, weight of Socially Responsible Investment(SRI), results of the employee and financial planner satisfaction rate survey, ratio of maternity leave usage, records of receiving and processing customer complaints, results of employee and customer education, records of labor and executive cooperation, records of social contribution activities, Supjarami activities, etc. The Korean Standards Association is a special corporate body that has been established under the 'Law for Korean Industry Standardization' enacted in 1962, and is an intelligence service institution that supplies and expands industrial standardization, quality management, sustainability management, KS/ISO accreditation to companies. The KSA is also a national administrative organization for ISO 26000, a designated educational institution for the GRI guidelines, an AA1000 assurance institution, an operational institution of the Korean Sustainability Index(KSI) , an organization that runs the UN CDM, an assurance institution that controls the objective systems for greenhouse gas energy, making it an institution that fosters our society's sustainable development. 57 Assurance Results and Opinion The Assurance Provider has reviewed the contents of the Report's draft, given opinions, and when needed, proposed its revision. Also, we have been unable to identify any grace mistakes or inappropriately written portions in the Report through our assurance activities. The Assurance Provider has confirmed that the Report has an A+ application level of the international reports standards of the GRI G3.1 guidelines, and would like to give the following opinion regarding Kyobo Life's Sustainability Management Report. Inclusivity Has Kyobo Life included the stakeholders during its process of strategically dealing with sustainability management? The Assurance Provider has confirmed that Kyobo Life has recognized the importance of core stakeholder participation within its pursuit of sustainability management and is putting efforts into the creation of a participation process. It has selected core stakeholder groups and has operated customized channels for each stakeholder trait such as holding meetings and carrying out surveys, and we would like to specifically give credit to how the committee regarding sustainability management is operated so that collecting the Board's opinions and supporting its decision-making process is carried out on a periodical basis. Materiality Has Kyobo Life incorporated material information so that stakeholders can make sound decisions? The Assurance Provider has decided that Kyobo Life has not omitted nor excluded any important information from the stakeholders. In the Report Kyobo Life has determined its issues for the pursuit of sustainability management through research in the media, and internal as well as external environment analyses. Also, it is worth noting that based on the data, Kyobo Life has carried out a materiality test to select core issues. As a recommendation, Kyobo Life should precisely complement the materiality test process so that it not only includes stakeholder-related issues but also issues that are related to sustainability trends that may create business opportunities for Kyobo Life. Responsiveness Has Kyobo Life appropriately responded to stakeholders' demands and interests in the Report? The Assurance Provider has confirmed that Kyobo Life has carried out diverse activities to appropriately respond to issues related to sustainability management. It is worth noting that sustainability management tasks were reported by connecting them to pledges, principles, and KPIs for individual stakeholders, and DMA(Disclosure on Management Approach) performances were reported in a time series development, which is worth highly positive remarks in that Kyobo Life continuously responds to stakeholder opinions and interests. As a recommendation, we believe that Kyobo Life should check the connectivity of its core issues and its KPIs and reinforce KPIs where necessary so that internal monitoring and improvement processes for its sustainability management strategies will become stronger. Opinions by Area and Recommendations for Improvement In order for Kyobo Life to further pursue its company-level sustainability management strategically and to create a basis for continuous responses toward core issues, we would like to give recommendations to review the following. Sustainability Management Processes We could see that Kyobo Life has a strong determination to actively listen to stakeholder demands and reflect them in business activities. We recommend that stakeholder participation systems be complemented after considering their influence, responsibility, and representativeness so that stakeholder opinions can be suggested in a balanced way, and that sustainability trends can be appropriately reflected during materiality tests so that Kyobo Life's strategies regarding these trends and activities can also be reported. Sustainability Management Results Eco-friendly social contribution activities that reflect the traits of the financial industry are worth noting because they show how Kyobo Life is deeply and sincerely concerned in this area. However, given that climate change is an important environmental issue that affects all industries worldwide,, we would like to recommend that you create future environmental management policies and strategies at the company level,, such as controlling greenhouse gas and decreasing energy usage in the event of an increase in energy prices. Kyobo Life is pushing for social contribution activities that utilize the traits of the insurance industry to help solve social issues such as a low birth rate and an aging populace. The Dasomi nursing volunteers, support for premature babies, and training forest experts are all contributing to the creation of social jobs, fostering a culture that supports the dignity of life, and providing for life after retirement. We expect Kyobo Life to continue to strengthen and advance its social contribution activities. It is worth noting that Kyobo Life has extended and established its investment standards according to Socially Responsible Investment(SRI) which considers ESG(environmental, social and governance) factors as investment factors. We hope to see Kyobo Life further increase social values and contribute to sustainable economic development through the development of insurance products in accordance with sustainability issues. June 12th, 2013 Kim Chang-Ryong, President of the KSA (Korean Standards Association) 58 GRI Statement KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 Highlights The GRI has reviewed the FY2012 sustainability management report that Kyobo has submitted, and certifies that the requirements for Application Level A+ were met. The GRI Application Levels show the extent to how the G3.1 guidelines were applied regarding this sustainability management report. The GRI Checks confirm that the material that were to be revealed have been fully reflected, and the GRI Contents Index prove that the material demanded to be revealed have been identified according to the G3.1 guidelines. Application Levels do not suggest opinions on the quality of information provided by or the outcomes of the company's sustainability management. 59 Index (GRI, ISO 26000) ●Fully Reported ◐Partly Reported ○Not Reported Not Applicable GRI Description ISO 26000 Main Themes and issues Page Reported Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 3 ● Organizational Governance 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 2~3, 41~43 ● Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 4 ● 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 8 ● Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating 2.3 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. Organizational Governance 4, 9 ● 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 4 ● Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of 2.5 countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the 4 ● sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 9 ● Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types 2.7 of customers/beneficiaries). 4 ● 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 4~7 ● 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 9 ● 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Appendix ● Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. About this Report ● 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). About this Report ● 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) About this Report ● 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. About this Report ● 3.5 Process for defining report content. 17~19 ● Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 3.6 joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. About this Report ● State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 3.7 (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). About this Report ● Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 3.8 operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indica3.9 tors and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to About this Report ● substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in 3.10 earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, 3.11 or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Appendix ● 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Verified Appendix ● Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the 4.1 highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or 10 ~11 ● organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 10 ~11 ● For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of mem4.3 bers of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 10 ~11 ● Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or 4.4 direction to the highest governance body. 32 ● Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior Organizational Governance 4.5 managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's 11 ● performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 10 ~11 ● Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the 4.7 members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any 10 ~11 ● consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and 4.8 principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and 5, Appendix ● the status of their implementation. 60 ●Fully Reported ◐Partly Reported ○Not Reported Not Applicable KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 GRI Description ISO 26000 Main Themes and issues Page Reported Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, includ4.9 ing relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally 10 ~11 ● agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particu4.10 larly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 11 ● Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is 4.11 addressed by the organization. 41~ 43 ● Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, 4.12 or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Appendix ● Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ Organizational Governance international advocacy organizations in which the organization: *Has positions 4.13 in governance bodies; *Participates in projects or committees; *Provides substantive Appendix ● funding beyond routine membership dues; or *Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 16 ● 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 16 ● Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement 4.16 by type and by stakeholder group. 16, 18 ~19 ● Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engage4.17 ment, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and 21, 31, 39, 45 ● concerns, including through its reporting. Economic Performance (Disclosure on Management Approach) Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, Participation and development of communities / EC1 employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained Participation of communities / Creation of wealth 7 ● earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. and income / Social Investment Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's ● EC2 activities due to climate change. Easing of climate change and adaptation 50 EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. 33 ● EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Not received Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local Labor standards and social protection / Partic33 EC5 minimum wage at significant locations of operation. ipation and development of communities ● Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at Facilitation of social responsibility within the value chain / Partici○ EC6 significant locations of operation. pation and development of communities / Creation of employment and the development of functions / Creation of wealth and income Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from Participation and development of communities / Creation of EC7 employment and the development of functions / Creation of ○ the local community at significant locations of operation. wealth and income Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily Economic, social, and cultural rights / Participation and development of communities / Participation of communities / Education EC8 for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. and culture / Technological development and approaches / 46~48 ● Creation of wealth and income / Social investments Economic, social, and cultural rights / Facilitation of social responsibility within the value chain / Respecting property rights Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, / Approaching to essential services / Participation and develop○ EC9 including the extent of impacts. ment of communities / Creation of labor and the development of functions / Technological development and approaches / Creation of wealth and income / Social investments Environmental Performance (Disclosure on Management Approach) EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 50~51 ● EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 51 ● EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 51 ◐ EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 51 ◐ EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 51 ● Environment / Usage of sustainable Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and resources EN6 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 51 ● EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 51 ◐ EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 51 ● Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected EN11 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in EN12 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Environment / Environmental protection, EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Diversity and the restoration of natural habitats EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with EN15 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 51 ● EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Easing of environment / climate change and adaptations EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 51 ● EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Environment / Prevention of pollution EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 51 ● EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 61 ●Fully Reported ◐Partly Reported ○Not Reported Not Applicable GRI Description ISO 26000 Main Themes and issues Page Reported Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazEN24 ardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and Environment / Prevention of pollution percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and relatEnvironment / Usage of sustainable resources EN25 ed habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of / Environmental protection, Diversity and the water and runoff. restoration of natural habitats Environment / Usage of sustainable resources EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and / Facilitation of social responsibility within the 51 ● extent of impact mitigation. value chain / Sustainable consumption Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed Environment / Usage of sustainable resources EN27 by category / Sustainable consumption Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sancEN28 tions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Environment No violations ● Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods Environment / Usage of sustainable resources EN29 and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting mem/ Facilitation of social responsibility within the 51 ● bers of the workforce. value chain EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. Environment 50 ● Labor Practices and Decent Work (Disclosure on Management Approach) Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, LA1 broken down by gender. 34~35 ◐ Labor practices / Employment and Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age employment relations LA2 group, gender, and region. 34~35 ● Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary Labor practices / Employment and employment LA3 or part-time employees, by major operations. relations / Working conditions and social protection 33 ● Labor practices / Employment and employment relations / LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Working conditions and social protection / 33 ● Social conversation / Basic principles and rights in labor Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, includLabor practices / Employment and employment relations / LA5 ing whether it is specified in collective agreements. Working conditions and social protection / Social conversation 33 ● Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint managementworkLA6 er health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational 33 ● health and safety programs. Labor practices / Health and safety in labor Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and numLA7 ber of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. ○ Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist Labor practices / Health and safety in labor / Participation LA8 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. and development of communities / Participation of 33 ● communities / Education and culture / Health LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Labor practices / Health and safety in labor 33 ● Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, Labor practices / Development and training of LA10 and by employee category. people in the workplace ○ Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued Labor practices / Development and training of people in LA11 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. the workplace / Creation of labor and the development of 36~37 ● functions Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career developLabor practices / Development and training of LA12 ment reviews, by gender. people in the workplace 34~35 ● Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employDiscrimination and vulnerable groups / Basic LA13 ee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and principles and rights in labor / Labor practices / 34~35 ◐ other indicators of diversity. Employment and employment relations Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee Discrimination and vulnerable groups / Basic principles and LA14 category, by significant locations of operation. rights in labor / Labor practices / Employment and employ33 ● ment relations / Working conditions and social conversation Prohibiting discrimination against vulnerable groups / LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. Guaranteeing the economic, social, and cultural rights of the 33 ● corporation and members of the community Human Rights (Disclosure on Management Approach) Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and conHuman rights / Due diligence / Avoiding HR1 tracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have collusions / Facilitation of social responsibilities ○ undergone human rights screening. within the value chain Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners Human rights / Due diligence / Avoiding collusions / HR2 that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. Employment and employment relations / Facilitation of social ○ responsibility within the value chain Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human HR3 rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Human rights / Avoiding collusions 53 ● Human rights / Handling difficulties / Discrimination and HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. vulnerable groups / Basic principles and rights in labor / 34 ● Employment and employment relations Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise Human rights / Due diligence / Situations of human rights HR5 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at signifidangers / Avoiding Collusions / Civil and political rights / No violations ● Basic principles and rights in labor / Employment and employcant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. ment relations / Social conversation Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of Human rights / Due diligence / Situations of human rights HR6 child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. dangers / Avoiding Collusions / Discrimination and vulnerable 34 ● groups / Basic principles and rights in labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Human rights / Avoiding collusions / EmployHR7 incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the ment and employment relations / Facilitation of 34 ● elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. responsibilities within the value chain Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or proHuman rights / Handling difficulties / Discrimination and HR8 cedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. vulnerable groups / Basic principles and rights in labor / 53 ● Employment and employment relations Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people HR9 and actions taken. Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human Due diligence / Situations of human rights HR10 rights reviews and/or impact assessments. dangers ○ Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved HR11 through formal grievance mechanisms. No complaints filed ● 62 KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 ●Fully Reported ◐Partly Reported ○Not Reported Not Applicable GRI Description ISO 26000 Main Themes and issues Page Reported Society (Disclosure on Management Approach) Economic, social and cultural rights / Participation and SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, development of communities / Creation of employment and 46~48 ● impact assessments, and development programs. the development of functions / Creation of wealth and income / Respecting property rights SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 42~43 ● Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies Fair management practices / Anti-corruption SO3 and procedures. 53 ● SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 42~43 ● SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Fair management practices / Responsible ○ Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politipolitical participation / Participation of SO6 cians, and related institutions by country. communities ○ Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and Fair management practices / Fair competition / SO7 monopoly practices and their outcomes. Respecting property rights 43 ● Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions Fair management practices / Respecting property SO8 for non-compliance with laws and regulations. rights / Creation of wealth and income 53 ● SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant Participation and development of communities SO10 potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Product Responsibility (Disclosure on Management Approach) Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services PR1 are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and Economic, social, and cultural rights / Facil22~23 ● services categories subject to such procedures. itation of social responsibilities within the Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary value chain / Consumer issues / Protection PR2 codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during of consumer health and safety / Sustainable their life cycle, by type of outcomes. consumption Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of Consumer issues / Fair marketing, realistic and unbiased PR3 significant products and services subject to such information requirements. information and fair contract practices / Protection of consumer 26~29 ● health and safety / Sustainable consumption / Consumer Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes service, support and solving complaints and disputes / Boosting PR4 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. education and awareness No violations ● Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring Consumer issues / Protection of consumer health and safety / PR5 customer satisfaction. Sustainable consumption / Consumer service, support and solv25 ● ing complaints and disputes / Boosting education and awareness Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to Consumer issues / Fair marketing, realistic and PR6 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. unbiased information and fair contract prac27 ● Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary tices / Consumer service, support and solving PR7 codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promocomplaints and disputes / Boosting education 27 ● tion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. and awareness Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer Consumer issues / Protection of consumer 24 PR8 privacy and losses of customer data. data and privacy ● Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulaConsumer issues / Consumer service, support PR9 tions concerning the provision and use of products and services. and solving complaints and disputes No violations ● Financial Service Sector Supplement ●Fully Reported ◐Partly Reported ○Not Reported Not Applicable GRI Description Page Reported FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to business lines. 5 ● FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines. 41~43 ● Processes for monitoring clients' implementation of and compliance with environmental and social requirements FS3 included in agreements or transactions. 26~27 ● Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the environmental and social policies and procedures as FS4 applied to business lines. 27, 46 ● FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities. 50 ● FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector. 4~9 ● Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by FS7 purpose. 22~23 ● Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line FS8 broken down by purpose. 50 ● Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmental and social policies and risk assessFS9 ment procedures. 42~43 ● Percentage and number of companies held in the institution's portfolio with which the reporting organization has FS10 interacted on environmental or social issues. 50 ● FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening. 50 ● Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting organization holds FS12 the right to vote shares or advises on voting. ○ FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type. 29 ● FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for disadvantaged people. 29 ● FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products and services. 27~28 ● FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary. ○ 63 UN Global Compact Kyobo Life joined the UN Global Compact(UNGC) in September 2010, thereby makes public its will to abide by the 10 principles of the UNCG. This sustainability management report breaks the compliance of the principles into system performance indexes and tasks as below. 1. All internationally proclaimed human rights shall be Kyobo Life's Code of 53 Human supported and respected. Professional Ethics Rights Preventing sexual harassment 2. Businesses shall make efforts to not be complicit in in the workplace 34 human rights abuses. Educating guards 53 Protecting customer information 24 3. The freedom of association and collective bargaining Labor-management relations for 33 rights shall be upheld. coexistence Labour Standards 4. All forms of forced and compulsory labor shall be Prohibiting forced labor 35 prohibited. 5. Child labor shall be prohibited. Prohibiting child labor 35 Abolishing discrimination in 6. Employment and occupation discrimination shall be employment and occupation 34 eliminated. Fair evaluation 7. Preventive approach to environmental problems shall be Forest tour volunteer group 'Supjarami' 49 supported. Eco-friendly Dasomi family volunteers Environment 8. Initiatives to support greater environmental Efforts to decrease energy usage 50 responsibility shall be encouraged. Kyobo Life Environmental Awards 49 9. The development and diffusion of environmentally Environmental investment within friendly technologies shall be encouraged. 50 SRI(Social responsible investment) 10. All forms of corruption in business, including extortion Education on professional ethics 53 and bribery shall be opposed. Core values violation report 53 Anti Clean Contract 52 Corruption Present return center 52 64 KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 Awards and Association Memberships Related to Sustainability Management Awards Date Contents Grand Award in the life insurance category for Financial Customer Protection awards sponsored by The Korea 2012. 11 Economic Daily (Financial Supervisory Service award) 2012. 10 Personality of the Year Award from the IRC, CEO Shin Chang-Jae 2012. 10 First place in the KSA '2012 Korean Sustainability Index' in the life insurance category (3 consecutive years) Official commendations from the President for those merited for Children's Day, hosted by the Ministry of 2012. 05 Health and Welfare Minister's Award from the Ministry of Knowledge Economy's 'Sustainability Management Awards' 2011. 11 (Awarded Best First Sustainability Management Report) 2011. 02 A Ministry of Health & Welfare Award in recognition of promoting welfare for the handicapped 2010. 09 Grand Award in the financial and service innovation category 2010. 05 'Korea CEO Award' for Chairman Shin Chang-Jae 2010. 05 'Mont Blanc Cultural Art Supporter Award', Chairman Shin Chang-Jae 2010. 03 '50 Respected Korean Corporations', Fortune Korea, No. 1 in the insurance industry Association Memberships Organization Main Activities Membership Promotes a healthy insurance culture, supports information sharing for rational Life Insurance Association 1958 insurance policy formation Korea Insurance Society Researches insurance-related theories, laws, and practices 1964 Adopting diverse insurance policies and holding seminars, as well as exchanging The Institute of Actuaries Korea 1978 information with foreign actuary institutes LOMA Publishes and shares reliable insurance industry data for public sharing 1978 Insurance Development Inst. Offers information on fair and rational insurance prices, rates and other related issues 1990 Promotes the exchange of financial safety information for information protection and Financial Safety Forum 2002 discussion of safety techniques and policy directions Ethical Management SM Forum Promotes ethical management and researches on sustainability management 2005 Conducts various activities aimed at preventing and countering hacking, and other Financial Safety Agency 2006 information protection activities Korea Fair Competition Promotes the understanding and practices of fair trade 2006 Federation Korea Risk Management Offers information on fair and rational insurance and other related issues 2006 UN Global Compact Korea Promotes the exchange of information about corporate social responsibility 2010 Chapter 65 Financial Highlights A Balance Sheet (Financial Position) Separation (unit : 100 million) FY2012 FY2011 FY2010 Assets 699,563 623,608 580,477 Cash and deposits 6,427 9,557 9,965 Financial assets* 347,624 295,269 254,925 Loans 152,070 141,311 128,878 Other assets 60,173 58,880 71,502 Separate account assets 133,269 118,591 115,207 Liabilities 640,615 572,223 533,748 Policy reserve 483,058 430,984 396,381 Other liabilities 22,648 21,135 20,556 Separate account liabilities 134,909 120,104 116,811 Equity 58,948 51,385 46,729 Capital stock 1,025 1,025 1,025 Capital surplus. etc 4,229 4,229 4,229 Accumulated other 11,093 8,310 8,849 comprehensive income Retained earnings 42,601 37,821 32,626 Liabilities & equity 699,563 623,608 580,477 *Financial Assets = Short-term trading financial assets + Assets available for sale + Assets held for maturity Income Statement (Separate Statements of Comprehensive Income) Separation (unit : 100 million) FY2012 FY2011* FY2010 Operating Revenues 127,137 106,020 109,140 Premium income 88,269 68,153 68,784 Investment income. etc 38,868 37,867 40,356 Operating Expenses 121,273 99,112 102,257 Liability from insurance contract 51,970 34,541 28,254 Claims paid* 62,959 57,728 62,349 Other expenses 6,344 6,843 11,654 Operating Income 5,864 6,908 6,883 Income before income tax 5,958 7,157 8,126 Income tax expense 235 1,702 2,057 Net income 5,723 5,455 6,069 *Due to the revision of 'standards regarding profit from operations', the FY 2011 figures were revised. *Insurance cost=Paid insurance+costs for reinsurance+working expenses+depreciation for new contract *This chart has been written under the provisions of the IFRS(International Financial Reporting Standards) Kyobo Life's Code of Professional Ethics KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 The mission of Kyobo Life is to help all people prepare for Any hardship they might encounter in their lives. Since Kyobo Life's foundation in 1958, this mission has Been steadfastly pursued; we have been earning customer Trust; and this is our priceless and irreplaceable asset. Our vision is to inherit such a tradition, to put first the Interest and benefit of honorable customers, to ceaselessly Pursue audacious goals for the development of the Company And ourselves in a creative spirit, and to become a company With the highest retention rate in the Korea life Insurance industry. To fully achieve this vision in a manner reflective of high Ethical awareness and conduct is no doubt the most for All stakeholders, including customers, financial planners, Employees, investors, and the government and community, To prosper together and for the Company to Progress perpetually. We, employees at Kyobo Life, solemnly pledge that, even if The vision should seem daunting at times, or an opportunity To make an inappropriate profit should arise, we will always Abide by social regulations, practice Kyobo Life's core Objectives and values, and create a win-win situation for all Stakeholders by achieving the vision. KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 This report has been published in both Korean and English, and can be viewed at our homepage(www.kyobo. co.kr). If you have any questions or opinions regarding the report, please contact below. Sustainability Management Support Team, Kyobo Life Jongro 1(Jongro 1ga), Jongro-gu, Seoul 110-714 Korea Tel_ 02-721-2529, 2530, 2532 Fax_ 02-721-3172 E-mail_ kyobocsr@kyobo.com This report is printed on paper certified as sustainable by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSCTM) using soy ink. *FSCTM: The mark is awarded to products made of wood produced through responsible forestry. KYOBO Life Sustainability Report 2012 Jongro 1(Jongro 1ga), Jongro-gu, Seoul 110-714 Korea | Kyobo Life Customer Satisfaction Centers (1588-1001) www.kyobo.co.kr
