This report was printed on eco-friendly paper 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report 2354 Yonggudaero, Giheung-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do, Korea 446-713 Tel 82-31-289-3114 www.kepco-enc.com CONTENTS about This Report ABOUT THIS REPORT 03 KEPCO Engineering & Construction Company, Inc. (hereinafter referred CEO Message 04 to as “KEPCO E&C”) presents its accomplishments and performance in sustainable management in its third Sustainability Report since 2009. KEPCO E&C Highlights 06 The report contains progress and achievements KEPCO E&C has made 01. Humaneering KEPCO E&C 09 in its economic, social and environmental responsibilities. In particular, 10 01.1 Company Overview About KEPCO E&C this report reflects stakeholders' interests as assessed through 16 01.2 KEPCO E&Cs Vision and Strategy Structure a materiality analysis and efforts have been made to increase the 18 01.3 Governance reliability of this report by obtaining third party assurance of the report 20 01.4 Stakeholder Engagement contents. 02. NEW POWER 23 24 02.1 Strengthening Total Solution Business I. Period and Scope 29 02.2 Expansion into the Global Market •This report covers the core sustainable management activities and accomplishments 32 02.3 Securing Sustainable Technologies from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012 with quantative data provided for 2010 and 2011 to allow for trend analysis. For significant qualitative data, data from the first half of 39 02.4 Reinforcing Management Stability 2013 has also been disclosed. The scope of this report covers KEPCO E&C headquarters 03. Green Power 49 (Annex included) and the Daejon office. 50 03.1 Responding to Climate Change and Eco-friendly Technology 53 03.2 Eco-Friendly, New & Renewable Energy Business II. Reporting Guidelines 58 03.3 Eco-Friendly Office •The KEPCO E&C 2012 Sustainability Report was prepared in accordance with the Global 04. Win-Win Power 60 Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines, ISO26000 standards and the 10 principles 61 04.1 Customers of the UN Global Cpmpact. Financial data has been prepared based on K-GAAP and K-IFRS. 63 04.2 Employees 76 04.3 Business Partners 80 04.4 Local Communities III. Report Verification •KEPCO E&C received third party assurance to ensure reliability of the reporting process 05. APPENDIX 85 and data. The assurance results are available in the Appendix. 86 05.1 Sustainable Management Performance 89 05.2 Membership in Organizations and Associations 91 05.3 Awards & Accolades IV. Additional Information •This report is available on KEPCO E&C’s website (www.kepco-enc.com). For comments 92 05.4 Independent Limited Assurance Report and queries, please use the contact information listed below: 94 05.5 GRI 3.1 Index 100 05.6 UNGC Department : Management Strategy Dept., Management Planning Team Tel : 82-31-289-3103 Fax : 82-31-289-4419 E-mail : yumeeko@kepco-enc.com 04 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report CEO Message 05 CEO Message I feel these accomplishments are a result of our continued implementation of “We will create a sustainable future based on dynamic sustainable management practices based on our employees’ and managements’ creativity through mutual cooperation with our stakeholders.” passion and will to grow into a world-class company along with creative talent development, shared growth with business partners, transparent governance and other efforts towards sustainability. To our distinguished stakeholders, Today, issues such as climate change and energy security are central to mankind’s sustainable development and the demands for corporations to fulfill I thank you for the continued support and encouragement you have shown to their social responsibility. KEPCO E&C will do its part to contribute to this KEPCO E&C and it is my sincerest pleasure to be able to present you with global movement and abide by the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact KEPCO E&C’s third Sustainability Report. based on its corporate philosophy of converging people, environment and technology and continuously thrive to be the best in its field globally. Since its establishment in 1975, KEPCO E&C has built its reputation over the past 38 years as a power plant design and engineering company that represents KEPCO E&C will continue to lead the creative economy with the world’s Korea and now is known globally for exporting Korean nuclear power most advanced technology. We will contribute to both the future of our plant design and plants as a whole based on its world-class core engineering company and our country by building the foundation for safe energy by capacity. In order to expand on our core capacity and secure future growth increasing the stability and quality of power plant design and developing new, engines and revenue streams for a lasting corporate foundation, KEPCO E&C environmentally friendly technologies. In addition, we will further strengthen entered the global EPC market in 2009 and is preparing to open a new chapter stakeholder engagement by fulfilling our social responsibility through actively in its history. pursuing shared growth with business partners, creating jobs and contributing to society and communities. In 2012, KEPCO E&C chose “Internal Stability for Sustainable Growth” as our management key-phrase and with the concerted effort of all employees Our esteemed stakeholders! and management, was able to reach its highest sales record in history even in KEPCO E&C will work tirelessly to achieve its goal of being the world’s light of the global economic downturn. In addition, we were able to secure leading global EPC company. We ask for your support and interest as we work original core technology for foreign-dependent nuclear technologies and towards growing into a global firm that fulfills its social responsibility through displayed our potential by being recognized in the internationally prominent transparent and fair management. American construction and engineering magazine ENR’s 2012 Global Source Book Global #1 in overseas Nuclear Plants category. In addition, we made Thank you. noteworthy accomplishments such as winning the EPC contract for Ghana June 2013 Takoradi T1 and T2, affirming KEPCO E&C’s position as a global EPC. KEPCO E&C President An, Seung-Kyoo 06 2012KEPCOE&CSustainabilityReport KEPCO E&C HigHLigHTs 07 KEPCO E&C HIGHLIGHTS 1. Launched slogan to become a global EPC, “New Power, New 4. U.S ENR Magazine announces KEPCO E&C as Global #1 in overseas Standard”(‘11.10) Nuclear Plants category for 2012(‘13.1) • :KEPCOE&Cwillsetthenewstandardwithour • Significance:ProvesasexternalacknowledgementthatKEPCOE&Cisleadingthe technologyandpromisetodelivernewpowertoourclients. globalnuclearplantdesignmarket. ※ ENR:EngineeringNewsRecords–U.S.ConstructionandEngineeringspecialistmagazine 2. Won contract for global nuclear power engineering 『ITER Cable Engineering Support Services』 (‘12.4) 5. Secured Core Design Domestic Nuclear Power Technology (‘12.12) •OrderingOrganization:ITER(InternationalThermonuclearExperimentalReactor)- • CompleteddevelopmentofSafetyAnalysisCodeneededforfinalconfirmationofnuclearpower InternationalOrganization plantdesignsafetyandnuclearpowerplantsafety. •ContractValue/Period:28billionKRW/60Months • SecuredcoreRCPtechnologywhichhadbeenmonopolizedbyadvancedforeignfirmsinthepast. •Location:France,CadaracheITERResearchCentre •Responsibilities:500MWtscalenuclearfusioncabledesignandprovisionoftechnical 6. Selected as the Most Outstanding Quality Competitive Enterprise, supportservices 2012, for six years running (‘12.10) • Significance:ExternalrecognitionoftheexcellenceofKEPCOE&C’squality managementsystemincludingstrategyandmanagementsystem,corporate culture,andcustomersatisfaction. • Awardedby:MinistryofTrade,IndustryandEnergy(formerlyMinistryofKnowledge Economy)-KoreaAgencyforTechnologyandStandards 01 02 04 05 03 06 07 3. Won first overseas EPC project, Ghana Takoradi T2 Power plant 7. Groundbreaking Ceremony of New HQ Building for KEPCO E&C’s expansion EPC project (‘12.7) second era of growth (‘12.10) •OrderingOrganization:TICO(TakoradiInternationalCompany) •Location:GimcheonInnocity,GyeongbukProvince •ContractValue/Period:300billionKRW/28.5months •Size/capacity:Totalfloorspace145,802m2/2,494persons •Type:120MWSteamturbineexpansion,transitiontocombinedcyclepowerplant •Constructionperiod(Dateforcompletingmove):‘12.10~’15.3(‘15.5) •Responsibilities:ProvideoverallEPC*services. •Characteristics:Designedasanenergy-savingbuildingthatmaximizestheuseof *EPC(Engineering,Procurement,Construction) newandrenewableenergy 08 2012KEPCOE&CSustainabilityReport 8. Held Conference for Win-win Growth to implement shared growth with 01 huMaNeeRiNG small to medium-sized business partners (‘12.11) •Attendees:Approximately140personsincludingKEPCOE&Cmanagementand businesspartnerCEOs KepCo e&C •Highlights -SharedKEPCOE&C’s2013Win-winGrowthactionplanandstrategywithits businesspartners -SignedtheWin-winGrowthCompactwith75businesspartners 9. Awarded Minister of Gender Equality and Family Minister’s Award as recognition for KEPCO E&C’s happy, family-oriented corporate culture ('12.12) •Mainfamily-orientedmanagementactivities: -Establishedacorporateculturefocusedonbalancingworkandfamily -Firm-wide‘GreatWorkPlace’activities -Socialcontributionactivitiesthatspreadthevalueofsharingvaluewithlocal communitiesandothersuchactivities 08 09 10 10. Opened the Power Engineering School Camp to develop future engineers ('13.1) •Objective:Developfuturetalentintheelectricalengineeringfield •Trainingperiod:10days(Twiceannually) •Trainees:Second,thirdyearscienceandengineeringstudentsfrom30domestic universities •Subjects:17subjectsin13fieldsincludingnuclearandthermalpoweroffered throughspecializedlecturesandsitevisitstopowerplants. 01.1 10 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Humaneering KEPCO E&C 11 Company Overview-About KEPCO E&C KEPCO E&C was established to achieve domestic independence in nuclear and Core Business Areas I. Company Overview thermal power plant engineering and construction. For the past 38 years, KEPCO • E&C’s management and staff have worked tirelessly to achieve this goal and as a Synthesis Design Engineering of New Power Plants result have developed new technologies for nuclear and thermal power plant design “Leading the development of Korean model of nuclear reactors and power plants with and engineering, and provided technical support for power plants already in operation, independent design Engineering of nuclear · thermal power plants thus playing a central role in domestic electricity generation. Design Engineering Construction Procurement of From 2009, KEPCO E&C launched its New Vision of becoming a “global power EPC Site Assessment Feasibility Check (Concept/Basics/ Supervision and Equipment Details) a Test Run enterprise, pledging to embody customer value with its world-class technology in order to strengthen and expand on its core competencies. KEPCO E&C aims to enter •Exclusively responsible for design engineering of domestic nuclear power plants and for most thermal power plants the ranks of the Top 5 EPC firms globally in order to be an integrated ‘total solution’ design in line with the plan of the development of power resources •Possessing exclusive technical skills of synthesis design engineering of nuclear/thermal power plants provider and contribute to national synergy generation. Company Profile EPC Business (As of December 31, 2012) Company Name KEPCO Engineering & Construction Company, INC. For sustainable growth in engineering-based business, KEPCO E&C is promoting gradual diversification toward EPC President & CEO An, Seung-Kyoo Foundation 1975. 10. 2 Objective To secure independence in nuclear and thermal power plant design and engineering Consulting Engineering Procurement Construction (Feasibility Operation Other Public Organizations (Department: Ministry of Trade, Industry & (Procurement) (Construction) (Operation) Institution Type study, etc) Energy(MOTIE)) Address 2354, Yonggudaero, Guheung-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do •Gradual expansion from small&medium thermal power to large scale plants IPO KOSPI (2009, KRX) •Performance in large construction business(PM/CM) including the management of the new airport construction. Shareholder KEPCO(74.86%), Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute(2.06%), Others(23.08%) Credit Rating AA (Korea Ratings Corporation) Environment&Renewable Energy Business Leading Low-carbon Green Growth based on accumulated knowledge and KEPCO E&C’s history experience in design of eco-friendly power plants • Flue-Gas business for Installation of Business for 1975 Founded as KOREA ATOMIC BURNS & ROE [A joint venture between KAERI and Burns ROE) Desulfurization/ greenhouse New & Renewable water pollution Energy Service Denitrification gas emissions Energy Business control facilities Company (ESCO) System reduction(CCS/CDM) 1982 Restructured into Korea Power Engineering Co., Ltd. •Focusing on original technology of greenhouse gas emissions reduction based on accumulated performance in fluegas desulfurization/denitrification business 1987 Selected as prime contractor for Architect Engineering of Youngkwang Units 3 & 4 Acquisition of Nuclear Steam Supply System (NSSS) business area from Korea Atomic Energy 1997 O&M(Operation & Maintenance) Business Research Institute 2007 Joined UN Global Compact Improving economic feasibility & safety of plant operation with the synthesis technology support of operating nuclear power and thermal power plants 2009 Declared ‘2020 New Vision’ / Shares listed on KOSPI Performance improvement Operating nuclear and Life extension Signed contract on Architect Engineering Service for UAE / Nuclear Power Plant / and restoration thermal power plants 2010 Change of English company name to KEPCO E&C •Providing solutions to the technical problems arising during the plant operation Signed EPC contract for Ghana Takoradi T2 Power plant / Broke ground for 2012 •Carrying out tasks for improvement in and replacement of equipment, licensing support, and improvement in generating new headquarters building in Gyeongbuk Province, Gimcheon Innocity station operation 12 2012KEPCOE&CSustainabilityReport HuManEEring KEPCO E&C 13 Organization Structure & Human Resources Associated Companies • • CompanyName MainBusiness Homepage Remarks President & CEO KoreaElectricPowerCorporation ElectricitySupply www.kepco.co.kr Listed ExecutiveAuditor QA&HSEDept. KoreaHydroandNuclearPowerCo.,Ltd. PowerDevelopmentandPowerGeneration www.khnp.co.kr Unlisted AuditingDept. KoreaSouth-EastPowerCo.,Ltd. PowerDevelopmentandPowerGeneration www.kosep.co.kr Unlisted KoreaMidlandPowerCo.,Ltd. PowerDevelopmentandPowerGeneration www.komipo.co.kr Unlisted KoreaWesternPowerCo.,Ltd. PowerDevelopmentandPowerGeneration www.iwest.co.kr Unlisted Planning&MarketingDivision NuclearDivision PlantDivision NSSSDivision KoreaSouthernPowerCo.,Ltd.  www.kospo.co.kr Unlisted -ManagementStrategyDept. -BusinessDept. -BusinessDept. -BusinessDept. KoreaEast-WestPowerCo.,Ltd. PowerDevelopmentandPowerGeneration www.ewp.co.kr Unlisted -Administration&FinanceDept. -NuclearEngineeringDept. -ProjectSupportDept. -NuclearSystemEngineeringDept. -TechnologyStrategyDept. -MechanicalEngineeringDept. -Mechanical&PlantDesignEngineering -MechanicalSystemEngineering KEPCOPlantService&EngineeringCo.,Ltd. OperationandMaintenance www.kps.co.kr Listed -MarketingDept. -PlantDesignEngineeringDept. Dept. Dept. -HumanResourcesDept. -ElectricalEngineeringDept. -Electrical,I&CEngineeringDept. -I&CSystemEngineeringDept. KEPCONuclearFuel NuclearFuelDesignandManufacturing www.knfc.co.kr Unlisted -ITStrategy&PlanningDept. -I&CEngineeringDept. -Civil&ArchitecturalEngineeringDept. -SafetyAnalysisDept. KEPCOKnowledge,Data&NetworkCo.,Ltd. ElectricPowerITServices www.kdn.com Unlisted -Subcontract&ProcurementDept. -Civil&ArchitectureEngineeringDept. -New&RenewableEnergy,Environmental -Projectgroup -KEPCOE&CPowerEngineering -ProjectManagementDept. TechnologyDept. TrainingCenter -EngineeringITDept. -EPCBusinessDept. -PowerEngineeringResearchInstitute -Projectgroup -NuclearSafetyEngineeringCenter II. Business site overview Domestic • •Headquarters:2354,Yonggudaero,Guheung-gu,Yongin-si,Gyeonggi-do Direction of organizational changes •BundangOffice(Annex):BundangMTower,8Gumi-ro,Seongnam-si,Gyeonggi-do Increasereliabilityofnuclearpowersafety,minimizedesignerrors,establishsuccessfulEPCimplementationstructure •DaejonOffice:989-113,Daedeokdae-ro,Yuseoung-gu,Daejon •newly established the “nuclear Power Design safety Center” responsible for nuclear safety issues('11.10) KEPCOE&CoperatesofficesinmajorcountriesintheMiddleEast,AfricaandAsiain •EPC Technology group created to vitalize and accrue EPC related technology ('12.7) ordertoprovidesupportfortheUAEArchitectEngineeringproject,GhanaTakoradi •Project support Department created for efficient EPC business ('13.1) EPCworksandactasbasesforfurtherdevelopmentofoverseasmarkets. ⊙ Overseasofficesandbranches Manpower that possesses the world’s leading power plant engineering expertise Totalpersonnel 2,167persons (AsofAril,2013) UAEBranchOffice Location Yong-InHeadquarters Dae-jeonBusinessSite DomesticField Overseas Thenumberofpeople 1,714 347 68 38 IndustrialEngineer Technician:1,704(78.63%) 487(22.47%) Others:170(7.84%) Researcher:206(9.51%) Docter:120(5.54%) OtherCertificates Office:252(11.63%) 102(4.71%) Personnel by Master:539(24.87%) Personnel by Personnel by Executive:5(0.23%) Educational Qualification & ProfessionalEngineer Occupational Background Certificate 270(12.46%) IndonesiaLiaisonOffice GhanaBranch Bachelor:1,338(61.74%) PE※/PMP※ 568(26.21%) ※ Non-certified : 740(34.15%) ※ PE:ProfessionalofEngineer SaudiArabiaBranch PMP:ProjectManagementProfessional 14 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Humaneering KEPCO E&C 15 Nation Name Address Main Business Core Financial Indicators • UAE KEPCO E&C UAE branch #106, SJ Tower , Airport Road, Abu Dhabi, UAE Projects for UAE Nuclear (KEPCO E&C-Abu Dhabi) P.O.Box 32562 Power Plant and Business Development in Northern Category 2010 2011 2012 Africa Stability Current Ratio 218.69% 166.33% 161.64% Saudi Arabia KEPCO E&C Saudi Arabia branch Room No.305, Akaria Plaza BLDG, Olaya, Street, Riyadh Business Development in (Branch of KEPCO PO Box 301186, Riyadh 11372, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Middle East and Northern Debt Ratio 67.98% 94.90% 102.33% Engineering & Construction Africa Company Inc.) Total Borrowings to Total Assets 0.00% 0.70% 0.60% Ghana KEPCO E&C Ghana branch Aboadze Thermal Power Staition Beach side, Takpradi, Takoradi EPC and Business Profitability Operating Profit Margin 19.34% 20.58% 19.49% (KEPCO Engineering & Ghana. P.O. Box AX 1674 Takoradi Development in Africa Construction Company Inc.) Net Return on Sales 16.58% 17.50% 17.10% Indonesia (KEPCO E&C Liaison Office) Wisma GKBI Lt.15, Suite 1505 JL.Jend. Sudirman Business Development in Net Return on Equity 28.30% 30.58% 31.53% (KEPCO Engineering & No.28, Bendungan Hilir,Tanah Abang, Jakarta 10210 East-south Asia Construction Company Inc.) INDONESIA Activity Total Asset Turnover Ratio 1.08 times 1.01 times 0.98 times Receivables Turnover 8.77 times 9.05 times 9.78 times Inventory Turnover Ratio 217.77 times 835.81 times 31,250.83 times Growth Sales Growth 31.16% 14.34% 18.44% Growth Rate of Operating Income 76.14% 20.60% 12.22% Economic Value Creation III. Management Growth Rate of Net Income 70.92% 20.72% 15.69% • Performance (Unit: KRW 100 million) Category 2010 2011 2012 As a result of KEPCO E&C’s efforts to protect the interests of its stakeholders, it has Income Sales 5,801 6,633 7,856 Statement maintained the highest level of financial stability in the industry. KEPCO E&C will perating Income 1,122 1,365 1,531 continue to work towards balancing distribution of value through economic growth with Net Income 962 1,161 1,343 economic stability. KEPCO E&C has achieved significant management accomplishments in the last three Distribution of Financial Value years. In particular, KEPCO E&C experienced continued annual growth and achieved • (Unit: KRW 1 million) record sales of 785.6 billion KRW in 2012. Category Category 2010 2011 2012 In addition, through strengthening management stability through such actions as cost Government Corporate Tax 32,674 37,832 41,487 reduction, KEPCO E&C was able to maintain an operating profit ratio of roughly 20% Employees Salary and B enefits 167,502 175,639 183,655 annually. Shareholder Dividend 70,592 81,256 73,841 Community Donation 330 1,515 1,089 KEPCO E&C will continue to be a leader in the age of creative economy based on a balance of qualitative and quantitative growth through increased profitability and Remarks: Data in 2010 was reported in line with K-GAAP. internal stability. 01.2 16 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Humaneering KEPCO E&C 17 KEPCO E&C’s Vision and Strategy Structure In 2012, KEPCO E&C chose “Internal Stability for Sustainable Growth” as its guiding KEPCO E&C Harmonizing Humanity, the Environment and Engineering III. 2  013 Management Ideology management principle and secured the platform for entering the global market. In (Humaneering) Objectives 2013, “Dynamic Creativity for the Future” will be the guiding management principle 2020 Vision Global Power EPC enterprise, pledges to embody customer value and action items have been determined accordingly. with its world-class technology Successful Implementation Strengthening Global 2020 Vision of Core Business and Advanced Management Execution Ability Increase Core Value Quality Reinforcement Capacity Global Top 5 Power EPC Leader •Strengthening Total Solution •Observing Plant design •Establishing of Global Business process Advanced Management Challenge Professionalism Communication •Expanding into Global •Observing the review period System Market of supplier documents •Strengthening •Developing Sustainable •Observing the site design Management Capacity Strategic Sales EPC Sales Global Operating Technology review process ROIC “KRW 5 “KRW 4 Sales Profit Margin Mid-Long Term “10%” Trillion” Trillion” “70%” “8.5%” Goal Strategic Strengthening Total Expansion into Global Sustainable Technology Mid-Long Term Solution Business Market Development Direction In order to achieve sustainable management through Vision 2020, KEPCO E&C has IV. S ustainable Strengthening Management Capacity developed a sustainable management structure aligned with the firm’s mid to longManagement Structure term management structure and is systematically implementing management activities that fulfill its social responsibility. KEPCO E&C’s management philosophy of Humaneering harmonizing ‘humanity, the I. Management Environment and Engineering,’ embodies KEPCO E&C’s commitment to creating a Philosophy sustainable future where all our stakeholders can share value. 2020 Vision Global Power EPC enterprise, pledges to embody customer value with its world-class technology KEPCO E&C declared its 2020 NEW VISION on October 1st, 2009 in order to strengthen II. VISION 2020 and expand its world-class core capacities in planning and engineering technologies it General New Power Green Power Win-Win Power Strategic accrued over the past 38 years in light of changes in the global environment, launching Direction it as a global power plant EPC firm. Economy Strengthening Global Power Environment Strengthening Economy Strengthening Global Power EPC Capacity Eco-friendly Technology EPC Capacity 5 trillion KRW in sales, EPC related sales of 4 trillion KRW, overseas sales of 70% were Detailed Strengthening Increasing Expanding Developing Strengthening Expanding Enhancing Expanding Strategic Total Eco-friendly Eco-friendly Employee's set as targets for 2020. Strengthening ‘Total Solution Business,’ ‘Expansion into Global into Global Sustainable Shared Trust-based Direction Solution Level of Market Technology System Business Growth Management Business Satisfaction Market,’ ‘Development of Sustainable Technologies,’ and ‘Solidification of Management Foundation,’ were set as mid to long-term strategic directions and action items. Action •Expanding •Expanding •Enhancing •Enhancing •Strengthening the •Enhancing •Enhancing •Improving Items EP(CM) of cooperative nuclear environmental clean-air business nuclear Win-Win Customer strategic system power management (Environmental power Management Satisfaction nuclear for global technology organization and Business) technology System •Enhancing Sales Global Sales EPC Sales power business for export awareness for export •Expanding •Building Sustainable (Unit: KRW 1 trillion) (Unit: KRW 1 trillion) (Unit: KRW 1 trillion) business •Enhancing and future •Systemizing Business for and future Shared business 52,546 differentiation •Enhancing environmental Climate Change •Enhancing Growth information 37,561 •Expanding 35,988 business for strategies for plant/green management data Response(Green plant/green Program for disclosure global market technology system Business) technology Strategic 7,856 plant EPC entry •Obtaining •Expanding •Enhancing R&D •Getting EPC Partners •Enhancing transparent/ 6,633 5,802 3,329 •Enhancing EPC EPC environmental of Eco-friendly Technology •Systemizing ethical/quality Technology activities in site technology CSR management 2,210 business 1,224 1,558 capacity Strategies and •Enhancing Risk 438 676 Management Programs System ’10 ’11 ’12 ’20(E) ’10 ’11 ’12 ’20(E) ’10 ’11 ’12 ’20(E) 01.3 18 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Humaneering KEPCO E&C 19 Governance KEPCO E&C has established transparent and trustworthy governance by operating Appointment of Executive Directors & Remuneration Board of Directors, the recommendation of the President Nomination Committee, non• executive director system and such. In line with electing qualified directors who are expected to make contributions to the company's sustainable growth and national development, the CEO is selected Current shareholding structure during the General Meeting of shareholders on the recommendation of the President I. Shareholders • Nomination Committee. Evaluations for Public Agency Executive Capacity are As of December 31, 2012, the largest shareholder of KEPCO E&C is KEPCO with the performed and final decision on the selection of directors is made at the General rest of its shares owned by Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute, Employee Stock Meeting of Shareholders. Ownership Association, and general investors. Classification Nomination Appointment CEO President Nomination Committee the General Meeting of Shareholding Structure Shares shareholders The number of 38,220,000 shares Executive Directors CEO the General Meeting of listed stocks shareholders The date of flotation 2009.12.14 Non-executive Directors The largest shareholder, CEO the General Meeting of KEPCO shareholders 74.86% The date of flotation 7,664,000 shares (20% of listed stocks) Remuneration for directors includes basic annual salary, performance-based salary, and severance pay. It can be paid in connection with the company’s managerial Shares performance within the maximum limits of compensation that was approved in Employee Stock Ownership Association 0.9% Year 2009 2010 2011 2012 the General Meeting of shareholders. Executive directors needs to accomplish General Investors 22.18% Payout assigned annual goals and performance is subject to evaluation, which reflects their 50% 50% 70% 55% Ratio performance-based salary. For outside directors, a pre-determined amount of money Korea Atomic Energy Research Institute 2.06% allotted for official activities is paid every month. Protection of shareholders' rights and interests • Operation of Board of Directors KEPCO E&C has respected the shareholders' right to information by accurately • providing key information through Annual Report, ALIO System which is a public KEPCO E&C’s Board of Directors meetings are held with a majority of directors in institution management information system, the General Meeting of shareholders, IR, attendance and decisions are made with the approval of the majority. Furthermore, and its webpage. special regulations are made in the Article of Incorporation so that directors who have interests in agendas do not participate in the voting process, basically to prevent conflicts of interest among directors. Also, a Self-Evaluation System for an efficient operation of each director was established to gather information and diagnose its Structure of board of directors operational status and vulnerabilities so that the board of director’s reputation is II. Board of Directors substantially recognized. As of 2013, e-Directors webpage has been started to operate. • KEPCO E&C’s Board of Directors is the highest decision-making body that examines and determines vital matters related to corporate management. The Board of Directors KEPCO E&C e-BOD webpage consists of executive directors and non-executive directors. Among them, four executive Performance of 2012 Board of Directors' activities directors are internal directors including the CEO and the number of non-executive • directors who have special knowledge of their own special area is 6 persons. NonKEPCO E&C board of directors is operated to establish core management objective, executive directors hold more than a majority, which prevents arbitrary decision and working principles and monitor top management team's activities. In 2012, nine board execution of top management teams. Also, for responsible management, the chairman of directors meeting were opened to resolve important matters. Related contents are of the board is the CEO. Profiles of each director and minutes of the meeting of the found on the corporate webpage, public institution management information system, board of directors are open on KEPCO E&C’s homepage at www.kepco-enc.com and Alio, and the 2012 Annual Report. through public institution management information ALIO system. 01.4 20 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Humaneering KEPCO E&C 21 Stakeholder Engagement KEPCO E&C recognizes employees, customers, the government, shareholders and Materiality Test Results I. Stakeholder investors, business partners and the local community as its stakeholders and listens to Test period : 2013. 04. 15 ~ 2013. 05. 15 Identification their opinions and comments regarding important business issues through a variety of Responders : KEPCO E&C employees (30 persons), external stakeholders (15 persons) communication channels. ● Stakeholder ● KEPCO E&C Responsibility ● Communication Channel 5.00 Core issue reported •Governmental Workspace Portal •Seminar, Conference •ALIO(Public institution management information system) 4.50 •Observing •Visit Consultation Governmental Policy •Achieving Foundation Goal •Board of Directors •General Meetings of All Shareholders •Corporate Presentation 4.00 •Sustaining Financial •Business Report Soundness •ALIO(Public institution management Go •Enhancing information system) ve rn Profitability •Management Assessment men t r& olde •One-day Teacher for Nuclear Energy h are r Business Partners Sh esto •Cooperative •Online Ombudsman 3.50 Inv External Evaluation Management •Conference among SMEs and Large •Fair Transaction Enterprise s Busines •Reliable Relationship •CEO consultative group Partners •Complaint Handling System •Community •ALIO (public institution management Community Development 3.00 information system) 3.50 4.00 4.50 5.00 •Social Responsibility •Relationship with Local Communities Internal Evaluation •Environmental •Volunteering Em Protection plo •One-day Teacher for Nuclear Energy yee Business Partners Cu st •Fair Performance Core Issue Eported Contents Page om •Survey on Employee Satisfaction er Assessment and Incentive •Labor Consultation Committee, and Gathering ❶ Creating Economic Value Sales, Amount of Order, Current Net Income, and etc 12, 13, 84 •Balance between Work •Training Program for Vision Sharing and and Life ❷ Cultivation of the Sound Governance Independence of and Transparency in Board of directors 16, 17 Communication •Capacity Building Establishment of Ethical Management Promotion System, Internalization 39, 40, 41, 42 •Company Intranet ❸ Ethical Management in Practice •Company Newsletter Program •Training Program for Vision Sharing and ❹ Increase in Quality Capacity Technical Development, Quality Renovation of the whole process of EPC 43, 44, 45, 46 Communication ❺ Establishment of the Advanced-Green Establishment of the Green Management Strategy and Objective, 56, 57 •Customer Satisfaction Management System Management of Achievement •Safety Design ❻ Education and Training Program Provision for Education Program for Human Resources Development 63,64,65 •Visit Consultation Employees •ALIO(Public institution management information system) •Brochure, Homepage ❼ Expansion of Communication with Employees Grievance procedure for employees, Managing Communication Channel 18 •Survey on Customer Satisfaction ❽ Observance of the Fair Trade Pledge of abiding by the Fair Contracts, Information Offering, and etc 74, 75, 76, 77 ❾M  arket Entry Countries, Observing the Local Law Market Entry Countries, Observing the Local Law 27, 28, 29, 77 22 2012KEPCOE&CSustainabilityReport 02 NeW poWeR KEPCOE&C,inaccordancewiththeinternationalstandardforsustainabilityreporting, II. Materiality Test GlobalReportingInitiative(GRI)hasconductedaMaterialityTestonourstakeholders. IndexDevelopmentfor AnalyzingtheResultof ConductingMaterialityTest MaterialityTest MaterialityTest •GRI(GlobalReporting •ConductingMaterialityTestto •Comparingtheinternal Initiative)Index Stakeholders resultofmaterialitytest Reconstitution withtheexternalone •MediaAnalysis(’11.01~’13.03) •Selecting32Evaluation For one month(’13.4.15~’13.5.15), •Drawing9highrankindices Indices stakeholder survey(30 internal after comparing the survey Based on global standards stakeholders, 15 external ones) results of the internal and industrial trend, major 32 was conducted for materiality test. stakeholder and external one, sustainability issues related to 9 high rank indices which KEPCO E&C were selected. stakeholder most focused on were selected. III. Materiality Test Basedonthe2012KEPCOE&CMaterialityTest,atotalof9materialissueswere identifiedforreporting.Bothinternalandexternalstakeholdersidentifiedeconomic Results valuecreationasthemostmaterialissuewithstablegovernancestructureand implementationofethicsmanagementalsobeingspecifiedasmaterialtoKEPCOE&C. KEPCOE&Cwillconcentrateonapplyingtheseresultstoitssustainablemanagement andwillcontinuouslymanageandimproveontheseaspects. 02.1 24 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report NEW POWER 25 Strengthening Total Solution Business KEPCO E&C has been responsible for both total engineering of nuclear power plants The Excellence of KEPCO E&C’s Korean Nuclear Power Plants I. Nuclear Power and nuclear reactor systems and since its establishment in 1975, it has designed all • nuclear power plants in Korea since designing Hanbit units 3&4. KEPCO E&C’s Korean nuclear power plants have proven globally to exceed those of countries like the United States and France that have traditionally led this field in both low construction cost and unexpected outage rate making them more economical and safer. Nuclear Core technology that only Construction of the matchless Synthesis Design Unit Cost of Nuclear Power Station Unexpected Outrage Rate(%) Steam Supply few agencies securing the position in domestic nuclear Engineering Construction ($/kW) 9.1 System(NSSS) market in nuclear industry power plant design of Power Design 3,582 Plant(A/E) 3,050 2,900 2,900 5.0 2,300 2.4 1975~1985 1985~2000 2000~ 0.4 1.6 •Strong Governmental Policy of Training •Full-out Localization of Design •Achievement of Overseas Exports Technical Manpower (Dispatched Engineering (Accomplished technology (Passed down experiment, technology Korea France Japan Russia U.S.A Korea U.S.A Russia Japan France manpower to the advanced countries in independence: more than 95%) and exported the independent reactor nuclear power plant technology) •Selection of prime contractors for type •Participation in domestic nuclear power synthesis nuclear power station design •Re-exportation nuclear power plant KEPCO E&C’s Domestic Nuclear Power Plant Business Performance plant design engineering engineering and reactor system design technology to Westinghouse in U.S. Dispatched manpower to foreign •Korean standard nuclear power station •Winning overseas contracts via • technology corporations (e.g., Bechtel U.S.) development(Optimized Power Reactor) international competitive bids KEPCO E&C was responsible for designing 25 of the 28 nuclear power plants in (UAE nuclear power plant, Greece GRR1 Research Reactor) operation in Korea as of July 2013. KEPCO E&C contributed to the stabilization of electricity distribution in Korea by completing construction on Shin-Kori Units 1~2 and Shin-Wolsong Unit 1. In addition, KEPCO E&C has continuously worked to obtain and develop core technologies for nuclear power and as a result, was able to achieve independent Korean Standard Nuclear Power Plant Design Engineering Development nuclear power plant design capability. KEPCO E&C is now able to export Korean Nuclear Power Plants freely in the global market without being reliant on foreign APR+ Improved APR technology. APR 1400 Advanced Power Reactor 1400 Domestic Nuclear Power Station Improved OPR 1000 OPR 1000 OPTIMIZED Power Reactor 1000 28 UNITS (Total) Independent Design Engineering Shin-Hanul Units 1 & 2 Joint Design Engineering Step 01 Step 02 Step 03 Step 04 Hanul Units 1~6 Designed by Foreign Companies •Safety enhancement •Optimization of building •Bulk capacity of 1,400MW •Advanced power reactor •Convenience arrangement design reactor export strategy (1,500MW) enhancement of •Optimization of system •Unique model nuclear construction, operation, design and capacity of power that safety and maintenance generating plant efficiency were dramatically Shin-Wolsong Units 1 & 2 •Hanbit Units 3~6, •Shin-Kori Units 1 & 2, improved •Hanul Units 3~6 •Shin-Wolsong Units 1 & 2 •Shin-Kori Units 3~6 Wolsong Units 1~4 •Shin-Hanul Units 1 & 2 •UAE BNPP Units 1~4 Shin-Kori Units 1~4 Hanbit Units 1~6 Kori Units 1~4 26 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report NEW POWER 27 Korean Standard Design Engineering Technology for Coal Thermal Power Generation Performance of Nuclear Power Plant Design Engineering Engineering 1,000MW Units Under APR+ 2012 Securing original Standard Coal development technologies Thermal Power 32 800MW (Advanced Power Reactor1400) UAE BNPP 1~4 Standard Coal Under Shin-Hanul 1,2 Securing Global Thermal Power Construction Competitiveness (9 Units) 500MW Shin-Kori 3,4 Standard Coal 24 Thermal Power (Improved Optimized Power Reactor) Shin-Wolsong 1,2 200MW Enhancement of Design Standard Coal Engineering Technology Shin-Kori 1,2 Thermal Power 20 (Optimized Power Reactor) Hanul 5,6 Under Step 01 Step 02 Step 03 Step 04 Operation Technological independence Hanbit 5,6 (23 Units) of Design Engineering •Circulation fluid bed •Using super critical •Improvement of thermal •Ultra super critical boiler system pressure steam and high efficiency by increasing pressure high efficiency Hanul 3,4 14 •Compatibility efficiency operation steam temperature •Bulk capacity(1,000MW) Introducing technology and improvement of •Eco-friendly construction •3D CAD Model •Dangjin Units 9 & 10 Hanbit 3,4 Promoting its independence fuel for use(Utilizing •Boryeong Units 3~8 •Yeongheung Units 1~4 ShinBoryeong Units 1 & 2 12 domestic anthracite) Taean Units 1~8 Depending on Foreign Design Kori Units 1,2,3,4 / Hanbit 1,2/ Hanul 1,2/ Wolsong 1,2,3,4 •Donghae Units 1 & 2 Dangjin Units 1~8 Engineering Yeongwol Unit 3 ’70 ’80 ’90 ’00 ’10 ’20 ※ Kori Unit 1, 2 and Wolsong Unit1-performed by other companies 1975~1985 1985~2000 2000 ~ KEPCO E&C’s Domestic Thermal Power Plant Business Performance • •Strong Governmental Policy of training Technical •Full-out Localization of Design Engineering •Achievement of Overseas Exports (Passed As of July 2013, 38 thermal power plants are in operation at present and KEPCO Manpower (Dispatched manpower to the (Accomplished technology independence: down experiment, technology and exported advanced countries in nuclear technology) more than 95%) the independent reactor) E&C is working towards building a landmark for the 21st century that lead the world in efficiency, eco-friendliness and economical with these efforts being applied to the 1,000MW scale plants in Dangjin Units 9 and 10 and Shin-Boryeong Units 1 and 2. KEPCO E&C offers total solution services for coal thermal plants based on its best-inBased on the internationally recognized standard Korean coal thermal power plant II. Thermal Power class domestic technology and is exporting this technology throughout the world. design technology, KEPCO E&C is able to design economic and eco-friendly thermal power plants. Excellence of KEPCO E&C’s Standard Coal Thermal Power Plant Design Technology • As a result of KEPCO E&C’s development of thermal power plant design technology tailored to customer needs, it was able to achieve independent design capabilities for a standardized 500MW scale plant in 1995 and 800MW scale standardized coal thermal plant in 2004. 95.8% independence has been achieved in the 1,000MW scale plant while designing Dangjin Units 9 and 10 and plans to achieve full independence by 2015. 02.2 28 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report NEW POWER 29 Expansion into the Global Market Exporting Korean Nuclear Power Plants – Design for UAE BNPP (Barakah Performance of Thermal Power Plant Design Engineering I. Engineering Project Nuclear Power Plant) • Units The next generation technology development Under High-efficiency of the KEPCO E&C is providing the design for UAE BNPP Units 1~4, the first export of Korean for thermal power generation development future 48 nuclear power plants. 1000MW KSFP Construction Taean Units 9,10 Shin-Boryeong Units 1,2 Under Bulk capacity of thermal UAE BNPP project obtained the construction permit in July 2012 and work has construction power generation Samcheok Units 1,2 (9 Units) progressed on schedule with geological surveys for Units 3 and 4 being completed in Dangjin Units 9,10 August 2012. 40 800MW KSFP Upgraded Yeongheung Units 1,2/Yeongheung Units 3, 4 / Capacity Yeongheung Units 5, 6 KEPCO E&C has gained global recognition of its technology in its successful execution 34 500MW KSFP Improved Boryeong Units 7,8 /Hadong Units 7, 8 Ultra super critical of Korea’s first nuclear reactor export. KEPCO E&C will continue its efforts to expand Construction pressure thermal power Dangjin Units 7,8/Taean Units 7,8 generation its presence in the global nuclear power plant market. Dangjin Units 5,6 24 Under 500MW KSFP operation Super critical pressure Samcheonpo Units 5,6 /Dangjin Units 3,4 / Construction Taean Units 5,6 /Hadong Units 5,6 (23 Units) thermal power generation Hadong Units 1,2,3,4 /Dangjin Units 1,2 Taean Units 1,2,3,4/Samcheonpo Units 3,4 4 Introducing technology Boryeong Units 3,4,5,6 and Promoting its independence ’85 ’90 ’95 ’00 ’05 ’10 ’15 ※ Yeongheung Unit 5,6-perforned by other companies Korean Standard Coal Thermal Power Plant ITER(International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor) Cable Engineering Services • 46 UNITS (Total) KEPCO E&C has seemlessly been executing the Cable Engineering Support Service (CESS) contract awarded by ITER, an international joint R&D project among 7 countries Coal Thermal Yeongheung Units 1~4 (Korea, USA, EU, Japan, China, Russia and India) with the goal of commercialization of Power Plant thermonuclear energy. Samcheok Units 1~2 500MW Dangjin Units 1~10 800MW Taean Units 1~10 KEPCO E&C was able to win this particular contract and additional contracts such as 1000MW Boryeong Units 3~8 the System Engineering Support (SES) contract based on successful implementation Shin-Boryeong Units 1~2 of previous ITER contracts including support of engineering electrical installations, development of detailed manuals and numerous other works. KEPCO E&C expects that its successful participation in ITER’s works will contribute Hadong Units 1~8 Samcheonpo Units 3~6 to development of future energy sourcse and Korea’s accumulation of thermonuclear technology. 30 2012KEPCOE&CSustainabilityReport nEW POWEr 31 Efforts to secure design certification for nuclear power plant exports KEPCOE&Cplanstosuccessfullycompletethisprojectandwillutilizeitsexperience • tosecurefurtherbusinessinGhanaandexpandintoWesternAfricaasawhole. Inordertomeettherequirementsinsomeinternationalbidding,KEPCOE&C isworkingtoobtainDesignCertification(DC)fromtheU.S.NuclearRegulatory Inaddition,KEPCOE&CwillcollaboratewithprivateKoreanfirmstojointlyenter CommissionandmeetEuropeanUtilityRequirements(EUR)throughtechnology theAfricanmarket,buildingthefoundationforpublic-privatepartnershipandwill developmentandadvancement. contributetothegrowthofrelatedindustriesexportingKoreangenerationequipment. Throughtheseefforts,KEPCOE&CwasabletodevelopdomesticAPR1400reactor technologyandobtainDesignCertificationfromboththeU.S.andEurope,confirming thehighleveloftechnologicalexpertiseandstabilityonagloballevel.Thiswillfurther enhanceKEPCOE&C’sabilitytoexportKorea’snuclearpowerplanttechnologytoAsia, Europeandothernewdiverseinternationalmarkets. II. EPC Project KEPCO E&C supplies thermal power plant equipment to Turkey Tufanbeyli • KEPCOE&CwonthecontractinSeptember2011topurchaseandsupplyfacilities andequipment,includingdesulfurizationfacilities,electricprecipitators,andcoalhandlingfacilitiesrequiredfortheconstructionoftheplantandhasbeenfulfillingits responsibilitieswithrespecttothisproject. TheTufanbeyliprojectcallsfortheconstructionofthree150MW-classunitsinmining areasinTufanbeyli,some350kmsoutheastoftheTurkishcapitalofAnkaraandisthe firstlarge-scalepurchaseprojectKEPCOE&Cwasawardedsinceitstransformation intoanEPCcompanyin2009. KEPCOE&Cisconcentratingitseffortsonafirm-widescaletocontinueitsexpansion intotheglobalEPCmarketandwillleveragethisexperiencetoenhanceitsglobal purchaseandsupplycapabilities. Ghana Takoradi T2 Expansion Project • TheGhanaTakoradiT2powerplantexpansionprojectisKEPCOE&C’sfirstoverseas EPCprojectthatithasundertaken.Thisprojectaimstoimprovethepoorelectricity supplysituationinGhanabyaddingasteamturbine(120MW),twoheatrecoverysteam generators(HRSGs)andaseawaterdirectcoolingsystemtotheexistingtwogas turbines(110MWeach)totheTakoradiT2plantinoperationinthewesternregionof Sharma. 02.3 32 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report NEW POWER 33 Securing Sustainable Technologies In order to secure future growth engines, KEPCO E&C has set “Developing Sustainable I. KEPCO E&C’s Technology Technology History Management System Technologies” as its mid to long-term technology development strategy and has set Management three strategic action plans to guide its development: 1) Securing export-based, nextgeneration nuclear technology, 2) Strengthening plant and eco-friendly technologies, Work Published Performance Technology in and 3) Securing EPC technologies. Thesis retention Holding Academic license Background Mid to Long-term Technology Development Strategy • Individual Career Investment in Technical KEPCO E&C has identified 7 focal technology development projects and 13 focal Management Career as Work of Development technology items to comprise its core technology development strategy and has Technology Scholarship (Unit: KRW 100 million) developed mid to long-term technology Road Maps for each project, commercialization Advisory Committee focused Research and Business Development (R&BD) projects and is implementing Activities Career as a top-down R&D structure to guide the direction of technological development and Awards 5,556 Instructor 496 strengthen its core capacities. 436 Efficient Manpower Input In addition, it has increased it annual technological development investment from 43.6 billion KRW in 2010 to 49.6 billion KRW in 2011 and to 55.6 billion KRW in 2012. This ’10 ’11 ’12 Technology Collaboration with Small & Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) investment continuously exceeds 7% of its total sales. • KEPCO E&C is making efforts to identify joint research opportunities with SMEs in order to create new growth engines by sharing developments with SMEs. In Establishing the Foundation for Technology Management this respect, KEPCO E&C has influenced regulatory policy to support technology • cooperation and has signed the contract for the joint R&D project “3D-based advanced KEPCO E&C has developed a Technology History Management system that allows pipe wall thinning management program development” that will act as a foundation for management of technologies possessed by employees, project performance data, both win-win growth with SMEs and develop future growth engines. academic accomplishments and research papers published allowing for efficient and effective management of its technological resources. 2012 Mid-Long Term Rolling Technology Development Strategy II. Status of Core Technology • Development Activities In response to the changes to the global and domestic situation brought on by the Fukushima Nuclear Power Plant accident and policy changes such as the introduction Development of Safety Analysis Technology of the Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS), KEPCO E&C strengthened its strategic Securing core technology •Secured original technology that allows for final confirmation of design safety and nuclear plant focus on improving nuclear safety technologies that can withstand natural and other for independent nuclear safety disasters. In addition, Site Decontamination and Dismantling Technology was added power plants design •Completed development of Safety Analysis Technology –SPACE and Safety Analysis Methodology •Reduces obstacles for exporting nuclear power plants by reducing foreign dependancy on Design to KEPCO E&C’s core technology portfolio, and IGCC, CCS, Offshore wind power Codes as it solves the problem of Code Restrictions in the License Agreement development to secure Plant and Green Technologies as a part of KEPCO E&C’s reestablishment of its technological development direction. Reactor Coolant Pump (RCP) Design Technology Development •Developed domestic RCP technology, which was traditionally monopolized by advanced foreign firms, allowing for technological independence from foreign technologies •Secured commercialization-ready design, manufacturing and testing capabilities and was applied to the development of the new APR+ type nuclear reactor •Will be able to contribute to import substitution by applying original RCP technology to future nuclear power plants 34 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report NEW POWER 35 EU-APR1400 Technology Development KEPCO E&C holds safety at the pinnacle of nuclear power plant design and has Develop Export-ready III. Design Safety •Developed U.S. based APR1400 technology suited to meet EUR certification standards enhanced general plant design concepts with nuclear power safety concepts to protect nuclear power plant •Strengthened its competitiveness in the global market and established a base for entering the technology humans and the environment from radiation. European nuclear power plant market • Submitted bid for the Olkiluoto Nuclear Power Plant, Unit 4 I (OL4) in Finland (January 2013) 01┃Nuclear Power Design Safety Targets and Concepts each Stage Obtained U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) Design Certificate (DC) •Obtained Design Certification necessary for entering the U.S. market Based on the following basic concept of nuclear power safety design, KEPCO E&C is •Established an entry point into the U.S. market and enhanced competitiveness of Korean implementing flawless design works. Nuclear Power Plants Developed next-generation Nuclear Power Plant APR+ Technology Develop Next-Generation •Obtained original nuclear reactor technology that removes export obstacles 3rd Stage: Nuclear Power Plants •Reduces construction time and increases safety through broader application of the passive Prevention safety system against leakage of radioactive •Strengthened technical and economic competitiveness compared to comparable reactor types material enhancing export capabilities 2nd Stage: •Utilizing a defense-in-depth concept Research and Development of Seismic Isolation System Prevention •Application of engineered safety feature •KEPCO E&C led a joint between the government and 6 institutions against accident & its expansion such as emergency core cooling •Led a Seismic Isolation expert group from the IAEA based on acquisition of commercial design and high oscillation range expertise 1st Stage: •Early detection of abnormal symptoms •Gained a competitive edge for development of Seismic Isolation technology for APR1400 and Precaution in equipment and devices export to countries with high earthquake frequency against malfunction & accident •Reactor emergency shutdown Development of Carbon Capture & Storage Design Technology (CCS) •Rigid standards Securing Plant• •Developing 3 types of CCS technologies : Capture process using dry regenerable sorbent, Capture •Automatic safety protection system Green Core Technology process using amine-based sorbent, Pre-Combustion CO₂ Capture process •Building the base for commercialization by developing and demonstrating a CO₂ capture process •Facilities for blocking mistaken operation integrated with the overall process of the power plant and its basic design •Securing original technology by registering CO₂ capture process copyrights (1 registered, 2 applied)  evelopment of Next-generation Coal-Fired Power Generation Technologies D IGCC, SNG 1st Stage Precaution against •The most conservative standards in plant malfunction & accident design •Built the foundation for IGCC generation by providing architect/engineering services for Korea’s •Automatic safety protection system first IGCC Pilot Plant, a 300MW scale plant in Taean and facilities for preventing unexpected •Developed engineering standards and optimal engineering technologies for Substitute Natural malfunction and accidents Gas (SNG) Plants and created a launchpad for securing technology base and entry points for SNG by executing related projects in Boryeong and Indonesia 2nd Stage Prevention against •Early detection of abnormal symptoms accident & its expansion in equipment and devices and reactor Foundation for Offshore Wind Power Design Technology emergency shutdown •Installed meteorological tower and provided architect/ engineering services for the Jeju Offshore Wind Power Project which will be the basis of KEPCO E&C’s entry into the wind power 3rd Stage Prevention against •Utilizing a defense-in-depth concept in accident & its expansion order not to let radioactive materials to be industry released •Set plans for each phase in offshore wind power engineering and construction starting with •Application of engineered safety feature securing design and procurement technologies, plant construction and plant operation such as emergency core cooling technology ※ APR : Advanced Power Reactor, Korea Standard Nuclear Power Plant IGCC : Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle 36 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report NEW POWER 37 02┃Safety System Characteristics Performance of Thermal Power Plant Design Engineering In designing nuclear power plants, KEPCO E&C applies safety systems that will prevent operator error or equipment malfunction from escalating into serious accidents. The fifth barrier (120cm Reinforced concrete) The fourth barrier (6mm steel plate) Redundancy The third barrier (25cm reactor vessel) • KEPCO E&C installs two or more of the same equipment/facility in order to ensure that The second barrier Fuel there is at least one is operational and can maintain safety system functions. Cladding(fuel rod) The first barrier – Nuclear (pellet) Independency • 2 systems or facilities or equipment with the same function are installed separately in order to prevent exposure to the same factors for malfunction. This will ensure that 03┃Securing Reliability of Safety Systems and Nuclear Power Plant Safety if malfunction is caused by a particular reason, this will not effect the other duplicate In order to enhance reliability in the design, procurement and construction of safety facility or equipment and the safety function will maintain its function. systems, KEPCO E&C has strict requirements for types of material, conditions of use, stress limits and also requires verification of seismic design and resistance to natural disasters. Diversity • In particular, five-layer safety barriers are built into the design to prevent nuclear KEPCO E&C installs two or more systems or facilities with different characteristics to radiation leaks and stringent geological studies are performed in the site selection maintain safety system functionality. process to ascertain the risk of possible earthquakes and sites are selected that are located on stable bedrock. Nuclear power plants are designed to withstand strong earthquakes of roughly 7 on the Richter scale. Multiple Barrier Technology • KEPCO E&C includes multiple safety barriers in nuclear plant design to prevent 04┃Nuclear Safety in the Aftermath of the Fukushima Nuclear Power radioactive materials from escaping the plant. Accident in Japan In light of the Fukushima accident, KEPCO E&C conducted safety inspections on The importance of installing multiple barriers, especially that of the barrier all domestic nuclear power plants and also ran EU Stress Tests as well. Based on surrounding the containment building, was proven by the Three Mile Island accident these tests, KEPCO E&C identified points for improvement and applied this to design in the United States and Chernobyl in the former Soviet Union. In the Chernobyl immediately in order to prevent leakages of radioactive materials from the reactor Nuclear Power Plant, the containment building was not built with barriers that could core. withstand pressure allowing radioactive materials to leak into the general population. In comparison, in the case of the Three Mile Island Nuclear Power Plant, radioactive To prepare for large-scale natural disasters from leading to accidents, KEPCO E&C is material was captured in the containment building minimizing external impact. evaluating extending sea walls and installing flood gates. In addition, utilizing mobile generation vehicles to provide emergency electricity needed to maintain cooling for the reactor core and spent fuel rods, securing storage batteries, securing external cooling flow path, and obtaining emergency cooling water sources are also being examined. In addition, in order to maintain the stability of the containment building and increase emergency response capabilities for multiple-unit accidents, installation of a nonelectric severe accident hydrogen removal facility in nuclear power plant design. 02.4 38 2012KEPCOE&CSustainabilityReport nEW POWEr 39 Reinforcing Management Stability –RiskManagement KEPCOE&Cestablishedthefirm-wideEnterpriseRiskManagement(ERM)System PerformanceofThermalPowerPlantDesignEngineering 56short-andlong-termimprovementmeasures I. Operation of in2010toenhanceitsriskmanagementcapabilities.Thissystemiscomprisedof ❶ Extensiontheseawallfrom7.5mto10m Firm-Wide Risk ordermanagement,riskmanagementforeachprojectphase,andcorporaterisk ❷ Securingthemovablevehicle-mountedgenerator Management System managementwhichcoversriskmanagementrelatedtothecompaniesfinancial ❸ BuildingFlooddoortoproofimmersion(e.g.,EmergencyDiesel accounts. Containment building Generator) ❹ Securingemergencystoragebatteryatsafetyzonefromflooding Pressurizer Project Risk Management steam Control Makediversedrainagepumpwaterproof Movable vehiclegenerator rod • mounted generator storage ❺ BuildingPAR*whichisoperablewithoutpower,Preventing battery Pump KEPCOE&C,managesrisksregardingtheexecutionofprojectsincludingcontract, ❻ hydrogenexplosion technology,client/hostcountry,stakeholderandfundingrisksbyidentifyinginternal Turbine Buildingfilterandexhaustfacilitiesforradioactivematerialto andexternalpotentialrisks,evaluatingtheserisksandcreatingaresponseplanto sea wall reactor ❼ preventexcessivepressurerisingofcontainmentbuilding nuclear Drainage Diesel vessel reactor mitigateorhandlesuchrisks. pump generator Risk Management System Management sea Plant site More than KRW 1.1 trillion invested over 5 years Project 01┃ProjectRiskSelf 02┃ProjectRiskIndex(PRI) Risk ProjectRiskManagement Assessment(PRSA) Management •Project Modeling •identify quantitative risk index BasicData Self Loss •identify risks stage-by-stage •Define the property of each index Management Assessment RiskIndex Management •Common •risk profile •Create risk •Project loss 05┃EstablishingSafetyCulture criteria •assessment index data KEPCOE&Cisstrivingtoobtainthehighestlevelofdesignqualityinordertocultivate 03┃ProjectCash-flow 04┃ProjectLoss information report •Monitoring of •Monitoring asafetycultureinwhichsafetycomesfirst.InadditionKEPCOE&Chasproactively Management(PCM) Management(PLM) •Project risk index •Calculate risk-based •Define project loss issue •risk respondedtoheightenedglobalandlocaldemandsforsafetyinnuclearpowerplant Management cash-flow management constructionandoperationintheaftermathofFukushima.Asapartofthisresponse, KEPCOE&CcreatedadepartmentdevotedtoNuclearDesignSafetythatwillspearheadtheembeddingofasafetyculturethatisfitforglobalstandards. Corporate Risk Management • KEPCOE&C’scorporateriskmanagementframeworkcovers10areas;Audit,Legal, CEO Marketing,HumanResources,IT,Contract,Technology,StrategicPlanning,General Affairs,andFinancialAccounting.Thedepartmentresponsibleforeachtypeof NuclearDivision operationalrisksetsupriskindicatorsforeachissueandmonitorstheindicators regularlyinordertoformulatetheappropriatecountermeasures. PowerEngineering NuclearSafetyEngineering ResearchInstitute Center Corporate Risk Management Corporate Corporate •set up operational risk indicators for 10 Risk RiskIndex management areas Business Department safety Design Culture Team Management •identify property of each index Basic CorporateRisk Risk Information Index Managementand •Common criteria •Create risk index Countermeasures Engineering Department safety Equipment Diagnose Team information •Monitoring of risk •identify related Risk •identify and manage the economic/nonrisks •Corporate index Project advanced Design Development Management economic risk related to index •Countermeasures Operation risk Team •Come up with appropriate countermeasure andResponse Management and implementation and implement it Technical research 02.5 40 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report NEW POWER 41 Reinforcing Management Stability – Ethics Management e-Audit System BEST Ethics Management II. Operation of • KEPCO E&C’s ideal for BEST Ethics Management is that KEPCO E&C and its Corruption Risk PreKEPCO E&C focuses on preventing corruption instead of penalizing corrupt actions employees will maximize sustainable value by placing ethics at the core of their Control System after they have occurred. In order to prevent corruption effectively, KEPCO E&C standards in accordance with international standards and share all the company’s operates the e-Audit system to continuously monitor business aspects that are activities and achievements transparently with stakeholders. vulnerable to corruption risk. Once risk factors are detected through real-time monitoring, all audit capacity is focused on preventing the risks from materializing into problems. To achieve a corruption-free, clean KEPCO E&C, a department dedicated to Ethics I. E  thics Management Management has been newly established in addition to the Operating Committee System for Ethics Management which is headed by the CEO and comprised of the heads In order to address society’s call for transparent accounting and changes in the related of all departments. Furthermore, various ethics management practices have been III. Transparent Auditing legal framework, KEPCO E&C has set up an internal Accounting Management System implemented including the firm-wide signing of the Pledge for Ethics and Integrity and System and reports to the Board of Directors and Audit Committee every fiscal year. Based ethics management self-assesment. on this report, potential risks are identified and corrected and efforts to enhance the accuracy and transparency and prevent distortion. 2012’s annual assessment showed that all 451 of the assessment categories were of favorable standing and none of the 2020 Vision Global Power EPC enterprise, pledges to embody customer value with its world-class technology items were below the internal Accounting Management System’s standards. Vision Ethical Management Settlement with No Corruption •Enhance global competitiveness through the settlement of advanced ethical corporate culture •Create transparent corporate culture through the capacity enhancement of ethical area •Internalize ethical management and play a leading role as global corporation of customer/quality/environment ethics. Goal Achieve Global Advanced Ethical Establish Corporate Culture of Ethical Form a Social Consensus of Ethical Corporation Management Management Ethical Form a consensus through Improve external reliability Develop and implement of Systemize and Expand the Management Vision continuous education of transparent corporation Practice Program Culture Strategy BEST Ethical Management Anyone Anytime Anywhere Anything Strengthen Ethics of All Make Ethical Management Diversify Ethical Management Reinforce the Base of Ethical Employees Practice a way of life Activities Management Feedback Ethical Activities Ethical Mind Internal/External Evaluation of Corruption Risk Pre-Control System : e-Audit System •E-clean education system •5 Call a Day integrity/ethics •CTS system •E-audit system •KEPCO E&C integrity evaluation •Self assessment of integrity •E-audit system Best Ethical Management System Organization of Ethical Management Ethical Standards Ethical Infrastructure •Operating Committee for Ethics •Code of Ethics •Corporate campaign of integrity, ethics Management •The Charter of Customer Satisfaction •Ethical Management e-Clean education •Ethics Directors by Division (Dept.) Management system •Execution Group •The Charter of Transparent Society Practice in Electric Power Industry •The Charter of the True Love Volunteer Group 42 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report NEW POWER 43 Ethics Management Education The various ethics management programs are reflected in internal performance Ⅱ. BEST Ethics Management Ⅳ. BEST Ethics Management • evaluations through monitoring of external customer satisfaction surveys and internal Practical Education KEPCO E&C operates an online cyber ethics management education system called Assessment and integrity assessments. Methods to increase and improve integrity and ethics in the ‘e-Clean’ that provides constant access to training on ethics management. In 2012, not Feedback company are included in the following year’s ethics management plans to increase only were all employees subject to ethics management training, training was extended implementability and launch integrity and ethical management to the next level. Education Type The Number of to employees of business partners performing duties at KEPCO E&C. In order to Participants Audio-visual All Employees vitalize participation and increase the effectiveness of ethics management education, education various methods of evaluation and assesment were introduced. Internal Evaluation External Evaluation Cluster education 422 •Self assessment of integrity •Evaluation of KEPCO’s integrity level Carrying Forward Ethical •Evaluation of the Customer Satisfaction •Ethics Monitoring Management Plan for the Sexual Harassment Prevention Education Level •Integrity Monitoring which targets Next Year • •Running audit through E-audit visited customer through 5 Call a Day •Link with the performance by the Drawing Strategy Rolling and KEPCO E&C provides annual sexual harassment and sex trade prevention education Core Promotion Work reflection of KPI to all employees and business partners in order to instill a healthy value system and create a wholesome and comfortable corporate culture and promote and preserve human rights. In addition, sexual harassment and sex trade prevention education is linked with training for interns and new hires, and is required as part of the education credit bank Operation of the Popular Enmity Board system put in place for promotions in order to prevent this issue from becoming a blind V. Enhanced Operation • spot in corporate culture and ensuring that KEPCO E&C contributes to the promotion of Internal WhistleKEPCO E&C‘s “Popular Enmity Board” is a channel for reporting corruption, unfair of human rights in the workplace. Blowing business practices, demands for bribes and other complaints open to all stakeholders, 24 hours a day. Reports filed through this channel are investigated stringently and fairly and if the In order to promote an ethical mind-set in KEPCO E&C’s employees, a “Integrity contents of the report are found to be accurate, the related employee is penalized. The Ⅲ. BEST Ethics & Ethics Campaign Day” has been designated for sharing various ethics related identity of the reporter and the contents of the report are protected strictly and only Management Activities contents internally along with holding an Ethics Management Festival in which disclosed to relevant institutions when necessary as to prevent backlash as a result of employee participation is voluntary as a way of working towards embedding ethics in the report. management. Based on these activities, unethical practices are actively identified and fixed through the Ethics Management Reporting and Employee Suggestion System leading to increased employee participation. CEO Ethical Management Pledge(‘11.3.24) Award: Grand prize of the most respected companies(‘11.11.2) CEO Ethical Management Pledge(‘12.3.27) 02.6 44 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report NEW POWER 45 Reinforcing Management Stability – Quality Management Cooperation on Auditing of the Nuclear Power Plant Industry • Upon its establishment in 1975, KEPCO E&C also became the first company in Korea I. Q  uality Management KEPCO E&C has been part of a signed agreement to cooperate on audits related to to implement a Nuclear Power Quality Assurance System which is still in operation. System KEPCO E&C continues to strive for improved quality and gain quality competitiveness the nuclear power plant industry with ‘Korea Hydro and Nuclear Power,’ ‘KEPCO Plant Service and Engineering,’ ‘KEPCO Nuclear Fuel’, and ‘KEPCO Knowledge, Data by applying ISO 9001 requirements throughout the firm. & Network’ since October 2011 and has been participating in cooperative activities as a basis of this agreement. Based on this agreement, KEPCO E&C has expanded 56 shortand long-term improvement measures the range of internal reporting from within the firm to the entire nuclear power plant industry and as a result, has contributed to enhancing integrity and transparency within the industry. Project Process Project Planning Project Initiative Project KEPCO E&C has established and operates a Code of Conduct for Ethical Management Completion & VI. Disciplinary Customer Requirement •Marketing Project Customer Satisfaction Project Execution Follow-up to clearly provide an ethics standard by which employees should base their judgements Planning Punishment Policy •Proposal Construction/ Service and actions upon. In line with this, strong measures are taken against corruption and Managenent/ •Service Project Design Procurement Constrution Supervision other unethical actions. Management Management In 2012, the Code of Conduct was amended to expressly stipulate standards regarding disciplinary actions in addition to reinforcing these standards. The ‘Guidelines on Support Process reporting and whistle-blowing of work-related crimes committed by employees’ was Manamement Planning Human Resources Financial Resources Purchasing Cooperation established allowing the company to take firm action on a corporate level. Customer Support Technical Management Quality Management IT Management As a result of these firm regulations and clear communication of the firm’s anticorruption stance, there have been no reason for dismissals or other disciplinary actions to be taken as a result of employee corruption between 2008 and June 2013. KEPCO E&C has a dedicated Department, the Quality Assurance & HSE (Health, Safety II. Q  uality Management & Environmental) Department, which reports directly to the CEO that oversees the Organization company’s quality management. This department operates the company’s quality management system, performs quality audits, provides support for technical aspects of design quality and other firm-wide quality management activities. CEO Quality Assurance & HSE (Health, Safety & Environment) Department Quality Management Team Quality Assurance Team Quality Technology Team Safety & Environment Team •Nuclear Division •Plant Division •NSSS Division •Nuclear Division •Plant Division •Business Quality •Business Quality •Business Quality •Business Quality •Business Quality Assurance Director AssuranceDirector Assurance Director Technology Director Technology Director 46 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report NEW POWER 47 KEPCO E&C established the Quality Information System (QIS) in 2011 which allows it to In tandem with the Quality Assurance System, KEPCO E&C operates the Design III. Quality Information share information related to quality with external parties and business partners in realImprovement Control System as a comprehensive method of managing lessons System time. QIS is operated by Quality Assurance agents who perform quality management learned from previous projects in order to prevent the same issues from reoccurring in activities. These agents input, output, distribute and manage data on related processes future projects, which ensures continued improvements in quality. and in doing so, enhance execution capabilities, save time and increase design quality through real-time design management. Quality Management Training Automatically · manually •Sharing quality • collecting all the qualityA information through KEPCO E&C has operated “KEPCO E&C Quality Management Academy” since 2010 related information such as diverse report created on a task, interna · external audit · regular period and quality for all employees in order to embed quality management focus needed to execute EPC Collection of Application monitoring, customer survey Quality Data of Quality management review projects. The Academy offers lectures on cases of application of quality management and etc Data •Improving quality in EPC projects and formulating strategies to secure quality from internal and external Quality management system P Management C EPC experts in order to spread quality-mindedness throughout the firm and strengthen •Saving all the qualitySystem commitment to quality. •Analyzing related data related data, information Storage of Analysis of with a statistical analysis on quality standard and Quality Data Quality Data –Rapidly managing In addition, specialized training on domestic and foreign quality standards such as previous results of analysis abnormalities with a real ISO 9001, ASME NQA-1 and KEPIC QAP is provided along with KEPCO E&C’s Quality •Managing the database D time monitoring Management System structure and responsibilities of each unit of the organization in an effort to strengthen quality management capacity in staff executing design works. Operation and Improvement of Quality IV. Quality Management Management System Activities • KEPCO E&C establishes and implements Continual Improvement of Quality Management System quality policies and quality objectives to 2012 KEPCO E&C Quality Management Academy meet applicable statutory and regulatory Management •Customer Focus Quality requirements related to quality in both Responsibility Management •Responsibility, Authority domestic and foreign markets, including Developing Quality Inspectors and Quality Audit Specialists and Communication customer requirements. •Quality Management • Review Work KEPCO E&C is developing specialists in quality technology focused on enhancing Environment Quality Management System Based on the firm’s Quality Management capacities in design quality technologies, equipment and materials purchase •Planning Resource Measurement, •Process System, KEPCO E&C operates a Quality inspections, and construction quality technology. Design quality reliability and project Management •Documentation Structure Analysis, and Improvement •Subcontract •Customer Satisfaction Assurance System in line with domestic and execution capacities are further enhanced by fully utilizing internal experts with •Provision of Resources •Human Resources •Control of Document •Quality Audit foreign standards such as ASME NQA-1 and •Control of Quality Record technical certification from each technology and design segment in the quality audit •Technical Resources •Monitoring of Engineering Service •Infrastructure and Work and Process KEPIC QAP. Through this system, KEPCO process. Environment •Control of Nonconforming E&C is able to implement quality manage Engineering Service Product •Analysis of data across all business processes including Realization •Continual Improvement •Corrective & Preventive Action design, procurement and construction in a •Customer-related Process •Design and Development systematic manner. •Procurement •Producing and Provision of Technical Services •Control of Monitoring and Measuring Equipment •Project Completion and Follow-up Service 49 48 2012KEPCOE&CSustainabilityReport 2013 ‘Quality Day’ with Nuclear Power Business Partners 03 GReeN poWeR • KEPCOE&C,ineffortstoformcloseworkingcooperationwithitsbusinesspartners, sharesfirm-widepoliciesonqualityassurance,qualityassuranceprocessesandsafety culture,andcurrentissuesinnuclearpowerwithprojectmanagersandqualityofficers andstafffrombusinesspartners.BycommunicatingKEPCOE&C’scommitmentto qualitymanagementwithitsbusinesspartners,KEPCOE&Chopestofosterthesame commitmentinitsbusinesspartnersanddevelopcooperationinthisarea. KEPCOE&CobtainedISO9001certificationin1996,KEPICcertificationin1999, V. Achievements and ASMENcertificationin2009andhascontinuouslyupgradedandmaintainedits Recognition for qualitymanagementsystem.Asaresultofitssustainedeffortstoimproveitsquality KEPCO E&C’s Quality management,KEPCOE&Chasbeenselectedasan“ExcellentQualityCompetitiveness Management Enterprise”for6yearsrunningsince2007. certification ISO9001Certificate KEPICCertificateofNuclear KEPICCertificateofNuclear ASMENCertificate SelectionofExcellentQuality Structure(SN) Structure(SN) CompetitivenessEnterprise 03.1 50 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Green Power 51 Responding to Climate Change and Eco-friendly Technology KEPCO E&C is actively developing Carbon Capture and Sequestration (CCS) I. Carbon Capture technologies in response to climate change and mid to long-term national emissions and Sequestration reductions targets. Technology KEPCO E&C has pursued CCS technology development since 2008 and installed a 0.1MW scale CO₂ capture pilot plant in the Boryeong Power Station in 2010, which is still in operation. The technology applied in this pilot project is able to remove more than 90% of CO₂ while consuming 15% less energy than comparable technologies. In addition, KEPCO E&C actively participates in CCS initiatives including development of a 10MW scale CO₂ capture test bed using amine-based sorbent based technology 10MW Solid Sorbent post-combustion 10MW Amine-based sorbent post-combustion and 10MW scale CO₂ capture test bed using solid sorbent. KEPCO E&C is planning on CO₂ Capture Technology(Hadong Thermal Power) CO₂ Capture Technology(Boryeong Thermal Power completing full scale demonstration of a 300MW scale CO₂ capture equipment by 2018 and completing preparations for commercialization by 2020. KEPCO E&C is also participating in developing pre-combustion CO₂ capture process for utilization with Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) generation and plans An Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) is a technology that uses a gasifier II. I ntegrated Gasification to complete development for 1MW scale process technology by 2015 and gradually to turn any hydrocarbon in the feedstocks into hydrogen and carbon gas-synthesis increase this to 10MW. Combined Cycle gas (syngas) as a fuel for the gas turbine in the combined cycle power plant. Excess Generation Technology heat from the primary combustion and syngas cooler is then passed to a steam cycle, similar to a combined cycle gas turbine. This results in eco-friendly efficiency Road Map for Development of CO₂ Capture Technology improvements as compared to conventional pulverized coal. Test Bed Pilot Plant Large-scale Demonstration Plant Commercial Plant KEPCO E&C won the architect/engineering contract for the Taean IGCC plant in 2011 0.1~0.5MW 10MW 100~300MW 500MW and is providing the overall basic design for the IGCC (including integrated designs) while also providing technical support on gasification plant, Air Separation Unit (ASU) ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’14 ’ 15 ’16 ’17 ’18 ’19 ’20 ’21 and Combined Cycle Power Plant for the client. This is a milestone for KEPCO E&C as it is the first domestic next-generation clean-coal power plant project making KEPCO 0.1MW Amine-based sorbent 10MW Amine-based sorbent E&C the first Korean engineering company to secure the comprehensive design CO₂ Capture Test Bed CO₂ Capture Pilot Plant Task 100~300MW Verification technology in the gasification industry. Assessment Commercialization (In connection with Storage) 0.5MW Solid Sorbent Post10MW Solid Sorbent PostSelection of only one task among Combustion CO₂ Capture Test Bed Combustion CO₂ Capture Pilot Plant Solid sorbent/ Amine-based sorbent CO₂ capture process P  atent obtained for Electro-dialysis reversal and electro-chemical III. W  astewater Treatment treatment process for nitrogen compounds in wastewater (2007) Technology KEPCO E&C developed and obtained a domestic patent for a new combined Patents Obtained wastewater treatment process which removes nitrogen compounds using electroApplication Application dialysis reversal in 2007. This independently developed technology removes both Applicant Patent Name Application Date Number Country Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) and Total Nitrogen (T-N), which are caused by non1 KEPCO E&C CO₂ Absorption Device and Method for Absorbing CO2 Using the Same 12-61672 2012.06.08 South Korea degradable components of ethanolamine (ETA) in wastewater. 2 KEPCO E&C CO₂ Absorption Device Using Heat of Reboiler Steam Condensate 12-62864 2012.06.12 South Korea 03.2 52 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Green Power 53 Eco-Friendly, New & Renewable Energy Business  atent obtained for treating wastewater using Integrated-Membrane P KEPCO E&C has design and project execution capacity and experience in air pollution Clarification System (2012) prevention technologies including flue gas desulfurization and denitrogenization. KEPCO E&C has developed technology that combines reaction, coagulation, Moreover, KEPCO E&C’s wide range of technical capabilities include water pollution pressurized filtration, sludge settlement and storage processes using an “Integrated prevention systems and waste treatment facility development. It is also striving to Membrane-clarification System“ allowing for reduction in construction period and further low-carbon power plant technologies and implement new and renewable costs while also reducing the size of the required site. This technology obtained a energy projects to conserve the natural environment and contribute to sustainable domestic patent in 2012, and by maximizing treatment efficiency, it enables active development. response to environmental regulations and makes wastewater use easier. Acid Alkali Acid Alkali Coagulant Filtrate Water Pump KEPCO E&C possesses the most advanced flue gas desulfurization technology in Chemical Wastewater Cake I. F  lue Gas Korea. Moreover, it has independent design and construction capability for Korea Chemical Wastewater Pond Advanced Advanced Integrated MenbraneSludge Pump Dehydrator Desulfurization Electric Power Absorption Reactor Flue Gas Desulfurization (KEPAR FGD) system, Reaction Tank Coagulation Tank Clarification System Treated Water which is on par with global technologies. Reuse Reclaimed Water Starting with the installation of Korea’s first 200MW flue gas desulfurization facilities Pump Aeclalmed WaterPond Discharge A/Carbon Filter Reuse Water Reuse WaterPond Pump in Youngdong Thermal Power Plant Unit 2, KEPCO E&C has gone on to successfully Brine Discharge Reprocess 통합형 Discharge 분리막 침전조를 이용한 water Reuse폐수의 or Discharge 물리화학적 처리/재이용 공정 complete nine Turnkey projects including the flue gas desulfurization system for the Equipment for treating wastewater using Integrated Membrane-Clarification System 500MW Boryeong Thermal Power Plant. Boryeong Thermal Power Plant Unit (KEPAR FGD)  atent obtained for Nonpoint Source Removal System Using a P Buoyant Rising Floodgate (2013) KEPCO E&C possesses a wide range of experience related to the design and KEPCO E&C developed an undercurrent mechanism to remove nonpoint source II. F  lue Gas construction of flue gas denitrogenization facilities for thermal power plants. In pollution from stormwater. This mechanism employs Buoyant Rising Floodgate that Denitrogenization particular, KEPCO E&C has secured catalyst technology which is central to flue adjusts in height based according to water level preventing oil and other compounds gas denitrogenization facilities and has successfully developed and deployed a from spreading. In addition, a screen and filter are used to remove nonpoint source denitrogenization facility using catalyst technology which has successfully reached pollutants through filtration and settling. commercialization (Trade name : KoNOx®). An automatic back-washing filter function included in this system adds ease of KEPCO E&C’s Catalyst has demonstrated excellent performance in removing nitrogen operation, and its high filtration speed allows for treatment of large volumes even in even at temperatures of less than 250℃ which is significantly lower that of existing limited space. In addition, filters with different opening sizes are applied depending on technologies that operate best at 300~400℃. As a result, a smaller number of catalysts the size of the pollutants and additional filters can be added for dissolved solids. This can be installed and the amount of fuel for reheating device of exhaust gas such as treatment system received domestic patent in 2013. duct-burner can also be reduced. Moreover, KEPCO E&C has developed a denitrogenization catalyst that functions at Ulsan Thermal Power Plant Unit (Hybrid SCR) temperatures exceeding 500℃ which can be applied to a wider range of businesses and projects. The hybrid SCR facility installed in Unit 6 of the Ulsan Thermal Power Plant utilizes a system where SCR and SNCR are integrated, overcoming the problem of low denitrogenization efficiency at low temperature exhaust gas during low load operations. Nonpoint pollution Source Removal System Using a Buoyant Rising Floodgate 54 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Green Power 55 KEPCO E&C installed the first domestically developed denitrogenization facility in Unit KEPCO E&C provides technical support services for obtaining various international 6 of the Bundang Combined-Cycle Power plant and performed numerous projects IV. C lean Development greenhouse gas reduction certification. KEPCO E&C has made its mark in the CDM including the Incheon Airport denitrogenization catalyst project, and the Turnkey Mechanism (CDM) field by successful registration and issuance of certified emission reduction for the project for Sithe Co-generation Power Plant. KEPCO E&C’s technology was recognized Sudokwon Landfill Gas CDM project, Kori Wind Power project, and Younggwang Solar in the global market and sold facilities to Co-op City Power Plant and Helco Power Power Project from the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change Plant in the US. More recently, KEPCO E&C successfully exported its denitrogenization (UNFCCC). technology through a supply contract for denitrogenization related equipment with Rabigh Power Plant (Four 700MW Units) in Saudi Arabia. KEPCO E&C, as a global eco-friendly company, will continue to participate actively in ※SCR : Selective Catalytic Reduction GHG reduction projects and contribute to accomplishing national goals and policies on Sithe Power Plant ※ SNCR : Selective Non Catalytic reduction climate change. KEPCO E&C has performed design and engineering for power plant water treatment, III. Water Pollution wastewater treatment, wastewater reuse for the past 35 years and has developed Control independent technology for design and construction of wastewater treatment systems, wastewater reclamation and reuse recycling systems and seawater desalination systems. KEPCO E&C’s performance record covers most domestic power plants, overseas power plants, and design and construction of wastewater and sewage treatment facilities for domestic public agencies. Major projects include design contracts for Shin-Kori Nuclear Power Plant Units 1~6, UAE BNPP Units 1~4, Dangjin Thermal Kori Wind Power Facility Yonggwang Photovoltaic Power Plant Power Plant Units 9&10 and EPC contracts for Ghana Takoradi T2 Power Plant and the Hwaseong City Livestock Sewage Treatment Facility. KEPCO E&C will continue to develop and provide cost efficient and high-quality water Environmental Assessment V. Environmental pollution prevention technology that will meet our customers’ expectations. KEPCO E&C has executed numerous Environmental Impact Assessment projects Consulting Services for power plant and transmission line construction since 1983 and through this accumulated experience, it now possesses the most advanced know-how and most extensive track-record in the domestic market. KEPCO E&C has expert personnel in areas ranging from meteorology, geology, marine sciences, ecology, environmental engineering and nuclear engineering. It also possesses cutting-edge technology needed for performing assessments. With these resources, KEPCO E&C is able to provide accurate and objective assessment results. KEPCO E&C’s exceptional technological know-how and experience in design and engineering gives it an unique advantage in performing assessments that can identify best available technology economically achievable. Site Selection KEPCO E&C holds the most extensive track record in Korea for site selection of power Wastewater Treatment Facility Wastewater Reclamation and reuse system Numerical Modeling for Air Pollution Prediction plants, substations, transmission lines and so on. In particular, KEPCO E&C has 56 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Green Power 57 developed a site selection system that incorporates Geographic Information System The Korean goverment developed a boiler specifically for 10MW scale Refuse Derived VIII. Waste to Energy (GIS) based high-resolution satellite image analysis technology and multi-criteria Fuel (RDF) with domestic technology and has deployed this technology in the Wonju decision making tools enabling scientifically sound and objective site selection for Green Co-generation Power Plant and KEPCO E&C has joined this project as an power transmission and distribution facilities, contributing to environment-friendly engineering company. KEPCO E&C also participates in projects using biomass as sustainable electricity. fuel and performed technical support services for the Donghae biomass power plant project and conducted the Feasibility Study for the GS EPS unit 3 biomass generation KEPCO E&C’s Interactive Tower Spotting System (ITSS), which allows designers project. Routing of Transmission Line using GIS and 3D Visualization and engineers to select the optimal location of a transmission tower using highresolution image data, has been registered with the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Recently, KEPCO E&C installed an organic solid fuel mixing facility in the Dangjin Thermal Energy (formerly Ministry of Knowledge Economy) and was selected as New Excellent Power Plant Units 3, 4 which uses solid fuel that is derived from drying sewage sludge. Technology (NET). This technology has been applied to transmission line routing and KEPCO E&C also performed feasibility studies on the mix of biomass fuel such as Palm demonstrates the evolution of technology. Kernel Shell (PKS) or wood pellets in the Taean Thermal Power Plant Units 1 and 2. KEPCO E&C, on the basis of this study, will pursue the implementation of this project as part of its continued efforts towards transforming waste to energy. KEPCO E&C is executing an Architect/Engineering project to construct a low and VI. Radioactive Waste intermediate level radioactive waste disposal facility in Gyeongju City. This facility is Management located on a site of 2.1km² and will have the capacity to handle 800 thousand drums. The first stage, planned to be completed in June of 2014, will build six disposal silos Ground Support Facility based on a Cavern Disposal Method at EL.(-)80m ~ (-)130m with a total storage capacity of 100 thousand drums. Disposal Cave KEPCO E&C will successfully complete stage 1 and will work to win the stage 2 shallow Eco-friendly Facility land disposal project which, if successful, will make KEPCO E&C the first company in the world to have performed and gained experience in applying multiple disposal facilities on a single site. KEPCO E&C will utilize the technology gained in this process to build the foundation for entering overseas radioactive waste disposal market. Starting with the design contract for the 2nd phase of the Jeju Hangyeong Wind power KEPCO E&C is registered as as Class 1 Energy Service Company (ESCO), which VII. Windpower IX. Energy Service project in September of 2004, KEPCO E&C expanded its experience in onshore wind specializes in energy reduction and efficiency. Current energy reductions based on Company (ESCO) ESCO projects are 139,958 TOE annually and annual CO₂ reductions of 385,822 CO₂ tons power by carrying out various projects including engineering of wind power plants in Jeongseon city and Pyeongchang city in Gangwon Province. In December of 2010, Services have been recorded. KEPCO E&C and the provincial government of Jeju entered into an agreement to develop an 100MW offshore windfarm. Following this agreement, wind data is being KEPCO E&C will continue to work as on ESCO projects through improving performance collected through an offshore meteorological tower that has been installed for this of existing power plants and increasing energy efficiency and reductions. project and the final feasibility study for this project is planned for the first half of 2014. In addition, KEPCO E&C is also actively pursuing large-scale offshore wind power projects in the wind-rich south-east coast of Korea. 03.3 58 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Green Power 59 Eco-Friendly Office KEPCO E&C, in line with “Framework Act for Low Carbon Green Growth” has set KEPCO E&C does not use water resources in its production activities and most water I. Greenhouse Gas II. W  ater use reduction targets and action plans for the reduction of Greenhouse Gas (GHG) and energy use usage is from office use by employees. Efforts to reduce water use and preserve the Reduction Activities and and reports annual performance to the Ministry of Environment. In 2012, KEPCO activities and environment are being made firm-wide. Accomplishments E&C achieved 3.34% reduction from the 2009 baseline and will aims to achieve 20% accomplishments reductions by 2020. In addition, a waste water treatment facility is located in Basement Level 3 of the headquarters building where water is treated in accordance to legal requirements. KEPCO E&C’s emissions can be divided into direct and indirect emissions. Direct Water is treated to be below 10ppm, which is much lower than the legal limit of 20ppm, emissions are the result of municipal gas (LNG) used for heating purposes and before it is discharged. Daily discharge is 200 tons. automobile fuel (gasoline, diesel, LPG) used in its corporate fleet. Indirect emissions are from electricity used in the building. wate Consumption (Unit : ton) Direct and Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions 54,900 48,833 49,724 Year Direct Emissions Indirect Emissions Total Emissions (tCO₂eq) (tCO₂eq) (tCO₂eq) 2010 856.80 2897.28 3,754.08 2011 827.86 2991.00 3,818.86 2012 753.89 2997.60 3,751.49 2010 2011 2012 III. W  aste Reduction Activities and Primary Energy Source-Municipal gas(LNG) consumption Accomplishments KEPCO E&C uses municipal gas for heating, heating water and cooking. Efforts to reduce use include mainting indoor temperature at 18 degrees Year Quantity Consumed (㎥) celsius in the winter months, encouraging employees to wear multiple 2010 192,434 Municipal Waste layers of clothing, providing blankets and other such activities. 2011 166,816 KEPCO E&C does not produce significant hazardous materials or other Year Emission Quantity(ton) 2012 161,367 industrial waste. All food-waste produced is reused as fodder and other 2010 162 municipal waste is separated, condensed and placed in the designated 2011 72 Primary Energy Source-Electricity consumption location where it is collected and handled appropriately by recycling and 2012 32 KEPCO E&C electricity usage increased in the past year due to increase Year QuantityConsumed(MWh) waste collection companies designated by the City of Yongin. Total 266 in personnel and use of new office equipment and temperature control 2010 6,214 equipment. 2011 6,416 Recycled Paper 2012 6,429 KEPCO E&C actively responds to electricity shortages during the summer Waste paper that is collected during office cleaning is handled separately, Year Quantity(ton) and winter months by operating an electricity demand and supply warning shredded then collected by a firm specializing in waste paper collection 2010 58.5 system. Efforts such as limiting elevator operation and air conditioning for who submits a certification of processing to KEPCO E&C after the waste 2011 78.5 both heating and cooling purposes during peak hours, turning off office paper is processed. 2012 92.5 lights during lunch and after business hours, installation of motion sensors in the parking lot and limited lighting in stairwells after business hours are made in an effort to reduce KEPCO E&C’s electricity usage. Spent Acid Spent acid produced as a result of cleaning boilers are collected by the Year Quantity(ton) cleaning company and turned over to a company that specializes in 2010 1.0 treatment of spent acid for reuse. The results of processing the spent acid 2011 1.0 are reported to the municipal government. 2012 1.0 04.1 Win-Win POWEr 61 04 I. Customer Satisfaction Customers Inanefforttoaccomplishits2020NewVision,KEPCOE&Cclassifiesitscustomers WiN-WiN intoclients(orderingorganization),internalcustomers(employees),localcommunity Strategy andbusinesspartners.Basedonthisclassification,KEPCOE&Chascreateda tailoredcustomersatisfactionstrategyforeachtypeofcustomerleadingtoincreased poWeR productivityforinternalcustomers,increasedsalesforclients,qualityinnovationfor businesspartnersandoverallincreaseinbrandvalue. CustomerdefinitionandprogressdirectionaccordingtoCEOsuggestion ProductivityIncrease SalesIncrease •Trust •Customer-oriented business •Pride •Customer trust increase •Fun through high design quality •new Internal Clients Enhancing capacity of holding • Customer (Shareholder) technology CEO CreationofBrandValue suggestion QualityInnovation •sharing Happiness •strengthening Win-win •sharing Hope partnership Local Partners •sharing Love •supporting policy of win-win Communities •sharing Life partnership •Forming social consensus of win-win partnership Customer Satisfaction Center II. Customer Satisfaction • Management Activities KEPCOE&Coperatesanon-siteCustomerSatisfactionCenterforeachdivision,an emergencyresponseteamandhasdesignatedcustomersatisfactionagentsinorder toactivelycollectandrespondtocustomers’feedback. Technology Briefings Tailored to Customers • achbusinessunitholdsover100briefings,presentations,andon-siteseminars annuallywhereKEPCOE&Cnotonlysharesinformationoncutting-edgetechnology butalsolistensandrespondstoclientfeedbackinordertoimproveasanorganization. 04.2 62 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Win-Win Power 63 Employees Customer Satisfaction Management System Operation KEPCO E&C has 2,223 employees (including upper management) as of December 31, I. O  verview of KEPCO 2012 with 2,063 (93%) regular staff and 160 (7%) non-regular staff. • A Customer Information System is in place to electronically manage customer E&C’s Employees information for each business unit as a method of systematically managing KEPCO Equitable Recruitment E&C’s customer base. • KEPCO E&C recruits annually in order to contribute to reducing youth unemployment. A VOC system is available on the company’s website where customer questions and During the recruitment process candidates are treated fairly and equally regardless of complaints can be received and responded to in real-time. In line with the Customer gender, academic background, physical disability or other cultural differences. Information System, feedback received through the online VOC center is handled swiftly and is shared amongs relevant staff for immediate response throughout the Category 2010 2011 2012 Customer Satisfaction Management System. Total Personnel by Year 2,041 2,179 2,223 No. of New Employees 229 118 97 KEPCO E&C strictly manages customer information with the utmost care by managing access authorization and access from external parties in order to ensure that customer In 2012, 2.54% of KEPCO E&C’s employees were disabled, maintaining a ratio information is not leaked externally. exceeding the requirement of 2.5% stipulated in the Act on Employment Promotion for the Disabled. Category 2010 2011 2012 KEPCO E&C conducts a customer satisfaction survey for its employees, clients and No. of the Disabled 57 59 56 III. Structure of Customer hired by KEPCO E&C business partners and identifies areas of improvement which are reviewed biannually Employment Rate 3.01% 2.83% 2,54% Satisfaction Feedback by the Customer Satisfaction Management Committee for an effective feedback No. of Permanent 1,878 2,072 2,219 response system. Employees These efforts have resulted in continuous improvement in the Public Agency Customer 89% of KEPCO E&C’s personnel have an academic background in science or Satisfaction index which has been tabulated since 2005. KEPCO E&C’s score has engineering. Based on the fact that women were a minority in these academic fields consistently improved reaching 92.2 in 2012. during the 1980’s and 1990’s, KEPCO E&C’s gender ratio is an unavoidable result of social patterns in education. However, as more women obtain degrees in science and engineering, the ratio of female personnel in KEPCO E&C is rising as well. Customer Satisfaction Index Unit : % 2010 2011 2012 Rate in Rate in Rate in 92 92.2 No. of Female the proportion No. of Female the proportion No. of Female the proportion of 91.9 Personnel Personnel Personnel of total No. of total No. total No. 152 7.4% 172 7.9% 191 8.6% In the second half of 2012, KEPCO E&C hired new high school graduates for the first time and 27 of the 108 new hires who started their careers with KEPCO E&C in 2013 ’10 ’11 ’12 were excellent high school diploma holders. 64 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Win-Win Power 65 KEPCO E&C maintains its excellent workforce not only by recruiting talented KEPCO E&C has established a structured system for fostering talent within the II. F  ostering Talent for individuals, but retaining talent through variou methods including open workforce by tailoring education based on the requirements of each classification of communication, welfare and benefits, and improving the working environment. . the Future employee responsibility and is working towards global talent development in order to meet its goals for Vision 2020. Category 2010 2011 2012 Total No. of Personnel by Beginning of the Year 1,804 1,998 2,062 KEPCO E&C’s Vision for Fostering Talent for the Future No. of Turnover 19 36 39 • No. of Retirement 31 53 72 KEPCO E&C has a vision of developing the best talent that can bring about change and Turnover Rate 1.05% 1.80% 1.89% aims, in the mid to long term, to create talent development education programs aligned with its management strategy, places focus on capacity building in talent development ※Based on Regular Personnel (Excluding executives and those in special positions) and improve education infrastructure. By systematically implementing specialized technical education, EPC project execution education and other core capacity building KEPCO E&C utilizes the expertise and experience held by talented retirees by offering training, KEPCO E&C is working to develop talent that can help the company achieve them positions in project data management, contract positions related to the design its Vision, and also contribute to the nation’s competitiveness. and engineering of the UAE Nuclear Power Plant project and so on. HRD Vision In its overseas offices and Ghana EPC site office, KEPCO E&C hires from the local Best Human Resources for Future Leaders community through referrals and open announcements and local hires work in a Core Value variety of functions including administrative support, HSE and CAD personnel. Innovation & Challenge Specialty & Excellence Customer-oriented & Honesty People We Need Reliable Partner Pioneer with Challenging Spirit Human Rights Protection Mid&Long Term HRD Education linked with Capacity-centered Improvement of • Strategy Management Strategy Human Resource Development HRD Infrastructure KEPCO E&C makes every effort in leading human rights protection by strictly abiding by the Labor Standard Act to fulfill its responsibility as a public agency to protect the Promotion Work Capacity building for Capacity Increase of Job Specific Competencies HRD Infrastructure vision achievement Conducting Global Business Increase Improvement socially vulnerable. -New education for visionDispatch overseas EPC Capacity Increase -Improvement of Education achievement Overseas personnel education -Technology/Management Evaluation System In particular, KEPCO E&C strives to create the ideal environment for working mothers Leadership training Risk Management Education professional capacity Increase -Expansion of Education Budget -Technology Development -Building Knowledge by providing both pre-natal and maternity leave, making provisions for reduced working Capacity Increase Management System hours for mothers of children younger than 3 years, operating workplace childcare, Education Assessment, Performance Result Analysis Performance Feedback and guaranteeing time off for prenatal medical examinations for both mother and baby. Management Achievement Management All of these benefits are expressly stipulated in the collective labor agreement and strictly honored. 2010 2011 2012 KEPCO E&C Power Engineering Training Center CEO • Frequency of Female Maternal or Childcare 11 13 9 Leave KEPCO E&C operates the Power Engineering Training Center which draws upon a Female Reinstatement Rate after Maternal or Director of the headquarters 100% 100% 100% pool of internal experts as professors. Professors share their hands-on knowledge Childcare Leave of Planning & Marketing and practical experience and provide specialized technical training tailored to business As a result of KEPCO E&C’s efforts to protect maternal rights and promote child-birth, requirements and domestic and foreign specialists are invited to deliver systematic President of KEPCO E&C maternity leave increased from 11 persons in 2010 to 13 persons in 2011. This number Power Engineering Training and in-depth training which creates synergies for project execution and raises the Center reputation of the company. decreased as a result of less pregnancies in 2012 but 100% of employees who took maternity leave returned to work. KEPCO E&C’s family-friendly workplace is a result Faculty of efforts to implement family-friendly management practices such as offering child•Full-Time Professor : 5 Persons care services. Administrative Team •Concurrent Professor : 11 Persons 66 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Win-Win Power 67 Core Training Accomplishments and Performance Specialized Technical Training ┃ KEPCO E&C provides specialized training for • each step in an employee’s career so that each employee can obtain the highest New Hire Training level of specialization in their respective field within 10 years of joining the company. KEPCO E&C provides systematic training to help new hires adjust quickly in the Introductory courses for each career level, specialized technology training are provided organization and contribute to flexible and creative corporate culture. at intermediate and advanced levels. In 2012, KEPCO E&C strengthened its training system even further by newly introducing the Technology-Focused Advanced Training to foster the highest level of technical expertise in its employees Training System of KEPCO E&C Power Engineering Training Center Targeted Employee Contents Education Level 2013 Teamwork Training for New Employee 2013 Introductory Training for New Employee 1 year after joining the Occupational introductory Engineering introductory training corresponding to corporate overall work company training 2 years ~4 years experience Introductory course of To recognize basic knowledge to work in the related area and be enable to Capacity Strengthing Training to achieve the Company’s Vision after joining the company technology carry out the most of the work KEPCO E&C has implemented training focused on achieving the company’s Vision for 5 years ~7 years experience Intermediate course of To solve the frequently-happened problem under each condition and carry three consecutive years for all employees. In 2012, special program to foster synergy after joining the company technology out technical task independently was implemented based invigorating the organization through communication and 8 years ~10 years experience Advanced course of To get broad knowledge on related area and lead a role as a occupational turning the Vision into action based on creating a pioneering environment, passion, after joining the company technology specialist pride and professionalism. 2010 2011 2012~2013 (Vision Sharing) (VisionCommunication) (Vision Enforcement) Education Credit Bank Change Symphony Synergy • KEPCO E&C offers equal opportunities for training while also promoting employees Recognize Core Organize Vision Draw Behavioral Principle of Core Value Value and Vision Communication System for Vision Achievement (Pride, Passion, to participate in required courses by operating an Education Credit Bank. Hours of Pursuit Communication Professionalism) / 13th, 834 Participants and Harmony education are designated as departmental key performance indicators (KPI) and are referred to during individual evaluations and are used during promotion evaluations to some degree. Training to build Specialized Capacity for Job Functions EPC Capacity Building Training ┃ KEPCO E&C introduced a specialized training program to build EPC related capacity for the successful execution of EPC projects. In particular, training on fund procurement, project management, tax and tariffs Specialist System was provided for administrative staff as of 2013 in order to strengthen EPC project • KEPCO E&C, in an effort to gain competitive advantage in the global market, is management capabilities. operating a specialist system comprised of 65 special areas to develop highly-skilled core personnel with specialized knowledge. KEPCO E&C Specialists receive a higher salary in comparison to general personnel and are provided with various incentives and benefits including individual research facilities and systems. They are also given priority for attending overseas education and academic seminars and provided work hours specifically to further their research so that they may concentrate on their area of expertise 68 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Win-Win Power 69 Compensation Welfare and Benefits III. Compensation, • • Welfare & Benefits KEPCO E&C introduced an Annual Salary System for all employees on the basis of KEPCO E&C operates a selective welfare system, workplace childcare facilities and labor-management consent in accordance with government policies for management is putting all efforts into improving welfare and benefits so that employees can enjoy advancement. Salaries are comprised of basic annual salary, employee benefits, a family-friendly culture and achieve work-life balance from the beginning of their performance salary, and retirement grants. In order to successfully implement a careers until the day they retire. performance-based salary system, KEPCO E&C is working to improve fairness and objectivity in employee evaluation. KEPCO E&C does not discriminate on gender, The per capita welfare and benefit expenditure for 2012 was roughly 11 million KRW. In religion or other factors in salary or working conditions. addition, KEPCO E&C designated each Wednesday as Family Day and provided office tours and supported employees’ leisure activities with their families. Employees’ Average Salary in 2012 Execution of Welfare Benefit for the past 3 years (Unit: KRW 1 million) (Unit: KRW 1 million) Category Average Salary Category 2010 2011 2012 President & CEO 230 Welfare Benefit Expense 20,439 23,421 25,366 Auditor 170 Expense per head 10 11 11 Executive Director 187 ※ Included 4 Major National Insurances Employee 79 ※ Included Salary for Performance As a result of these efforts to create a family-friendly workplace, KEPCO E&C was awarded the Minister of Gender Equality and Family Minister’s Award in 2012. Starting salary for a new hire with a college degree is 30 million KRW annually, which is roughly 260% above the statutory minimum wage. KEPCO E&C’s Welfare System Non-regular employment at KEPCO E&C refers to fixed-term contracts. These are Category Description specific positions that are needed for performing EPC projects and other specialized Operation of medical clinic (The headquarters and annex buildings) functions. These positions are filled through officially announcing job openings in Health Management •Implementation of physical check-up test for employees once a year •Provision of health consultation which working conditions and salaries are disclosed and evaluating candidates. Support for Social Security National pension, health insurance, unemployment insurance, accident Insurance and group personal Insurance accident insurance Compensation for non-regular employees are determined based on individual Stabilization of Residential Life Allowing employees to use condominium and resorts in Korea experience and qualifications and are provided as a monthly salary. The monthly salary Operation of Workplace Childcare Facility Operation of childcare facilities in areas where large numbers of employees live includes allowances, employee benefits, performance salary. Legal benefits such as Support for Culture and Physical Activities Support for athletic meetings, Culture Day and associations and club activities overtime pay and paid-annual leave are also provided in addition to the monthly salary. Operation of Selective Welfare System Support for self-development(purchase of book, language education cost) and cultural education In 2012, KEPCO E&C extended the selective welfare system to non-regular staff in Operation of Condominium and Resort Allowing employees to use condominium and resorts in Korea order to deepen company loyalty. Internal Employee Welfare Fund Support for celebrations & condolence, subsidy for childhood education, loan for livelihood stabilization etc Others Operation of commuting buses linking subway schedule, fitness center, sauna club, table tennis room, rest room for women and so on, Day of Family Love (every Wednesday): Encourage employees to leave the office on time, Lights-out after 7pm (without O/T office) Retirement Pension • In order to contribute to employees’ financial stability even after retirement, KEPCO E&C adopted a Retirement Pension plan in December 2011. KEPCO E&C adopted a Defined Benefit Retirement Pension program and as of the end of 2012, 1,909 employees were enrolled in the program with external deposits reaching 85.1 billion KRW. KEPCO E&C plans to offer employees the option to transition to a Defined Contribution Retirement Pension Program according to personal preference. 2012 KEPCO E&C Athletics Competition Certified as Familyfriendly Corporation and KEPCO E&C Baseball club Place of Communication among Employees Award-winning from the Minister of Gender Equality and Family 70 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Win-Win Power 71 KEPCO E&C has established a performance-based evaluation system that reflects Indicator for IV. Fair Employee the characteristics of the engineering-oriented work process optimized for increasing Management Corporation Evaluation Performance Evaluation implementing its mid to long term management strategy. KPI In light of the nature of engineering business process which is based on project Management of Internal Organizational Performance based on BSC system collaboration matrix organization, mutual growth between the individual and the team •Financial Performance Perspective Headquarter is necessary to achieve quality targets and firm-wide management goals. (Dept) KPI •Customer-oriented Perspective •Internal Process Perspective As a result, KEPCO E&C consolidates and manages all evaluation results of firm-wide •Future Capacity Perspective performance, performs internal organization evaluation, and individual performance. Division KPI An integrated evaluation of the performance managed is applied to compensation and human resource management in order to enhance the objectivity of human resource management. Encouragement of Performance Improvement •Performance Monitoring Performance management through regular check and monitoring Performance Utilization of Executive Management Contract Director of Headquarter(Dept) Operational Establishment Monitoring Performance Result •Utilization of Performance Result : Reflected in performance-based Salary Guidelines on of Goal for Analysis on Establishment of performance-based Organization Annual Performance corporate culture based on differential Performance Evaluation Management Performance compensation Personnel under Manager Level Improvement Diagnosis of Headquarter(Dept) Department Performance Assessment System : Reflected in Performance-based Activity Performance Evaluation Ⓐ Evaluation Ⓑ •Diagnose on Assessment System Salary Ⓐ + Ⓑ Analysis and reflection of improvement Reflection of Assessment measures through diagnose in Personal Performance Result assessment system Personnel above Manager Level Evaluation Ⓒ : Reflected in Performance-based Personnel above Manager Level Salary and HR Affairs Personal Ⓑ+Ⓒ+Ⓓ Personal Capacity Evaluation Ⓓ Evaluation To enhance the fairness of the evaluation process, there is a two-way feedback system Personnel under Manager Personnel under Manager Level Personal Evaluation Ⓔ : Personal PerformanceEvaluation Ⓔ incorporated into the evaluation system that allows for evaluation of the organization Level which is made open to employees and employees can also lodge objections to evaluation results. KEPCO E&C Performance Management System In order to increase employee acceptance of the evaluation system, KEPCO E&C • operates an evaluation satisfaction survey for all employees and also an internal KEPCO E&C’s performance-based evaluation system employs the organization organization assessment. The results of these assessments are applied to assessment standards of Balanced Score Card (BSC), and the individual performance evaluation policies the following year, which helps foster ownership in the system. system of Management By Objectives (MBO). Through mutual management combining the two systems, KEPCO E&C effectively applies its management objectives in each stage of evaluation and builds a foundation for performance-based evaluation based on monitoring and assessment. KEPCO E&C, based on its vision of promoting happiness for mankind through V.Health, Safety and harmonization of Humanity, Environment and Technology and its goal to become a Environment (HSE) global Power EPC Leader, has identified Health, Safety, and Environment as central to its business practices and is making continous efforts to improve HSE aspects. 72 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Win-Win Power 73 HSE Policy Strengthening Health and Safety Capacity • KEPCO E&C continues to increase the number of personnel specialized dedicated to KEPCO E&C has set the following principles to embed the commitment to HSE within HSE management while also encouraging completion of domestic and overseas HSE its corporate culture. training and certification courses as a means of strengthing its HSE capacity. In preparation for full-scale entry into the global EPC market, KEPCO E&C has Establish, implement, and continuously improve a HSEManagement System in 01 compliance with the OHSAS 18001Occupational Health & Safety Management Systems andISO 14001 Environmental Management System Requirements developed HSE manuals for employees traveling abroad for business or to be stationed at an overseas posts along with emergency health manuals and is developing an online firm-wide HSE management system to increase effectiveness of on-site HSE activities. 02 Accustom to observance of all of the health, safety andenvironmental rules and regulations that the company agreesto comply with In addition, KEPCO E&C continuously benchmarks international best practices Health and Safety Guideline for for construction site HSE management in order to improve its HSE management Exercise for all employees preventive activities that identify andtake a necessary Workers with Overseas Business 03 action for risks related to health and safetyand environmental aspects in a volunteer manner performance. 04 Set a target for a goal of achievement, measure performances,and continuously seek for improvement of the HSE policy toensure an advanced health & safety environment. Embedding Health and Safety in KEPCO E&C’s Corporate Culture In order to establish a culture in which safety is of the utmost priority, KEPCO KEPCO E&C recognizes that an effective HSE management system is crucial to E&C provides both general and advanced HSE training courses, plays the safety increasing its corporate competitiveness and will make all efforts to advance its HSE informational video “Creating a Culture of Safety First, Together,” offers seminars culture. conducted by external experts and is implementing and further developing HSE training programs for different levels. Along with these efforts, a firm-wide safety slogan has been selected along with HSE Management System slogans for each business unit in order to send a strong, relatable message about • the importance of safety. This slogan is utilized in internal documents, the company’s KEPCO E&C는 implements firm-wide HSE practices based on a HSE management official letterhead, in marketing merchandise and is posted within headquarters and at system that integrates the Health and Safety Management System with Environment project sites. Management System allowing the company to comprehensively identify and manage health and safety risks with environmental effects. Further to this, a Plan.Do.Check. Action (PDCA) cycle is repeated for the HSE Management System in an effort to attain Incident and Injury Free (IIF) Program Implementation global levels of HSE management. KEPCO E&C is enforcing the IIF program to achieve incident and injury-free site management by creating a safe working environment and removing the risk of accident due to human error. Health and Safety Activities • KEPCO E&C’s most important resource is its human resources. Therefore, securing Safety Training employees’ safety and health is the company’s most basic and important responsibility. KEPCO E&C provides HSE training tailored to job function so that site managers and In order to strengthen its commitment to and capabilities surrounding health and workers alike may understand the necessity of HSE and act voluntarily and pro-actively. safety, KEPCO E&C has taken on a wide variety of activities such as enacting Health In order to cultivate Global HSE specialists, the company supports opportunities to and Safety Guidelines, operating firm-wide campaigns, offering a variety of education obtain certification through the National Examination Board in Occupational Safety and and training elated to HSE, and providing health consultations and emergency Health and gain advanced knowledge. equipment. 74 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Win-Win Power 75 HSE Handbook Publication Medical Facilities and First-Aid Equipment In order to foster the smooth implementation of HSE management, KEPCO E&C has To ensure the health and safety of its employees, KEPCO E&C operates a full-time developed and distributed a HSE Handbook for site managers. The Handbook contains medical office and supplies its offices and sites with sufficient first-aid equipment. safety regulations, standards for equipment, Work Safety Standards Manual (covering 53 topics) and other information that can assist with HSE implementation. No. of Medical clinic (Live-in Nurss) 3 (Headquarter and annex building) No. of Respirator 13 (Including field offices) No. of Automated External Defibrillator(AED) 7 Distribution of Safety Booklets for Workers KEPCO E&C has developed a Safety Booklet with manuals and guidelines specifically for workers in construction sites to help them understand HSE concepts, raise awareness and prevent incidents. The Safety Booklets are of portable size and have Safety Management Accomplishments been published and distributed in 6 languages. • Safety Incidents Due to KEPCO E&C’s strong commitment and activities regarding workplace safety, it was able to achieve zero major incidents. Emergency First-Aid Training In order to increase effective first-response capabilities to workplace medical emergencies, KEPCO E&C conducted firm-wide Emergency First-Aid training using 0.25 0.2 0.23 educational videos in order to train internal First-Aid staff. Training was offered in four 0.16 phases and a total 140 employees completed the series of courses. 0.15 0.1 Basic first steps for handling a medical emergency, CPR, AED utilization methods were 0.05 0.05 taught during the course enabling the development of quick and effective response 0 10 11 12 capabilities for employees. Category 2010 2011 2012 KEPCO E&C will continue to offer training in first-aid and use of medical equipment to secure workplace safety. No. of Accidents 3 1 5 Injury Ratio (%) 0.16 0.05 0.23 HSE Management System Certification KEPCO E&C’s devotion to bettering the quality of life for all in addition to ensuring safety of its employees and stakeholders in general is displayed in its systematic and well-planned HSE system and activities. KEPCO E&C’s HSE Management System has held ISO 14001 certification since 2006, the international standard for environmental management. In 2010 it also obtained OHSAS 18001 HSE certification and has maintained requirements since then. ISO 14001 Certificate OHSAS 18001 Certificate 04.3 76 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Win-Win Power 77 Business Partners KEPCO E&C has established a Win-win Growth system, provides R&D support for KEPCO E&C implements a partnership system under which agreements for I. Structure for business partners, supports talent development, helps secure sales and purchasing II. S  election and cooperation are signed according to different categories of partners. Such categories implementing channels and provides financial support as part of its Small and Medium-sized Management of include design engineering, specialized building construction, manufacturing and Win-Win Growth Enterprise (SME) support program in order to build sustainable corporate value Business Partners purchase. Based on the agreements, KEPCO E&C and its business partners jointly through win-win growth. KEPCO E&C also works continuously to foster the culture of execute projects, provide mutual technical support to each other, exchange information win-win growth throughout the power industry. and pursue other collaborative activities. Vision Realization of Sustainable Corporate Value through Win-win Growth Engineering and Construction Manufacturing and Purchasing Others Point Strategy •Establish institutional base for win-win growth Area Item Area Item Point Area Item Point •Enhance mutual competitiveness through win-win growth business Engineering Special Construction •Build a strategic cooperative relationship through the effort of win-win growth culture Qualified/ Management Credit Rating 35 40 Management Credit Rating Management Credit Rating 40 Not-qualifie Promotion Work A) Building Institutional Base for B) Promote Win-win Growth C) Form a Win-win Growth Workforce 35 10 Technology Construction Win-win Growth Business Culture Business Workforce 30 15 (Manufacturing) Manufacturing Qualified/Not•Expansion performance sharing •R&D support business •Open win-win growth Performance •Customer center and CTS •Workforce support business conference Capability qualified Execution Construction Execution operation in homepage •Purchase and Distribution •Settle agreement of fair trade Capability 30 Testing Capability Capability •Web-type design information support business •Prize giving for win-win growth Business system •Finance support business contribution Quality 30 Organization and Performance Assurance 20 20 workforce Capability Place of communication Survey 5 Call a Day Satisfaction Research Performance of Quality Performance of Evaluation System Qualified/ Contract 3.5~-11 4 ~ -14 Assurance Quality System Contract 3.5~-11 •Receive Difficulties and •survey on requirements •Receive Difficulties •Survey on the satisfaction Not-qualified A. Deficiency Implementation Capability Implementation recommendations for the support from level of small business Points Education A. Deficiency Small business support policy Others (+2) (+2) Performance for Points Others (+2) Frequently Frequently On a daily basis On a regular basis last 2 years When all areas are Qualified/ Total 100 100 100 qualified Not-qualified ※ Qualifying Criteria: Total Score of 80 points or more, More than 80% points in Quality and Safety/Environment Activity Assessment Win-win Growth Organizational Structure • KEPCO E&C has operated a dedicated team that leads win-win cooperation with SME Business Partner Selection business partners since 2005. The Customer Support Team which is responsible for • overseeing Win-win Growth has established an integrated cooperation system allowing Criteria for business partner selection includes operational status, status of human it to effectively implement support programs. resources, project performance and delivery track record, and quality. Criteria is Supportive business for Win-win growth evaluated based on the “Business Partner Selection Standards” in a comprehensive, Plan and implement supportive business transparent and fair process in lieu of human rights evaluation. In order to ensure effective execution of KEPCO E&C’s projects and gain the highest Customer Service Team quality through competition, KEPCO E&C does not limit the number of business Subcontract & Implementation of technology support partners that can be registered in each category. Business partners are recruited Partner Management Technology Procurement business Strategy Department Department R&D, technology education through open announcements for scheduled registration every two or three years. Contracts and Purchase Win-win In addition to regularly scheduled registration, KEPCO E&C operates unscheduled Growth Organization selection of business partners as well. Stock & Business Promotion of joint business Fund support business Finance Team Department Loan system such as network loan Contracts and Purchase Customer Service Center Online customer service center Technological advisory service in real time 78 2012KEPCOE&CSustainabilityReport Win-Win POWEr 79 Business Partner Management Procurement Support and Establisment of Win-win culture • • Businesspartnersaremanagedandevaluatedthroughannualcontractexecution KEPCOE&ChasmadecontinuouseffortstospreadthecultureofWin-wincooperation performanceevaluationregularlyandnon-regularevaluationatthecompletionofthe byenactingtheFairTradeAgreement,hostingtheWin-wingrowthConferenceand project.Thisprocessenhancesbusinesspartners’designqualityandcompetitiveness CommitteeandestablishedanawardtorecognizecontributionsmadetoWin-winGrowth. resultinginmoreefficientprojectexecution. Inordertosupportthefinancialstabilityandpromotetechnologydevelopmentfor SME’s,KEPCOE&Callotsover70%ofitstotalpurchasesforSMEproducts.Italso Education and Technology Support activelysupportsSMEbusinessdevelopmentbyjointlyenteringinternationalscale III. Win-win Growth expositions. • Activities with SME KEPCOE&CbuildsonitsexpertiseasanengineeringcompanyandprovidesSME Partners partnersopportunitiestodeveloporiginaltechnologiesandparticipateingovernmentKEPCOE&CalsooperatesavarietyoffinancialsupportprogramstocontributetoSME fundedR&Dactivities.ThroughtheCustomerTechnicalSupportSystem,technical operationalstability.Theseincludemanufacturingfundingsupportsuchasnetwork consultationisprovidedforSMEbusinesspartnersonlinethroughthecompany loans,jointpurchaseloans;mechanismstosupportventuresinthepowerindustrylike websiteandinternalintranetinanefforttobuildtheirtechnicalcapacity.Moreover, theWin-winfund;andpromotionofliquiditybysettlingallpaymentsincashandsoon. jointR&Discontinuouslyimplementedincludingdevelopmentofaperformance compensationmodeltoprovidefaircompensationforaccomplishmentsinsustaining Rationaladjustmentofunitcostofdeliveryaccordingtopricefluctuationanddesignchangein2012 cooperation. No.ofAdjustmentofUnitcostofdelivery IncreasedAmount 161 6,633(KRWmillion) VitalizingFundOperationofSmallPartners’throughPre-paidin2012 No.ofPre-paid Amountofpre-paid 24 1,909(KRWmillion) PreferredProcurementforSME,Female-owned,&Disabled-0wnedCompanies (Unit:KRW100million) KEPCOE&CsupportsSMEpartners’intellectualpropertyandtechnologydevelopment 2011 throughtechnologytransfer,obtainingjointpatentsandhasoperatedatechnology 2012 1,902 4.3 depositsystemsince2011andoffersfullfinancialsupportforallrelatedexpenses. 1.4 1,432 0.4 3.9 Withthepurposeofjointlyenteringtheglobalmarketwithitsbusinesspartners, KEPCOE&Csupports the development of partners’ global competitiveness by providingengineeringtraining,jointtrainingwithacademicinstitutions,on-sitetraining Disabled-owned Female-owned SME atpowerplantsandleadershiptraining. Local Procurement Policies for Overseas EPC Projects • ThoughmostofKEPCOE&C’soverseasEPCprojectstakeplaceinAfrica,wherethe manufacturingindustryisstilldeveloping,KEPCOE&Cstillplacespriorityonlocal procurementofmaterialsneededfortheefficientperformanceofitsbusinessesand tofosterstrongertieswithitshostcommunitiesandcontributetolocaleconomic development. 04.4 80 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Win-Win Power 81 Local Communities Vision and Strategy for Social Contribution Love Sharing I. Activities for Sharing • • Management KEPCO E&C is pursuing three main strategies for systematic implementation of social KEPCO E&C operates the “True Love Volunteer Group.” This group is funded through contribution activities bases on its vision of being the “Power EPC Company that a matching fund system in which employees can voluntarily donate a fixed sum from provides the wearmthe of energy to the world.” their salary on a monthly basis and KEPCO E&C contributes double the amount contributed by its employees. In addition, the company encourages small volunteer group activities based formed by employees freely to provide The Volunteer Group is Corporate Corporate Core Objective Core Capacity Characteristics comprised of employees wishing to provide community service at welfare centers. Global Top 5 Power EPC •Top Level Plant Design engineering Technology Leader •Network Business Area Category Performance Matching Fund Participants : 1,269 Raised Fund : 8.8 (KRW 10 million) Vision for Social Realization of Sustainable Corporate Value through Win-win Growth Subunit of Volunteering Group Participants : 46 Responsibility Amount of Donation: 0.33 (KRW 10 million) Strategy Building Network in local area and Contributing social innovation based Creating volunteering culture by creating business ecosystem on corporate characteristics providing social contribution platform Knowledge Sharing Work •Operating ‘True Love Volunteer Group’ •Eco-friendly social contribution •Implement employee volunteering •Linking volunteer activities with local •Technical human resources contribution program • community •Voluntary fundraising KEPCO E&C possesses the most advanced engineering technology in the electricity KEPCO E&C True Love Volunteer Group Activities industry and leverages this in its social contribution program through knowledge Organization Planning & Marketing Nuclear Power Volunteer sharing. It operates the Power Engineering School twice a year to provide training and Nuclear Reactor Design Plant Volunteer Group Volunteer Group Volunteer Group Group education in engineering to university students studying sciences and engineering. Participants gain valuable training in 18 subjects including nuclear and thermal power Plan Action Evaluation Evaluation through specialized lectures, special lectures from internal and external industry Management System (PDCA) experts, and site visits to power plants. Students who excel during the program are •Planning by year •Operating True Love •Evaluating volunteering •Planning volunteering Volunteer Group under the time and fund execution group operation during selected and provided with scholarships. department the next year In 2012, KEPCO E&C signed agreements of cooperation with 7 academic institutions including Kumoh National Institute of Technology to build the foundation for mutual cooperation to develop talent to usher in the next-generation development by sharing Life Sharing talent and resources. This cooperation will contribute to developing human resources • in local communities as well as promoting employment. KEPCO E&C has consistently pursued activities to share life through organ donation. A cooperative agreement with the charitable organization Korean Organ Donor Program has been in place since 2007 as the basis of these activities. KEPCO E&C has carried out large-scale organ donation campaigns at the corporate level and is promoting awareness and participation in organ donation amongst its employees. In 2012, as part of the organ donation campaign, an event to create “Wish List Albums” was conducted and 50% of the proceeds were donated to support chronic renal failure patients. It also has jointly implemented “Blood Drive of Love” with Gyeonggi Province chapter of the Korean Red Cross Blood Center regularly since 2004 and since then, over 700 employees have participated in activities to share life. 82 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report Win-Win Power 83 Eco-friendly Social Contribution Activities In efforts to help rural farming communities develop and form ties with urban • communities, KEPCO E&C has enacted the 1 company 1 village program and has KEPCO E&C has been performing energy saving activities through its eco-friendly adopted Jaknae village in the Guseong district of Gimcheon city in Gyeongsangbuk social contribution program, ‘Add to the Envrionment, Divide Love.’ As part of this province as its sister village and promotes Win-win Growth by increasing exchanges program, KEPCO E&C has donated energy efficient LED lighting to welfare facilities between the village and urban communities and provides volunteer services tailored to near the company which not only contribute the facilities’ efficient electricity requests from the local community to provide tangible benefits. consumption but also to the quality of the facilities as well. KEPCO E&C has installed clean, solar energy in Gimcheon City, where KEPCO E&C is building its new As part of this program, KEPCO E&C contributed to the local economy by providing headquarters to promote the use of new and renewable energy. Further to these labor to harvest onions, the principle product of the area, in June 2012. In December activities, KEPCO E&C hands out pamphlets on energy conservation, folding fans and 2012, KEPCO E&C donated heating supplies for 60 underprivileged households within hand-held heaters to promote energy conservation during peak energy consumption in the community and improved their living environment by providing repairs for older summer and winter. houses. Category Performance KEPCO E&C works tirelessly to improve the quality of life and contribute to local Eco Plus, Love Sharing for •Installation of photovoltaic lighting system for clean energy(KRW 11 economic development in the communities where its business activities take place. In Energy Efficiency million one) •Installation of LED at local child care center(KRW 6 million one) order to do so, KEPCO E&C communicates with the community openly and regularly to Energy Sharing in our Lives •Sharing briquette at Gimcheon region ascertain their needs and provide substantive benefits. •Supporting cooling-heating device at the institute for the disabled (KRW 2.6 million one) Campaign for Energy Saving •Distributing brochure and ‘fan’ and ‘handwarmer’ for energy saving Overseas Volunteer Work KEPCO E&C also works to purify the environment in local communities. Since April • 2012, KEPCO E&C has voluntarily worked to clean Tan-Cheon, the river adjacent to In its pursuit of growing into a global EPC company, KEPCO E&C actively provides headquarters. It has worked consistently towards improving the water quality of the community services for communities that need assistance to develop further. river and creating and conserving a clean environment in the surrounding areas. In April 2013, KEPCO E&C dispatched the True Love Volunteer Group to the Gandhi Ashram School established in 1932 by Gandhi for underprivileged children. The Volunteer Group performed repairs on the school’s library, stocked it with books, and participated with joint meal time and leisure activities with the children. Volunteering in Local Communities Ⅱ. Communication with • In Agra, the Volunteer Group visited the Mother Teresa Orphanage which was founded Local Communities KEPCO E&C’s True Love Volunteer Group, launched in 2005, leads KEPCO E&C’s on Mother Teresa’s principles and philosophy and presented the institution with food community service activities. The group is divided into four volunteer sub-groups and clothing which were in shortage, installed removable air conditioning units and based on business unit or teams. These groups provide voluntary community service played and interacted with the children. The Volunteer Group also participated in carein welfare facilities across 18 communities and have formed affiliations with two rural giving for the disabled children. communities and provides regular volunteer work and sponsorship. KEPCO E&C True Love Volunteering Group Emergency and Disaster Volunteer Group Farming and fishing village Volunteering in local community connection business Direct Control/ Nuclear Reactor Nuclear Power Plant Volunteer Executive office Planning & Marketing Design Volunteer Volunteer Group Group Volunteer Group Group 84 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report 2012 KEPCO E&C 지속가능경영보고서 85 05 As a result of KEPCO E&C’s efforts, received official certificates of appreciation from the institutions. The Ashram school also issued a certificate of volunteer work APPENDIX performed. KEPCO E&C will continue to expand its social contributions to communities around the world as it expands its businesses as well. Sponsoring Arts and Culture • KEPCO-E&C is actively providing support for art and culture organizations local communities throughout the country, especially in light of the difficulties they face due to the economic slowdown, through corporate sponsorship programs. In 2012, KEPCO E&C sponsored the special exhibition at the Nam June Paik Art Center, located within the community, commemorating the 80th anniversary of his birth. By sponsoring this exhibition local artists were revisited and their global talent highlighted, increasing awareness of local artists within the community. In addition, KEPCO E&C sponsored the largest cultural event in Yong-in City, the Po-Eun Cultural Festival. This festival attracts the most family attendance and offers participants the chance to experience traditional culture and raises awareness of the legacy of the local historic figure Po-Eun Jeong Mong-ju (Po-Eun is Jeong Mong-ju’s pen name). KEPCO E&C also donated 700 books to the Bora Library in Yongin through the municipal government to enrich the local community and improve educational environment. In order to revitalize low-income household economies and the local economy as a whole, KEPCO E&C formed a cooperative sisterhood union with Yongin Central Market and provided support for marketing and promoting products sold in the market and encouraged shopping at the local market leading to an increase in local economic activity. 86 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report APPENDIX 87 APPENDIX 05.1 Sustainable Management Performance Financial Performance Social Performance Unit 2010 2011 2012 Unit 2010 2011 2012 Sales 5,801 6,633 7,856 No. of Employees Persons 2,041 2,179 2,223 Domestic 4,698 4,423 4,527 Regular Persons 2,004 2,067 2,063 Overseas 1,103 2,210 3,329 Non-Regular Persons 37 112 160 Contract value 12,585 11,054 7,821 Male Persons 1,889 2,007 2,032 Domestic 3,513 5,681 4,543 Female Persons 152 172 191 Overseas Hundred 9,072 5,373 3,278 Ratio of disabled hires % 3.01% 2.83% 2.54% Contract Balance Million 17,466 20,751 20,334 No. of New Hires Persons 229 118 97 KRW Operating Profit 1,122 1,365 1,531 No. of Employees Resigned Persons 31 53 72 Net Profit 962 1,161 1,343 No. of Employees Retired Persons 19 36 39 Total Assets 5,710 7,399 8,619 No. of Employees on Parental Leave Persons 11 14 10 R&D Investment 436 496 566 Male Persons 3 1 Dividends 706 813 738 Female Persons 11 11 9 Actual Corporate Tax Expenditure 327 378 415 Rate of return to work/ retention after parental % 100% 93% 100% leave ※ Based on international K-IFRS standard Male % 67% 100% Female % 100% 100% 100% Per capita annual average training hours Hours 74 99 103 Environmental Performance Number of up-coming retirees provided with Persons 32 27 39 training Workplace Accidents Cases 3 1 5 Unit 2010 2011 2012 Labor Union Membership Persons 1,345 1,415 1,511 Manpower input for Eco-friendly MM 167.5 208.1 103.2 Technology R&D Eco-friendly Technology R&D Hundred [HR5] Right to Exercise Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 26 16 9 Investment Million KRW • GHG emissions tCO₂eq 3754.08 3,818.85 3,751.49 ⊙ KEPCO E&C protects the right to exercise the freedom of association explicitly as stipulated in the relevant Direct Emissions tCO₂eq 856.80 827.86 753.89 articles of the Collective Agreement. Indirect Emissions tCO₂eq 2897.28 2991.00 2997.60 •Article 12 – The Company guarantees the right to form labor unions and is prohibited from taking any intervention with Municipal Gas Consumption ㎥ 192,434 166,816 161,367 the intent to intimidate labor union activities or otherwise imposing influence and discriminating on the basis of Labor Electricity Consumption MWh 6,214 6,416 6,429 Union participation, •Article 13 – Unfair labor actions as defined by the Labor Union And Labor Relations Adjustment Act. Water Consumption ton 54,900 48,833 49,724 Municipal Waste ton 162 72 32 ⊙ There are no operations or business processes where the risk of violation of the to exercise freedom of Recycled Paper ton 58.5 78.5 92.5 association and collective bargaining. Recycled Acid ton 1.0 1.0 1.0 88 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report APPENDIX 89 APPENDIX [LA5] Minimum notice periods specified in collective agreements • 05.2 Membership in Organizations and Associations ⊙ Based on Article 24 of the KEPCO E&C collective agreement, KEPCO E&C complies strictly to its duty of prior notice, and provides immediate notice should issues requiring and ensuring adequate time for consultation. In KEPCO E&C holds memberships in organizations and associations to 1)comply with relevant regulatory addition, notifications on material changes to business activities are considered to be ‘other issues labor unions requirements, 2) maintain the Company’s industry licenses and certifications, and 3)maintain cooperative ties with are to be aware of and consulted on.’ the government of Korea and its mother company to promote the export of nuclear power plants ⊙ Membership required by law •Amendments to the Articles of Incorporation, and enactment or repeal of regulations or codes such as the employment code. •Yongin Chamber of Commerce and Industry – Mandatory membership as stipulated by the Chambers of Commerce and •Results of appointment of or change of assignment of the Company’s executives Industry Act of the Republic of Korea •Plans for public recruitment announcement •Korea Exchange : Mandatory membership based on listing requirements for securities exchange •Plans for holding personnel committees regarding disciplinary action against a labor union member •Results of employee promotions, transfer, change of assignment between departments and other personnel changes •Changes to the Company’s department name ⊙ Membership for the maintenance of licenses •Other issues labor unions are to be aware of and consulted on •Membership necessary for conducting business such as domestic and foreign nuclear power and other power generation projects for the basis of completing engineering projects, construction industry and construction contract projects, electrical works projects, management work for new and renewable energy [LA6] Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees • ⊙ KEPCO E&C does not operate a join management-worker health and safety committee Association Association 1 Korea Fire Construction Association 10 Korea Electric Engineering Association [LA9] Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Construction Association of Korea, Gyeongki Korea Electrical Construction Association 2 11 • Division Gyeongki Division ⊙ KEPCO E&C’s collective agreement stipulates articles on health and safety. Korean Association of Environmental Impact Korea Information & Comm Contractors 3 12 Assessment Association, Incheon/Gyeongki Division Concerning Employee Health Examinations 4 Korea New & Renewable Energy Association 13 International Contractors Association of Korea •A comprehensive health examination including stomach and liver cancer examinations are provided to all employees once 5 Korea Association of ESCO 14 Korea Construction Consulting Engineers Association every year. •Selection of medical institute based on management-worker consultation 6 Korea Association of Surveying and Mapping 15 Korea Engineering & Consulting Association •If illness detected during medical examination has the possibility of being work-related, the Company will provide further 7 Korea Fire Safety Association 16 Korea Construction Engineers Associatio examination at its own expense. 8 Korea Plant Industries Association 17 Seoul Bar Association Concerning work-related illnesses 9 Korea Fire Facility Association 18 NYS Office of Court Administration •Work-related illnesses are treated in accordance with the industrial accident compensation insurance and Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Act. •If illness is determined to be work-related, measures are taken based on management-worker consultation ⊙ Membership for the export of nuclear power plants •Korea Nuclear Association for International Cooperation : Collaboration with government Ministries, KEPCO, Korea Hydro and Nuclear Power Co. to develop systematic strategies for export of nuclear power plants and to build a network to obtain the latest industry information. 90 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report APPENDIX 91 APPENDIX KEPCO E&C is a member of numerous other associations and organizations to maintain open lines of communication and lead the power industry. 05.3 Awards & Accolades Korea Construction Earthquake Engineering Society The Korean Society for Noise Korean Geotechical Society Year Award Organizer Engineers Association of Korea and Vibration Engineering 2010 Most Outstanding Quality Competitive Enterprise Ministry of Knowledge Economy (Current Korea Electric Engineers The Geological Society of Korea ASME CICIND(International Committee Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) Association on Industrial Chimneys) Korea Agency for Technology and Standards Korea Electric Association Korea water Resources Association The Korean Institute of Korean Association of 2010 Korea Management Awards 「Most Admired Company」 Korea Management Associations Korea Atomic Industrial The Korean Society of Electrical Engineers(Americ Environmental Impact Enterprise Category Grand Prize Consultants Forum Engineering Geology anConcreteInstitute) Assessment 2010 Project of the Year Korea Industrial ACI (American Concrete Power Standard Operating Korea CCS Association (Korea Korea Project Mangement Association R&D category grand prize Technology Association Institute) Council Carbon Dioxide Capture and 2011 Korea Management Awards 「Most Admired Company」 Korea Management Associations (AmericanConcreteInstitute) Storage Association) Overal Grand Prize Consultants Korea Energy Foundation Architecture Institute of Korea International Council of Large Korea wind Energy Industry 2011 Most Outstanding Quality Competitive Enterprise Ministry of Knowledge Economy (Current (WEC Korea Committee) Electric Power Network (CIGRE) Association Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) International Electrical ASTM-D33 Technical Institute of Electrical and World Nuclear Association Korea Agency for Technology and Research Exchange(IERE) Committee Electronics Egineers (IEEE) (WNA) Standards Korea Electrical Engineering The Korean Structural The Korean Institute of Electrical Korea Engineering & Consulting 2012 Commendation for Efforts Developing Local Technology Talent Ministry of Knowledge Economy (current & Science Research Institute Engineers Association Engineers, Council Association -M inistry of Knowledge Economy (current Ministry of Trade, Industry Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy Korea Forum of Chief Korean Institute of Landscape The Ergonomics Society of International Desalination and Energy) Minister’s commendation Information Officers Architecture Korea Association 2012 Minister of Gender Equality and Family Minister’s Award Minister of Gender Equality and Family Nuclear Energy Institute Korea Project Management International Systems and The Korean Society For New (NEI) Association (KPMA) Automation (ISA) And Renewable Energy 2012 2012 Korea Communication Management Awards Hankyung Magazine The Institute of Electronics Korean Standards Association Overall Grand Prize Korean Nuclear Society Korean CM Association Engineers of Korea 2012 Most Outstanding Quality Competitive Enterprise Ministry of Knowledge Economy (Current The Korean Radioactive Korean Institute Of Construction Korea Instrument and Controls Korea Institute of Quality Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) waste Society Engineering and Management Professional Engineers Management Korea Agency for Technology and Korean Association for Project Management Institute Association Standards Radiation Protection Korea Institutes of Radioactive Waste Management and 2012 2012 Korea Technology Awards Award of Excellence Korea Institute for Advancement of WiNK, women in NuclearKorean Society of Pressure Information Security and Nuclear Facility Decommissioning -M inistry of Knowledge Economy Minister’s commendation (Current Technology Korea vessels & Piping Cryptology Technology Center Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) Korea Academy of Nuclear The Corrosion Science Society Society of Korea Korean Society of Civil Society for Women in Nuclear Engineers Power Korean Society of Mechanical Korea Institute of Plant Engineers Engineering & Construction Korea Concrete Institute Korea Atomic Equipment Advancement Association Korea Institute of Fire The Korean Institute of Electrical Science and Engineering Engineers Studies Association Korean Society of Steel Korean Construction Joints Construction Association Korea Association of Nuclear Korea Smart Grid Association Equipment Qualiﬁcation Society of Air-conditioning Computational Structural and refrigerating engineers Engineering Institute of Korea of Korea (SAREK) 92 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report APPENDIX 93 APPENDIX 05.4 Independent Limited Assurance Report including the aggregation of data into information as presented in the Report ● On the content of the Report: Based on the above work, we conclude that the information in •With regard to the financial data included in the key the Report does not appear to be unfairly stated. We were engaged by KEPCO E&C to provide independent 3000 and AA1000AS. figures on pages 86, verified that they were correctly assurance on the information presented in KEPCO E&C ’s 2012 Readers should note that limited assurance in ISAE 3000 is derived from KEPCO E&C’s 2012 audited financial Recommendations Sustainability Report (‘the Report’). KEPCO E&C is responsible consistent with a moderate level of assurance as defined by statements Without prejudice to our conclusions presented above, we for preparing the Report, including the identification of AA1000AS (2008). believe the following matters can be considered for improved stakeholders and material issues. Our responsibility is to Among other things, these standards contain requirements During our engagement, we discussed the necessary changes sustainability reporting: provide an opinion on the Report. regarding the independence and competency of the assurance to the Report with KEPCO E&C and verified that these changes team. were adequately incorporated into the final version. •K EPCO E&C discloses material information to its Context and scope stakeholders by publishing a sustainability report. In Our engagement was designed to provide limited assurance Independence, impartiality and competence Conclusions order to improve KEPCO E&C’s sustainable management on whether: We conducted our engagement in compliance with the ● On the AA1000APS Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and increase the timeliness of the data provided, we requirements of the IFAC (International Federation of and Responsiveness recommend that the sustainability report, which is 1. K EPCO E&C has applied the “AA1000 AccountAbility Accountants) Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants In relation to the principle of inclusivity : published once every two years at present, should be Principles Standard (2008)”; which requires, among others, that the members of the ◦KEPCO E&C operates communication channels with customers published annually. 2. The information in the Report is fairly stated in all material assurance team (practitioners) as well as the assurance firm •C ompany-wide assessment and management of (clients), senior management, employees, shareholders, respects, based on the reporting criteria set out in ‘About (assurance provider) be independent of the assurance client. investors, creditors, suppliers, dealers, local community and sustainability performance is essential in sustainability This Report’. The Code also includes detailed requirements for practitioners others through the stakeholder participation process. management and stakeholder communication. To regarding integrity, objectivity, professional competence, due ◦We are not aware of any key stakeholder group which has accomplish this, KEPCO E&C should consider developing The scope of our engagement conforms to the requirements care, confidentiality and professional behavior. KPMG has been excluded from dialogue in the Report. We recommend a self-assessment system and a monitoring process that of a Type 2 assurance engagement as set out in the AA1000AS systems and processes in place to monitor compliance with stating a more detailed explanation of the stakeholder reflects both KEPCO E&C’s characteristics and industry (2008) of AccountAbility, including the aspect of “reliability”. the Code and to prevent conflicts regarding independence. engagement process and material issues in future reports. standards and disclosing this in the sustainability report. With regard to the financial data stated on pages 86, our We conducted our engagement with a multidisciplinary team In relation to the principle of materiality : We have discussed our observations regarding the reporting procedures were limited to verifying that they were correctly including specialists in stakeholder engagement, auditing, ◦KEPCO E&C operates a materiality test regularly to process and reported outside the scope of our assignment derived from KEPCO E&C’s audited financial statements. To environmental, social and financial aspects, and similar determine material issues. with KEPCO E&C . They were receptive to our comments. obtain a thorough understanding of KEPCO E&C ’s financial engagements in the related industries. ◦We are not aware of any material aspects concerning its results and position, the audited financial statements of sustainability performance which have been excluded from KEPCO E&C for the fiscal year ended 7 March 2013 should be Work performed the Report. We recommend stating more specifically about Seoul, June 2013 consulted. Our work included the following procedures: the materiality test and material issues in future reports. KPMG SAMJONG Accounting Corp. Criteria •An evaluation of the results of KEPCO E&C’s stakeholder CEO Kim, Kyo Tai In relation to the principle of responsiveness: KEPCO E&C applies the criteria of the AA1000APS (2008) engagement process ◦KEPCO E&C has appropriately responded to the selection of for the three principles of inclusivity, materiality and •An evaluation of KEPCO E&C’s process for determining key stakeholder groups involved in management. responsiveness. In preparing the report, KEPCO E&C applies material issues ◦With the exception of the issues highlighted in the Report the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) of the Global •Conducted media analysis and internet search for in relation to materiality, we are not aware of any additional Reporting Initiative (GRI). (Assurance on the 2012 GHG references to KEPCO E&C during the reporting period issues of stakeholder interest that are not currently being emission data was performed separately) •Interviews with selected managers and site visits to managed by KEPCO E&C . We suggest reporting in detail the verify financial and nonfinancial data during the reporting stakeholder engagement process and performance results Assurance standards period in future reports. We conducted our engagement in accordance with the ISAE •Review of internal documentation and intranet sources, 1 AA1000 Assurance Standard(2008), issued by AccountAbility 2 International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 : Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board 94 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report APPENDIX 95 APPENDIX 05.5 GRI 3.1 Index ● Fully ◐ Partially ○ Not reported N/A Not applicable ● Fully ◐ Partially ○ Not reported N/A Not applicable GRI GRI Description Reported Page ISO 26000 Description Reported Page ISO 26000 Index Index 1. Strategy and Analysis 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization ● 4-5 6.2 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest ● 18-19 6.2 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities ● 4-5, 17, 86-87 6.2 governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight 2. Organizational Profile 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer ● 18 6.2 2.1 Name of the organization ● 10 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of ● 18 6.2 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services ● 11 the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, ● 12-13 6.2 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction ◐ 19 6.2 subsidiaries, and joint ventures to the highest governance body 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters ● 13 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior ● 19, 68 6.2 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major ● 13-14 managers, and executives(including departure arrangements), and the organization’s operations or that are specifically relevant to the substantiality issues covered in the report performance (including social and environmental performance) 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form ● 10, 18 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are ● 19 6.2 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ ● 11, 13-14, 25-31 avoided beneficiaries) 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance ◐ 18 6.2 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization ● 12, 14-15 body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership ◐ 12, 18-19 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles ● 16-17, 65 6.2 relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ● 91 implementation 3. Report Parameters 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s ◐ 17, 19 6.2 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided ● About this report identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) ● About this report including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) ◐ About this report 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly ◐ 19 6.2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents ● About this report with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance 3.5 Process for defining report content ● 20-22 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by ● 39-40 6.2 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, ● About this report the organization suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other ● 5, 48, 75 6.2 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness ◐ About this report initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses principle for explanation of scope) 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ ● 89-90 6.2 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other ● About this report international advocacy organizations in which the organization: *Has positions in entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 13 governance bodies; 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and ◐ About this report *Participates in projects or committees; techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other *Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or *Views membership as strategic information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization ● 20 6.2 the GRI Indicator Protocols 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage ● 20 6.2 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and ● About this report 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and ● 20-22 6.2 the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, by stakeholder group nature of business, measurement methods) 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and ● 20-22 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement N/A how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through methods applied in the report its reporting 3.12 GRI Content Index ● 94-99 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report ● 92-93 7.5.3 96 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report APPENDIX 97 APPENDIX ● Fully ◐ Partially ○ Not reported N/A Not applicable ● Fully ◐ Partially ○ Not reported N/A Not applicable GRI GRI Description Reported Page ISO 26000 Description Reported Page ISO 26000 Index Index 5. Economic Disclosure on Management Approach (EC) EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight N/A 6.5/6.5.3 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, ● 14-15, 68-69, 6.8/6.8.3/ EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight N/A employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained 79, 81-82, 6.8.7/6.8.9 earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments 86-87 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination N/A 59 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities ● 11,50-51, 55 6.5.5 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method ● 59 due to climate change EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills N/A EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations ● 69 6.4.4/6.8 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government N/A EN24 weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under N/A the terms of the basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and vIII, and percentage of transported EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at ● 68 6.4.4/6.8 waste shipped internationally significant locations of operation.(Additional indicator). EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats N/A 6.5/6.5.4/ EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant ● 79 6.6.6/6.8/ significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff 6.5.6 locations of operation 6.8.5/6.8.7 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of ● 50-57 6.5/6.5.4/ EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local ◐ 64 6.8/6.8.5/ impact mitigation 6.6.6/6.7.5 community at significant locations of operation 6.8.7 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by N/A 6.5/6.5.4/ EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily ● 14-28, 80-84 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.3/6.8.4/ category 6.7.5 for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro-bono engagement 6.8.5/6.8.6/6.8.7/ EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for N/A 6.5 6.8.9 non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the ◐ 14 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.6.7/ EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials N/A 6.5/6.5.4 extent of impacts 6.7.8/6.8/6.8.5/ used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. /6.6.6 6.8.6/6.8.7/6.8.9 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ● 86 6.5 6. Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach (EN) 7. Social_Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on Management Approach (LA) EN1 Materials used by weight or volume N/A 6.5/6.5.4 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region ● 63 6.4/6.4.3 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials N/A LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region ● 63-64 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source ● 58 LA3 benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part● 68 6.4/6.4.3/ EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source N/A 58 time employees, by major operations 6.4.4 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements ◐ 58 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● 87 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/ EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, ● 57-58 6.4.5/6.3.10 and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether ● 88 6.4/6.4.3/ EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved ◐ 58 it is specified in collective agreements 6.4.4/6.4.5 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 59 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health ● 88 6.4/6.4.6 EN9 water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water ◐ 59 and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused ◐ 59 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of ● 75, 87 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and N/A 6.5/6.5.6 work-related fatalities by region areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to ◐ 72 6.4/6.4.6/6.8/ EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in N/A assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious 6.8.3/6.8.4/ protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas diseases 6.8.8 EN13 biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the biodiversity of the affected areas ◐ 82 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ● 71-75, 88 6.4/6.4.6 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity N/A LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category ● 66-67, 87 6.4/6.4.7 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in N/A LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued ● 64 6.4/6.4.7/ areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings 6.8.5 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 58 6.5/6.5.5 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 58 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved ● 55-57 98 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report APPENDIX 99 APPENDIX ● Fully ◐ Partially ○ Not reported N/A Not applicable ● Fully ◐ Partially ○ Not reported N/A Not applicable GRI GRI Description Reported Page ISO 26000 Description Reported Page ISO 26000 Index Index LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development ● 70-71 6.4/6.4.7 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly ● 44 6.6/6.6.5 reviews practices and their outcomes LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according ● 12, 18, 63 6.3.7/6.3.10/ SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for N/A 6.6/6.6.5/ to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 6.4/6.4.3 non-compliance with laws and regulations 6.6.76.6.7 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category ● 63 6.3.7/6.3.10/ SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local N/A 6.6/6.6.7/ 6.4/6.4.3/ communities 6.8.7 6.4.4 SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant N/A LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. ● 64 6.4.3/6.4.4 potential or actual negative impacts on local communities 8. Social_Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach (HR) 10. Social_Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach (PR) HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human N/A 6.3/6.33/ PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are ● 35-38 6.3.9/6.6.6/ rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening 6.3.5/6.6.6 assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services 6.7/6.7.4/ HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on ● 77 6.3/6.3.3/ categories subject to such procedures 6.7.5 human rights and actions taken 6.3.5/6.4.3/ PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes N/A 6.6.6 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of ◐ 42 6.3/6.3.5 cycle, by type of outcomes human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of ◐ 50-52 6.7/6.7.3/ trained significant products and services subject to such information requirements 6.7.4/6.7.5/ HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken ● 63 6.3/6.3.6/ PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes N/A 6.7.6/6.7.9 6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4.3 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective ● 87 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/ PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring ● 61-62 6.7/6.7.4/ bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights 6.3.5/ 6.3.8/6.3.10/ customer satisfaction 6.7.5/6.7.6/ 6.4.3/ 6.4.5 6.7.8/6.7.9 HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures ● 41, 100 6.3/6.3.3/ PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to ● 98 6.7/6.7.3/ taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor 6.3.4/6.3.5/ marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship 6.7.6/6.7.9 HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory ● 41, 100 6.3.7/6.3.10 PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes N/A labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures ◐ 42 6.3/6.3.5/ sponsorship by type of outcomes concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations 6.4.3/6.6.6 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy ● 62 6.7/6.7.7 HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions N/A 6.3/6.3.6/ and losses of customer data taken 6.3.7/6.3.8/6.6.7 PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations N/A 6.7/6.7.6 HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights N/A concerning the provision and use of products and services reviews and/or impact assessments. HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through ◐ 43 formal grievance mechanisms 9. Social_Society Disclosure on Management Approach (SO) SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and ◐ 80-84 6.3.9/6.8/ manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and 6.8.5/6.8.7/6.6.7 exiting SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption ◐ 41-44 6.6/6.6.3 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and ● 42 procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption ● 44 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying N/A 6.6/6.6.4/ SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and N/A 6.8.3 related institutions by country 100 2012 KEPCO E&C Sustainability Report APPENDIX 05.6 UNGC With the KEPCO E&C's ideology to harmonize humanity · the environment · and engineering, KEPCO E&C joined UNGC(United Nations Global Compact) on July 17, 2007, to fulfill its corporate social responsibilities. UNGC has ten universally accepted principles in the four areas of human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. KEPCO E&C is in full compliance with the UNGC principles throughout the whole business activities and supports to build the transparent and stable labor-management relations. This report shows the ten Principles of UNGC and KEPCO E&C's supporting rules and regulations as follows. UNGC UNGC Principles Supporting Rules and GRI Page Principles Regulations at KEPCO E&C Human 1. we support and respect the protection Code of Ethics / Collective Agreement, HR1/HR2/HR3/HR4/ 41-42, 63, 77, 87 Rights of internationally proclaimed human Article 99/ Employment Rules, Article 4 HR5/HR6/HR7/HR8/ rights HR9 2. w e make sure that we are not Code of Ethics / Code of Conduct for HR1/HR2/HR8 42, 77 complicit in human rights abuses ethics management, Article 31 / Collective Agreement, Article 99 / Employment Rules, Article 5 Labor 3. w e uphold the freedom of association Code of Ethics / Collective Agreement, HR5/LA4/LA5 87-88 Standards and the effective recognition of the Article 2, 5 and 6 right to collective bargaining 4. w e eliminate all forms of forced and Code of Ethics / Collective Agreement, HR7 41 compulsory labor Article 34, 35 and 37, Employment Rules, Article 16 5. we effectively abolish child labor The 10 Principles of UN Global Compact HR6 41 6. we eliminate discrimination in respect Code of Ethics / Code of Conduct for ethics HR4/LA2/LA10/LA13/ 63-64, 66-67, 87 of employment and occupation management, Article 5 and 11 / Collective LA14 Agreement, Article 25 / Employment Rules, Article 4 Enviro7. w e support a precautionary approach Environmental Policy / ISO14001 4.11 50-57 nment to environmental challenges Certification/ Environmental Management Manual 8. w e undertake initiatives to promote Environmental Policy / Environmental EN2/EN5/EN6/EN7/ 57-59, 86 greater environmental responsibility Management Manual EN10/EN13/EN14/ EN18/EN21/EN22/ EN26/EN27/EN30 9. w e encourage the development and Environmental Policy / Management EN2/EN5/EN6/EN7/ 50-58, diffusion of environmentally friendly Policy EN10/EN18/EN26/ technologies EN27 Anti10. we work against corruption in all Code of Ethics / Code of Conduct for ethics SO2/SO3/SO4 41-44 corruption its forms, including extortion and management, Article 5, 6, 7, 17, 18 and bribery 19 / Collective Agreement, Article 99 / Employment Rules, Article 9 / Pledge of Moral Management Forum of CEOs
