tesa SE: Our Responsibility – Our Commitment Report 2012 A vivid Tradition of Responsibility Ban Ki-moon, UN-Generalsekretär (UN Photo/Mark Garten) Global Compact January 31, 2001, at the World Economic Forum in Davos: Then UN Secretary General Kofi Annan calls on companies that operate internationally to take an active stance in meeting the challenges presented by globalization. His vision: a global pact based on universally accepted social and environmental principles. Today, companies from more than 130 countries, international The ten principles of the UN Global Compact employee associations, civil society organizations, governments, and United Nations organizations are involved in the Global Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect international Compact. Under the auspices of the current UN Secretary human rights in their own sphere of influence General, Ban Ki-Moon, the world’s largest corporate citizenship Principle 2: They must ensure that they are not complicit initiative is moving forward. in human rights abuses The ten principles, on which the pact is based, covering the Principle 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental protecand the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining tion, and the fight against corruption, have long formed part of Principle 4: All forms of forced and compulsory labor must the corporate values of tesa. Our membership in the Global be eliminated Compact underscores this vivid tradition. All of tesa SE’s activiPrinciple 5: The use of child labor must be abolished ties related to commitment and involvement are subject to a continuous improvement process. In this current issue, the Principle 6: Discrimination with respect to employment and Progress Report 2012, we provide an insight into the developoccupation must be eliminated ment of our activities and projects – with regard to the ten Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary principles of the UN Global Compact and our own corporate approach to environmental challenges responsibility strategy. Principle 8: Initiatives should be undertaken to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: The development and diffusion of eco-friendly technologies is to be encouraged Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 2 Progress Report 2012 As a member of the United Nations Global Compact, we have provement process. With more than 50 affiliates worldwide, there committed ourselves to reporting annually on the progress of our are a large number of projects involved. For that reason, this initiatives. This helps facilitate a regular interchange of informareport is limited to a representative selection of current initiatives. tion with those around us and documents our projects aimed at We began publishing our Progress Report in an online version putting the ten principles of the Global Compact into practice in 2008. In addition to the advantage of better accessibility, an and firmly implementing them within our company. The Progress online report also offers opportunities for regular updates. Report 2012 provides you with an overview of our worldwide You can also visit the “Responsibility” section of our website for commitment and involvement in the fields of human rights and comprehensive information on the topics of the environment, labor standards, environmental protection, the fight against coremployees, products, and social matters: ruption, and society. tesa has traditionally taken a sustainable www.tesa.com/company/responsibility. approach that ensures both continuity and a continuous imDeclaration of Support Human Rights and Labor Standards Membership based on firmly held convictions The human factor as a determinant of success We are firmly convinced that binding values and a sustainable Numerous activities in the areas of employee qualifications business policy are prerequisites for economic success. as well as occupational health and safety characterized the >> Page 4 year 2012. >> Page 5 Environmental Protection Compliance and Fair Trade Consequent development Integrity and proper conduct Ten years after the introduction of the tesa Environmental We pay strict attention to compliance with laws and guidelines. Management Program all sites have very high standards. A central co-ordination unit combines all associated processes >> Page 11 and activities. >> Page 17 Social Projects Strategy with regional facets Our social commitment and involvement is reflected in over 40 projects worldwide. A new project combines environmental protection with corporate volunteering. >> Page 18 3 Declaration of Support “Responsibility is traditional at tesa: We see it as an important investment in the future.” Thomas Schlegel, CEO of tesa SE tesa SE is one of the world’s leading companies in the self-adhemagazine “Lebensmittelzeitung” as well as a nomination for the sive technology segment. Our success story is not just associ“German Federal Ecodesign Award”. tesa also gave out prizes ated with innovations, quality and technological progress. The once again, handing out awards to eleven regional sustainability acceptance of responsibility is also one of the defining factors in projects in the second edition of the “Make a difference that this development. We underscore this tradition of a sustainable sticks!” competition. The projects received grants totaling business policy through our membership in the United Nations’ 54,000 euros. Global Compact. On a personal note I was particularly delighted about one award In 2012 we set things in motion for the biggest investment in the this year: The tesa plant in Offenburg received the coveted history of tesa SE. From 2015 we will manage our global busi“Great Place to Work” seal. This “testimonial” is not merely isness from a new location close to Hamburg’s airport. The new sued by an official jury, but also by employees themselves by building is not only a step in the right direction for our economic means of a questionnaire. If they are happy with their employer, development. tesa’s corporate culture will also benefit from the this is the most valuable praise we can receive. During the official new home, as around 800 employees from the company’s curceremony, the plant also received the special “Workplace Health rent headquarters, the research center and the technical center Promotion” prize. will be united under one roof. These units are currently separated from one another on the premises of our parent group Beiersdorf To improve our corporate culture even further, we devoted ourAG. In the future, direct linking will guarantee that paths are kept selves to the topic of a culture of feedback between managers short as well as ensure better and faster communication. The and employees in 2012. New instruments and a newly designed new complex, precisely tailored to our business model, will see staff meeting will bear fruit starting in 2013. We were also able to us further concentrate our strengths and bolster the tesa Group’s expand our range of offerings in the field of continuing education. international competitiveness for many years to come. It will enIn addition, we have continued our global social activities as beable us to react far faster and with greater flexibility to our cusfore, focusing on long-term partnerships and voluntary committomer’s varying wishes. The groundbreaking ceremony for the ment to children and young people. Among other things, we new building took place at the end of 2012. The plans take acpromote the joy of reading in Germany, support children from count of ecological aspects and include an energy concept fit for families of migrant workers in China and help “quarry children” in the future. Yeleswaram in India. People and the environment are at the heart of a partnership with the Lower Saxonian Elbe River Biosphere After ten years of the tesa environmental program we were able Reserve. To further reforest the oak forest, tesa employees and to report positive results in the current reporting year. Ever since their families planted over 2,500 young trees this year. we have acted as a separate subsidiary within the Beiersdorf Group, we have pursued binding goals and have achieved a Further information about the subject of responsibility at tesa can great deal. A range of large and small measures have meant that be found on our Responsibility page on the Internet. We have our global production locations now have very high environmenrearranged and redesigned it this year: tal standards. We have also increased our commitment at the www.tesa.de/company/verantwortung product level in recent years. With the environmentally friendly tesa ecoLogo® products for masking, fixing and repairing, we In the future we will continue also have a “green” assortment in DIY and building supply stores to pursue our sustainable business since 2012. We have added colorful Mini Dispensers to our policy in keeping with the ecoLogo® range in the office segment. This year the products UN Global Compact. earned us third place in the “EcoCare prize” awarded by German 4 Human Rights and Labor Standards The human factor as a determinant of success People are the foundation of our business success – people like In terms of industrial safety, we were again able to continue the our own employees as well as customers and suppliers. With positive trend of past years and further reduce our below-averthis in mind, compliance with and advocacy of international huage accident figures. In addition, we focused continually on furman rights are just as much a part of our principles as unimther compliance issues. The initiatives included the establishpeachable labor standards. We have firmly established these ment of a special compliance communication platform on the principles with initiatives that include the internationally applicable intranet, a training film on the subject of data protection protesa Code of Conduct and the worldwide tesa Purchasing Charduced in collaboration with Beiersdorf, training on the anti-corter, which governs our cooperation with suppliers. The content of ruption guidelines as well as the implementation of the tesa “Antithe policies and rules associated with these initiatives formed an trust Compliance Program”, which involved training on the subintegral component of numerous staff development measures in ject of antitrust law at executive board, management and sales 2012, too. level worldwide. Code of Conduct Purchasing Charter Binding rules of conduct Minimum standards for strategic purchasing The tesa Code of Conduct defines clear values and conduct Supplier qualification, evaluation, and development have been guidelines for all employees of the tesa Group. Its content is an harmonized across the Group. This helps us ensure that our integral part of training courses and workshops. >> Page 6 internationally binding minimum standards are met. >> Page 7 Employee Qualification Occupational Health and Safety Range of further training expanded Low accident figures Our employees are the most important capital for securing tesa’s Due to high standards and preventive measures the number of success. Our corporate culture and targeted staff development notifiable industrial accidents was significantly below industry and support initiatives take this fact into account. >> Page 8 average. >> Page 10 5 Code of Conduct The tesa Code of Conduct defines values and clear conduct guidelines. Its content is an integral component of training courses and workshops. Binding rules of conduct The Code of Conduct establishes our most important principles in six main topics: Respect, honesty, trust, tolerance, and integrity – these are the principles we apply in our business, principles that have not only 1. Adherence to legal regulations made us successful in the past, but also guide us in the present We do business lawfully and strictly observe the laws of the and will continue to do so in the future. The rules of conduct countries in which we are active. associated with these principles are specified in a mandatory 2. Fair competition worldwide Code of Conduct. During the last year, we implementWe do not gain market advantages through unfair or illegal ed communication and training initiatives to ensure that these practices. ideas take even firmer hold within the company. The rules and 3. Protection of tesa net assets criteria incorporated into the tesa Code of Conduct, which is We deal carefully with the company’s legally protected inforderived from our corporate values and the ten principles of the mation, net assets and resources. UN Global Compact, provide clear guidance. The Code of 4. Socially acceptable working environment Conduct strengthens trust in the performance and integrity of We ensure a socially acceptable, reliable and motivating workthe tesa Group. No matter what their position or title, we expect ing environment. We soundly reject child and forced labor, all employees to abide by our ethical principles and consistently discrimination or the like. We also expect the same from our apply them in everything they do. We demand that our business partners. executives not only demonstrate exemplary compliance with 5. Personal integrity the rules of conduct, but also ensure at the same time that they We promote the highest level of personal integrity, and fairness actively communicate the rules to others. Since the Code of Conamong our employees and avoid situations where personal duct was introduced, all executives have been required to cominterests conflict or may conflict with those of our company. plete an e-learning program. For the current communication 6. Social commitment process with employees we also make supporting presentation We take our responsibility to future generations seriously and material available to all management levels. In order to keep the work to ensure sustainable development in all the relevant topic at the forefront, the Code of Conduct is also an integral areas: economic, ecological, and social. component in our introduction seminars for new employees, leadership training, in the Sales Qualification Program for sales staff and in our management development programs for executives and junior managers. Download „Code of Conduct“ 6 Purchasing Charter The qualification, evaluation, and development of suppliers are handled according to standard criteria at all tesa locations, ensuring that our binding worldwide minimum standards are met. Standards for strategic purchasing We at tesa are firmly convinced that sustainable, responsible to which they are met, site visits, and certification under the ISO corporate conduct must go beyond the individual company itself. 14001 environmental standard and ISO 9001 quality standard. That’s why our internal rules of conduct have long applied to our cooperation with suppliers around the globe as well. To provide a Sustainable supplier development is managed centrally at tesa standardized framework for our internationally applicable core by means of so-called product group strategies. They define the principles, the Strategic Purchasing division of tesa established existing strategic partners of tesa SE on the one hand, while on the tesa Purchasing Charter in 2008. Since then, we have conthe other hand providing insights into areas requiring the qualifitinuously promoted the minimum standards we apply worldwide cation of new suppliers. All results from the supplier appraisals and expect our partners to meet in the areas of human rights, are fed in, as are any measures subsequently agreed. The prodlabor standards, environmental protection, and the fight against uct group strategies are coordinated across functions with the corruption. individual tesa production sites and Research & Development. This enables us to ensure that the defined measures are impleBy signing our contract terms and conditions, suppliers make a mented and that the portfolio of suppliers continues to meet our binding commitment to operate in accordance with the ten funhigh demands in terms of technology and sustainability going damental principles of the UN Global Compact. In our cooperaforward. tion with suppliers, we strive to establish long-term strategic partnerships and pursue a continuous improvement process. This includes jointly established goals and monitoring the degree Download „Purchasing Charter“ 7 Employees Our employees are the most important capital for securing our success. Our corporate culture and targeted support initiatives take this fact into account. Qualifications and corporate culture The commitment and expertise of our employees is the basis for fectively anchor valuable expertise within the company in the the worldwide success of tesa SE. We promote trust between long term. In total, over 90 participants completed the basic employees and management, encouraging every individual to module “From a presenter to a trainer”. In 2012 we expanded this show responsibility and initiative. Important components of offering with a three-day development module. During the curour future-oriented HR policy include the targeted training of rent reporting year, the first group got the chance to refine their qualified employees, continuous further education and a very didactic methodology and conceptual skills. diverse range of offers to actively support the well-being of our employees. The development of potential and experienced management staff continues to be one of the focuses of tesa’s employee qualiTraining and continuing education fications. The program that we offer in connection with this for During the current reporting year we established a new apprentalented junior members of staff covers management aspects as ticeship to train machinery and equipment operators at the tesa well as the topic of corporate responsibility and the content of plant in Hamburg. The first young men and women were able to the tesa Code of Conduct. In addition, since 2012 we have ofcommence their two-year dual training in the summer of 2012. fered new custom-designed programs for select senior managAs in previous years, we have also expanded our extensive range ers. By imparting modern management methods, we equip of continuing education opportunities and enhanced them with these individuals for complex management tasks and simultaneregard to quality. The “Sales Qualification Program”, which enously ensure continuity in corporate management. 15 particicompasses 30 target-group-specific courses in a wide variety of pants from various functions and nine countries took part in this languages and also focuses on the Code of Conduct and the in the current reporting year. An initiative that focuses on the associated rules, was expanded in 2012, with new offerings inlegal aspects of executive management work was launched and cluding coaching for leading sales managers and country heads. made obligatory in 2012. This measure, which concentrates on The emphasis here was on operational practice and staff mantopics such as anti-trust regulations as well as legally compliant agement. During the current reporting year 1,450 employees management behavior and activities, is an integral component from international Sales and Research & Development attended of the global qualification of all tesa executives. The associated 480 training days. standards have now been established for all subsidiaries. Four new executives have already successfully completed the For several years we have been encouraging our employees to measure. pass on their own knowledge as trainers. The aim of our international “Train the Trainer” continuing education program is to ef8 “Great Place to Work” The 420 employees at tesa’s plant in Offenburg have had official the Beiersdorf Sports Association, which celebrated its 50th confirmation that their employer is among the best in Germany, anniversary in 2012. Around 380 tesa employees and their relaas the plant has borne the coveted “Great Place to Work” seal tives kept themselves fit during the current reporting year, while since the start of March 2012. It received very good marks in the enjoying low membership fees. Hamburg’s fourth-largest comcategories of “Respect”, “Pride” and “Credibility” in particular. A pany sports association offers over 40 sports. survey of employees and a so-called culture audit by the “Great Place to Work Institute” formed the basis for the evaluation. The independent, international research and consulting firm headquartered in the United States was founded in 1991 and is recognized worldwide. The Federal Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs is one of the initiative’s partners in Germany. In addition, the tesa plant in Offenburg received the special “Workplace Health Promotion” prize during the ceremony (see chapter on “Occupational Health and Safety”). At the sites in Hamburg, employees can also take care of their physical and mental well-being and take advantage of the broad range of offers that our parent group Beiersdorf provides. These include not only workplace health promotion activities, but also 9 Occupational health and safety The health and safety of employees are a top priority at tesa. We focus on prevention through high standards and targeted measures. Low accident figures and sickness absences Prevention is the best form of protection from injuries and workcarried out what is known as a “Factory Acceptance Test” on related health risks. Remarkably low accident rates demonstrate site, and in doing so checked the implementation of all relevant that we are on the right track with our high safety standards, safety features. occupational health and safety measures and training in all plants. The rate of accidents subject to mandatory reporting was Over the current reporting year the topic of health in the worksignificantly lower in the current reporting year than the industry place was among the key themes of our activities. With compreaverage. hensive health protection programs we promote the physical and psychological well-being of our employees worldwide. In 2012 The Occupational Safety Guidelines, which are based on the our Offenburg site won an award for this: As part of the Great international standard OHSAS 18001, are applied by tesa worldPlace to Work award ceremony, as a top employer the factory wide. When it comes to safety, we regularly raise employee won the special “workplace health promotion” award. The full awareness of the issue worldwide – including training courses on range of measures includes, among other things, relaxation techconduct conducive to health and safety, prevention of explosions niques, physical training, seminars on improving the sleeping and fires, fire extinguishing drills, detailed operating procedures skills of shift workers, ergonomic workplace design and occupafor all production facilities and targeted training. Internal processtional reintegration-management, for example after long illnesses. es make a significant contribution to hazard reduction. The disIn addition, a full-time prevention expert is on hand for the benefit tinctive factor is the combination of systematic hazard identificaof the employees. tion and risk assessment, employee responsibility and a continual improvement process, which includes all the parties involved. The most important analytical tool is the so-called TOP principle, which covers the three categories, “technical”, “organizational” and “personal”. This enables hazards to be identified, categorized and evaluated – the basis for targeted solutions. We consistently push our high standards and occupational health and safety measures forward when planning new facilities. Here as well, the focus is on the early identification and elimination of potential risks. A current example from the tesa plant in Suzhou, China: In the manufacture of a new coating system we 10 Environmental protection Long-term commitment Leaving an intact environment for subsequent generations is one approach: We promote the international exchange of information of tesa’s stated corporate goals. This is why ongoing monitoring between our environmental experts and actively take the initiaand possible improvement of certain key indicators such as entive. Part of this strategy involves developing our own production ergy consumption, CO2 emissions, the use of solvents, VOC technologies to enable solvent-free production. In addition, we emissions and waste have long been an integral part of our enviare increasingly pursuing our commitment at the product level: ronmental management. Our production plants are certified in For instance, with the tesa ecoLogo® sub-brand we now offer a accordance with the international environmental standard ISO full range of eco-friendly products for the office sector. In 2012, 14001:2004. tesa’s “green thread” is based on a precautionary we expanded the range into the DIY sector. Environmental program and goals Climate protection International activities Raising awareness Clearly formulated goals are the key to our ambitious environtesa operates climate protection measures on its own initiative mental program, which involves projects spanning the entire and responsibility in order to leave an intact environment for subglobe. >> Page 12 sequent generations. >> Page 14 Resource conservation Eco-friendly products Manufacturing processes and waste management Consumers benefit from tesa Efficient use of raw materials and resources is important to us in Sustainably produced goods like the tesa ecoLogo® range terms of sustainable business policy. >> Page 15 protect the climate. The winners? People all over the world. >> Page 16 11 Environmental program and goals Mandatory targets are the key to our successful environmental management approach. All tesa locations have very high standards. 10-year tesa environmental program Environmental goals 2002 through 2012 The current reporting year offers the opportunity to look back VOC emissions 70 percent over ten years of the tesa environmental program: Since 2001 tesa is an independent subsidiary within Beiersdorf AG. With the Solvents used 30 percent set-up of a systematic environmental management system we have seamlessly built upon the high environmental standards of Energy consumed 22 percent our parent company. This involved not only the step-by-step certification of all tesa plants according to the worldwide environWaste 32 percent mental standard ISO 14001. In 2002 we also set mandatory tarCO2 emissions in Europe 17 percent gets within an internationally applicable environmental program – with the focus on solvents, energy, VOC emissions and waste. After completing two cycles (2002-2006 and 2007-2012), all tesa locations have now attained a very high standard. Over the past ten years we have focused our technological development on eco-friendly production technologies and reoriented ourselves. In 2002 and 2011 in particular, we were able to make great progress with two newly patented “made by tesa processes”. Both technologies protect the environment to a considerable extent – in terms of solvents, energy consumption and CO2-emissions. A fact which led to funding for each of them from the Federal Ministry for the Environment, Nature Conservation and Nuclear Safety. Overall we have implemented numerous measures to achieve our mandatory environmental targets at all our plants. 12 10 years of tesa environmental program – reduction in percent 100 100 92 energy 88 83 CO2 80 83 78 71 solvent 70 waste 68 68 60 VOC 40 30 20 | | | | | | | | 2001 2003 2005 2006 2007 2009 2011 2012 Highlights, key figures and achievements over ten years In 2002 the tesa plant in Offenburg put a solvent-free, eco-friendIn 2009 there were significant advances in emissions of volatile ly production system for the manufacture of masking tape into organic substances. Since the start of the tesa environment prooperation. Since then, a total of more than 60 percent of all prodgram the VOC emissions had decreased by 50 percent in comucts at the plant have been manufactured without the use of parison with 2001. One year later the figure was already at minus solvents. 58 percent. In 2005 tesa received the B.A.U.M. environment award from the In 2010, the tesa plant in Hamburg installed a new, state-of-theGerman Environmental Management Association (B.A.U.M) and art ventilation system. In the same year, the technology center of the Chemical Industry Association’s (VCI) “Responsible Care the Hamburg tesa headquarters completed the technical modAward”. ernization of the ventilation system and the associated plant control system. The project received funding from the Hamburg AuIn 2006 tesa produced a positive summary following the first enthority for Urban Development and Environmental Affairs. vironmental program from 2002-2006: The use of solvents in relation to production levels decreased by 41 percent based on In 2011 tesa succeeded in making a further technological breakconstant production levels, and at the same time energy conthrough. The globally unique and patented ACX technology in the sumption decreased by 26 percent. A second environment proHamburg plant enabled the eco-friendly production of doublegram for 2007-2012 saw the start of the next phase. The new sided acrylic adhesive tapes for high-strength permanent adheprogram focused on reducing the output of volatile organic comsive bonds. pounds, also known as VOC emissions. After ten years of the tesa environmental program, the ecological In 2007 an innovative system for heat recovery at the tesa plant in standards of our plants have attained at a high level around the Offenburg considerably reduced energy consumption. world. We remain committed to this and will use any useful opportunities for further improvement. 13 Climate protection Environmentally friendly production methods and measures for employee awareness are part of our commitment to climate protection. Small steps, big impact In addition to environmentally friendly production processes and Together with the parent company Beiersdorf, in 2012 tesa laid other measures which we use to keep up with the latest technolthe foundations for a “Green Car Policy”, which was implemented ogy, raising the awareness of our employees is also part of our as of January 1, 2013. The intention of these measures is to commitment. They are familiar with the ongoing operations and reduce the CO2 emissions for the entire car fleet by an average of with their knowledge and specific ideas they help us to save 161 grams of CO2 per kilometer. The gradual transition, which energy and reduce costs at the same time. At our production extends from vehicles for field sales staff to vehicles for board site in Offenburg for example, 26 individual projects resulted from members, ensures that the company vehicles emit over 300 tons this in 2012 – among other things, the modernization of the lightless CO2 in Germany alone. Individual subsidiary companies ing and the use of performance-optimized motors. At the beginhave already converted their fleets, others will follow. ning of 2013 there are already 34 new ideas for further optimization. This process was initiated in 2009 by the project, “Active Environmental Protection through Reduced Waste and Energy Use”. The project’s motto is: “small steps, big impact.” As part of the international tesa environmental management system, our production sites have implemented successful energy saving projects over many years. In 2012, our German plants started preparations for the implementation of an energy management system (EMS) and as a first step initiated the creation of an online system for monitoring our energy data. The certification of the EMS in accordance with DIN EN ISO 50.001 is planned for the tesa plant in Hamburg and for the tesa plant in Offenburg by 2015 at the latest. 14 Saving resources We handle raw materials and resources efficiently. Environmentally friendly technologies and good waste management are important to us. Responsibility begins in the mind Waste management Environmentally friendly manufacturing processes All production of goods involves the generation of waste. In order Efficient handling of raw materials and resources led to ecologito reduce this in a sustainable manner and to protect the envical and economical improvements again in 2012. The consistent ronment and resources, we run regular training courses to enreorientation towards environmentally friendly production techsure that all those involved are conscious of the need to avoid nologies has also shown the biggest effects in the last year. Esunnecessary waste and to recycle appropriately. In addition, we pecially notable in this context is the globally unique production are constantly seeking new technical solutions and cooperation plant for the environmentally friendly manufacture of acrylic doupartners to enable us to maximize recycling. ble-sided adhesive tape at the tesa plant in Hamburg. The technology which goes under the name of ACX is notable for the The tesa plant in Offenburg is an example of how we are increasextremely efficient extraction of emissions, among other things. ing the proportion of recyclable waste in the total waste volume. This has led to the following environmentally relevant reductions Thanks to a variety of measures the site recorded many improvein comparison with conventional processes: ments in 2012. Modification of the process in the preparation for the manufacture of masking tape has led to significant savings of Use of organic solvents:  approx -55 percent waste water and raw materials. In addition, the plant saves cloth tape materials by reprocessing waste materials from the producDisposal of organic solvents:  approx 89 percent tion process of the cutting lines. Other effects have come about due to the improved labeling of fleece material rolls and the optiProcess water requirement:  approx -100 percent mized weighing of bulk raw materials for the production of tesa Powerstrips®. Most of these ideas come from the employees themselves. Bold communication measures in combination with an incentive system in the form of a variable bonus have led to the proactive introduction and implementation of these suggested improvements. Other locations have also adopted the issue of waste reduction in their target agreements and are now very successful with this system. 15 Commitment at the Product Level Products for energy saving and sustainably manufactured goods protect the climate. They also have many winners – people all over the world. Consumers benefit from tesa We consistently pursue our environmental commitment at the “Green” masking, fixing and repairing product level. Among our environmentally friendly solutions is our During the current reporting year we extended our “green” range tesa ecoLogo® range, which we further expanded in 2012. In to DIY and building supply stores. Solvent-free adhesives and the addition, tesa products help consumers save energy directly. Our use of primarily organically based or recycled materials and classic product tesamoll®, the market leader for sealing gaps in packaging are the main environmental benefits. The new prodwindows and doors, reduces energy consumption for heating by ucts include masking tape whose backing material consists enup to 35 percent and lowers costs. tesa ISO SYSTEM® also oftirely of unbleached paper. For secure fixing, the range includes fers homeowners the opportunity to insulate their roof themdouble-sided tape on a backing made entirely out of recycled selves in a quick, uncomplicated and effective manner. plastic. Finally, a cloth tape made predominantly from organically based raw materials enables environmentally friendly repairs. Public debates on the topic of climate change, dwindling resources and environmental protection have led to growing conIn 2012, tesa generated awareness for the subject of sustainabilsumer demand for sustainably produced products. We can proity in Germany with the second edition of the “Make a difference vide an answer with the tesa ecoLogo® sub-brand. In the office that sticks!” competition. Under the motto of “Achieving a lot segment, the eco-friendly tesa adhesive tapes and glue sticks, through small things”, we honor regional projects with a focus on correction tapes and adhesive rollers are now selling very succonserving resources and protecting nature and the environcessfully. We expanded our product range in 2012 with the ment. In the current reporting year, 122 associations, initiatives tesa Mini Dispenser ecoLogo® and the Mini Roller Correction and private individuals submitted applications. During the voting ecoLogo®. In cheerful colors, both products combine environphase in April 2012, almost 30,000 environmentally conscious mental protection and appealing design. This was honored in individuals selected their favorites at www.zeichen-kleben.de 2012 with, among other things, a nomination for the “German and ultimately chose eleven winners. In total, tesa provided the Federal Ecodesign Award” and third place in the EcoCare prize winners with a sum of 54,000 euros in grants. awarded by Lebensmittelzeitung. 16 Compliance and Fair Trade At tesa, compliance with laws and internal guidelines is a matter of course. A central functional unit combines all associated processes and ensures adherence to international standards. Integrity and proper conduct Compliance Fair Trade tesa traditionally stands for trustworthiness. This image hinges Our activities focus, among other things, on antitrust law, which on virtues that guarantee free markets and fair competition while promotes a free economy and prohibits distinct restrictive pracprotecting people and the environment. The tesa Group categortices. In the current reporting year, we successfully introduced ically rejects all forms of corruption and unlawful or immoral conour “tesa Antitrust Compliance Program” comprehensively. It duct. In order to be able to consistently ensure this worldwide, serves to raise awareness of matters relating to antitrust law and we actively protect our company and our employees against enable the implementation of a worldwide functional antitrust law possible risks. In 2012 we once again promoted active handling compliance system for the entire tesa Group. Besides providing of the subject of compliance and our system of values as laid relevant information on antitrust law and possible violations, down in the internationally valid tesa Code of Conduct. This inwe have set up internal communication structures and a network cluded the global implementation of the anti-corruption guideof competent attorneys. This has enabled us to provide quick lines with supporting training as well as via various communicaand smooth training and information – both directly and via an tion tools in our internal media and the production of a film on the e-learning program. We shall continue to pursue the topic acsubject of data protection. tively going forward. Following last year’s successful completion of training worldwide for all decision-makers and employees with The aim is to enhance awareness by means of targeted informacritical contacts under anti-trust law, the focus for 2012 was on tion and to prevent unintentional breaches of laws and regulachecking our sales channels. In addition, we developed a sotions. Since the end of 2010, our employees have been able to called anti-trust refresher e-learning training course, which startseek the advice of the central “Compliance Coordination” office ed in January 2013. in the event of questions or doubts in individual cases. The function defines international standards and ensures the efficient In addition, we also offer a topic-related platform on the tesa bundling of all compliance processes. Its duties also include intranet. This page allows employees worldwide to find out about preparing status reports for the management team. The Compliconduct that complies with antitrust law in their day-to-day busiance office pools eleven fields in total. In addition, various speness dealings and helps them find competent advisors. In our cialists are available to provide expert advice on topics including international regions, guidelines that have been modified to take anti-corruption, labor and competition law, information technolinto account the legal requirements in the respective countries ogy and data protection, antitrust law, financial guidelines, and a catalog of examples of correct and incorrect conduct lay environmental protection and industrial safety or trademark and down what is and what is not permissible under antitrust law. patent law. 17 Social Commitment Strategy with regional facets The intensive social commitment of tesa SE and its subsidiaries port. With a focus on long-term effect, we have already been was also evident in 2012 in numerous projects. These projects involved in most of the projects for many years. In addition to are in line with our Corporate Giving Strategy, which we first forpromoting creativity, education and environmental protection, mulated in 2007 and which is incorporated into the tesa Code of we foster neighborly support and place special emphasis on the Conduct. In the current reporting year, we again helped children voluntary activities of tesa staff. and young people with donations, sponsorships and active supCommitment to the Environment Fostering Creativity Supporting biodiversity Multifaceted commitment We are in partnership with the UNESCO Lower Saxonian Elbe “Das macht Schule” and the Hamburg-based initiative Mentor River Biosphere Reserve and ensure targeted reforestation. e.V. are involved in fostering children’s creativity. >> Page 20 >> Page 19 Promoting Educational Opportunities Local Help Improving future prospects Bringing joy Educating children and young people is part of our Corporate tesa employees provide direct support in France, Poland and Giving Strategy. >> Page 21 Germany. >> Page 22 18 Commitment to the Environment We are in partnership with the UNESCO Lower Saxonian Elbe River Biosphere Reserve and ensure targeted reforestation. To mark the 75th anniversary of the tesa brand in 2011, we enmeters and is part of the UNESCO Elbe River Landscape Biotered into an active partnership with the Lower Saxonian Elbe sphere Reserve. The nature conservation activities are intended River Biosphere Reserve and are supporting a restoration project to improve the interaction between man and nature in the unique to establish new populations of deciduous trees. The commitfloodplain landscape with its ecological, cultural, social and ecoment includes the donation of 75,000 young oaks and corporate nomic values and functions. volunteering activities. Following the first planting campaigns in the prior reporting year, tesa employees took up their spades once again in 2012, some of them with their families. Together they placed over 2,500 new young plants in the earth. Maintenance and some replanting were also carried out. The development of new forest populations helps to lessen the greenhouse effect and has a positive effect on biodiversity. The Lower Saxonian Elbe River Biosphere Reserve measures 570 square kilo­ 19 Fostering Creativity Everyone has the aptitude to be creative. We encourage this through various projects – with children, young people and ourselves. Germany. “Helping hands” from tesa Germany. Reading makes you smart and happy tesa continued to support the charitable association “Das macht For many years we have championed the cause of supporting Schule” in 2012 as part of a corporate volunteering project. Emchildren’s reading skills. To give children a boost in their educaployees get involved in Hamburg schools by acting together with tion and later professional lives, we cooperate with the Hamburgschoolchildren to beat the renovation backlog. Following the based initiative “Mentor – die Leselernhelfer Hamburg”. The regvoluntary support offered by around 50 colleagues from Conistered charity relies on voluntary mentors who convey the joy of sumer Marketing, Research & Development and Industry Market reading to children and young people between the ages of eight Management in last year, the Corvey Gymnasium, a high school and sixteen in a fun way. The reading mentors devote one hour in Hamburg, enjoyed active help during the current reporting per week to this. In addition to the tesa volunteers already comyear. In a large-scale campaign to brighten up the school, two mitted to the cause, we were able to recruit ten new colleagues tesa teams and around 600 schoolchildren reached for their for the weekly “jour fixe” at the end of 2012. Alongside their rebrushes and paints. spective reading mentees, who often find access to books difficult, they too will delve into the fantastic world of stories in the future. 20 Promoting Educational Opportunities The key to a good start to your working life is education. This is why we support children and young people as well as scientific and technical trainees. China. Opportunities for children of migrant workers Germany. Active promotion of junior management talent According to estimates, between 150 and 200 million migrant tesa SE remained an active supporter of the Northern Institute of workers in China have moved from rural regions to the booming Technology (NIT) in Hamburg in 2012. In addition, the company cities and coastal regions in recent years. For the children of is represented in the relevant industry advisory committees of these families, there is hardly any opportunity for a continuous Reutlingen University and the University of Applied Sciences education. To improve their prospects, the tesa plant in Suzhou (Hochschule für Technik und Wirtschaft) Berlin. The objective has been supporting the local “Sunshine School” since 2008. remains to maintain close cooperation between training institutes With scholarships, “assistant teachers”, joint learning, fundraiser and tesa in order to discover and support talents early on. tesa bazaars and various leisure activities, tesa employees provide has also continued and expanded its cooperation with other key targeted assistance and help pave the children’s way to a sucuniversities. The activities primarily pursue two goals: On the one cessful future. At the start of November 2012 the plant awarded hand, tesa strives to contribute to the promotion of scientific and the “Sunshine Scholarship and Education Assistance Awards” technical talent in the long term. On the other hand, tesa’s inonce again and honored schoolchildren for special achievevolvement provides the opportunity to offer young academics an ments. Alongside their teachers, invited guests and tesa employattractive start to their professional life – including at an internaees, more than 700 children enjoyed an exciting day. tional tesa location, depending on requirements. India. Education instead of working in the quarry Germany. A taste of working life Since 2006, tesa in India has been supporting the school for the Once a year, tesa gives its employees’ children between the “quarry children” of Yeleswaram in southern India by taking on ages of 10 and 15 an exciting and fun taste of working life at the class sponsorships. With the aid of such donations, the children “tesa Zukunftstag” (“tesa future day”). What has to happen beare able to attend the school constructed by the organization hind the scenes before a finished roll of adhesive tape emerges? “wort und tat” in addition to receiving medical care. Without this In labs, offices and workshops, the children and young people assistance, they would have to slave away in the Yeleswaram meet tesa employees who explain the diverse fields of activity in quarry for three euros a day – just like their parents and siblings, a clear manner. There’s a lot of fun to be had in the process, with with whom they usually share a tiny mud hut. To help improve the opportunity to try things out and lots of ideas for when it their chances for a better future, tesa took on the sponsorship of comes to choosing a profession. The “tesa Zukunftstag” has a class of around 60 boys and girls aged five to seven once been enjoying an outstanding response for many years. In 2013, again in 2012 via the foundation “Chancen für Kinder”. tesa will be opening its doors to its employees’ children again. 21 Local Help Our Corporate Giving strategy leaves plenty of room for regional facets. We provide direct, neighborly support through numerous projects. France. Sweating for a good cause trical equipment to plastered and smoothed walls and ceilings. For the third time in succession, a group of employees from the The center for deaf children, which is housed in a former FrancisFrench tesa company took to the starting blocks at the “Race of can monastery that is over 300 years old, once again has a liHeroes” (“Course des Héros”). In the process, they collected brary that is what it should be: an outstanding place to read. 5,000 euros in support of the MVE Foundation (“Fondation Mouvement pour les Villages d’Enfants”). All athletes first have to earn Germany. Help for children with kidney disease their entry fee and ask friends for financial support. Only with a The tesa Converting Center Hamburg is committed to helping stake of 300 euros are you proven to be a hero and are granted children and young people with kidney disease. In addition to admission to the six-kilometer run. The MVE Foundation has financial assistance, the focus is on shared experiences. Alongbeen giving new homes to children and young people from difside the parents’ association of “Nierenselbsthilfe Hamburg e.V.” ficult family backgrounds for 50 years. The children often suffer (a Hamburg-based association for those suffering from kidney from a lack of education and the consequences of emotional disease) and the KfH Nierenzentrum dialysis center, the tesa coldness, abuse or neglect. The institution offers them a stable subsidiary combined the traditional summer party with an excitenvironment and educational support. With the donations coling visit to the “Hagenbecks Tierpark” zoo in the current reportlected in 2012, tesa is supporting a polar expedition for young ing year. Accompanied by employees from the zoo’s school, the people. Taking place shortly before the phase of applying for a 46 young guests were able to get close to the animals and their job for the first time, the trip strengthens the young people’s selfkeepers during a tour. Just like every year, the summer party was confidence and gives them the chance to find out more about rounded off with a big picnic and crafts. The day drew to a close themselves. much too quickly, with the children taking away animal masks they had painted themselves and cloth bags that had been nicely Poland. Donations and active help decorated. The anticipation regarding 2013 is all the greater. For years the Polish subsidiary has been among the active benefactors of a school for hearing-impaired children in Poznan named after the Polish composer and music author Jósef Sikorski. Along with help in organizing and carrying out events such as an international swimming gala, children’s day and St. Nicholas Day, tesa employees lent a hand with renovating the library during the current reporting year. Equipped with a whole host of tesa products for renovating and painting and supported by a Contact: tesa SE, Quickbornstrasse 24, D-20253 Hamburg, team of professionals, the room, which was showing signs of Phone: +49 (0) 40-4909-6597, Fax: +49(0) 40-4909-2236, wear, was completely restored – from the floor through new elecresponsibility@tesa.com, www.tesa.com/company/responsibility
