2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT New Policy for Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Constant focus on anti-corruption – zero tolerance We require total quality from our suppliers and we expect conscious responsibility 2 • INTRODUCTION 14 • WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? 25 • SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND KEY FIGURES ABOUT THE REPORT KONGSBERG is an international, knowledge-based group that offers advanced, reliable high-technology systems and solutions that contribute to the safety, security and efficiency of complex operations and under extreme conditions. KONGSBERG cooperates with global customers in the defence, maritime, oil and gas and aerospace industries. The purpose of this report is to provide information about how KONGSBERG deals with sustainability and corporate social responsibility to stakeholders who are involved or interested in our operations. The report covers the period from 1 January 2012 to The information in the report is based on data obtained 31 December 2012, and addresses topics we believe to be from different parts of the Group. Although importance is of importance to us and our stakeholders. Any significant attached to ensuring that the data is complete and correct, events from 1 January 2013 to 28 February 2013 are also some of it will be based on estimates. discussed. All figures refer to the 2012 fiscal year. Process to define the content Changes in the reporting platform since the last report The content of the report is largely defined by what we There were no material changes made in the reporting call ‘Areas of focus for 2012’. They are the same areas on platform from 2011 to 2012. which we focused in 2011. The areas of focus are proposed by the Group’s ‘Forum for Sustainability and Corporate Limitations of the report Social Responsibility’ and decided by Corporate Executive The report is limited to companies in which KONGSBERG Management and, ultimately, by the corporate Board of owns 50 per cent or more. The environmental data includes Directors. The report is also aligned with the principles in all our Norwegian units, as well as all our production units all the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and takes into over the world and the largest offices abroad. account our affiliation with the UN Global Compact Initiative. CONTENTS INTRODUCTION WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND 2 About the report 14 Introduction KEY FIGURES 4 Chief Executive Officer Walter Qvam 15 Area of focus: Policy for Sustainability 26 Values and ethics 6 This is KONGSBERG and Corporate Social Responsibility 27 Organisation and systems of governance 8 The world of KONGSBERG 19 Area of focus: Corporate Social 28 Climate and environmental accounts 2012 10 Our employees Responsibility in the supplier chain 31 Targets and activities related to corporate 12 Human rights 20 Area of focus: Anti-corruption social responsibility 13 Responsibility 22 Area of focus: Climate challenges 33 Key sustainability figures 23 Theme: Environment-friendlly products 36 External reporting 24 Area of focus: Stakeholder dialogue 36 Global Compact 37 Global Reporting Initiative Index (GRI) 41 Auditor’s report 2012 2 KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 The Sustainability Report is defined on the basis of the following parameters: White Paper no. 13 (2010-2011) – Active ownership report according to the expectations imposed on us The Norwegian state owns 50.001 per cent of the shares through White Paper no. 13 (2010-2011) – Active in the company. The State’s stake is managed by the ownership. Ministry of Trade and Industry. The process we have used to define the content in the report means that we Global Compact Report serves as such a report – a COP (Communication The Group has joined the UN Global Compact Initiative. on Progress). Among other things, this means that we submit a report We would submit that the report complies with Global to the UN each year, describing our activities and the Compact’s criteria for ‘Advanced Level’. advances we have made in the field of sustainability and For more details about the Global Compact, see their corporate social responsibility. The Group’s Sustainability website at www.unglobalcompact.org. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The basis for the indicators can be found directly in the We use GRI’s guidelines for reporting on corporate social text. The final pages of the report contain references to responsibility. Our reporting practice is, in our opinion, the individual GRI indicators and where they are generally aligned with GRI’s reporting principles. discussed in the report. GRI uses a classification that indicates the extent to which a company uses GRI’s definitions and disclosure For more details about GRI, see their website at requirements. KONGSBERG complies with the requirewww.globalreporting.org. ments for level B+. The ‘+’ indicates that the report has been independently verified. C C+ B B+ A A+ Obligatory Self-declared Optional Externally verified GRI-verified Board treatment Independent verification The Group’s Sustainability Report has, in its entirety, been For the fourth consecutive year, the report has been reviewed and approved by Corporate Executive verified by a third-party, the auditing company Deloitte. Management and the corporate Board of Directors. See the Auditor’s Report on page 41. KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 3 2 • INTRODUCTION 14 • WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? 25 • SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND KEY FIGURES CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER WALTER QVAM Once again in 2012, our global markets have been challenging, but we have strengthened the company’s position in terms of products, markets and finances. Operating revenues in 2012 came to NOK 15.7 billion, some­ Our fundamental values and our common corporate culture what higher than in 2011. The operating profit was down by are of the utmost importance to us. A good corporate 9 per cent, but we still have a strong backlog of orders culture is also an important aspect of corporate social which was valued at NOK 16.5 billion. The overall operating responsibility. margin (EBITA) ended at 12.7 per cent. We invest­ed the equivalent of almost 10 per cent of our sales in prod­uct Stronger international presence development. We have also intensified our efforts in relation We have welcomed 578 new co-workers over the past to corporate social responsibility throughout the Group. year, set up new international offices and signed many KONGSBERG delivers solutions, products, services and cooperation and supplier agreements in several new regions. We have also acquired several companies and assimilated them into our organisation, placing more emphasis on corporate social responsibility, including Our business areas have many common anti-corruption, workers’ rights, human rights and climate challenges. denominators related to basic technology and expertise, a shared value Value platform platform and uniform work processes. The Group’s value platform is the the very essence of KONGSBERG’s efforts to promote corporate social responsibility. An organisation characterised by wholesome attitudes leads to behaviour that means more than most systems to several industries and market segments. This regulations. However, this requires that value issues be contributes to financial robustness and a valuable network placed on the agenda, and that there is genuine follow up. of international customers. At the same time, the Group KONGSBERG’s four values are: has a strong common core. Our business areas have many • Determined, Innovative, Collaborative, Reliable common denominators related to basic technology and expertise, a shared value platform and uniform work In addition to specific activities associated with corporate processes. social responsibility such as those described in this report, 4 KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 we therefore work systematically to discuss and gain integrated into the Group’s strategy and planning work. In support for the importance of our value platform in all this context, we emphasise that all growth and all strategic segments of the organisation. business-related decisions taken within the Group are to incorporate a sustainable perspective. Examples of new Reliable (dependable, trustworthy) initiatives that we have taken in 2012 include our establish”Our customers and partners can trust KONGSBERG to ment of a wind power community in Trondheim, the deliver, always. Dealing with KONGSBERG means dealing with development of technology for environmental monitoring reliable people, a reliable corporation and reliable products. and work with more environment-friendly surface KONGSBERG is a responsible organisation characterised treatments for certain defence products. by integrity and concern for health, safety and the environment. We are reliable people. We are responsible citizens.” Areas of focus 2012 In 2012, in addition to a new CSR and sustainability policy, it was decided that KONGSBERG would focus on the followResponsibility ing aspects of corporate social responsibility (all areas of KONGSBERG is a technology enterprise that develops, focus are discussed in more detail later in the report): delivers and maintains products, systems and services in several market segments, ranging from offshore oil and gas, Ethics, business conduct and anti-corruption: through the commercial fleet, defence and aerospace to We con­tinued to invest considerable resources in training, fisheries. Nearly all businesses are exposed to dilemmas attitude-­shaping efforts and preventative routines, as well related to the ranking of shortand long-term priorities. as in intensified follow up in 2012. KONGSBERG also faces such dilemmas. Corporate responsibility in the supplier chain: We continued the work from previous years and carried out several in-depth reviews with suppliers. Each year, we draw up action plans for Climate strategy: KONGSBERG has taken the global chalcorporate social responsibility. lenges as a point of departure, although in absolute figures, we are a modest polluter, given the nature of our operations. We have set ambitious goals for the years ahead. Our maritime and oil & gas solutions help improve the Stakeholder dialogue: We have initiated a systematic utilisation of resources in industries that are important in dialogue with our stakeholders relating to challenges energy and climate issues. Our defence solutions enhance inherent in corporate social responsibility. defence capabilities both locally and regionally, helping to ensure values, interests and stability. All exports of defence Targets for 2013 products require permits from the Ministry of Foreign The targets for 2013 will be a continuation of the areas Affairs. Naturally, we comply with these regulatory of focus we worked with in 2012 and initiatives arising in parameters in all of our operations. connection with the final framing of our new policy for sustainability and corporate social responsibility. The UN Global Compact Initiative 2013 will be yet another year characterised by a great KONGSBERG joined the Global Compact in 2006. We have deal of uncertainty and many challenges. KONGSBERG learned more about the topics covered by the initiative, has an excellent point of departure for continuing to make both through direct contact and through national and strong headway in our main markets. We will actively Nordic networks. Each year, we draw up action plans for continue our work with the further development of techcorporate social responsibility. The principles in the Global nology, products and systems that meet the extremely high Compact are the guiding principles for our plans. We will standards required by our customers. As an integral part of continue to support the important work done in association this work, we will continue our focus on corporate social with the Global Compact. responsibility. New policy for sustainability and corporate social responsibility We have established a new policy for sustainability and Walter Qvam corporate social responsibility and the principles in it are President and CEO KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 5 2 • INTRODUCTION 14 • WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? 25 • SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND KEY FIGURES THIS IS KONGSBERG KONGSBERG is an international, knowledge-based group that offers high-technology systems and solutions to customers in the oil and gas industry, the merchant marine, and the defence and aerospace industries. KONGSBERG’s solutions and deliveries contribute to Financial value added safer, more efficient operations at sea, on dry land and in KONGSBERG creates value in the areas and countries outer space. Whether we are talking about defence, the in which we operate. This takes place directly through merchant marine, the exploitation of oil and gas resources the payment of direct and indirect taxes, the payment or fisheries resources, our products are of strategic of dividends to owners and wages to employees, and importance in Norway and abroad. We also supply tech­ in­directly by buying goods and services from suppliers. nological solutions for global challenges such as environValue is also created through the importance we attach to mental monitoring and resource management. In 2012, the research and development. See page 33 for a table about Group had operations for more than 25 countries. the creation of financial value. Organisation Corporate social responsibility The Group is divided into four business areas and a Corporate social responsibility is important to KONGScorporate services centre. The four business areas are BERG. It is to be part of routine operations as well as of the Kongsberg Maritime, Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies, Group’s business strategy. Kongsberg Defence Systems and Kongsberg Protech KONGSBERG’s international operations are significant Systems. and growing. At the beginning of 2013, 36 (32) per cent of The Corporate Centre provides staff and support our employees worked outside of Norway, and 78 (82) per functions to the business areas. The corporate staff has cent of the Group’s sales took place outside the country’s expertise in financial affairs, business development, investor borders. This means we are an important player in many relations, corporate law, corporate social responsibility, local communities the world over. That implies an obligacommunication and personnel. The head office is located in tion. Companies that engage in international activities have Kongsberg. a special duty to ensure that operations are conducted in a responsible manner. Ownership structure We live in an era in which climatic change, shortages of Kongsberg Gruppen ASA is listed on the Oslo Stock clean water and poverty are formidable global challenges. Exchange and is subject to Norwegian securities legislation In addition, several countries are experiencing debt crises and stock exchange regulations. The Norwegian state owns and instability. These challenges also affect KONGSBERG’s 50.001 per cent of the shares in the company. activities, directly or indirectly. KONGSBERG KONGSBERG KONGSBERG OIL & GAS MARITIME TECHNOLOGIES Kongsberg Maritime delivers positioning, Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies offers surveillance, navigation and automation innovative technological subsea products systems for merchant vessels and the and solutions, and information systems for offshore industry. The business area is a drilling operations, production and subsea market leader in dynamic positioning, purposes. The business area optimises oil automation and surveillance systems, and gas operations through data control, process automation, satellite navigation simulation, integration and analytical tools, and hydroacoustics, as well as material in addition to providing engineering handling equipment for use on deck for proj­ects and consultancy services. offshore vessels. 6 Sustainability Report 2012Bærekraftrapport 2012 OUR LOCATIONS Svalbard (Spitsbergen) Norway* Denmark Head office in Kongsberg Sweden Finland Vancouver (Canada) Ireland Germany Russia Lynwood (USA) St. John’s (Canada) Poland London (Canada) Salt Lake City (USA) Pocasset (USA) United Kingdom Hungary The Netherlands Dalian (China) Ottawa (Canada) Johnstown(USA) France Halifax (Canada) Italy Kuwait Spain Zhenjiang (China) Greece South Korea The United Arab Emirates West Mystic (USA) Algeria Houston (USA) Mount Arlington (USA) India Shanghai (China) Washington (USA) New Orleans (USA) Saudi Arabia Guangzhou (China) Venezuela Mexico Malaysia Singapore Brazil Australia South Africa * Kongsberg, Asker, Bergen, Billingstad, Horten, Kjeller, Kristiansand, Oslo, Sandefjord, Sandvika, Antarctica Stavanger, Stjørdal, Svalbard, Tromsø, Trondheim. KONGSBERG DEFENCE KONGSBERG PROTECH SYSTEMS SYSTEMS Kongsberg Defence Systems is Norway’s Kongsberg Protech Systems is one of premier supplier of defence and the world’s leading suppliers of remotely aerospace-related systems. The portfolio controlled weapons control systems. comprises products and systems for The business area’s main product is the command and control, weapons guidance PROTECTOR Remote Weapon Station. and surveillance, communications soluThe system improves security for tions and missiles. Kongsberg Defence personnel in military vehicles. Systems has expertise and production KONGSBERG is the world leader in this equipment to make advanced composite market. and engineering products for the aircraft, offshore and helicopter market. KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 7 2 • INTRODUCTION 14 • WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? 25 • SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND KEY FIGURES THE WORLD OF KONGSBERG EUROPE • Excl. Norway : Employees 471 • Operating revenues MNOK 4 078 • No. of suppliers*) 713 • Norway: Employees 4 666 • Operating revenues MNOK 3 396 • No. of suppliers*) 3 208 Great Britain, Finland, Greece, Italy, and service. In addition, we co-own Protech Systems has a sales office in The Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Russia, Kongsberg Satellite Services, which has Hereford. Scotland, Spain, Svalbard (Spitsbergen), ground stations on Svalbard for receiving Sweden, Germany, Hungary satellite data. Rest of Europe The Group also has business operations in Norway Great Britain Sweden, Finland, Germany, the NetherKONGSBERG is headquartered in The main hub of Kongsberg Maritime’s lands, Spain, Italy, Poland, Greece, Hungary Kongsberg. The Group’s maritime operaoffshore activities in the UK is located in and Russia. These offices offer sales and tions are located in Kongsberg, Horten, Aberdeen, Scotland. We also have smaller services, as well as project support. Sandefjord, and Trondheim. The facilities offices in Wick, Scotland, and in Waterloo­ are engaged in development, production, ville and Great Yarmouth, England. These testing, sales and service. Oil and gas locations engage in product development, ac­tivities are located in Sandvika, production, sales and support. Lysaker, Oslo, Hokksund, Asker, Horten, Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies has Kristiansand, Stavanger and Bergen. operations in Guildford, England and All these places engage in sales, product Aberdeen, Scotland. These locations are development, deliveries and service. engaged in sales and projects. Defence activities are mainly located in Through its subsidiary Kongsberg Kongsberg, but we also have defence Norcontrol, Kongsberg Defence Systems activities in Horten, Asker, Kjeller, Stjørdal has a sales and service office in Bristol. and Tromsø. All these places are engaged Through its subsidiary Kongsberg in development, production, testing, sales Integrated Tactical Systems, Kongsberg ASIA • Employees 1 277 • Operating revenues MNOK 3 335 • No. of suppliers*) 75 The United Arab Emirates, India, China, grown in recent years. India is devoting tions systems. Kuwait, Malaysia, Singapore, Saudi Arabia ever more attention to maritime safety and Kongsberg Maritime has a service office South Korea coastal and harbour surveillance in Dubai, and Kongsberg Oil & Gas Tech­ Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies has nologies has a sales office in Abu Dhabi. China operations in both Mumbai and Bangalore. Kongsberg Maritime has built up substanThe business in Mumbai offers sales support Singapore tial business activities in China, operated in and project support. In Bangalore, the main The Group’s maritime operations in collaboration with KONGSBERG’s longresponsibility is software development. Singapore focus mainly on sales, installastanding partner, Hoi Tung. We operate as tion, engineering, commissioning and a local supplier to the Chinese shipyard Malaysia service/support. Singapore has one of the industry, and KONGSBERG now has Kongsberg Maritime has set up a sales world’s largest harbours and is a substanoffices in Shanghai, Dalian, Guangzhou and and service office for fisheries activities. tial ship-owning and shipyard nation. Zhenjiang. In Zhenjiang, we manufacture Kongsberg Norcontrol makes significant sensors, consoles and electro mechanics. Middle East deliveries to Singapore’s harbour surveilThe Group’s defence activities have operalance systems, and is also represent­ed India tions in the United Arab Emirates, Kuwait there. Kongsberg Maritime has sales and service and Saudi Arabia. The main activities are offices, software support and development the operation and delivery of projects South Korea activities in Mumbai. The business has involving tactical radio and communicaThe Group’s main maritime operations in South Korea are located in Jungkwan outside Busan. Its main responsibilities include sales, engineering, installation, commissioning and service/support, as well as local production. For years, we have been building up a local presence n the world’s largest shipbuilding nation. Our defence activities also have a sales office in Seoul. 8 KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 NORTH AMERICA • Employees 741 • Operating revenues MNOK 4 078 • No. of suppliers*) 652 USA, Protech Systems also has operations in other hydroacoustics activities. The busiCanada Alexandria (Virginia). Kongsberg Protech ness area also has two sales and customer Systems has a factory in Johnstown, support locations on the east coast, in USA Pennsylvania. That is the site for the Nova Scotia and Newfoundland. Kongsberg Maritime has operations in production and maintenance of the Defence activities are represented by Seattle (Washington), Houston (Texas), PROTECTOR weapon control system for Gallium Visual Systems Inc. in Ottawa. New Orleans (Louisiana), Pocasset the US market. The business area has a The company is well-known for its map (Massachusetts), Salt Lake City (Utah) project office in Arlington, New Jersey. graphics tool for military command and and West Mystic (Connecticut). Pocasset In Bellport, Long Island, Kongsberg control systems. is the site of development, sales and sup­ Protech Systems has a subsidiary named Kongsberg Protech Systems is located port for autonomous underwater vehicles KITS (Kongsberg Integrated Tactical in London, Ontario. The plant was estab­ (AUVs), working in close cooperation with Systems) which develops and manufaclish­ed to maintain and manufacture AUV activities in Norway. The other units tures components and systems for weapons systems for the Canadian market. are mainly engaged in sales and customer infrastructure for military vehicles. support. The unit in Seattle is also engaged in technological development and the Canada adaptation of existing products for the US KONGSBERG’s largest maritime business market. in Canada is located in Vancouver. The Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies has company there is engaged in proprietary operations in Houston (Texas) aimed at product development and production. The sales, support and project implementation. business in Vancouver is based on Our defence activities have a marketing hydroacoustics-related technology, and is office in Alexandria, Virginia. Kongsberg an integral part of Kongsberg Maritime’s CENTRAL AND SOUTH AMERICA • Employees 101 • Operating revenues MNOK 459 • No. of suppliers*) 13 AND ANTARCTICA Mexico, Brazil, Antarctica centre in Macaé outside Rio de Janeiro Antarctica offers different training programmes for The Group’s jointlyand equally-owned Brazil Brazilian crew members, including subsidiary Kongsberg Satellite Services has Kongsberg Maritime’s business in Brazil simulator practice. The unit also has an a ground station for satellite data on comprises sales, service, engineering and anchor handling simulator. Antarctica. the commissioning of systems for the Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies has merchant marine and for offshore vessels, a sales and project office in Brazil. as well as user training. Business is boom­ ing on the oil fields outside Rio de Janeiro. Mexico The shipping industry has grown at a Kongsberg Maritime has set up a service formidable pace, in step with the country’s office in Mexico. political and financial situation. The training AUSTRALIA • Employees 3 AFRIKA • Employees 0 • Operating revenues • Operating revenues MNOK 157 MNOK 149 • No. of suppliers*) 22 • No. of suppliers*) 3 Kongsberg Protech Systems has a Algeria marketing office in Melbourne, and Kongsberg Defence Systems has offices for Kongsberg Oil & Gas Technologies has operations and the delivery of projects operations in Perth to provide sales and related to tactical radio and communications engineering services. systems in Algiers, Algeria. *) Suppliers that have invoiced KONGSBERG for more than NOK 50 000 in 2012. The overview does not include suppliers that deal with our international entities directly. KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 9 2 • INTRODUCTION 14 • WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? 25 • SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND KEY FIGURES OUR EMPLOYEES KONGSBERG’s livelihood rests on the knowledge and expertise of our employees. Accordingly, job satisfaction, engagement and career development opportunities for our employees and leaders are of the essence. Through initiatives such as the career development programme, performance appraisal interviews and job satisfaction surveys, we try to encourage this important resource. Leadership at KONGSBERG At KONGSBERG, co-workers can be included throughout We are of the opinion that good leadership involves the production process – from idea to finished product, achieving results through others. The key to success is sales and the follow up of customers. Sound innovative vested in the combination of good leadership and dediideas can become industrial realities. The Group offers an cated co-workers. A leader should demonstrate leadership extensive range of further and continuing education based on our values, code of ethics and leadership through a combination of in-house and external program­ principles. With this in mind, we have implemented a mes and courses. These include technical courses as well leadership development programme intended to help clarify as leadership development courses. Our employees’ career and quality-assure processes for setting, following up and paths should be able to be lateral as well as vertical evaluating objectives. throughout the Group. We are dedicated to increasing the percentage of All business areas and divisions are to have a defined women and we are examining initiatives to recruit more recruitment process to ensure selection of the best women into managerial positions. The Board has a 40 per applic­ants and courteous treatment of those who are not cent share of women among the shareholder-elected hired. directors. Corporate Executive Management consists of KONGSBERG cooperates with a number of university 11 individuals, including two women. colleges and universities in Norway. We participate in career days, give company presentations, invite classes to visit our The competition for talent companies, sponsor selected projects for students who One prerequisite for reaching the Group’s growth target is would like to write their theses in collaboration with the the ability to attract and retain qualified labour. We are Group, and offer different types of summer jobs. therefore working to strengthen our position in the labour In collaboration with other companies in Kongsberg, market and to be at the forefront of the competition for Buskerud University College and the Norwegian Centre of the best and the brightest. Expertise, the Group has developed a master’s degree programme in Systems Engineering. Under this programme, 10 KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 the students have a paid position at one of the enterprises. At the international level Together with other companies in Kongsberg, we offer a HSE work at the international level is based on our global unique training programme for apprentices. HR policy, as well as on legislation and regulations in the country in question. Most countries require that a Life-cycle policy designated HSE manager be assigned responsibility for KONGSBERG has a general life-cycle policy that applies to ensuring compliance with local and national legislation and all employees, regardless of their country of employment. regulations. The Group will help ensure that all employees have meaningful work up to the age of retirement. Efforts are Reporting made to pave the way for efficient knowledge transfer HSE data is collected from all companies in the Group and from senior to junior employees. reported to Corporate Executive Management and the Board of Directors on a quarterly basis. The data are also Preventive measures reported to the appropriate authorities. Our local schemes related to health, safety and the Reporting routines from the foreign companies have environment shall be at least on a par with the average in been further developed in recent years and the figures for the areas in which we operate. absence due to illness and on the job injuries from the We have well-developed HSE routines in our Norwegian offices outside of Norway are now included in the operations. All employees in Norway have access to corporate HSE reports. company health services. This varies in accordance with local practices and legislation for our business activities Absence due to illness outside Norway. Systematic efforts are being made to follow up absence KONGSBERG adapts to countries’ national public health and we see that a good working environment, interesting service and supplements them through special agreements work and good career development opportunities have a as needed. Employees stationed abroad, their families and favourable impact on absence due to illness. See the details personnel travelling on business are given special attention on page 34. by the company health service, offered special seminars and get expanded insurance coverage. KONGSBERG does Injuries not currently operate in countries that require special safety Injuries and near-accidents are registered in the individual measures for employees and their families. unit and reported to the Group each quarter. See the The Group has designated fora that determine how details on page 34. employees can travel as safely as possible all over the world. Travel may be advised against or even be prohibited The collective wage agreement for political, financial, environmental, safetyor healthAll employees in Norway are covered by collective wage related reasons. We also have routines for how employees agreements. should conduct themselves on business trips. KONGSBERG recognises employees’ freedom of association and right to engage in collective bargaining in The organisation of the work with health, safety compliance with the ILO conventions. Where this conflicts and the environment (HSE) with local legislation, local legislation shall have precedence. HSE work is organised through formal bodies made up Where legislation prohibits the right of association, efforts of representatives of management and the employees. will be made to pave the way for dialogue between Each business area, as well as the Group’s other entities, management and employees. has structures for cooperation between labour and Altogether, about 35 per cent of our employees are management that complies with legislative and regulatory registered members of trade unions. requirements, and meets operational needs. Local employment Norway Each individual business hires people locally with the In Norway, the formal bodies are the works council, joint assistance of local managers. consultative committees, divisional committees and working environment committees. In addition, ad hoc Starting salary committees are created for special projects. Management The Group’s starting salaries follow the average in the local and the employees each have 50 per cent representation markets in which we do business. on these committees. The Group has a special HSE Forum that is responsible for coordinating HSE work. KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 11 2 • INTRODUCTION 14 • WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? 25 • SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND KEY FIGURES HUMAN RIGHTS The Group’s growing international efforts expose us to problems related to human rights, either directly through our own businesses or indirectly through our value chain. This means that we must take precautions so that we do not come into conflict with prevailing human rights. KONGSBERG supports human rights through our affiliation suppliers to ensure compliance. In 2009 and 2010, we with the UN Global Compact and the ILO conventions. arranged a special course on human rights for our Our attitudes to human rights are expressed in our employees who were especially affected by these issues. corporate Code of Ethics and our Policy for Sustainability This course will be developed further in 2013. and Corporate Social Responsibility. The following details are related to some of the human Discrimination rights indicators required by the Global Reporting Initiative. There were no reports of episodes or incidents involving discrimination. KONGSBERG’s corporate Code of Ethics Auditing our own businesses states: “We do not accept discrimination of any kind.” In 2012, we conducted two major audits related to cor­ It also states that we are strongly opposed to all types of porate social responsibility, using in-house and independent trafficking. This includes the procurement of sexual auditors. The first involved the Group’s operations in China services. and the second involved the Group’s operations in Johnstown, Pennsylvania in the USA. Compliance with Child labour and compulsory labour human rights was part of the audits. We are satisfied with The Group’s own activities are of such a nature that issues the results, and any non-compliance found has now been related to child labour and forced and compulsory labour rectified. are of little relevance. We are working to survey the situation in the value chain. There have been no reports of Suppliers cases involving these topics. We have drawn up a special Code of Ethics for our suppliers in which human rights is a key topic. We will follow The use of security personnel at the international level up human rights issues in connection with self-declarations We use security personnel in the areas where we find it and audits. necessary. Thus far, this has been on a modest scale. Training Indigenous rights Compliance with human rights is important for us. We have The Group has not been involved in any violations of conducted audits in our own businesses and among our indigenous rights. 12 KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 RESPONSIBILITY KONGSBERG has 200 years of tradition and history as a defence supplier and technology enterprise. Defence production currently accounts for roughly half our sales, and that makes us an important contributor to Norway’s national defence. The defence industry connection with our export operations. We manufacture The Norwegian Armed Forces performs important tasks defence materiel in the US and Canada, and we comply for society in times of peace, crisis, armed conflict and war. with the respective countries’ export rules and regulations. A modern total defence calls for state-of-the-art defence White Paper No. 8 (2012-2013) presented new measures systems, and KONGSBERG’s defence systems and to improve the processing of applications for exports to products are an important part of this. KONGSBERG’s authoritarian regimes. We comply with the appropriate role as a supplier of defence products must be viewed in standards on an ongoing basis. con­nection with its international obligations as a member of the UN and NATO. The Armed Forces and KONGSBERG Oil, gas and the merchant marine co­operate closely in respect of developing tailor-made About half our Group is involved in the oil, gas and systems to meet Norway’s particular needs. shipping industries, all of which face challenges related It is a fact that the most extreme consequence of to greenhouse gas emissions. The world’s demand for defence systems is that they will enable people to take energy as well as for transportation is growing, and even lives. Thus we face a number of dilemmas, ranging from though alternative energy carriers are moving into the the place of war in resolving conflicts between sovereign market rapidly, oil and gas will be the most important states, to the responsibility for ensuring that our soldiers energy carriers for many years. KONGSBERG’s systems get the best possible equipment when they are sent into and products are largely related to optimisation, safety, the armed conflicts. We are aware of the special responsibility operation and control of machinery, production processes that rests on us as a defence supplier. and equipment. We deliver systems and services that KONGSBERG respects that some people are critical of facilitate the efficient use of resources, more efficient the fact that Norway has armed forces, a defence industry routes and safer operation of complex vessels and and alliance-related obligations. installations. In so doing, we contribute to improvements in industries that play an important part in advancing the The export of defence materiel world’s development, but the dilemma we must live with is Norway’s rules for the export of defence materiel are the fact that oil, gas and transportation are still among the among the most stringent in the world. The Storting has worst sources of greenhouse gas emissions. resolved that defence products can only be sold to preapproved countries. Transparency regarding defence exports is an important principle in Norway. Export control implies that defence materiel, technology and services can only be exported with an export licence issued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. There are two reasons for controlling exports: 1) to ensure that the export of defence materiel from Norway takes place in compliance with Norwegian security and defence policy. 2) to ensure that the export of multi-purpose products does not contribute to the spread of weapons of mass destruction (atomic, biological or chemical (ABC) weapons). Norway generally exports to allied forces. In 2011, 91 per cent of the Norway’s exports of Category A material Facts and 97 per cent of the exports of Category B material Category A materiel consists of weapons and ammunition. went to NATO countries and other European countries. Category B materiel comprises other military materiel. KONGSBERG has transparent cooperation with the Multi-purpose products are civilian products, technology and Ministry of Foreign Affairs in connection with licence services with potential military applications. applications carries out comprehensive internal control in KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 13 WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? In 2012, we took a huge step forward in our efforts to integrate sustainability and corporate social responsibility into the Group’s day-to-day operations. Although a lot still remains to be done, we are moving in the right direction. This chapter offers a description of what we focused on in 2012, and what we achieved. Areas of focus 2012–2013 Policy for Sustainability and Sustainable supplier Anti-corruption Corporate Social Responsibility chain programme Completion of a new Policy for It is imperative that our supplier We have been working on our Sustainability and Corporate Social chain not only maintains high quality anti-corruption programme for Responsibility and its integration into standards, but also remains aware several years and this will continue the Group’s other strategic efforts. of its responsibilities with regard to to be an important area for us. Read more on page 15. the climate/environment and Read more on page 20. corporate social responsibility. Achievement of our targets Read more on page 19. Achievement of our targets in 2012 in 2012 Achievement of our targets in 2012 Climate challenge Dialogue with our stakeholders The realities of global climate trends It is crucial to maintain a dialogue are looming ever closer and the with our stakeholders. This gives us outlook is disquieting. Although we good feedback on how we are are a small enterprise in a global perceived by the world around us, context, we must also implement at the same time as many of our measures in our own operations. stakeholders also share their Read more on page 22. expertise with us. Read more on page 24. Achievement of our targets in 2012 Achievement of our targets in 2012 AREA OF FOCUS 2012–2013 Policy for Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility The Group’s Board of Directors adopted a new policy for sustainability and corporate social responsibility in 2012. The policy was developed following a long process with contributions from many parts of the Group and from external forces. The policy is generally based on the possibility and risk perspective, where global megatrends are important strategic drivers. Our position diversity, etc. These perspectives have a somewhat longer Technological innovation is a key element for resolving time frame than short-term targets for earnings and yields. the serious global challenges facing the earth. For KONGSBERG, this may offer business opportunities in What have we achieved? several markets, seen in the light of our broad technology Examples of new initiatives we took in 2012 include the base and competency platform. establishment of a wind power community in Trondheim and the development of technology for environmental Our challenges monitoring. In addition, we have decided to initiate a The Group’s work with sustainability and corporate social project for developing processes related to risk and a responsibility is to be an integral part of the Group’s other ‘licence to operate’. strategic processes. The work is based on the challenges facing the Earth with a view to climate changes and Our ambitions shortages of important resources such as energy, as well Our new policy will guide us towards our goals. as food safety, access to clean water, the loss of biological KONGSBERG’s Policy for Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Objective KONGSBERG aspires to achieve sustainable development, Roles and responsibilities that is, to strike a good balance between financial results, KONGSBERG’s Policy for Sustainability and Corporate value creation and corporate social responsibility. The value Social Responsibility is adopted by the Group’s Board of created shall benefit owners, stakeholders and society-atDirectors and is to be evaluated at least every second year. large. Our policy for sustainability and corporate social The CEO is responsible for ensuring follow up of and responsibility is intended to describe our ambitions and our compliance with the content of the policy. most important target areas. The policy is to provide the Subject-specific responsibility for sustainability and framework for our work with sustainability and corporate corporate social responsibility, and the day-to-day social responsibility. responsibility for facilitating and coordinating the policy rest The World Commission for Environment and Developwith the Group’s corporate social responsibility manager. ment described sustainable development as development The business areas are responsible for the day-to-day that meets the needs of the present without compromising exercise of the policy. the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. This is also the definition applied by KONGSBERG. KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 15 2 • INTRODUCTION 14 • WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? 25 • SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND KEY FIGURES KONGSBERG’s Policy for Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Global background These megatrends are already having an impact on individ­ The international trend will entail risks as well as opportuniuals, companies and countries, and their impact will no ties for multinational operations. The Earth’s population is doubt loom larger in the years ahead. expected to grow from 7 billion today to 9 billion by 2050, Along with climate changes, these development trends i.e. an increase of about 30 per cent in 40 years. Over the will be among the basic strategic drivers for multinational next decade, there will be growing urbanisation and better companies in the years ahead. The trends could represent social welfare for ever larger segments of the population. significant risks in many areas. This poses formidable challenges with a view to food safety Meanwhile, industry will have to play a major role in and access to clean water, energy and minerals, as well as resolving these challenges. This entails significant in respect of the loss of biodiversity. opportunities in several markets, also for KONGSBERG. This can be illustrated as follows: Pressure on Results in Opportunities • Food • Climate changes • Technological innovation • Water resources • Energy shortages Population growth • Energy • Water shortages • Rare earth elements • Desertification Better welfare • Land and housing • Demographic changes • Work • Loss of biodiversity Risk Urbanisation • Health • Poverty • Risk connected to global • Biodiversity • Conflicts megatrends • ‘Licence to operate’ OUR AMBITIONS We will maintain a proactive attitude to sustainable development and business opportunities There shall be coherence between our ambitions Strategic and business decisions taken within the Group and our business goals are to be considered from the perspective of sustainability. KONGSBERG’s Sustainability and Corporate Social Business opportunities aimed at promoting a sustainable Responsibility Policy is intended to promote the Group’s future will also be part of the business areas’ strategic long-term business goals. At the same time, the Group’s assessments. goals must be compatible with sustainable development. The long-term consequences of the global megatrends We will stay abreast of international and national trends linked to opportunities and risks shall be met by the Group’s The Group’s work with sustainability and corporate social regular strategic processes. responsibility will be commensurate with national and KONGSBERG’s operations are not perceived as entailing international trends in the field. The importance attached particularly great challenges related to our environmental to this work shall be proportional to the potential business footprint. Notwithstanding, the Group shall always strive to opportunities and the expectations of owners, customers improve and develop its operations, not least in this area. and other stakeholders. 16 KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 We will endorse international initiatives and guidelines We will safeguard relations with our most important KONGSBERG endorses the UN Global Compact Initiative stakeholders and will work systematically to comply with the initiative’s Where we have genuine opportunities and influence, 10 basic principles within the areas of human rights, we will strive to ensure that suppliers and business partners workers’ rights, environment and anti-corruption. comply with principles for sustainability and corporate Similarly, the Group will strive to comply with the social responsibility that are in alignment with intentions laid down in the ILO conventions, the OECD’s KONGSBERG’s own. Guidelines for Multinational Companies, the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights and UN Convention on Children’s Rights. TWO MAIN ELEMENTS maritime and oil & gas sectors. The efficient use and the conservation of resources are also important for our The policy is built up around two main elements: defence activities. Norwegian and international customers alike attach importance to this and KONGSBERG will strive to offer the best solutions. Opportunities • Business opportunities related to sustainable Sustainable solutions – existing products technology in existing markets and products As regards existing markets and products, priority will be • Business opportunities – related to sustainable given to improving and developing solutions that will technology in new markets contribute to a sustainable future. Market needs, business attractiveness, and proximity to existing expertise will be Risk normative. • Maintain the right to engage in our business activities; ‘Licence to operate’ Sustainable solutions – new products and new business segments KONGSBERG will also actively consider new market opportunities that open up in response to the global Opportunities challenges facing the world. This could pave the way ‘Business as usual’ is not an alternative when it comes to for entirely new products and business segments. resolving the challenges facing the world today. The KONGSBERG has a good technological point of departure situation calls for new ways of thinking, new forms of in several important disciplines that may contribute to such cooperation, political will and a high degree of technological new solutions. innovation. The global megatrends entail business opportunities for KONGSBERG in existing as well as entirely new Risk markets. KONGSBERG possesses key expertise in several Maintain the right to conduct our operations; relevant areas of technology. These opportunities and this ‘Licence to operate’ expertise are to be put to use where it is prudent to do so Society sets standards for enterprises’ exercise of from the business perspective. sustainable development and corporate social responsibility; KONGSBERG currently works with advanced technology, this is a prerequisite for obtaining a ‘licence to operate’. and several of the Group’s product areas aim directly at Without this ‘licence’, KONGSBERG risks losing the more efficient use of energy and resources in their areas of opportunity to grow, to be innovative and to actually application. This is especially true of our operations in the conduct its business operations. Like all other enterprises, KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 17 2 • INTRODUCTION 14 • WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? 25 • SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND KEY FIGURES KONGSBERG’s Policy for Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility we are contingent on our stakeholders’ confidence in us. • making more efficient use of resources in general, not In the following, we describe the main areas of imporleast by reducing consumption through the more tance relative to our ‘Licence to operate’: efficient use of energy, water and materials • economising waste treatment Anti-corruption • viewing product development in a life-cycle perspective. Corruption undermines all types of business activities and free competition, and it is prohibited by law in all the counSuppliers tries in which we operate. Corruption is destructive for the In collaboration with its suppliers, KONGSBERG shall strive countries involved and would shatter our reputation, to ensure that operations are conducted in compliance with exposing the company and the individual employee to internationally recognised principles for business ethics and considerable risk. corporate social responsibility. KONGSBERG is opposed to all forms of corruption, and In selecting suppliers, one of our assessment criteria shall in conjunction with our operations, we will actively strive to be the suppliers’ work with human rights and workers’ fight it. rights and anti-corruption, and the supplier’s work in the area of climate and the environment. Human rights All our operations will comply with the UN’s Universal Local engagement Declaration of Human Rights, the UN’s Convention on the Through social investments, we will make positive Rights of the Child and the ILO conventions. Human rights contributions to the development of the local communities abuses shall not occur at KONGSBERG. in which we operate. The Group shall have routines for analysis, verification, reporting and follow up of possible violations of human Cooperation rights linked to our own operations, as well as in respect of We will cooperate with our stakeholders, including business partners in the event of any violation of human non-government organisations (NGOs), to increase the rights related to our activities. transparency of our work with sustainability and corporate social responsibility. Workers’ rights This will also enhance our expertise and the quality of Our employees are to be treated with respect and given our own work. orderly working conditions. All employees will be given equal opportunities. The Group recognises freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. In cases of conflict with local legislation, local legislation will take FOLLOW UP AND REPORTING precedence. At the very least, we are to pay a living wage. Forced labour, child labour and all forms of discrimination Our work with sustainability and corporate social responsiare strictly forbidden. Health and safety are high-priority bility will be planned in a professional manner and integratareas. ed into the Group’s business strategy. These efforts are to be part of business planning and the Group’s regular Climate and the environment follow-up routines. KONGSBERG shall act responsibly with a view to the This work is is to be further developed systematically, footprint left by its activities on the climate and the and linked to reporting and measurement criteria associenvironment. The operation of the Group and the developated with sustainability and corporate social responsibility. ment of products are to be approached from a ‘green’ Our external reporting will adhere to the principles of the perspective. We will focus inter alia on: Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). • reducing our own direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases 18 KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 Area of focus 2012–2013 Corporate Social Responsibility in the supplier chain Corporate social responsibility in the supplier chain is a question of suppliers’ relationship to ethical guidelines, human rights, workers’ rights, anti-corruption, the climate and the environment. We are of the opinion that systematic, good work with corporate responsibility is a moral imperative. At the same time, this reduces our risk and improves the quality of the products we buy. Our position Our ambitions A growing share of our value is being added outside the One main principle is that we will collaborate with suppliers borders of Norway. This means we are an important player to seek continuous improvement. We strive to ensure that in many local communities the world over. That implies an elements that do not meet the standards to which we obligation. KONGSBERG takes responsibility for ensuring aspire will be adapted and improved through dialogue. that the entire value chain satisfies our standards. Further, we are to ensure that we have control of the risk However, there are often practical and financial limitations related to corporate social responsibility in the supplier that apply to how far down the value chain it is appropriate chain. There is a tendency for more customers, as well as to go. We try to resolve this challenge by setting standards competitors, to enter into collaboration with suppliers to for the first link in the supplier chain, which imposes similar satisfy common standards and carry out joint audits. This standards on its first link, and so on. Where country risk, builds expertise, enhances quality and ensures that product risk, self-declarations or other factors indicate that processes are implemented more rationally and efficiently. there may be significant risk attached to several links, this We consider this a positive trend. shall nonetheless be handled by us. Our challenges This work is still in its infancy. The in-house processes and systems are generally in place. That being said, we need to improve our internal expertise on conducting audits related to corporate social responsibility and on follow up and facilitation to address any non-compliance. What have we achieved? We have drawn up principles and management systems for supplier conduct. The principles are a point of departure for ensuring safe working conditions, that employees are treated with respect, that businesses operate in an environment-friendly manner, and that this all takes place in compliance with internationally recognised principles for business ethics. In 2012, we conducted several of our own audits related to corporate social responsibility. We have largely relied on independent experts working in collaboration with our own resources. The audits have revealed non-compliances, but they were remedied quickly. This has been useful training for us and for the suppliers involved. The feedback from suppliers was entirely positive. KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 19 AREA OF FOCUS 2012–2013 Anti-corruption Corruption poses a threat against the rule of law, democracy and human rights because it undermines ethical and moral values. In a global perspective, corruption is the greatest impediment to social and economic development in the third world. It engenders discrimination and impedes social justice. Corruption undermines fair competition (skews competition) and can lead to direct financial losses and destroy reputations. *) Our position Our challenges KONGSBERG is opposed to all forms of corruption. KONGSBERG operates in both the defence industry and Our attitude to corruption is expressed clearly through the oil and gas industry, which, according to Transparency our corporate Code of Ethics, and our affiliation with the International, are two of the sectors that are most UN Global Compact and the OECD’s Guidelines for susceptible to corruption. We make extensive use of agents Multinational Enterprises, as well as our membership of and market representatives. The use of third parties is Transparency International. The board and executive generally known to imply a high risk of corruption, so we management devote considerable attention to this work. pay special attention to that part of our anti-corruption The Group registered no violations of the anti-corruption programme in particular. provisions in 2012. The same has been true in previous years, and the company has never been involved in any kind of sanctions associated with corruption. *) Source: The National Authority for Investigation and Prosecution of Economic and Environmental Crime in Norway (Økokrim) Transparency International UK survey of defence contractors In 2012, KONGSBERG took part in a com­pre­ hensive survey under the auspices of Transpar­ Results of the survey based solely on information available to the public. ency International UK, Defence and Security Score A is best. programme. Leading defence com­panies from all over the world were analysed to see which D E systems and processes they have in place to prevent corruption, based on available 19% 10% information. The point of the survey is to A: 1 Company D: 25 Companies improve the standard for anti-corruption globally, B: 9 Companies E: 13 Companies C 26% F market ‘best practice’ and enhance transparency 37% C: 34 Companies F: 47 Companies in the defence sector. KONGSBERG got a score of C based on the information available to the 7% public, and a score of B when in-house B 1% information was included in the evaluation. We A 129 companies will use the results of the survey to strengthen our anti-corruption efforts in future. Read more about the survey here: http://www.ti-defence.org/our-work/diagnosing-corruption-risks/company-index D E A: 1 Company 20 KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 19 % 10 % B: 9 Companies C: 34 Companies 2 • INTRODUCTION 14 • WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? 25 • SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND KEY FIGURES What have we achieved? We have developed a series of obligatory guidelines for our business conduct; the most important with a view to Anti-corruption is an area in which we will anti-corruption are the rules for gifts and representation, maintain continuous focus on prevention, sponsorship, the signing and follow up of agreements with market representatives (agents) and supplier conduct. risk reduction measures and In recent years, we have further developed the Group’s the identification of any non-compliance. compliance system, placing considerable emphasis on compliance being a line responsibility and part of day-today operations. Important initiatives include training and notification routines, as described in the report’s section on values and ethics. In 2012, we conducted in-house audits at several of our international subsidiaries with a focus on CSR, including the topic of anti-corruption. In addition, we regularly perform in-house inspections to ensure compliance with our Code of Ethics in connection with the use of market representatives (agents), including control of payments. Anti-corruption is an area in which we will maintain The use of market representatives continuous focus on prevention, risk reduction measures and the identification of any non-compliance. (agents) Our ambitions We have developed in-house regulations for signing and following up agreements with market representatives. In 2013, we will continue to focus on systematic risk They are based on assessments of the market assessments, internal controls and reporting. We will also representative’s ethical standards, reputation, etc., risk further develop our training programme, revise our assessment with a view to the industry, country and corporate Code of Ethics and further develop in-house company, integrity due diligence, approval procedures guidelines for due diligence in connection with mergers and for and the use of standard contracts, control of acquisitions, joint ventures and teaming agreements. payments, and follow up in the agreement period, includWe also aspire to further develop our management ing training and opportunities for audits. evaluation programme to devote even more attention to how to achieve results. KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 21 AREA OF FOCUS 2012–2013 Climate challenges Global warming is one of the most serious threats facing the Earth. Emissions of global greenhouse gases have increased by about 3 per cent per year in recent years. At the same time, the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) estimates a need to cut emissions by nearly 85 per cent*) by 2050 compared with the level in 2000. Our position What have we achieved? KONGSBERG basically has no activities of its own that The environmental accounts for 2012 show an actual cause serious emissions to air or water. The Group has reduction in emissions of the greenhouse gas CO2 of 12 per nonetheless experienced rapid growth in recent years, cent. The relative reduction (metric tonnes/MNOK) was meaning that our total footprint on the environment has about 15 per cent from 2011 to 2012. increased. This is due to reduced emissions from flights and more Reducing greenhouse gas emissions is essential for use of heat recovery at Kongsberg Technology Park. This is several reasons: gratifying, at the same time as we know that these figures • We feel that we have a moral responsibility to future may turn around in 2013. generations to leave the earth in a sustainable state. The Group has several product areas that have a variety • From a more operational perspective, it is important for of positive effects relative to climate challenges. This refers, KONGSBERG to have a ‘licence to operate’, meaning for example, to environmental monitoring, the ‘green ship’ that we are accepted and allowed to engage in operaconcept for the maritime industry and the development of tions by our stakeholders. control systems for wind parks (see page 23). • Lower energy consumption reduces our direct expenses and makes us less vulnerable to rising energy prices and Our ambitions fluctuations in the energy markets. KONGSBERG shall attain its long-term business objectives • Lower emissions of greenhouse gases make us less in a manner that contributes as little as possible to global vulnerable to any future regimes for pricing such warming. We shall accomplish this by: emissions (taxation, quota regimes or the like.). • Reducing direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions from own operations Our challenges • Finding product solutions that can reduce our customers’ Air travel accounted for some 50 per cent of our CO2 greenhouse gas emissions emissions in 2012. Travel ordered from our foreign units was • Using environmental profiles as one of several assessnot included in this calculation. Travel is an important part ment criteria when choosing suppliers. of the Group’s operations and we face a challenge with a We will work systematically to reduce energy consumption view to reducing this type of emissions. and emissions of greenhouse gases, with special focus on Our targets for reducing emissions are relative, so that products, infrastructure and transportation. as we grow, actual emissions may increase even though we reach our targets for relative reductions in emissions. Our targets for 2012-2015 This is a dilemma, given that the global challenge is actually • The Group aspires to cut emissions of greenhouse gases to cut emissions of greenhouse gases. by at least 10 per cent from 2012 to 2015 (relative to What is more, access to and the prioritisation of sales), compared with the base year 2010. resources will be a challenge. • In 2012-2013, the Group will continue to identify and implement further initiatives to reduce its direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. *) Source: Ministry of Defence, NOU 2012:16 22 KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 2 • INTRODUCTION 14 • WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? 25 • SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND KEY FIGURES Theme: ENVIRONMENT-FRIENDLY PRODUCTS Getting more energy out of every gust of wind Using existing technology, KONGSBERG hopes to see a breakthrough for control systems for wind parks. KONGSBERG is well-known for its control systems for the Exciting market defence industry, and in the offshore and maritime sectors. The market for wind power is huge – and growing. Now there are plans to transfer this technology to wind As a technology enterprise, KONGSBERG will takes its energy. share of responsibility for the world in which we live, and The windmills in today’s wind parks usually run sepathe Group will continue to develop services and products rately. There is great potential inherent in developing for this market. systems that can offer coordinated control of the units in a wind park. The planned control system could reduce the amount of maintenance required by wind parks, and coordinated control of the units could maximise revenues for the producer. Wind parks will get more energy out of every gust of wind. Think systems, control of complex systems, decisionmaking support and optimisation are core areas of expertise at KONGSBERG. Now we would like to apply this expertise in a new discipline. On land and at sea The new system will work for wind parks on land and at sea. As with many of our applications, KONGSBERG will use simulations to optimise operations.. Using technology made by KONGSBERG, a whole wind park can be subject to coordinated control. This data can then be linked to wind forecasts, for example, ensuring that the park delivers maximum output based on how each turbine is influenced by the neighbouring turbines. This will enhance the park’s efficiency. As of January 2013, KONGSBERG’s Wind Power Department consists of 12 individuals. To strengthen our expertise in wind power, we have acquired the Trondheimbased company Inturbine. KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 23 AREA OF FOCUS 2012–2013 Stakeholder dialogue KONGSBERG depends on having good interaction and good dialogue with its surroundings, and we aspire to be a positive contributor to the local communities in which we are located. Our position What have we achieved? KONGSBERG is a leading Norwegian technology company In 2012, we had special meetings dedicated to corporate with a large international catchment area. The ability to social responsibility with the Ministry of Trade and Industry, understand and accommodate the needs of owners, Arctic Securities, Red Cross and the Bellona Foundation. investors, public authorities, our employees, customers, In addition, sustainability and corporate social responsibility suppliers and the trade unions is a prerequisite for are often discussed at the many meetings KONGSBERG profitable, socially responsible operations. Consequently, has with its stakeholders in all units of the Group. KONGSBERG has regular meetings with these groups to learn more about their expectations of us and our Our ambitions operations. Our ambition for 2013 is to further strengthen this interaction. Smooth interaction with those affected by Our challenges KONGSBERG’s business activities is an important element This contact is important and it takes place through formal that will enable us to continue to maintain sustainable, and informal meetings alike. We want to know what our socially responsible operations in the years ahead. stakeholders think of us. If they see problems associated with the Group’s activities, we want to know as soon as possible so that we can initiate the necessary remedial measures. Over the past two years, we have engaged in dialogue related to corporate social responsibility in a more systematic manner than previously. However, there is still room for improvement to get the desired effect out of this. 24 KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND KEY FIGURES NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 4 666 2012 1 277 741 101 471 0 3 North America Central and Norway Rest of Europe Africa Asia Australia South America and Antarctica N-amerika Mellom og Norge Europa for Asia Australia 741 sør-amerika 4666 øvrig 1277 3 101 471 REVENUES 2012 MNOK 3 396 MNOK 4 078 MNOK 3 335 MNOK 4 078 MNOK 459 MNOK 149 MNOK 157 2 • INTRODUCTION 14 • WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? 25 • SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND KEY FIGURES VALUES AND ETHICS KONGSBERG’s values and corporate Code of Ethics express our basic attitudes and indicate how we ought to show our fundamental respect for and relate to colleagues, customers, suppliers and society-at-large. KONGSBERG’s values and Code of Ethics make up the backbone for how we conduct our operations, and they apply regardless of where, when and which of our employees is doing business. Our values Determined Innovative Collaborative Reliable (intent, resolute, goal-oriented) (unconventional, pioneering) (cooperative, network-oriented) (dependable, trustworthy) We are known for our drive and Always performing better is a vital Collaboration is fundamental to our Our customers and partners can persistence. We always strive to part of who we are. We constantly business. We exchange ideas trust KONGSBERG to deliver, meet our customers’ expectations. innovate and implement improveamong ourselves, with our sup­pliers always. Dealing with KONGSBERG We set ambitious goals for ourments in all parts of our business and partners, and we cooperate means dealing with reliable people, selves and we are driven towards from our products, through our closely with our customers. We a reliable corporation and reliable them with a clear and constant processes, to our customers’ work as teams, we share know­ products. KONGSBERG is a focus. experiences. ledge and we value team success responsible organisation characterto the benefit of our customers ised by integrity and concern for What we start, we finish. We do We relentlessly pursue and our own competitiveness. health, safety and the environment. not give in. improvements, new ideas and new solutions. We collaborate as individuals and We are reliable people. We are as an organisation. responsible citizens. Our corporate Code of Ethics Notification of circumstances worthy of criticism KONGSBERG’s corporate Code of Ethics applies to the The Group has special routines for notification of any Group’s directors, management, employees, casual breach of the corporate Code of Ethics. Employees have employees, consultants, market representatives (agents), always had the right to issue warnings about circumstances lobbyists and others who act on behalf of KONGSBERG. worthy of criticism, and a duty to do so if there is a quesOur Code of Ethics emphasises that all employees and the tion of a violation of laws, rules or our corporate Code of Group’s Board of Directors must maintain high ethical Ethics. KONGSBERG will not tolerate that a person who standards when performing their duties. The Group has blows the whistle is subject to reprisals/negative reactions. developed special guidelines for suppliers. See www.kongsberg.com In 2012, we have received reports on and dealt with five Updating our corporate Code of Ethics items. All cases are now closed. The Group has two The corporate Code of Ethics is updated to stay abreast of ombudsmen that can give advice and receive reports national and international developments and it is revised at from employees. Internal and external questions about least every second year. ethics, whistleblowing, etc., may be directed to the corporate compliance officer by sending an e-mail to: In-house training ethics@kongsberg.com. All our employees take an e-learning programme based on In January 2012, we set up a website-based reporting the corporate Code of Ethics. The programme was updated channel for our employees in the US and Canada through and further developed in 2012. A training programme has an external supplier: “Global Compliance”. No reports were been devised to address ethics and compliance. It consists filed using this channel in 2012. The website address is of a standard course for new employees and new line https://kongsberg.alertline.com/ supervisors. A complex training programme has also been further developed in the field of ethics, business-related Sanctions behaviour and special topics for selected target groups. The Group has not been fined or subject to other types of sanctions in 2012 as a result of anti-competitive business practices or failure to comply with legislation or regulations. 26 KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 ORGANISATION AND SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE KONGSBERG’s overall system of governance is linked to ‘the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance”. The following is an overview of systems of governance and organisation linked to sustainability and corporate social responsibility. ANNUAL The Annual General Meeting (AGM) is the Group’s supreme governing body. Here, the GENERAL MEETING shareholders can influence how corporate social responsibility is practiced at KONGSBERG. BOARD OF DIRECTORS The corporate Board of Directors bears the ultimate responsibility for KONGSBERG’s ethical responsibility and contribution to sustainable development. The Board adopts the Group’s Code of Ethics and Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, and it discusses and approves the Sustainability Report. KONGSBERG was awarded a prize for presenting Norway’s best corporate governance report for 2011. THE CEO AND Corporate Executive Management bears the ultimate responsibility for the Group’s strategy, CORPORATE EXECUTIVE development and day-to-day work. The CEO is responsible for the content of the Group’s MANAGEMENT Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Policy being followed up, complied with and integrated into the Group’s ordinary strategic planning. The business areas The business areas are responsible for follow up and compliance with policy, targets and governance documents related to sustainability and corporate social responsibility. The practical aspects are usually handled by the four business areas, with support from the Corporate Centre. Ethics Council The Group’s Ethics Council is to help raise ethical awareness, ensuring good behaviour and safeguarding KONGSBERG’s good reputation. The Ethics Council’s mandate is to deal with cases of principle and questions linked to policies and provisions. The composition of the Ethics Council is subject to Board approval. Business Conduct Review Board KONGSBERG has comprehensive guidelines for how we are to comport ourselves in business situations. The guidelines are adopted by the Board, and then the Business Conduct Review Board, which serves as the Group’s compliance forum, bears the main responsibility for ensuring compliance. Forum for Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility The Forum is a link between the business areas, Corporate Centre and Corporate Executive Management on questions related to sustainability and corporate social responsibility. The main responsibility is to help promote, further develop and coordinate the Group’s work in this field. Council for Climate and the Environment The Forum is a link between the business areas, Corporate Centre and Corporate Executive Management on questions related to sustainability and corporate social responsibility. The main responsibility is to help promote, further develop and coordinate the Group’s work in this field. The Council for CSR Follow-up in the Supplier Chain The Council is responsible for promoting and further developing the Group’s work with CSR in the supplier chain, ensuring coordinated skills upgrading, making risk assessments and implementing audits. KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 27 2 • INTRODUCTION 14 • WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? 25 • SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND KEY FIGURES CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENTAL ACCOUNTS 2012 KONGSBERG continued to grow in 2012, as evidenced by nearly 600 new employees and the establishment of new offices abroad. This means that our footprint on the outdoor environment has also grown. Over the past few years, we have worked systematically connection with implementation of a new reporting system to report data associated with energy consumption, waste for KONGSBERG. This means that reported data for 2010 treatment, chemical consumption and greenhouse gas and 2011 occasionally deviate from previous years’ emissions. The information has made us aware of the chalenvironmental accounts. lenges we face, and afforded us opportunities to initiate As from 2012, we will no longer be reporting on the improvement measures. consumption of chemicals, as chemicals are not a signifiThe Climate and Environmental Accounts give an overcant part of what we consider our environmental accounts. view of KONGSBERG’s consumption of energy, emissions Internally, we will, of course, keep close track of which of CO2 and production of waste. The accounts cover all chemicals are used and of consumption. Norwegian units, all production units and the larger offices The Group did not experience any serious incidents abroad. Historical data have been quality-assured in related to pollution in 2012. EnergY In connection with production and office activities, KONGSBERG that 72 per cent of the produced district heating in 2012 came consumes energy in the form of electricity, district heating, gas and from heat recovery, compared with 47 per cent in 2011. This fuel oil. Kongsberg Technology Park makes district heating for positive increase is ascribable to a significant reduction in down enterprises located in the technology parks in Kongsberg. District time for the facility and outside temperatures that allowed more heating is produced using electricity, fuel oil, gas and heat recovery. efficient operations In 2012, 51 per cent of the district heating was delivered to units in Compared with 2011, KONGSBERG’s total energy consumption KONGSBERG, while the remainder was delivered to other was about 7 per cent higher in 2012. The main reason for this enterprises in the technology park. increase was the consumption of more electricity by Kongsberg In 2010, a new central heating plant was built in Kongsberg Maritime and Kongsberg Defence Systems in connection with a Technology Park for the recycling of residual heat from the generally higher level of activity and more production. The relative cooling water from the technology parks and wastewater from energy consumption increased from 7.2 to 7.4 MWh per MNOK Kongsberg’s municipal purification plant. This helped ensure (Figure 1). ENERGY CONSUMPTION GWh Change, Business area past year 2012 2011 20102) Type of energy 7.20 7.43 Kongsberg Maritime 22% 31.3 25.5 25.8 120 6.66 100 District heating (external) Kongsberg Defence Systems 3% 45.4 44.2 42.1 80 Oil and gas Kongsberg Protech Systems 0% 9.6 9.6 9.4 60 40 Heat recovery Kongsberg Oil & Gas Techn. 10% 1.3 1.2 1.4 20 Electricity Kongsberg Teknologipark AS 1) 2% 28.7 28.3 24.5 0 2010 Total 7% 116.3 108.9 103.2 2011 2012 MWh/MNOK 1) Includes the production of district heating provided to enterprises outside Figure 1: Total energy consumption (GWh) by KONGSBERG. District heating KONGSBERG. produced in Kongsberg Technology Park is included in the figures for electricity, 2) The consumption of electricity for the production of remote cooling and oil and gas, and heat recovery. District heating (external) refers to district heating compressed air was not reported in 2010. For 2011 and 2012, this consumption provided to KONGSBERG by external suppliers. totalled 13.7 GWh and 10.2 GWh, respectively, of KONGSBERG’s total energy Type energi consumption. 120 7,20 28 KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 6,66 100 80 60 40 CO2 EMISSIONS KONGSBERG’s CO2 emissions have been calculated as recommended by the ‘Greenhouse Gas Protocol’ published by the World Emissions of CO2 Change, Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and Metric tonnes 1) past year 2012 2011 2010 World Resources Institute (WRI). Since 2010, emissions from national and international flights booked in Norway have been Scope 1 (Direct emissions) (54%) 1 378 2 996 4 869 included. These trips account for a substantial percentage of Oil and Gas (Business Area) 885 386 560 KONGSBERG’s total CO2 emissions and, in the years ahead, efforts Oil and gas (Kongsberg will be made to include flights booked outside of Norway. Technology Park) 492 2 610 4 308 The environmental accounts encompass the following sources of CO2 emissions: Scope 2 (Indirect • Direct emissions (Scope 1): Emissions from the use of fuel oil emissions) 16% 8 393 7 239 6 193 and gas to heat buildings, as well as from the production of Electricity (Business Area) 7 371 6 028 5 551 district heating by Kongsberg Technology Park. Electricity (Kongsberg • Indirect emissions from electricity (Scope 2): Emissions from Technology Park) 865 1 061 513 the consumption of electricity or district heating from external District heating from suppliers. external supplier 157 149 130 • Emissions from air travel (Scope 3): Emissions from national and international flights booked in Norway. Scope 3 (Other emissions) (19%) 10 182 12 512 8 944 CO2 emissions were reduced by 12 per cent in 2012, compared with Air travel 10 182 12 512 8 944 the year before. The main reason for this is that by increasing heat recovery, Kongsberg Technology Park has reduced its consumption Total (12%) 19 953 22 747 20 005 of fuel oil and gas significantly. Emissions per produced unit of district heating were reduced from 82 grams of CO2 per kWh in 2011 to 21 grams of CO2 per kWh district heat provided in 2012. Moreover, registered emissions from flights booked in Norway have been reduced by roughly 28 per cent. Emissions relative to sales dropped from 1.5 to 1.3 metric tonnes per MNOK. EMISSIONS OF CO2 Metric tonnes 1) Change, Business area past year 2012 2011 2010 Type of emission 25 000 1.50 Kongsberg Maritime 8% 10 832 9 987 8 341 1.29 1.27 Air travel 20 000 Kongsberg Defence Systems (10%) 4 218 4 662 3 703 15 000 Direct emissions Kongsberg Protech Systems (24%) 2 359 3 107 2 278 10 000 Indirect emissions Kongsberg Oil & Gas Techn. (14%) 874 1 019 642 5 000 Kongsberg Teknologipark AS 2) (58%) 1 669 3 972 5 041 0 t/MNOK 2010 Total (12%) 19 953 22 747 20 005 2011 2012 1) Emissions from the production of district heating for intra-Group deliveries are Figure 2: Emissions of CO2 (metric tonnes) for KONGSBERG. Emissions from the reported as emissions from Kongsberg Technology Park. The emissions from the consumption of fossil fuels for the production of district heating delivered by business areas are not therefore included in indirect emissions from district Kongsberg Technology Park are shown as direct emissions. Indirect emissions heating provided by Kongsberg Technology Park. include the consumption of electricity and district heating provided by external 2) Includes the production of district heating provided to enterprises outside suppliers in the business areas, as well as the consumption of electricity for the KONGSBERG. production of district heating by Kongsberg Technology Park. KONGSBERG 113,98 Sustainability Report 2012 29 114,36 107,2 2 000 Resirkulert avfall 1 500 Restavfall 1 000 2 • INTRODUCTION 14 • WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? 25 • SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND KEY FIGURES WASTE KONGSBERG generates waste from production and from office activities. Waste volumes are part of KONGSBERG’s in-house environmental reporting. The report covers generated waste broken down by category of waste and waste for recycling divided by recycling fractions. Certain units that share locations with other enterprises report estimated waste data and there is some uncertainty associated with them. Kongsberg Technology Park makes efforts to increase source separation among the companies located in Kongsberg Technology Park. In 2012, the total volume of KONGSBERG’s waste was roughly 10 per cent higher than in the preceding year. Relative waste production increased from 107.2 kg per MNOK in 2011 to 114.5 kg per MNOK in 2012. For the waste reported in 2012, the percentage of source separation for KONGSBERG as a whole was roughly 87 per cent, compared with 92 per cent in 2011. In Kongsberg Technology Park, the percentage of source separation was 96 per cent in 2012, compared with 94 per cent in 2011. WASTE Metric tonnes Change, Business area past year 2012 2011 2010 Type of emission 114.4 114.0 Kongsberg Maritime 43% 1 262 885 1 143 2 000 107.2 Recycled waste Kongsberg Defence Systems (24%) 374 490 274 1 500 Residual waste Kongsberg Protech Systems (39%) 118 194 280 1 000 Hazardous waste Kongsberg Oil & Gas Techn. 68% 15 9 52 500 Kongsberg Teknologipark AS (67%) 15 44 23 0 Kg/MNOK 2010 Total 10% 1 784 1 622 1 772 2011 2012 Figure 3: Total waste production (metric tonnes) at KONGSBERG. Fordeling av energiforbruk 30 KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 120 Fjernvar 100 80 Olje og g 60 Varmegj 40 TARGETS AND ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The Group’s work with and the priority assigned to corporate social responsibility has increased year by year. This means, among other things, that we have selected certain areas in which we have set longer term goals. This translates into greater continuity in our work and we achieve better results. The 2012 reporting year Targets Corporate social responsibility 2013 2012 was characterised by a high level of activity and The targets for 2013 will be a continuation of our areas of strong growth in the number of employees. More focus and focus in 2012, as well as of the initiatives ensuing from our attention have been devoted to corporate social responsiPolicy for Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility. bility in the past year. The following is a list of our main In this context, we have emphasised the follow-up of targets and activities. expectations of us, as outlined in White Paper No. 13 The activities marked with continue to be targets, (2010-2011) – Active Ownership. but final implementation has been postponed somewhat. Activities with have been completed. All these activities will continue to be high-priority areas in 2013. TARGETS AND ACTIVITIES 2012 What we said – targets and activities What we did – status Performance Strategy • Implement activities ensuing from the revised Policy • New policy adopted by the Board of for Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Directors in 2012. ‘Megatrends and Sustainability’ document drawn up Anti-corruption • An area in which we devote constant attention to • Developed a number of mandatory guidelines for preventative, risk-reducing initiatives and the discovery business behaviour, and implemented training of any non-conformance initiatives in conjunction with said guidelines Process modules for sustainability and corporate social responsibility • Draw up and implement process modules in • Process modules in conjunction with conjunction with acquisitions, new ventures, acquisitions to be completed in Q1 2013; product development, etc. the others during the year. Suppliers • Further develop routines and processes for • Principles and processes for Supplier Conduct the follow up of suppliers as regards CSR have been drawn up. • Conduct audits and engage in dialogue with • Some audits were conducted. List of high-risk suppliers with a view to CSR deficiencies compiled. Stakeholder dialogue • Engage in systematic stakeholder dialogue • Meetings conducted related to corporate social responsibility Climate strategy • Implement specific initiatives • Not all initiatives implemented • Start projects to identify further initiatives • Projects in their infancy KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 31 2 • INTRODUCTION 14 • WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? 25 • SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND KEY FIGURES TARGETS AND ACTIVITIES 2013-2017 Plans for the future Status 2012 1 year Targets 2013 3 years Targets 2015 5 years Targets 2017 Policy • Implement activities ensuing from our new Policy ”Megatrends and Assess projects in the Implement Evaluate and for Sustainability and CSR, including assessing Sustainability” document light of opportunities implement risks and opportunities related to global megatrends. drawn up and risks Anti-corruption • Further develop policies and routines. High-priority policies Revise/further develop Evaluate and Implement and routines have been relevant policies and implement developed/revised. routines. • Carry out risk analyses, relevant action plans Risk analyses, action Further develop internal Implement Implement and audits to reduce risks. plans and reporting have control systems. been implemented Carry out audits. throughout the Group. • Further develop and carry out continuous The training programme Further develop and Implement Implement training. has been established; implement training. courses have been developed and are conducted continuously. Process modules for sustainability and corporate social responsibility • Remaining work associated with drawing up Modules associated Implement module Implement Evaluate and and implementing process modules and with acquisitions related to acquisitions. implement skills-building in connection with acquisitions, drawn up. Make modules related venture creation, product development, new to the other areas. buildings, other special activities, etc. Human rights • Draw up routines for analysis, control, and New Draw up routines Implement Evaluate and the reporting of possible abuses of human rights and implement implement Suppliers • Implement routines and processes for the Commenced Implement Evaluate and Evaluate and follow up of suppliers as regards CSR. implement implement • Follow up implementation of CSR audits and Some special audits Selected high-risk All high-risk Evaluate dialogue with suppliers related to corporate social responsibility were completed Stakeholder dialogue • Carry out systematic stakeholder dialogue linked Meetings conducted Implement Evaluate and Implement to CSR and develop important target indicators in implement dialogue with stakeholders Climate strategy • Follow up specific initiatives Lagging slightly Implement Evaluate and set Implement behind as regards new targets implementation • Identify new initiatives related to the climate Commenced Identify new initiatives Implement Implement strategy and the policy for sustainability and corporate social responsibility 32 KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 KEY SUSTAINABILITY FIGURES FINANCIAL VALUE ADDED 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Value added (Amounts in MNOK) Payroll expenses 3 894 3 515 3 172 3 003 2 561 1 983 1 778 Share dividend 450 450 450 240 165 150 75 Interest to lenders 37 35 41 115 93 59 51 Retained earnings 870 980 1 050 558 422 836 177 Other key financial figures (MNOK) Goods and services purchased approx. 8 300 8 300 9 500 Financial support. Tax refund from the Norwegian tax authorities related to development projects 16 17 29 Taxes (MNOK) Norway 422 513 528 270 210 261 99 Rest of Europe 14 17 18 23 21 12 9 North and South America 32 24 26 19 26 10 4 Asia 43 24 25 29 17 10 26 Total 511 578 597 341 274 293 138 The Board of Directors will propose to the AGM a dividend for 2012 of NOK 3.75 (NOK 3.75) per share. If the proposal is adopted at the AGM on 3 May 2013, dividends will be paid as follows, provided the ownership structure is the same as at 20 February 2013: MNOK 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Dividends Norwegian State 225.0 225.0 225.0 120.0 82.5 75.0 37.5 Organisations/enterprises 90.6 97.4 97.6 56.4 40.4 36.3 17.3 Securities funds 47.1 45.2 48.4 27.6 16.9 16.5 9.0 Insurance/pension funds 25.0 25.0 24.4 12.5 9.5 9.9 4.5 Private individuals 20.9 19.9 20.2 12.0 7.3 6.6 3.7 Foreign owners 41.4 37.5 32.6 11.5 8.4 5.7 3.0 Total 450.0 450.0 450.0 240.0 165.0 150.0 75.0 SOCIAL INVESTMENTS MNOK 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Social investments Financial support to organisations, etc. 6.7 3.0 3.0 2.9 2.0 1.9 1.8 KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 33 2 • INTRODUCTION 14 • WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? 25 • SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND KEY FIGURES Planer fremover – mål og aktiviteter Status 2012 1 år Mål 2013 3 år Mål 2015 5 år Mål 2017 EMPLOYEES 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Level of education Master's degree (%) 28 26 28 29 of which, doctorates (PhD) (2) Bachelor's degree (%) 36 35 35 33 Technicians (%) 14 14 11 12 Production workers % 10 12 13 13 Other % 12 12 13 13 Number of employees Number of employees, total 7 259 6 681 5 681 5 423 5 243 4 205 3 560 Number of full-time employees 7 003 6 393 5 442 5 195 5 015 4 021 3 486 Number of part-time employees 256 286 239 228 228 184 164 Age Average age 1) 40 42 42 42 42 41 43 Employees under age 30 (%) 22 21 19 19 17 15 12 Employees between ages 30 and 50 (%) 55 55 57 55 56 57 60 Employees over age 50 (%) 23 23 24 26 27 28 28 Percentage of women Women as a % of the number of employees 21,2 20,9 19,5 18,8 19,5 19,5 19,0 Women in managerial positions as a % of total managerial positions 19 14 13 15 13 13 12 Shareholder-elected women on the Board (%) 40 40 40 40 40 40 40 Turnover Turnover (employees who have resigned) 459 424 346 250 222 203 335 Turnover (%) 6.3 6.4 6.1 4.6 4.2 3.9 4.3 – Men 5.2 4.4 4.9 3.4 3.0 3.3 4.3 – Women 1.1 2.0 1.2 1.2 1.2 0.6 1.2 1) New method of calculation as from 2012. HEALTH AND SAFETY 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Health and safety Absence due to illness as a % of hours worked 2.4 2.2 2.5 2.6 2.4 2.4 2.7 Absence due to illness for the Norwegian companies 2.8 2.8 Number of reported injuries per million hours (TRI) 1) 1.48 1.67 6.3 5.5 3.5 Number of lost time days per million hours (ISR) 1) 13.6 1.07 22.3 58.2 5.6 Total number of injuries among employees 54 Total number of near-accidents among employees 78 Registered occupational diseases 0 Registered work-related fatalities 0 1) The figures for 2011 cover only the Norwegian units in the company. 34 KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 CLIMATE AND THE ENVIRONMENT 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 CO2 emissions CO2 emissions (thousand metric tonnes) 2) 19 953 22 747 20 005 12 980 7 801 6 809 6 142 Energy consumption Electricity (MWh) 1) 79 218 77 625 66 256 57 053 46 895 40 627 39 534 District heating (MWh) 1) 7 667 13 257 12 968 21 324 14 464 14 164 11 957 Gas/oil (MWh) 1 053 757 752 1 739 1 208 1 239 689 Energy consumption (MWh) per employee 16.0 16.3 18.2 15 12 14 15 Energy consumption relative to sales (MWh/MNOK) 7.4 7.2 6.7 5.8 5.8 6.8 8.0 Waste (metric tonnes) Waste for recycling 1 202 1 191 1 330 827 717 662 606 Residual waste 223 131 265 594 511 402 392 Hazardous waste 358 300 177 52 28 58 59 1) As from 2010, the reported breakdown in the distribution of power between Kongsberg Technology Park and the business areas changed, meaning that the figures are not directly comparable with earlier years. 2) As from 2010, air travel has been included in the Group’s environmental accounts. KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 35 2 • INTRODUCTION 14 • WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? 25 • SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND KEY FIGURES EXTERNAL REPORTING KONGSBERG also reports to various external organisations. We do this to ensure that the information we provide is structured, transparent and relevant in the light of international guidelines for reporting sustainability. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The UN Global Compact Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) GRI is a voluntary international framework The Global Compact is the UN’s initiative CDP is an international framework that for how companies should report on their for working together with business and encourages companies to measure and work with corporate social responsibility industry to promote sustainable developreport externally on the company’s and their vision and strategy for ment. The initiative was taken by then strategy related to climate change and to sustainable development. KONGSBERG UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan in 1999. present the company’s level of emissions has reported in compliance with the GRI The principles consist of 10 points related of greenhouse gases. KONGSBERG has index since 2004. to human rights, workers’ rights, the reported to CDP since 2011. environment and anti-corruption. KONGSBERG joined the initiative in 2006. GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Pages 10–12, 19, 34, 39 Principle 2 Make sure the company is not complicit in human rights abuses Pages 10–12, 19 WORKERS’ RIGHTS Principle 3 Uphold the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining Pages 10–12, 19 Principle 4 Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Pages 12, 19 Principle 5 Uphold the effective abolition of child labour Pages 12, 19 Principle 6 Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Pages 10–12, 19, 34 THE ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Pages 15–18, 22, 29 Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Pages 23, 28–30, 35–38 Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Pages 18, 23, 28–29 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Pages 20–21, 26 For more information on the Global Compact, see www.globalcompact.org 36 KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX (GRI) On the following pages, we list the GRI indicators with references to where they are discussed in the report, regardless of whether they are wholly or partially answered relative to GRI. For a full description of the individual indicator, see GRI’s website at www.globalreporting.org Deloitte has verified that our Report on Corporate Social Responsibility is generally consistent with GRI’s reporting principles and that our report meets the requirements for level B+ pursuant to the guidelines, cf. the Auditor’s Report, page 41. NR = Not relevant NA = Not addressed PA = Partially addressed A = Annual Report Additional indicators are marked by (*) IndiSee IndiSee cator page(s) cator page(s) 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the 2, 28–30 PROFILE bases of calculations 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re2, 28–30 1 Strategy and analysis statements of information provided in 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision4–5 earlier reports, and the reasons for such maker of the organization about the re-statement relevance of sustainability strategy 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting 2, 28–30 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and 4–5, 15–18 periods in the scope, boundary, or measopportunities in relation to sustainability urement methods applied in the report 2 Organizational profile 3.12 Table identifying the location of the 36–40 2.1 Name of the organization 6–7 Standard Disclosures in the report (GRI 2.2 Primary brands and products 6–9 Index) 2.3 Organization 6–7 Third-party verification 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 6–7 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to 40 2.5 Number of countries where the organiza6–9 seeking external assurance for the report tion operates 4 Governance, commitments, and 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 6 engagement 2.7 Markets served (including geographical 6–9 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, A, 27 breakdown, sectors served and types of including committees under the highest customers/benificiaries) governance body 2.8 Key numbers 33–35 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest A 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, 2 governance body is also an executive structure, or ownership officer 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 27 4.3 State the number of members of the A 3 Report parameters highest governance body that are indeReport profile pendent and/or non-executive members 3.1 Reporting period for information provided 2 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employA, 27 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 2012 ees to provide recommendations or 3.3 Reporting cycle Annual direction to the highest governance body 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the 41 4.5 Linkage between compensation for A report or its contents members of the highest governance body, Report scope and boundary senior managers, and executives and the 3.5 Process for defining report content 2 organization’s performance 3.6 2 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governA Boundary of the report ance body to ensure conflicts of interest 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope 2, 15–18, are avoided or boundary of the report 28–30 4.7 Process for determining the qualificaA 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, 2, 28–30 tions and expertise of the members of subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced the highest governance body for guiding operations, and other entities that can sigthe organization’s strategy on economic, nificantly affect comparability from period environmental, and social topics to period and/or between organizations KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 37 2 • INTRODUCTION 14 • WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? 25 • SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND KEY FIGURES IndiSee IndiSee cator page(s) cator page(s) 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission 14–18, 26, Market presence or values, codes of conduct, and principles 31–32 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level 10–11 (PA) relevant to economic, environmental, and wage compared to local minimum wage at social performance and the status of their significant locations of operation* implementation EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spend18, 19, 31 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance 2, 27, A ing on locally-based suppliers at significant body for overseeing the organization’s locations of operation* identification and management of economEC7 Procedures for local hiring and propor10–11 (PA) ic, environmental, and social performance tion of senior management hired from the 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest A local community at locations of significant governance body’s own performance, operation particularly with respect to economic, enviIndirect economic impacts ronmental, and social performance EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure NA Commitments to external initiatives investments and services provided primarily 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the 15–18, 36 for public benefit through commercial, inprecautionary approach or principle is adkind, or pro bono engagement dressed by the organization EC9 Understanding and describing significant NA 4.12 Externally developed economic, environ2, 15–18, indirect economic impacts, including the mental, and social charters, principles, or 26, 36 extent of impacts* other initiatives to which the organization Environmental performance subscribes or endorses indicators 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as 12, 20, 27, industry associations) and/or national/ 36 Management approach 4–6, 15–18, international advocacy organizatons in 22, 23, which the organization: Has positions in 31–32 governance bodies;Participates in projects Materials or committees; Provides substantive fundEN1 Materials used by weight or volume 28–30 (PA) ing beyond routine membership EN2 Percentage of materials used that are NA Stakeholder engagement recycled input materials 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 24 Energy organization EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary 28–30, 35 4.15 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 24 energy source organization Basis for identification and EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary 28–30, 35 selection of stakeholders with whom to source (PA) engage EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and NA 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, 24 efficiency improvements* including frequency of engagement by type EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or 23 (PA) and by stakeholder group renewable energy based products and 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been 24 services, and reductions in energy requireraised through stakeholder engagement, ments as a result of these initiatives and how the organization has responded EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy con28 (PA) to those key topics and concerns, including sumption and reductions achieved* through its reporting Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source NA Economic performance EN9 Water sources significantly affected by NA indicators withdrawal of water* Management approach 4–5, 15–18, EN10 Percentage and total volume of water NA 33–35 recycled and reused* Economic performance Biodiversity EC1 Direct economic value generated and 6-7, A, 25, EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, NR distribut­ed, including revenues, operating 33–35 managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas costs, employee compensation, donations and areas of high biodiversity value outside and other community investments, retained protected areas earnings, and payments to capital providers EN12 Description of significant impacts of activiNR and governments ties, products, and services on biodiversity EC2 Financial implications and other risks and 15–18, 22 in protected areas and areas of high biodiopportunities for the organization’s activiversity value outside protected areas ties due to climate change EN13 Habitats protected or restored* NR EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined A EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future NR benefit plan obligations plans for managing impacts on biodiverEC4 Significant financial assistance received 33 sity* from government EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and NR national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations,by level of extinction risk* 38 KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 IndiSee IndiSee cator page(s) cator page(s) Emissions, effluents and waste LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding NA EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas 29, 35 operational changes, including whether it is emissions by weight specified in collective agreements EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas NA Occupational health and safety emissions by weight LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented 11 (PA) EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emis18, 22, 29 in formal joint management–worker health sions and reductions achieved* and safety committees that help monitor EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances NA and advise on occupational health and by weight safety-programs* EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emisNA LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 11, 34 sions by type and weight days, and absenteeism, and number of EN21 Total water discharge by quality and NA work-related fatalities by region destination LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, 11 (PA) EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal 30, 35 and risk-control programs in place to assist method workforce members, their families, or comEN23 Total number and volume of significant 35 munity members regarding serious diseases spills LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal 11 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, NA agreements with trade unions* or treated waste deemed hazardous under Training and education the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, LA10 Average hours of training per year per NA II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transportemployee by employee category ed waste shipped internationally* LA11 Programs for skills management and 10 EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and NA lifelong learning that support the continued biodiversity value of water bodies and employability of employees and assist them related habitats significantly affected by in managing career endings* the reporting organization’s discharges of LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular NA water and runoff* performance and career development Products and services reviews* EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental imNA Diversity and equal opportunety pacts of products and services, and extent LA13 Composition of governance bodies and 10, 34 (PA) of impact mitigation breakdown of employees per category EN27 Percentage of products sold and their NA according to gender, age group, minority packaging materials that are reclaimed by group membership, and other indicators of category diversity Compliance LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by NA EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and toNone employee category tal number of non-monetary sanctions for registered HUMAN RIGHTS PERFORMANCE noncompliance with None environmental INDICATORS laws and regulations registered transport Transport Management approach 4–5, 12, EN29 Significant environmental impacts of 29 (PA) 15–18 transporting products and other goods Investment and procurement practices and materials used for the organization’s HR1 Percentage and total number of significant NA operations, and transporting members of investment agreements that include human the workforce* rights clauses or that have undergone huOverall man rights screening EN30 Total environmental protection expendiNA HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and 12, 19 (PA) tures and investments by type* contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies 12 WORK PERFORMANCE INDICATORS and procedures concerning aspects of huManagement approach 4–5, 10–11, man rights that are relevant to operations, 12, 15–18 including the percentage of employees Employment trained* LA1 Total workforce by employment type, 8–9, 34 Nondiscrimination employment contract, and region HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination 12 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turno34 (PA) and actions taken ver by age group, gender, and region Freedom of association and collective LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees NA bargaining that are notprovided to temporary or partHR5 Operations identified in which the right to 10–11, 19 time employees, by majoroperations* exercise freedom of association and collec(PA) Labor/management relations tive bargaining may be at significant risk, LA4 Percentage of employees covered by col11 (PA) and actions taken to support these rights lective bargaining agreements KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 39 2 • INTRODUCTION 14 • WHAT HAVE WE ACHIEVED? 25 • SYSTEMS OF GOVERNANCE AND KEY FIGURES IndiSee IndiSee cator page(s) cator page(s) Child labour PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY HR6 Operations identified as having significant 12 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination Management approach 4–5, 13, of child labor 15–18, 24, 31–32 Forced and compulsory labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant 12 Customer health and safety risk for incidents of forced or compulsory PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety NA labor, and measures to contribute to the impacts of products and services are elimination of forced or compulsory labor assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services Security practices categories subject to such procedures HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained 12 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliNA in the organization’s policies or procedures ance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning aspects of human rights that concerning health and safety impacts of are relevant to operations* products and services during their life Indigenous rights cycle, by type of outcomes* HR9 Total number of incidents of violations 12 Product and service labeling involving rights of indigenous people and PR3 Type of product and service information NA actions taken* required by procedures, and percentage of SOCIETY PERFORMANCE significant products and services subject to INDICATORS such information requirements Management approach 4–5, 15–8, PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliNA 20–21, 33 ance with regulations and voluntary codes Community concerning product and service information SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any NA and labeling, by type of outcomes* programs and practices that assess and PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, NA manage the impacts of operations on including results of surveys measuring communities, including entering, operating, customer satisfaction and exiting Marketing communications Corruption PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, NA SO2 Percentage and total number of business 20–21 and voluntary codes related to marketing units analyzed for risks related to corrupcommunications, including advertising, tion promotion, and sponsorship SO3 Percentage of employees trained in 26 PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliNone organization’s anti-corruption policies and ance with regulations and voluntary codes registered procedures concerning marketing communications, SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of 20–21, 26 including advertising, promotion, and sponcorruption sorship by type of outcomes* Public policy Customer privacy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in NA PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints None public policy development and lobbying regarding breaches of customer privacy registered SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind con­ NA and losses of customer data* tributions to political parties, politicians, Compliance and related institutions by country* PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for None Anti-competitive behavior noncompliance with laws and regulations registered SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticom20, 26 concerning the provision and use of prodpetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly ucts and services practices and their outcomes* Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and to20, 26 tal number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations If you have viewpoints or questions associated with the report or other topics discussed in the report, please contact KONGSBERG’s CSR Manager Nils Molin at: nils.molin@kongsberg.com 40 KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 AUDITOR’S REPORT 2012 Design: Bakerman AS. Print: RK Grafisk. Images: KONGSBERG, Statoil, Det norske forsvaret, Getty Images, Mediafoto/Tor Aas-Haug, Safari Opplevelsesreiser/Kari Halvorsen Deloitte AS Karenslyst allé 20 P.O.Box 347 Skøyen 0213 Oslo Tel: +47 23 27 92 18 Fax: +47 23 27 90 01 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT To the management of Kongsberg Gruppen Translation to English: Linda Sivesind, Informatic Translations. Disclaimer: In the event of any discrepancy between the Norwegian and English versions We have reviewed certain information presented in the KONGSBERG – Sustainability Report 2012 (“the Report”). The Report is the responsibility of and has been approved by the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to draw a conclusion based on our review. We have based our work on the international standard ISAE 3000 “Assurance Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information”, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. The objective and scope of the engagement were agreed with the management of the Company and included the subject matters on which we provide our conclusion below. Based on an assessment of materiality and risks, our work included analytical procedures and interviews as well as a review on a sample basis of evidence supporting the subject matters. We have conducted interviews of the managers responsible for sustainability aspects at corporate and selected reporting units represented by Kongsberg Protech Systems – Johnstown (USA) and Kongsberg Maritime – Kongsberg (Norway). We believe that our work provides an appropriate basis for us to draw a conclusion with a limited level of assurance on the subject matters. In such an engagement, less assurance is obtained than would be the case had an audit-level engagement been performed. of KONGSBERG’s Corporate Social Responsibility Report, the Norwegian version is the authoritative one. Conclusion In conclusion, in all material respects, nothing has come to our attention that causes us not to believe that: • Kongsberg Gruppen has applied procedures to collect, compile and validate sustainability data for 2012 from its reporting units to be included in the Report, as summarised on pages 2 – 3, and data presented for 2012 is consistent with data accumulated as a result of these procedures and appropriately presented in the Report. • Data reported for 2012 from the reporting units visited, as specified above, has been reported according to the procedures noted above and is consistent with source documentation presented to us. • Information about attainment of targets, as presented on page 31, appropriately reflects performance related to the objectives for 2012. • Kongsberg Gruppen applies a reporting practice for its sustainability reporting that is aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines reporting principles and the reporting fulfils Application Level B+ according to the GRI guidelines. The GRI Index presented on pages 37 – 39 appropriately reflects where relevant information on each of the elements and performance indicators of the GRI guidelines is presented. The Company’s reporting on the UN Global Compact is consistent with the description on page 3 and the UN Global Compact table presented on page 36 appropriately reflects where relevant information on each of the UN Global Compact principles is presented in the Report. Oslo, 21 March 2013 Deloitte AS Eivind Skaug Frank Dahl State Authorized Public Accountant Deloitte Sustainability Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK Limited company, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate and independent entity. Please see www.deloitte.com/no/omoss for a detailed description of the legal structure of Medlemmer av Den Norske Revisorforening Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu and its member firms. org.nr: 980 211 282 KONGSBERG Sustainability Report 2012 41 Kongsberg Gruppen ASA Kirkegårdsveien 45 P.O. Box 1000 3601 Kongsberg, Norway Telephone: (+47) 32 28 82 00 Email: office@kongsberg.com www.kongsberg.com WORLD CLASS – through people, technology and dedication
