JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 The JX Group has entered its third year after being formed. Under our mission statement, the JX Group will fulfill its social responsibilities as an integrated energy, resources and materials business group, and contribute to the development of a sustainable economy and society. JX Group Mission Statement JX Group Slogan JX Group Mission Statement The JX Group will contribute to the development of a sustainable economy and society through innovation in the areas of energy, resources and materials. JX Group Values Our actions will respect the EARTH. Ethics Advanced ideas Relationship with society Trustworthy products/services Harmony with the environment About JX The name “JX” is a brand that symbolizes the JX Group’s existence and presence. The letter “J” represents our position as one of the world’s largest integrated energy, resources and materials business groups from Japan, while the letter “X” represents our willingness to pioneer new frontiers, our future growth and development potential, and our pursuit of creativity and innovation. About the JX Corporate Brand Mark The JX corporate brand mark symbolizes the continuity of the global environment and the JX Group based on the JX Group’s mission statement. The design, in which the “JX” logo overlaps with a sphere, represents the JX Group’s commitment to a green earth—i.e., our contribution to the development of a sustainable economy and society, through innovation in the areas of energy, resources and materials. *The JX corporate brand mark is common to JX Holdings, Inc., JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation and JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation. 1 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 Contents Management Message 3 JX Group Values 26 EARTH Activity Topics 26 At a Glance—JX Group Overview 5 Ethics 27 Advanced ideas 28 Features 7 Relationship with society 29 1 Restoration and Recovery After the Trustworthy products/services 30 Great East Japan Earthquake 7 Harmony with the environment 31 2 For Future Generations 11 Guide to JX Group Websites 36 3 Ensuring a Stable Supply of Oil and Natural Gas 13 Third-Party Opinion 37 4 Achieving a Recycling-Oriented Society 15 Independent Review Report 38 5 Realizing a Low-Carbon Society 17 JX Group Management 21 1. Corporate Governance 21 2. Development of Internal Control System 22 3. CSR Promotion Structure 22 4. Human Resource Development 24 5. Relationship with Employees 25 Editorial Policy The JX Group has prepared this report to communicate the results of its Scope of Report second year in existence in order to be accountable with respect to CSR JX Holdings, Inc. and its 11 main Group companies. to shareholders and other investors, customers, employees and local JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation and communities while deepening communication and fulfilling stakeholdits 24 main Group companies. ers’ expectations in this regard. JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation and The report is structured such that it is based around the JX Group’s Misits 29 main Group companies. sion Statement and the JX Group Values. The feature section gives an overJX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation and view of the impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake on the JX Group and its 55 main Group companies. the Group’s response. At the same time, the feature describes the JX The scope of quantitative information is defined in notes on each page. Children’s Story Award, one of JX’s social contribution activities in which the Reporting Period entire JX Group is engaged. The report also introduces the JX Group’s stance In principle, the report covers the period from April 2011 to March of actively striving to contribute to society through its business operations, 2012. However, some information from April 2012 onwards is also from the viewpoints of the stable supply of oil and gas, and of achieving a included, as necessary. recycling-oriented society and a low-carbon society. The “JX Group Values” section reports on some representative examples Guidelines Used as Reference of JX’s activities that are based on the five JX Group Values (EARTH). • GRI Global Reporting Initiative Furthermore, various JX Group companies, including JX Holdings, Inc. Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Version 3.1 and the three core operating subsidiaries, disclose a variety of CSR• Environmental Reporting Guidelines Edition Ministry of the related information on their websites. Please have a look at the informaEnvironment, Japan. tion on these websites which is summarized on page 36. • he GRI Mining and Metals Sector Supplement Enhancing Reporting Reliability Forward-looking Statements The environmental performance information data on pages 31–35 This report contains forward-looking statements that are not historical facts, and that reflect managehas been reviewed by an independent body to ensure objective ment’s judgment as of the time of preparation. Please note that actual results may vary significantly from such projections and forecasts due to various known and unforeseeable risks and uncertainties. JX and reliable reporting. Holdings cannot guarantee the accuracy of the targets, assumptions, expectations, projections, plans and evaluations and other similar information contained in forward-looking statements, or that they will be realized without qualification in the future. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 2 Management Message Isao Matsushita Yasushi Kimura Representative Director, President Representative Director, Chairman (JX Group CSR Council Chairman) The JX Group aims to contribute to the development of a sustainable economy and society through innovation in the areas of energy, resources and materials. Establishing a Structure for the Stable Supply of Through this unprecedented experience, the JX Group was Energy and Materials forcefully reminded of the importance of our role in the stable The JX Group sustained massive damage to refineries, factories supply of energy and materials. In addition to improving and and other production facilities caused by the Great East Japan reinforcing the seismic resistance of our refineries, oil depots, Earthquake that struck in March 2011. Flooding from the ensuing factories and other facilities, this experience prompted the start of tsunami also rendered our service stations in the area unusable. trial demonstrations for a new type of earthquake-ready service This situation caused major interruption and inconvenience for station. This new facility can supply petroleum products for a short people of the region who eagerly awaited the petroleum prodtime even if major roads and railways are severely compromised. ucts we supply. We will continue to tackle a variety of issues going forward to ensure that we can stably supply energy and materials. 3 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 Helping Realize Low-Carbon, Recycling-oriented In fiscal 2011, we took aggressive action in each of these areas. Societies We performed legal compliance checks at our sites in Japan and Three years have passed since the launch of the JX Group. In that strengthened compliance structures at our bases overseas. We time, the integration of JX Holdings, the three core operating also expanded our support for nurturing the next generation subsidiaries and other group companies has gained momentum, through the JX Children’s Story Fund, and carried out a compreand has continued to produce synergies beyond what we imaghensive inspection to ensure thorough compliance with environined possible. mental and safety regulations. Elsewhere, in response to the Nevertheless, the global economy remains subdued overall, Great East Japan Earthquake, we are channeling intensive effort reflecting debt problems in Europe and the consequent slowinto maintaining the stable supply of petroleum products and down in emerging markets. The Japanese economy, too, remains the supply chain for copper and electronic materials products. At guarded as risks linked to the threat of power shortages and the the same time, we have implemented support activities that yen’s strong appreciation persist. reflect needs in the disaster zone to help life return to normal as We are right now in the midst of a dramatic turning point in soon as possible for those living there. These activities include the domestic and global economic environment. Nevertheless, monetary donations from group companies, volunteer activities the fundamental mission of the JX Group remains unchanged. supporting recovery in which both executives and employees We are committed to delivering the essential energy, resources take part, and the donation of The Bouquet of Children’s Stories to and materials needed in the most environmentally friendly form children in the affected region. possible, all in a stable and unhindered manner. The JX Group is especially committed to realizing low-carbon Leveraging strengths as a corporate group with operations societies where carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions are greatly across the diverse fields of energy, resources and materials, the JX reduced, and recycling-oriented societies that minimize waste of Group will aim for a new stage of growth and strive to realize the the planet’s limited resources. Our efforts to harmonize with JX Group Mission Statement through robust CSR, all while enhancsociety include the new energy business, where ENE-FARM resiing our capacity to cope with a volatile business environment. dential fuel-cell systems and other products help reduce houseWe ask for your understanding and support of the JX Group as hold CO2 emissions, and the recycling and environmental we move forward. services business, where we effectively utilize the invaluable metal resources that will support our future. We urge you to read more about these initiatives in the feature section of this report. Realizing the JX Group Mission Statement through Group-wide CSR Efforts The JX Group adheres to the following mission statement: “JX Yasushi Kimura Group will contribute to the development of a sustainable econRepresentative Director, Chairman omy and society through innovation in the areas of energy, resources and materials.” The business activities we pursue each day to this end embody the kind of CSR activities that the JX Group should strive for. We hold that compliance, social contribuIsao Matsushita tion and environmental safety are critical to earning broad trust Representative Director, President from society as a good corporate citizen, and develop proactive (JX Group CSR Council Chairman) CSR activities with this in mind. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 4 At a Glance—JX Group Overview The JX Group is an integrated energy, resources and materials business group that comprises JX Holdings, which is the holding company and under which are three core operating subsidiaries that are active in three different business domains. As of July 1, 2012, unless otherwise noted. Holding Company Overview Representatives: Yasushi Kimura, Principal Group Businesses: Representative Director, Chairman Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business, Oil Isao Matsushita, and Gas Exploration and Production Business, Representative Director, President and Metals Business Head Office Location: 6-3 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Group Companies: 100-8161, Japan 166 (134 consolidated subsidiaries and 32 equity-method affiliates, as of March 31, 2012) Established: April 1, 2010 Number of Employees: 24,236 (Consolidated, as of March 31, 2012) Capital: ¥100 billion Overview of Core Operating Subsidiaries Representatives: Seiichi Isshiki, Representative Director, President Head Office Location: 6-3 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8162, Japan Capital: ¥139.4 billion (100% investment of JX Holdings, Inc.) Principal Business: Manufacturing and marketing of petroleum and petrochemical products Representatives: Shigeo Hirai, Representative Director, President and CEO Head Office Location: 6-3 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8163, Japan Capital: ¥9.8 billion (100% investment of JX Holdings, Inc.) Principal Business: Exploration, development and production of oil and gas Representatives: Yoshimasa Adachi, Representative Director, President and Chief Executive Officer Head Office Location: 6-3 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8164, Japan Capital: ¥40 billion (100% investment of JX Holdings, Inc.) Principal Business: Development and extraction of nonferrous metal resources, and manufacturing and marketing of nonferrous metal products and electronic materials Overview of Listed Subsidiaries Consolidated Subsidiaries: 2 NIPPO CORPORATION Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. Representatives: Kazunori Mizushima, Representative Representatives: Kiyonobu Sugiuchi, Representative Director, Director, President President Head Office Location: 19-11 Kyobashi 1-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo Head Office Location: 3-5 Chigasaki 3-chome, Chigasaki City, 104-8380, Japan Kanagawa 253-8510, Japan Capital: ¥15.3 billion (57.2% investment of JX Capital: ¥12 billion (50.4% investment of JX Holdings, Holdings, Inc.) Inc.) Principal Business: Civil engineering works such as construction Principal Business: Manufacturing, processing and marketing of of roads and painting work, and building work titanium metals Equity-method Affiliates: 4 5 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 Financial Highlights Nippon Oil Corporation (Consolidated) Nippon Mining Holdings, Inc. (Consolidated) JX Holdings, Inc. (Consolidated) Net Sales Operating Income Ordinary Income (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 12,000 400 500 9,000 300 400 300 6,000 200 5,774.3 200 10,723.9 334.4 327.8 413.7 9,634.4 407.8 3,000 100 100 113.3 86.7 3,233.7 0 0 43.7 0 74.0 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) Net Income Total Assets Net Assets (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 300 8,000 2,000 6,000 1,500 200 4,000 1,000 1,059.1 311.7 4,129.2 2,044.8 1,886.2 100 6,260.0 6,690.4 170.6 2,000 500 43.3 2,067.5 706.6 0 29.8 0 0 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year-end) 2009 2009 2011 (Fiscal year-end) First Medium-Term Management Plan for FY2010–2012 Long-Term Vision for FY2020 [Basic policy] Become one of the world’s leading integrated energy, With emphasis on the concept of “Best Practices,” dramatically resources and materials business groups with new transform the Petroleum Refining & Marketing Business by realenergy-related businesses izing integration synergies and rigorously reducing costs, and JX Holdings, Inc. maximize corporate value by allocating management resources to Transform existing operations into world-class businesses highly profitable operations on a priority basis. Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business [Targets (Fiscal 2012)] (Announced in May 2012) Slim, robust production operations aligned with demand Goal: Refining capacity of 1,000 thousand barrels/day Ordinary income: ¥300 billion or more ROE: 10% or more Net debt/Equity ratio: 1.0 times Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business Become an oil and gas E&P company that achieves sustained growth on the basis of operatorship Capital expenditure and financial investments: Goal: Produce 200 thousand barrels/day of crude oil and ¥980 billion (FY2010–2012 3-year total) natural gas (equity basis) Metals Business Dividend policy: Redistribute profits by reflecting Secure resources and develop businesses to meet consolidated business results while societies’ eco needs Goal: Equity-entitled copper mine production ratio of 80% striving to maintain stable dividends Establish profitability Key Assumptions (Fiscal 2012) New Energy Business Establish profitability • Goal: Fuel cell sales of 300 thousand units/year ¥80/US$ (including exports) • US$110/bbl • Construction, Titanium Business, etc. 360 ¢/lb JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 6 Feature 1 Restoration and Recovery After the Great East Japan Earthquake (1) <Restoration and Recovery at the JX Group> The JX Group sustained tremendous damage from the Great East Japan Earthquake that struck on March 11, 2011. measures to restore and recover operations. Today, the JX Group is taking on new initiatives to develop a stable supply structure that can strongly withstand the impact of disaster. Status of Restoration and Recovery at the JX Group and steps were taken to make the structure itself more watertight. The Sendai and Kashima refineries of JX Nippon Oil & Energy, and the Thanks to these measures, production safely reconvened at the Hitachi Works and Isohara Works/Isohara Fabricating Works of JX refinery in March 2012. Nippon Mining & Metals sustained particularly serious damage in the In the near future, we plan to install solar power generating equipwake of the Great East Japan Earthquake. Following the disaster, we ment on the roof of the main office wing to the plant, as well as fuel took all possible and immediate action to restore these sites, with the cells and storage batteries on site to better conserve energy. At the goal of quickly resuming production. As a result, production at the same time, these changes will make it possible to maintain office Hitachi Works and the Isohara Works/Ishohara Fabricating Works was functions as a disaster-ready site even in the event of a power outage. back on line by May 2011, and resumed at the Kashima Refinery in June. West Quadrant Relocate East Quadrant The Sendai Refinery, which experienced the worst damage by far, is the sole refinery in the Tohoku region. To enable the site to assist in New tanker truck the recovery of daily and economic life for the people in this hardest shipping facility area Former tanker truck hit region, the Group came together to perform recovery work under shipping facility area Bridge connecting east-west quadrants (new) Bridge connecting east-west quadrants (existing) a recovery plan announced in July 2011. Production at the Sendai Sunaoshi Refinery recommenced in March 2012. River Refinery area The tsunami that struck caused massive damage that included floodMain office wing Introduce fuel cells, solar ing across the entire refinery and huge fires at the site’s onshore power generating equipSendai Bay ment and storage batteries shipping facilities. In May 2011, onshore shipping reconvened for certain products via temporary facilities. Subsequent restoration Brief summary of the Sendai Refinery Recovery Plan work was guided by three main concepts: restart production as soon as possible, enhance disaster response capabilities, and install alternative energy equipment and facilities. We relocated the tanker truck shipping facility from the severely damaged west quadrant of the refinery to the east, which is situated on higher ground. To enable fire engines and other vehicles to move more freely during a disaster, we also built a new bridge that accommodates large vehicles connecting the east and west quadrants of the refinery. Efforts to restore the refinery were severely hampered by flood damage to the control systems and electrical equipment that were located on the first floor of the building. In response, these facilities New bridge connecting east and west quadrants and equipment were relocated to the upper floors of the building, 7 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 Establishing a Stable Supply Structure More Having experienced a disaster of unprecedented proportions, the JX Group is again reminded of the importance of its responsibility to society as a company involved in the stable supply of energy and materials. Accordingly, the JX Group is taking on bold new initiatives to better fulfill its mission around supply stability and efficiency. Since 2006, JX Nippon Oil & Energy has opened service stations across Japan that allow fuel to be pumped after an earthquake. These service stations are equipped with compact emergency generators and manual fuel pumps that allow fueling to take place The new earthquake-ready service station (Ishinomaki City, Miyagi Prefecture) during localized power outages triggered by seismic events. However, the Great East Japan Earthquake, where tsunami flooding reduce service station energy consumption with the installation of a destroyed the power grid itself and made the pumping of fuel and solar power generation system, LED lighting and ENE-FARM. A water other actions impossible, exposed a host of other issues that must be cistern has also been installed on the second floor of the building, addressed. Guided by the concept of pursuing energy-saving operamaking the rooftop of the service station viable as an evacuation site tions that contribute to communities, and centered on facilities for local residents during an emergency. highly resilient to major earthquakes, JX Nippon Oil & Energy By fiscal 2013, JX Nippon Oil & Energy plans to have its new service launched trial demonstrations of a new type of earthquake-ready stations installed and tested in each of the 12 municipal districts that service station. The first of this new breed of service stations opened lie within Japan’s Pacific coast from the northern Tohoku region to in Ishinomaki, Miyagi Prefecture, in March 2012. Kyushu, where a tsunami of 3 meters or more is predicted in the Along with the installation of waterproof fuel pump meters, this event of a major earthquake. new earthquake-ready service station has both emergency generators and the company’s own ENE-FARM solid-oxide fuel cell system installed on the second floor of the building. If a tsunami hits, this configuration makes it possible to quickly resume fueling and other basic services once the waters recede. Efforts are also being made to [Overview of the New Earthquake-ready Service Station] LED canopy lamps Waterproof fuel Solar power pump meters Rooftop space Various equipment (LED lighting) Water cistern Solar power generation with a system Rooftop space viable during flooding Using LED canopy lamps to save energy showing CO2 reduction at a glance up to 7 meters in height ENE-FARM Generator 2F 1F Hypothesized flooding of first floor JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 8 Feature 1 Restoration and Recovery After the Great East Japan Earthquake (2) <Supporting Recovery in the Disaster Zone> Guided by a commitment to a “Relationship with society,” one of the five JX Group Values (EARTH), we will continue to conduct volunteer activities and offer other support based on needs present in the disaster zone, with the aim of helping life for people there return to normal as quickly as possible. Estate Corporation, meanwhile, opened the lobbies and available In a follow-up to ¥300 million in monetary donations by JX Holdings rooms of the JX Building and the Shin-Nisseki Building to accomand its three core operating subsidiaries in March 2011, JX Group modate those unable to return home on the day of the disaster. companies made similar donations during fiscal 2011 to the Japanese Red Cross Society and local governments in the disaster zone. Relief support was also provided to employees of JX Group Concerns of Radiation companies who were directly impacted by the disaster and their In partnership with disaster recovery support efforts by the KEIDANREN families. As of March 31, 2012, monetary donations from the JX (Japan Business Federation), the employee cafeteria at the JX Building Group following the earthquake have totaled roughly ¥1.1 billion. since April 2011 has offered a menu serving produce (excluding crops The JX Sunflowers women’s basketball restricted from shipment) from areas that have suffered reputation team joined with the Kashiwa Reysol soccer damage due to concerns over radioactive contamination. team and four other sports teams to take In tandem, special shopping opportunities (called “Corporate part in fundraising activities. The JX SunMarche”) to sell the same produce were held nine times from April flowers also traveled to Phoenix, Arizona to July 2011. In this way, the Group supported farmers from the (USA) for a camp, where they played in a prefectures of Fukushima, Gunma, Tochigi, Ibaraki, Saitama and charity game against the Phoenix Mercury, Chiba that have suffered reputation damage regarding the quality one of the teams of the Women’s National of their crops due to the nuclear accident triggered by the Great Basketball Association (WNBA). © Gekkan Basketball East Japan Earthquake. Scene from the charity game The Bouquet of Children’s Stories JX Group companies donated water, To play a role in helping people in the impacted region heal emotionally, food, clothing, fuel oil and other the JX Group donated copies of the book, The Bouquet of Children’s Storelief supplies to the disaster zone ries, to evacuation centers, elemenand local governments there. A tary schools, preschools, disaster variety of daily supplies were also volunteer centers, temporary houssent to damaged JX Nippon Oil & ing complexes and other sites. By Energy and JX Nippon Mining & Volunteer kitchen August 2012, roughly 45,000 copies (JX Nippon Mining & Metals Isohara Works/ Metals offices and sites. Isohara Fabricating Works) of the collection of stories chosen from the JX Children’s Story Award Donation of The Bouquet of Children’s Stories Opening Facilities to Evacuees had been donated. JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration provided its employee dormitories Refer to pp. 11–12 or visit the website below for more details. as temporary accommodations for disaster evacuees. JX Nippon Real http://www.jx-group.co.jp/hanataba/ 9 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 JX Group Volunteer Activities Supporting In parallel with these disaster volunteer activities, efforts from fiscal Restoration and Recovery 2012 will focus on activities that help address emotional care, one of In an effort spearheaded by the JX Group Corporate Citizenship the new needs emerging in the disaster zone. Committee, JX Group executives and employees are broadly recruited to take part in volunteer activities to support recovery in the disaster-stricken region. From its launch in July 2011 to the 19th round of volunteer activities conducted in August 2012, this effort has grown to see participation from 737 people. Volunteers have been involved in a range of activities, from removing rubble from private homes and fishing ports, to clearing weeds from temporary housing and shoveling mud away from street gutters. Youth baseball clinic held in the town of Minamisanriku [JX Group Volunteer Activities Supporting Restoration and Recovery] Activity site Participants 1st July 1, 2011 Shichigahama, Miyagi Prefecture 23 Removed rubble from private homes 2nd July 15 Shichigahama, Miyagi Prefecture 43 Removed rubble from private homes 3rd July 28–29 Rikuzentakata, Iwate Prefecture 46 Cleared weeds from a temporary housing complex, removed rubble from a fishing port 4th August 8–9 Ofunato, Iwate Prefecture 32 Washed pallets for handling fresh fish, shoveled mud away from street gutters 5th August 10–11 Rikuzentakata, Iwate Prefecture 46 Removed rubble from private homes, identified and sorted items washed ashore at a fishing port 6th August 19 Ishinomaki, Miyagi Prefecture 25 Shoveled mud and sludge away from settlements 7th August 25–26 Ishinomaki and Shichigahama, Miyagi 44 Sorted oyster shells, removed fallen trees from along the shoreline Prefecture 8th September 8–9 Rikuzentakata, Iwate Prefecture 52 Removed rubble from crop fields, cleaned out irrigation channels 9th September 15–16 Minamisanriku, Miyagi Prefecture 44 Removed rubble and cleared weeds 10th September 22 Minamisanriku, Miyagi Prefecture 23 Removed rubble and cleared weeds 11th November 17–18 Rikuzentakata, Iwate Prefecture 54 Created net rings for a salmon hatchery, removed rubble from private homes 12th December 8–9 Minamisanriku, Miyagi Prefecture 50 Bagged potatoes for distribution to temporary housing facilities, made ballasts for aquaculture rafts 13th March 1–2, 2012 Minamisanriku, Miyagi Prefecture 52 Removed rubble from within a shopping center and private homes 14th March 22–23 Rikuzentakata, Iwate Prefecture 58 Removed rubble from private homes, shoveled mud away from street gutters 15th May 13 Minamisanriku, Miyagi Prefecture 25 Held a youth baseball clinic, drawing and coloring lessons, a cookout and other events 16th June 21–22 Otsuchi, Iwate Prefecture 32 Cleared weeds from a graveyard, made ballast for aquaculture rafts 17th July 5–6 Rikuzentakata, Iwate Prefecture 18 Removed rubble and cleared weeds 18th July 27–28 Minamisanriku and Ishinomaki, Miyagi 37 Removed rubble and sediment from the shoreline, held a fair in a common room of a temporary Prefecture housing complex 19th August 7–9 Iwaki, Fukushima Prefecture 33 Held a fair in a common room of a temporary housing complex, held lessons making pressed flowers into bookmarks, cleaned up after the Taira Tanabata Matsuri (Milky Way Festival of Taira) Total 737 Visit the website below for more on “JX Group Volunteer Activities Supporting Restoration and Recovery” http://www.hd.jx-group.co.jp/english/csr/volunteer/ Participation in JX Group Volunteer Activities Supporting helped to make ballast used in the local fishing industry. This all happened Restoration and Recovery over just two days. While my personal impact on the situation was very I had known for a while that recruitment was happening for what was being small, I am really glad that I took part. I think what I can do now is to share called “JX Group Volunteer Activities Supporting Restoration and Recovery.” what I actually saw and felt there with as many people as possible. My grandparents live in Sendai, so I thought I should join in at least once. But The look of the town of Otsuchi has changed dramatically, but the after missing opportunity after opportunity, I finally took the plunge and beautiful mountains, crystal clear spring waters and the blue ocean are as decided to take part in the 16th round of volunteer activities. breathtaking as ever. I am hopeful that the town can recover to beyond My cohort was involved in activities in the town of Otsuchi in Iwate Prewhere it was before the earthquake, and would love to visit again personfecture. Although more than a year had passed since the massive earthquake ally someday. struck, it was clear that almost everything had been lost in the tsunami. My shock was only amplified when local residents showed me a model of how completely different the town looked before the earthquake. Yet despite being victims themselves, I found that local residents have seriously taken to heart and reflected on harsh lessons learned from the disaster, and that they are working hard for the town’s recovery. Listening to them talk about creating a new town was something I found deeply moving. Asako Yanase During our round of volunteering, we cleared away weeds that had Research & Development Planning Dept. grown in a local graveyard now that the groundskeeper is gone. We also JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 10 Feature 2 For Future Generations <Contributing to Society Through JX Children’s Story Award/JX Children’s Story Fund> The JX Group is making a collective effort to implement JX Children’s Story Award/JX Children’s Story Fund, given that this initiative satisfies all three priority fields in the group’s social contribution activities: (1) advancement of sports and culture, (2) next generation development and support, and (3) environmental protection. The JX Children’s Story Award embodies the JX Group’s wishes for future generations, namely its desire to foster “heart-to-heart contact” among many people, support children’s aspirations, and play a part in the development of healthy forests. the JX Children’s Story Fund. This fund makes donations every year The JX Group positions social contribution activities as a key priority of to the Japan National Council of Social Welfare. The donations are CSR activities. Accordingly, under the Basic Policy for JX Group Social used by the JX Scholarship Program established by the council as Contribution Activities, the JX Group is actively promoting social support funds when children from foster-care facilities, singlecontribution measures. The JX Group is engaged in a broad range of mother support facilities and foster homes enter university and initiatives with the view to realizing the JX Group Values of “Relationundertake other education. ship with society” and “Harmony with the environment.” At the same The Bouquet of Children’s Stories is bound in paper made from raw time, since the Great East Japan Earthquake, the JX Group has also materials derived from wood produced as a byproduct of forest focused on offering support to children in the disaster-hit regions, in thinning in areas where the JX Group is working on forestation. This addition to traditional social contribution programs. In fiscal 2011, we initiative therefore helps to increase the absorption of carbon dioxidentified “further expansion of social contribution activities through ide emissions by forests in Japan. Through The Bouquet of Children’s The Bouquet of Children’s Stories, including support for children directly Stories, the JX Group is supporting Kizukai Undo (Tree-Use Moveaffected by the Great East Japan Earthquake” as an important theme ment), a domestic forest preservation program promoted by Japan’s of our social contribution activities. In keeping with this theme, we Forestry Agency. donated collections of children’s stories to schools in the affected regions and made donations to foster-care facilities. [JX Children’s Story Award/JX Children’s Story Fund Activities] However, in light of current conditions in the disaster-stricken areas, we believe that many more children still require various forms Cultural Event of assistance. For this reason, the JX Group will continue to impleThe JX Group calls for submissions from the general public every year of original ment these sorts of social contribution activities. Our actions will children’s literature on the theme of “heart-to-heart focus on offering emotional care for children, in addition to providing contact.” The best works are published material support as a matter of course. in a collection called The Bouquet of Children’s Stories. Three Wishes Embodied by JX Children’s Story Award/JX Children’s Story Fund The JX Group calls for submissions every year of original children’s Next Generation Environmental Development Protection literature on the theme of “heart-to-heart contact.” The best works and Support The Bouquet of Children’s Stories is bound in are awarded and published in a collection called The Bouquet of The Bouquet of Children’s paper made from raw Stories is purchased by JX materials derived from Children’s Stories. The JX Group donates copies of the book to social Group companies and wood produced as a byproduct of forest dealerships, among welfare facilities and other organizations across Japan. The Bouquet others, with all proceeds thinning in areas where the JX Group is going to the JX Children’s working on forestation. of Children’s Stories is purchased by dealerships, which operate Story Fund. B-(2)-060008 service stations, and LPG dealerships, with all proceeds going to 11 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 42nd JX Children’s Story Award New Initiatives The 42nd JX Children’s Story Award called for submissions of works To further promote support for future generations through the JX from March to May 2011. Although this call for submissions occurred Children’s Story Award/JX Children’s Story Fund, the JX Group has shortly after the Great East Japan Earthquake, the JX Group received begun taking steps to expand these activities overseas. In 2011, to mark 7,242 heartfelt submissions of children’s stories. As a result of the the 40th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations selection process, 18 works were chosen for publication in The between Japan and the United Arab Emirates, the JX Group prepared Bouquet of Children’s Stories (Volume 42), a collection of JX Children’s an Arabic version of The Bouquet of Children’s Stories (Volume 42) and Story Award-winning works. distributed copies to local children. In addition, the JX Group also proIn addition, from January to February 2012, JX Group companies duced an English version of The Bouquet of Children’s Stories (Volume 42) sold copies of The Bouquet of Children’s Stories (Volume 42) to raise and delivered copies to children abroad money for charity. With the corporate officers and employees of 56 through the overseas subsidiaries of JX Group JX Group companies working together, we generated proceeds of operating companies and other organizations. approximately ¥10 million. In order to more widely promote the Proceeds of approximately ¥25 appeal of the JX Children’s Story Award, the million were also generated by JX Group has appointed Ms. Chiharu Niiyama, sales to dealerships which a Japanese actress and celebrity, to serve as operate service stations and the JX Children Story Award’s PR Ambassador Ms. Chiharu Niiyama, JX Children LPG dealerships in May and from April 2012. Story Award’s PR Ambassador 42nd JX Children’s Story Award recipients June 2012. All proceeds were Visit the following website for further information about the JX Children’s (November 2011) donated to the JX Children’s Story Award http://www.hd.jx-group.co.jp/english/csr/douwa/ Story Fund. Support for Children Affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake Reading Session for The Bouquet of Children’s Stories at Since the Great East Japan Earthquake, the JX Group has delivered Elementary Schools In the hope of applying the experience I had gained in my former job as a copies of The Bouquet of Children’s Stories to elementary schools, schoolteacher in CSR activities, in 2003, I approached my former colvolunteer centers and temporary housing in the affected regions, in leagues in the teaching profession with a request to hand out copies of order to help with the emotional care of children in these regions. The Bouquet of Children’s Stories to children. The elementary schools wholeThis is in addition to donations to social welfare facilities and other heartedly accepted the books. This was partly because of a vigorous movement to promote reading among children following the National organization nationwide as before. Year of Reading for Children in 2000. Furthermore, in October 2011, the JX Group made a donation In 2012, the tenth year of donating these books to the elementary totaling ¥10 million to 10 foster-care facilities in Iwate, Miyagi, school, we became strongly interested in meeting directly with the chilFukushima and Ibaraki prefectures, which sustained particularly dren to convey the intent and content of The Bouquet of Children’s Stories, instead of merely requesting the school to hand out the books. That is severe damage in the Great East Japan Earthquake. These donations why we proposed to the school that we would hold a reading session for are being used to fund events, travel and other activities designed to The Bouquet of Children’s Stories. The proposal was accepted, and we were assist with the emotional care of children in foster-care facilities. to hold our first reading session. The JX Group plans to continue these sorts of activities in fiscal On the day of the reading session, I felt nervous returning to the teacher’s 2012 and beyond. Through The Bouquet of Children’s Stories, we hope lectern after a long absence. However, I was deeply moved by the intent, pure gaze of all the children, and I had to work hard to hold back the tears. to provide continuous support for the emotional well-being of chilI am grateful to The Bouquet of Children’s Stories for providing us with dren directly affected by the March 2011 earthquake and tsunami. such an opportunity to interact with a large number of children. At the same time, I hope to spur the growth of children and my own personal development together with The Bouquet of Children’s Stories by continuing to implement these CSR activities. Yumi Suzuki Hitachi Office JX Nippon Insurance Corporation Presentation of the catalog of donations to foster-care facilities JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 12 Feature 3 Ensuring a Stable Supply of Oil and Natural Gas <Expanding the Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business While Giving Consideration to the Environment and Safety> As a business group that supports people’s lives and functions as a pillar of the economy, the JX Group bears a significant responsibility with respect to the stable supply of energy, resources and materials. We are constantly aware of this duty as we strive to contribute to society through our operations. JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration’s Strategy for Our Approach to Ensuring Stable Supply Exploration and Production of Oil and Natural Gas Even as global demand for energy has continued to increase, primarily in Participation from the Exploration Stage Asia, conventional oilfields have been diminishing. This has resulted in intensified international competition for interests in natural resources Against the backdrop of fierce competition for resource interests and such as oil and gas. Given that Japan has very few domestic resources, JX persistently high resource prices, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration is expanding its exploration and production currently finds it extremely difficult to purchase assets under favorable business targeting overseas oil and gas fields, with the aim of ensuring a conditions. In response, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has adopted stable production volume of 200,000 barrels a day. We aim to conduct efficient and stable production by taking full a basic strategy of participating in oil and gas exploration and producadvantage of our strengths. These include exploration and development tion projects from the exploration stage, provided that the company technologies, along with our expertise in project management and determines that a project offers high commercial feasibility in light of operation, which have been honed through the operatorship business its own knowledge. Guided by this strategy, the company is working over many years. Another strength is our strong relationships with govto expand its interests in oil and natural gas resources. ernments and national oil companies of oil-producing nations and regional communities. Furthermore, we are working to reduce our expoFurthermore, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has positioned sure to business risk by focusing on core countries and building up Vietnam, Malaysia, and the U.K. (North Sea), where it has an extensive knowledge in each country. track record, as core countries. In these countries, the company is Looking ahead, we will continue to rigorously enforce safe and stable pursuing operatorship projects where it can expect to capture syneroperations by enhancing project management and developing new technologies, with the aim of ensuring an even more stable supply of oil gies with existing projects. and gas. Masahiko Yamamoto Strategic Planning Group Manager Corporate Planning Department JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Corporation Offshore production facility (Malaysia) 13 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 Building Relationships of Trust with Stakeholders Through Further Measures Ahead Safe Operation The proportion of crude oil accumulated underground reservoir that When conducting the exploration and production business, it is can be recovered is limited, and the recovery factor is generally concrucial to build relationships with the primary stakeholders of projsidered to be 5–25% for primary recovery using natural flow and ects, namely the country and regional communities. More specifiabout 30% for secondary recovery using water injection. Attention is cally, if risks such as illness, injuries and accidents were to now focused on tertiary recovery technology (Enhanced Oil Recovmaterialize in the stages of exploration, development, production ery: EOR) through injection of gas or chemicals, etc., to further and abandonment, the impact could extend to regional communiimprove the crude oil recovery. ties. For this reason, a commitment to ensuring safe operations at Against this backdrop, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration is conductall times is fundamental to building strong relationships of trust ing R&D activities related to CO2-EOR technology for boosting oil with stakeholders. recovery by injecting carbon dioxide (CO2) into reservoirs targeting Accordingly, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has positioned risk Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) at the final stage of production. management related to Health, Safety and the Environment (HSE) as CCS has attracted high hopes for its potential to help mitigate greena top priority for business execution. The company has established house gas emissions. an HSE management system based on international standards such Since 2007, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has been working as ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001, and operates this system globally. together with Petrovietnam, Vietnam’s state-owned oil company, Also, the awareness of every employee in the course of daily duties and JOGMEC, Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corporation, on is crucial to ensuring safe operations. Therefore, JX Nippon Oil & Gas commercial feasibility studies for CO2-EOR technology at the Rang Exploration is also focusing on awareness-building programs. Dong oil field in Vietnam. The studies have revealed that CO2-EOR For example, the JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Miri Office in technology has considerable potential to increase oil production as Malaysia, one of the company’s core countries, conducts an annual well as to reduce CO2 emissions. Accordingly, an offshore pilot test event called HSE Family Day for employees and their family memwas conducted from May to June 2011. Subsequent analysis of data bers. The event aims to increase understanding of the importance of and test results provided adequate confirmation of an increase in oil HSE, while encouraging employees to implement HSE measures in production. the course of fulfilling their daily duties. Looking ahead, we will continue aiming to contribute to global As a result of these activities, the Miri Office achieved ZERO LTI warming mitigation measures while making effective use of finite (Lost Time Injury) during natural gas production over seven years resources. from 2005 to 2011. In recognition of this “outstanding HSE performance” the Miri Office received an award from PETRONAS, Malaysia’s state-run oil company. Going forward, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration will continue to earn the trust of host countries and regional communities through safe operations, while striving to ensure a stable supply of oil and gas by executing the exploration and production business without any disruptions. A supply vessel provides CO2 for injection into the reservoir. Award presented for achieving ZERO LTI for seven consecutive years JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 14 Feature 4 Achieving a Recycling-Oriented Society <Sustainable Resource Recycling Through Proper Treatment Methods> As a comprehensive non-ferrous metals manufacturer, JX Nippon Mining & Metals conducts integrated operations spanning upstream (resource development), midstream (smelting and refining) and downstream (electronic materials and recycling and environmental services business) operations. The company is working to build a recycling-oriented society through its recycling and environmental services business, with the view to achieving the effective use of invaluable metal resources that will underpin the future. Features of the Recycling and Environmental Our Priorities and Approaches to Achieving a Services Business Recycling-Oriented Society In the recycling and environmental services business, JX Nippon In modern society, non-ferrous metals are an invaluable resource for Mining & Metals conducts a recycling business to convert recycling leading enriched and civilized lives. In order to hand a sustainable society to future generations, we must seek to create a society that effectively materials containing invaluable metals into highly pure materials, and recycles and reuses finite resources. In the course of building such a an environmental services business to render industrial waste harmsociety, we believe that all stakeholders involved in the resource value less through proper treatment methods. In addition, the company chain must fulfill their respective roles and responsibilities. generates synergies by additionally recovering invaluable metals JX Nippon Mining & Metals group conducts a recycling business where it recovers a diverse array of metals from many different materials condensed from the proper treatment of industrial wastes in the using a broad spectrum of treatment technologies. Generally speaking, environmental services business, and using these metals as raw materecycling of invaluable metals in developing countries is believed to rials for the recycling business. In this manner, one of the key features entail major environmental issues. Therefore, JX Nippon Mining & Metals and strengths of JX Nippon Mining & Metals’ recycling and environputs emphasis on recycling using proper treatment methods. In this mental services business is that we possess a full spectrum of techcontext, “proper treatment methods” means methods of reducing the environmental and social impact of recycling as close to zero as possible, nologies, ranging from technologies for rendering industrial waste in addition to considering economic factors. harmless to those for recycling resources into highly pure materials. Leveraging the strengths of technologies developed through mine development and metal smelting and refining operations, JX Nippon [Schematic of Recycling-Oriented Society] Mining & Metals aims to build a recycling-oriented society that does not Products Various leave an environmental burden on future generations by ensuring the finished product use of proper treatment methods. Used products, etc. manufacturers Consumers (Home electric appliances, (=urban mines) automobiles, machinery, etc.) Products Recycling system Component manufacturers Recycled materials Naoki Kojima Planning Department, Recycling & Environmental Services Group Recycling & Electronic JX Nippon Mining & Metals Corporation Environmental Services Group components and materials, etc. HMC* JX Nippon Mining Tsuruga Plant & Metals Electronic materiSaganoseki Smelter & Refinery als business Four core environmental services companies Non-ferrous metals Business domains of JX Environmental services business Recycling business Nippon Mining & Metals 15 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 * Hitachi Metal Recycling Complex [Recycling and Environmental Services Business of JX Nippon Mining & Metals] Recycled materials Industrial waste Precious metals Gold and silver Used mobile Waste plastic Copper scrap scrap (e-scrap, Copper dregs Waste oil Waste acid Waste alkali Sludge e-waste dregs phones (shredder dust) etc.) Features and Strengths of the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group 1. Proprietary technology 2. High-quality facilities 3. Location The group owns proprietary process technologies combining The group utilizes the facilities of Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, The group carries out non-ferrous metal recycling at the Hitachi pyrometallurgical and hydrometallurgical technologies, based which has one of the world’s largest, high-efficiency copper Works in close proximity to the Tokyo metropolitan area, an on smelting, electrolysis and analysis technologies developed smelting and refining processes. urban mine where large amounts of recycled materials are over many years in the non-ferrous metal smelting and refining available. business. 4. Collection network 5. Treatment network 6. Group-wide capabilities of JX Nippon Mining & Metals The group has a nationwide network of collection sites for The group has enhanced pretreatment capabilities utilizing the The group harnesses synergies with the copper smelting and recycled materials in Japan, as well as a collection site in Taiwan. four core environmental services companies (capable of refining and electronic materials businesses, and utilizes its addressing difficult-to-treat materials). group-wide network of affiliated companies. Products Refined copper Gold Silver Slag The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group conducts its recycling and manganese from discarded lithium-ion batteries and cathode business at the Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, which has one of the materials. From April 2010 to March 2011, JX Nippon Mining & Metals world’s largest, high-efficiency copper smelting and refining prowas commissioned to carry out a cesses. Since copper smelting and refining produces surplus heat, project for an industrial technology the Group uses this heat to recycle scrap containing conventional development project of the Minisand precious metals. This makes a sizable contribution to reducing try of Economy, Trade and Industry. the Group’s environmental impact by effectively utilizing energy in As part of the commissioned projaddition to resources. ect, the company has impleJX Nippon Mining & Metals’ Tsuruga Plant In the recycling business, it is important to efficiently collect home mented demonstration trials and (battery recycling plant) electric appliances and electronic devices, which are used widely various studies directed at commercialization. throughout society. Accordingly, the JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group has achieved efficient recycling by establishing a nationwide Overseas Expansion of Recycling Business collection network while conducting non-ferrous metal recycling Economic advancement of developing and emerging countries has operations at the Hitachi Works in close proximity to the Tokyo metled to the popularization of home electric appliances and electronic ropolitan area, an urban mine where large amounts of discarded devices in these countries. Therefore, recycling of these items will products are available. become key future priorities in terms of reducing waste materials and making effective use of resources. The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Further Challenges Ahead Group is actively expanding its recycling business in Taiwan, which is a The JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group is taking additional steps, such major production center for electronic devices. To this end, the group as recycling lithium-ion batteries and expanding the recycling busihas established a sales base for recycled materials (Taichung Sales ness overseas, in order to achieve a recycling-oriented society. Office of Nikko Metals Taiwan Co., Ltd.) and a collection site (Chiongpin Recycling Center). The Chiongpin Recycling Center colRecycling of Lithium-Ion Batteries and Electrode Resources lects recycled materials and conducts pretreatment such as crushing Demand for lithium-ion batteries is rapidly increasing given that before sending the materials to Japan for recovery of a diverse array of these batteries are a vital source of automotive power for nextnon-ferrous metals. JX Nippon generation eco-friendly vehicles. JX Nippon Mining & Metals is workMining & Metals will explore further ing to expand its production capacity of cathode and anode avenues for overseas expansion to materials essential to lithium-ion batteries. At the same time, it is ensure that resources are recycled working to develop technologies for recovering invaluable metals using proper treatment methods used in lithium-ion batteries such as cobalt, nickel, lithium on a global basis. Nikko Metals Taiwan Co., Ltd. (Recycling base in Taiwan) JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 16 Feature 5 Realizing a Low-Carbon Society <Aiming to Establish New Ways of Supplying Energy> As a comprehensive energy company underpinning Japan, JX Nippon Oil & Energy is working to deliver stable supplies of energy, while driving further expansion in the new and renewable energy business, which will contribute to reducing environmental impact. Through these measures, JX Nippon Oil & Energy aims to help realize a low-carbon society. ENEOS SOENE Business Our Approach to Realizing a Low-Carbon Society JX Nippon Oil & Energy aims to achieve a low-carbon society, along with a society based on independent, distributed energy systems Carbon dioxide (CO2) is believed to be a cause of global warming. JX through the ENEOS SOENE business. This business has three themes: Nippon Oil & Energy aims to fulfill its responsibilities as a supplier of petroleum products and energy, which are sources of CO2 emissions, while (1) energy efficiency (achieve advanced use of resources by enhancanswering the demands of society. To this end, JX Nippon Oil & Energy is ing energy efficiency); (2) renewable energy (accelerate the introducpromoting measures focused on the introduction of new forms of energy, tion of renewable energy); and (3) independence (ensure the ability and highly efficient uses of fossil fuels, with the view to realizing a lowto generate electricity independently of the power grid). In the ENEOS carbon society. Meanwhile, Japan is currently considering extremely ambitious targets SOENE business, JX Nippon Oil & Energy provides the “ENE-FARM” for its future energy mix. In 2030, Japan aims to generate 25–30% of its residential-use fuel cell, as well as residential-use energy systems electricity from renewable energy and 15% from co-generation. JX centered on solar power generation systems. Going forward, the Nippon Oil & Energy will help the nation to achieve these targets in order ENEOS SOENE business will be expanded beyond residential use to to fulfill its social responsibilities as an energy supplier. include industrial uses such as mega solar power generation facilities. Furthermore, electrification has been progressing at the energy consumption stage, particularly in the home, while electricity supply formats have continued to diversify. Against this backdrop, we will build an energy infrastructure that fits consumer needs. At the same time, as a system Energy Efficiency Renewable Energy Independence integrator, we will focus on providing energy-efficient distributed power Achieve advanced use of Accelerate the introduction of Ensure the ability to generate devices with outstanding environmental performance, such as fuel cells, resources by enhancing renewable energy electricity independently of the energy efficiency power grid solar power generation systems and storage batteries. In addition to this, we will explore the nature of a low-carbon lifestyle and society through multi-energy systems reflecting regional factors, as we make every effort to provide these sorts of services going forward. ENEOS SOENE business Supply residential energy systems Propose energy solutions in the industrial field Solar power ENE-FARM generation system Storage battery Mega solar, solar power systems for Norimasa Murahashi condominiums, Gas co-generation Deputy General Manager, industrial solar power Promote household energy consulting service systems System Integration Business Department JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation Realize a low-carbon society Realize a society based on independent, distributed energy systems 17 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 become an urgent priority. That is why JX Nippon Oil & Energy has Following the Great East Japan Earthquake, there has been heightbeen expanding its “Dr. Ouchi-no Energy” household energy conened demand for addressing disaster preparedness, in addition to sulting service, which proposes ways to optimize energy usage for energy efficiency. To answer this demand, JX Nippon Oil & Energy is each home, since June 2012. This service evaluates all aspects of working to develop original storage battery systems with the view to home energy efficiency, from energy devices to the building itself, enhancing independent energy systems. Through the combination and proposes improvements through assessment of approximately of three products, namely ENE-FARM, solar power generation sys60 items via diagnostics and interviews. JX Nippon Oil & Energy tems and storage batteries, households will be able to achieve a established this service with guidance from the Energy Conservahigher self sufficiency rate in terms of electricity in ordinary times. tion Center, Japan, and was selected to be a dealership and gas During power outages such households will be able to continue supplier for the “Foundation Programme for Environmental Home receiving supply of electricity to their homes through power drawn Consultants 2012” of the Ministry of the Environment. JX Nippon Oil from storage batteries and power generated by ENE-FARM. & Energy will use a proprietary specialized training system to nurture the household energy consultants who will provide this service. In Introduction of Household Energy Consulting Service fiscal 2013, JX Nippon Oil & Energy plans to deploy a nationwide Given that energy consumption is increasing in the private sector, force of 1,000 energy consultants. curtailing energy usage and CO2 emissions from households has [Enhancing Energy Efficiency Through ENE-FARM] Conventional system (large-scale centralized power generation) Only electricity is supplied Power plant Household to households Electricity Electrical energy: 35–40% Energy efficiency Energy input 100% Exhaust heat Wasted energy: Wasted energy: transmission loss 5% 35–40% exhaust heat loss 55%–60% Residential-use fuel cell ENE-FARM (distributed power generation) ENE-FARM Household Through use of electricity + exhaust heat Energy input Electricity Electrical energy: 45%* More than twice the energy efficiency 100% Exhaust heat energy: 42%* 87%* Exhaust heat Wasted energy: exhaust heat loss 13% * At rated output Aiming to More Widely Popularize ENE-FARM which use large amounts of electricity. In addition, SOFC has a higher operJX Nippon Oil & Energy has positioned the popularization of fuel cell sysating temperature than PEFC, enabling hot water storage at higher temtems as a core operation of the ENEOS SOENE business. These fuel cell peratures. This has allowed us to substantially reduce the size of hot water systems leverage the company’s desulfurization and hydrogen production storage units. As a result, JX Nippon Oil & Energy has developed power technologies developed through oil refining operations. ENE-FARM genergeneration and hot water storage units that are about 40% smaller than ates electricity through a chemical reaction between hydrogen extracted those of PEFC in terms of volume. from oil-based fuel and oxygen in the air. Heat generated in this process is used to heat water. Compared with conventional fuel combustion energy systems, this system can generate electricity and supply hot water with higher energy efficiency, while also offering excellent energy saving features. In October 2011, JX Nippon Oil & Energy launched solid oxide fuel cell (SOFC) systems, which employ ceramics as an electrolyte. With a power generation efficiency of 45%, and heat recovery efficiency of 42%, SOFC Akiko Tamagawa offers higher power generation efficiency than conventional polymer Energy System Development Department JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation electrolyte fuel cells (PEFC). Therefore, SOFC is optimal for use in homes, JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 18 Feature 5 Realizing Smart Mobility obtained when drivers visit service stations. At the same time, the The transportation sector is a large source of CO2 emissions, accountgroup has been working to promote energy conservation at service ing for about 20% of Japan’s total CO2 emissions. Lowering the stations through the use of solar power generation, storage batteries carbon output of automobile transportation is therefore extremely and other systems, while proceeding with development and verificaimportant to the realization of a low-carbon society. To this end, as a tion work on EV quick charging systems fitted with storage batteries. supplier of automobile fuel, JX Nippon Oil & Energy is actively implementing measures in the transportation sector. New Energy Proposals for the Home and Automobile The JX Group believes that electric vehicles (EV) and plug-in hybrid In cooperation with Nissan Motor Co., Ltd., the JX Group began a vehicles will penetrate the market at a steady rate, and that fuel-cell demonstration project in August 2012 aimed at offering new energy vehicles will become the primary automobile over the long term. For proposals for the home and automobile using homes equipped with this reason, the JX Group is working to develop energy supply sysSOFC ENE-FARM systems and service stations fitted with quick chargtems in step with the evolution of automobile propulsion systems, ing stations for EVs, along with the Nissan LEAF electric vehicle. The along with services designed to achieve new ways of utilizing trial will explore charging the LEAF using power generated by ENEenergy. The Group is actively carrying out demonstration projects in FARM during periods of low household electricity consumption. The these fields. trial will also look at improving the utilization rate of ENE-FARM by using the LEAF to supply electricity to the home during periods when ENE-FARM cannot meet all household power consumption Since September 2011, the JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation has requirements. Demonstration projects aimed at achieving low-carbon been commissioned by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry homes and automobiles will also be conducted in which quick to begin exploring possibilities for new services based on the develcharging stations will be used to avoid battery power shortages opment of energy management systems (EMS) for vehicles and when driving electric vehicles, with part of this power to be supplied service stations. The group is developing vehicle EMS designed to by solar power generation systems. support environmentally friendly driving, using vehicle information Solar power generation systems Service station EMS Linked Storage batteries Community EMS Quick charging systems for EV Linked Vehicle EMS Current Service Station Vehicle EMS EVs Regional power grid Gasoline sales/car maintenance/ Fuel oil sales/ Fuel oil sales/car maintenance/EV charging/ vehicle information management car maintenance vehicle information services, community EMS services (vehicle EMS and other services) Tackling Further Challenges Ahead Besides providing an efficient and stable supply of energy as a Energy management at the household level, as well as energy mancomprehensive energy company, JX Nippon Oil & Energy will also agement on a broader scale for multi-unit dwellings and communifulfill the role of a system integrator by delivering management ties, is essential to further promoting energy conservation to reduce systems that enable smarter use of energy in people’s lives. In doing CO2 emissions. In the transportation sector, energy management of so, JX Nippon Oil & Energy seeks to make a significant contribution to automobiles during driving is also an extremely important theme. the realization of a low-carbon society. 19 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 Greater Use of ENE-FARM’s High Power Generation Efficiency can be supplied from “V2H (Vehicle to Home) EVs” charged during the latepower generated by ENE-FARM will be used to recharge “V2H (Vehicle to night hours to the home. The demonstration trials will verify improvements Home) EVs.” Conversely, when household power consumption is large, power in the utilization rate of ENE-FARM, among other factors. (kW) Electricity usage Supply 1.2 1.0 Maximum power generation of Use electricity from power company to make up for any Supply power to the home 0.8 ENE-FARM (0.7 kW) electricity shortfalls 0.6 Power stored through Late night 0.4 EV charging 0.2 Household power consumption Recharge EV Supply power 0.0 0:00 6:00 12:00 18:00 21:00 24:00 When the battery power of “V2H (Vehicle to Home) EVs” is running low while driving which uses solar power generation as one source of its electricity supply. The long distances and under other circumstances, drivers will be able to recharge their demonstration trials will verify needs for EV quick charging station services and EV batteries with clean electricity supplied by ENEOS EV Quick Charging Station, how to achieve further low-carbon energy usage by homes and automobiles. ENE-FARM Inverter/Converter “V2H (Vehicle to Home) EVs” ENEOS EV Quick Charging Station Maintain high-efficiency Power generated by ENE-FARM will be: • Used to recharge E s when exceeding household power Supply clean electric power from solar power generation* operation at all times consumption • Supplemented by power drawn from E s during a shortfall in required household power Power generation Charging/discharging When driving long distances * Available at certain Continue service stations only. driving Together with Toshiba Corporation and Mitsui Fudosan Residential JX Nippon Oil & Energy has developed ENEOS EVIS as a new energy Co., Ltd., JX Nippon Oil & Energy is jointly participating in the management system for vehicles. Specifically, this system enables Yokohama Smart City Project, which is part of the project for “Nextvisualization of vehicle energy usage and support for environmenGeneration Energy and Social Systems Demonstration” of the Ministally friendly driving and vehicle safety through four measures: (1) try of Economy, Trade and Industry. As part of this project, JX Nippon Transfer of information gathered by a vehicle-installed device to a Oil & Energy began “ENEOS SOENE Renovation” demonstration projservice station area server when drivers visit a service station; (2) ects in June 2012. In the projects, JX Nippon Oil & Energy renovated Transfer and analysis of information obtained through (1) above to an existing multi-unit dwelling and installed an independent, distriban EVIS server; (3) Diagnosis of environmentally friendly driving and uted energy system consisting of ENE-FARM, solar power generation any vehicle malfunctions; and, (4) Transfer of diagnostic results to systems, storage batteries and other elements. smartphones. Since this service obtains vehicle information at JX Nippon Oil & Energy will conduct the projects at a nearly service stations, where vehicles must stop by at some time, there is 40-year old employee dormitory of Yokohama City by having no need for the use of public communications links. This enables employees live there for approximately 3 years through the end of drivers to utilize these services at a more affordable price rate. fiscal 2014. JX Nippon Oil & Energy will verify reductions in environGoing forward, JX Nippon Oil & Energy plans to first provide ENEOS mental impact and improvement in energy self-sufficiency by cenEVIS as a service for business customers, and then consider expandtrally providing electricity and heat to 16 households. In the future, ing the service to individual customers. the company aims to realize community energy management systems including for detached homes. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 20 JX Group Management 1. Corporate Governance subsidiaries are elected as directors of JX Holdings to deliberate The basic approach to corporate governance of the JX Group is to and decide on cohesive group-wide business strategies at meetmake decisions and execute operational activities quickly and flexibly ings of the Board of Directors of JX Holdings. to implement growth strategies for the JX Group as a whole and 4. The majority of corporate auditors consists of outside auditors appointed make appropriate responses to changes in the business environon the basis of management insight and extensive experience. This ment. In addition, the company endeavors to secure the soundness structure ensures the effectiveness of audits of directors’ performance and transparency of its management to respond to the trust and of management duties by the Board of Corporate Auditors. confidence of all its stakeholders. 5. A Compensation Advisory Committee comprising two outside Guided by this basic policy, JX Holdings, as the ultimate holding directors and two representative directors has been formed as an company of the JX Group, focuses especially on formulating advisory body to the Board of Directors, in order to ensure the mediumto long-term strategies for the JX Group and strategically transparency and objectivity of the decision-making processes allocating management resources and conducting risk management related to compensation of directors and executive officers as well to implement these strategies. Under JX Holdings, its three core as related matters. operating subsidiaries wholly owned by it have been positioned to 6. The Executive Council has been formed as a body to discuss matbe responsible for each of the group’s three core businesses, namely ters that require the approval of the president and other important the Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business, the Oil and Natural issues with respect to the execution of the president’s duties based Gas Exploration and Production Business, and the Metals Business. on authority handed from the Board of Directors. This council is In addition, JX Holdings’ corporate governance structure is characcomposed of full-time directors, the presidents and certain other terized by the following features: key personnel of the core operating subsidiaries. The Executive 1. Directors are elected for a term of one year and must stand for Council helps to ensure appropriate and efficient decision making re-election each year at the General Meeting of Shareholders. by the president. 2. Outside directors with management insight and extensive experience, as well 7. The Internal Control Council has been established as an advisory as an independent standpoint, are appointed to strengthen the superbody to the president to ensure appropriate operational execution. visory function over the management from an objective perspective. This council, which consists of the same members as the Executive 3. In addition to full-time directors and outside directors, the presiCouncil, monitors, confirms and reviews the appropriateness of dents and certain other key personnel of the core operating business operation status as an autonomous self-control system. [JX Group Corporate Governance Framework] General Meeting of Shareholders Election and removal of the Election and removal of directors Election and removal of auditors independent auditor (audit firm) [JX Holdings] Audits Board of Corporate Auditors Collaboration 6 corporate auditors, including 4 Independent auditors 14 directors, including 4 outside directors outside corporate auditors Consultation Recommendation Decision on agenda items Compensation Advisory Executive Council Internal Control Council Committee (Chaired by the Represen(Chaired by the Represen(Chaired by outside director) Full-time directors, presiFull-time directors, presiElection and removal The JX Group’s highest decisiondents of core operating dents of core operating of executive officers making body regarding CSR subsidiaries and others subsidiaries and others Collaboration Financial audits Approval Monitoring Approval Monitoring and JX Group CSR Council supervision President) Audits Executive Council members, presidents [Business Operation] of direct subsidiaries and others Executive Officers Internal Collaboration JX Group Compliance Committee audits JX Group Corporate Citizenship Committee JX Group Environment & Safety Committee Management supervision + Internal control of corporate group [Core Operating Subsidiaries] [Group Companies] JX Nippon Oil & Energy JX Nippon Oil & Gas JX Nippon Mining & Other group companies Corporation Exploration Corporation Metals Corporation 21 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 Advanced ideas, R: Relationship with society, T: Trustworthy prodBased on the JX Group Mission Statement “JX Group will contribute ucts/services, and H: Harmony with the environment,” JX Holdings to the development of a sustainable economy and society through has established its internal control system to ensure appropriate innovation in the areas of energy, resources and materials” and the operational execution in line with the following Basic Policy: JX Group Values “our actions will respect the E.A.R.T.H: E: Ethics, A: [Basic Policy for the Establishment and Operation of Internal Control System] 1. System to ensure that the execution of directors’ and employees’ duties 4. System for ensuring the efficient performance of directors’ and employees’ conforms to laws and regulations and the Articles of Incorporation duties (1) Develop and implement various rules and ensure compliance with laws and (1) Establish and implement an organization and delegations, and efficiently execute regulations, the Articles of Incorporation, and various other rules. duties. (2) Establish and operate the JX Group Compliance Committee, in addition to check(2) Ensure appropriate and efficient approval by the president through discussion of ing the status of compliance with laws and regulations and addressing the results. agenda items in the Executive Council before making decisions in Board of Directors’ meetings. (3) Develop and implement an internal reporting system. (3) Formulate a medium-term management plan, and develop and implement a (4) Hold Board of Directors’ meetings on a monthly basis and conduct adequate management system. discussion and reporting, based on the Rules for the Board of Directors. 5. System for ensuring appropriate business activities in the corporate group (5) Ensure objectivity and improve appropriateness through the appointment of outside directors and outside corporate auditors. (1) Ensure penetration and implementation of the JX Group’s Mission Statement and the JX Group Values. (6) Establish an Internal Audit Department independent of other divisions and conduct internal audits. (2) Ensure presidents of core operating subsidiaries and others attend meetings of the Board of Directors and Executive Council. (7) Develop and implement an internal control system for the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. (3) Discuss group companies’ business execution projects to a certain extent in the Board of Directors’ meetings and the Executive Council of JX Holdings. (8) Develop and implement rules concerning blocking all relationships with anti-social forces and ensure compliance. (4) Formulate and implement group management regulations and ensure compliance with these regulations. 2. System concerning the storage and management of information related to the execution of directors’ and employees’ duties (5) Establish and implement a compliance system and extend to group companies. (1) Develop and implement rules concerning documents. 6. System for ensuring the efficient conduct of audits by corporate auditors (2) Develop rules for preparing minutes of Board of Directors’ meetings and other docu(1) Ensure respect for audit standards and audit plans, along with cooperation with the ments related to decision-making, and ensure their appropriate implementation. efficient execution of audits and the development of an audit environment. (3) Develop and implement rules regarding information security, and ensure compli(2) Ensure corporate auditors attend meetings of the Executive Council and other ance through training and other programs. meetings, and establish and implement a reporting system for requested items. (4) Provide proper external disclosure of information, including timely disclosure. (3) Establish and implement a system for promptly reporting material breaches of laws and regulations and the Articles of Incorporation, as well as any discovery of 3. Regulations and other systems for managing risk of loss misconduct. (1) Analyze risks and clarify policy for responding to them in the Board of Directors’ (4) Ensure corporate auditors and management exchange opinions regarding the meetings and Executive Committee. group’s management issues and other matters. (2) Develop and implement a system and rules for responding to large fluctuations in (5) Ensure close collaboration between the corporate auditors and the Internal Audit economic conditions, resource prices and foreign currency exchange rates, along Department. with natural disasters and other risks. (6) Establish an Auditors Affairs Office independent of divisions responsible for busi(3) Develop and implement a system and rules for responding to crises and emerness execution. gency situations. 3. CSR Promotion Structure -COLUMNJX Group CSR Questionnaire Basic Approach As a group of companies involved in the energy, resources and In December 2011, the JX Group conducted the 1st JX Group CSR Questionnaire of the entire group to check the degree of penetration of the materials fields, which are vital for people’s lives and economic group’s CSR activities and to determine a future course for these activiactivity, we believe that the embodiment of CSR is to ensure a ties. The response rate was 79.3% and the total number of respondents stable and efficient supply of energy, resources and materials, and was 15,763. the implementation of the Mission Statement by every employee The JX Group established a broad range of questions in the questionin the course of executing business operations. This is the JX naire and analyzed the responses. These questions included those designed to gauge employees’ understanding and the degree of penGroup’s social responsibility. Based on this belief, we aim to estabetration of the JX Group Mission Statement. Other questions explored lish a corporate group worthy of the trust of stakeholders, including the openness of worksites, the presence of any hidden problems, awareshareholders and other investors, customers and employees. ness of the internal reporting system, and promotion of operations in the optimal interest of the group as a whole. Looking ahead, the JX Group plans to have each group company consider response measures while striving to make improvements based on an analysis of the questionnaire results. In this manner, the JX Group will implement PDCA cycles for CSR activities across the entire group, while harnessing the unique business characteristics of each group company. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 22 JX Group Management Priority Fields and Promotion Structure 2012, participants reported on activities based on key themes for We established the JX Group CSR Council, which is chaired by the fiscal 2011 in each field, while adopting the recommendations of president of JX Holdings, to formulate and promote the JX Group’s each committee concerning key themes for fiscal 2012. basic policy on CSR and to manage and coordinate CSR activities Furthermore, group CSR promotion managers have been assigned across the JX Group. We have specified three priority areas for CSR: to each workplace in the JX Group. The group CSR promotion man1) compliance (including information security and human rights), agers cooperate with the department responsible for CSR in each 2) social contribution, and 3) environment and safety. JX Group CSR company, working at the frontline of CSR promotion to manage CSR committees have been established for each field, and these commitin the workplace. In addition, tees act as advisory bodies to the chairman of the JX Group CSR group CSR promotion managCouncil. Each committee delibers gather once a year for a erates and makes recommenconference at which they dations on actual business attend training events and operations and shares share opinions. information. A scene from the training event for JX Group CSR promotion managers At a meeting of the JX Group CSR Council in April A JX Group CSR Council in session -COLUMNActivities to Foster Awareness and Increase Penetration of the JX Group Mission Statement In April 2012, we prepared a booklet on the JX Group Mission Statement titled the “Handbook for the Future (X)” and distributed copies to the JX Group’s executives and employees. By having personnel keep this booklet close at hand for easy reference, we hope to further increase their understanding of the JX Group Mission Statement, and encourage them to consider the mission statement in light of their own duties and take “Handbook for action accordingly. the Future (X)” [JX Group CSR Promotion Structure] JX Holdings CSR promotion managers in each department JX Group CSR Council CSR promotion managers in each affiliated company Chaired by President of JX Holdings Administration Office JX Nippon Oil & Energy CSR promotion managers in each department JX Holdings General Administration Department CSR promotion managers in each affiliated company JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration CSR promotion managers in each department JX Group’s Three CSR Committees JX Group Compliance Committee JX Four-Company Corporate Social CSR promotion managers in each affiliated company JX Group Corporate Citizenship Committee Responsibility Contact Meeting JX Nippon Mining & Metals JX Group Environment & Safety Committee CSR promotion managers in each department CSR promotion managers in each affiliated company [Key Themes for JX Group’s Three CSR Committees] Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 JX Group • Conduct compliance status checks and follow-up inspections • Conduct compliance status checks and follow-up inspections • Study system for sharing information that addresses legal issues • Build a system for addressing the JX Groups global legal risk Compliance Committee overseas. • Further develop social contribution activities with The Bouquet of • Promote continuous support activities for regions directly affected by JX Group Children’s Stories, including support for children affected by the Great the Great East Japan Earthquake. Corporate Citizenship Committee East Japan Earthquake. • Expand measures to enhance public awareness of the JX Childrens Story Award. • Operate JX Group environmental management system EMS • Operate JX Group EMS • Manage progress with the JX Group Mediumerm Environmental • Follow up on the JX Group Mediumerm Environmental JX Group Management Plan. Management Plan. • Manage key points for environment-related compliance • Formulate the JX Group Mediumerm Environmental Environment & Safety Committee Management Plan. • Promote safety-related activities 23 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration holds HR meetings chaired by the Basic Approach president to discuss all aspects of personnel systems, and makes We have a practice of periodically rotating personnel among JX reforms and improvements to develop human resources from a Holdings and the core operating subsidiaries. With this personnel comprehensive perspective. development structure, we seek to deepen awareness of the JX In particular for technical employees, JX Nippon Oil & Gas ExploraGroup’s businesses and create cohesion as a business group by tion dispatches young employees early in their careers to overseas enabling employees to accumulate a wealth of experience as they offices that do business as project operators to quickly master basic communicate with various stakeholders. technologies on site and acquire specialized expertise. In addition, JX Holdings sponsors group-wide education and In fiscal 2011, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration introduced an training programs, while each of the group companies has a diverse e-learning program. This program has enabled technical employees array of human resource development programs suited to each to study specialized technologies related to oil and gas exploration, company’s own business characteristics. development and production, and non-technical employees to acquire basic knowledge of the oil and gas markets, as well as legal JX Nippon Oil & Energy affairs, business evaluation and other topics. Employees are able to JX Nippon Oil & Energy has adopted three basic concepts underpinutilize the e-learning program at their convenience. ning its personnel systems: “Remuneration according to the most Looking ahead, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration will consider recent results,” “Management that motivates,” and “The provision of actively implementing more e-learning programs. opportunities and support for skills development.” Furthermore, JX Nippon Oil & Energy implements a human JX Nippon Mining & Metals resource development cycle based on a framework of career design JX Nippon Mining & Metals has adopted a small yet elite workforce training, transfer, OJT and personnel assessment. Employees are as a basic tenet of business management. The company conducts grouped into one of four phases depending on their career stage. human resource development based on a people-oriented manageIn regard to training programs, as the group’s overseas businesses ment philosophy, as illustrated by its motto of “One mine, One family.” accelerate in each field, the training program to increase communiFurthermore, JX Nippon Mining & Metals carries out planning and cation skills in English (the International Communication School) has management of company-wide personnel training based on the achieved tremendous results. themes of improving on-site capabilities and strengthening strategic skills. For example, the company fosters among personnel in charge of resource development sensitivity to the need for coexistence with JX Nippon Oil & Energy] society and harmony with the environment, the foundation for activiApproaches Four career phases after joining the company ties at project sites, by providing on-the-job training at mines in Japan 20s: Training phase in their first and second years of employment. The company has a Obtain a broad perspective and knowledge, build personal networks, identify human resource development program that enables employees to aptitude and ambitions accumulate technological and professional competencies on top of 30s: Enhancement phase Obtain knowledge and other expertise in fields where the individual shows this foundation. In other areas, the company strives to implement a aptitude and ambition; refine and demonstrate skills and other capabilities that broad range of human resource development initiatives. Examples have been developed. include dispatching employees on study abroad programs, imple40s: Execution phase Enhance specialized knowledge and skills, demonstrate knowledge and skills menting long-term foreign language training programs in Japan, and that have been developed actively encouraging employees to participate in various seminars on 50s: Mature period financial analysis, presentation skills and other topics. These seminars (High performance and support for human resource development) Take stock of knowledge and skills, support the development of the next generaare attended by employees as a means of self-improvement. tion of employees JX Nippon Mining & Metals, JX Nippon Environmental Services Co., Ltd. and PAN PACIFIC COPPER CO., LTD. (Saganoseki Smelter & Refinery, Hitachi Works) implemented the following training during fiscal 2011. Initiatives Human resource development cycle based on a framework of career design training, transfer, OJT and personnel assessment [Training Implemented for the Year] (Hours) Managerial General employees employees Total Total number of training hours 6,133 48,009 54,142 Average number of hours per employee 19.23 22.80 22.33 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 24 JX Group Management 5. Relationship with Employees companies have developed a range of employee support programs, It is crucial for companies to incorporate the opinions of a diverse along with conducting awareness-raising activities designed to array of personnel in business activities in order to respond to sociencourage employees to actually utilize these programs. etal changes and achieve sustainable development. The JX Group The following indicators for JX Holdings, Inc. and its three core operactively works to recruit senior citizens and people with disabilities in ating subsidiaries for fiscal 2011 are shown below: the workforce coman effort to promote diversity in the workforce. position, the number of recent graduate recruits, the disabled persons’ Furthermore, in addition to a good workplace, employees need to employment ratio, the number of employees re-hired after retirement, lead fulfilling lives outside the workplace, including at home, and in the usage rate for annual paid leave, and the number of employees leisure and other activities, if they are to demonstrate their respective taking nursing care or childcare leave. The frequency of industrial abilities to the fullest and work energetically. Accordingly, JX Group accidents and accident severity rate for fiscal 2011 are also shown below. [Workforce Composition] JX Holdings JX Nippon Oil & Energy JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration JX Nippon Mining & Metals Total headcount 107 5,926 326 1,390 Male Headcount 88 5,360 297 1,281 employees Average age 45.0 42.8 41.8 40.9 Average years of service 22.2 21.4 16.8 16.7 Female Headcount 19 566 29 109 employees Average age 39.1 40.5 35.4 37.0 Average years of service 17.6 18.7 9.2 10.7 [Number of Recent Graduate Recruits] JX Holdings JX Nippon Oil & Energy JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration JX Nippon Mining & Metals Total headcount — 115 11 46 Male university graduates — 42 8 20 Female university graduates — 7 1 1 Junior college/vocational school graduates — 9 0 0 Senior high school and other graduates — 57 2 25 JX Holdings JX Nippon Oil & Energy JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration JX Nippon Mining & Metals Disabled persons’ employment ratio —*1 1.85% 2.52% 1.90% Number of employees re-hired after 1 retirement —* 189 6 34 Number of annual paid leave days granted 20.0 19.6 15.9 21.0 Number of annual paid leave days taken 13.0 15.5 9.7 13.1 Usage rate for annual paid leave 65.0% 79.1% 61.1% 62.4% Number of employees taking nursing care leave 0 2 0 2 Number of employees taking childcare leave 0 32 2 7 (incl. male employees) 0 11 0 0 *1: “Employees” refer to those seconded from operating companies, and are accounted for at their companies of origin. [Frequency of Industrial Accidents and Accident Severity Rate] JX Holdings JX Nippon Oil & Energy JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration JX Nippon Mining & Metals Frequency of industrial accidents*2 0.00 0.45 —*4 0.27 Accident severity rate*3 0.00 0.00 —*4 0.00 *2: Number of deaths and injuries due to industrial accidents per 1 million working hours *3: Number of lost work days per 1,000 working hours *4: JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration has not adopted these indicators 25 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 JX Group Values EARTH Activity Topics The JX Group continues to conduct activities based on five EARTH values. Ethics Compliance Formulation of Basic Rules for Countering Antisocial Elements The JX Group has drafted a basic policy designed to ensure no connection whatsoever with antisocial elements. In addition to publicizing this policy internally and externally, the group has formulated a set of basic rules for countering antisocial elements and promotes concrete measures in this regard. Human Rights E-learning to Educate All Employees on Human Rights To improve and embed human rights awareness, an e-learning program was instituted for all employees at the 24 JX Group companies in fiscal 2011. This effort to raise understanding of human rights included lessons on themes such as the normalization principle (acceptance of people with disabilities) and the problem of social discrimination. Advanced ideas Technology and R&D Completion of Research Demonstration Facility for HS-FCC Technology We have completed installation of a research facility based on revolutionary High Severity Fluid Catalytic Cracking (HS-FCC) technology at JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation’s Mizushima Refinery. The facility, designed to demonstrate the HS-FCC process, adopts a down flow that works with gravity for more uniform reaction times. The result is the high-yield production of propylene, high octane gasoline and other products from crude oil. Relationship with society Relationship with Stakeholders Highly Rated IR Activities JX Holdings was named for excellence in corporate disclosure by The Securities Analysts Association of Japan for highly transparent investor relations (IR) activities. The company’s website has also earned recognition for the fullness of information disclosed. Corporate Citizenship Supporting the Disaster Area via JX Children’s Story Award/JX Children’s Story Fund We presented copies of The Bouquet of Children’s Stories to evacuation centers, disaster volunteer centers, temporary housing complexes and other sites following the Great East Japan Earthquake. Furthermore, a total of ¥10 million has been donated to 10 fostercare facilities in the disaster zone through the JX Children’s Story Fund. Trustworthy products/services Quality Assurance, Product Safety and Customer Satisfaction ZP (Zinc P) Additive Technology Wins Chemical Technology Award The ZP Technology used in ENEOS Premium Motor Oil SUSTINA received The Chemical Society of Japan’s CSJ Award for Technical Development, presented to technologies that have made a significant contribution to Japan’s chemical industry. Harmony with the environment Environment Reconfiguration of the Environment & Safety Committee As a reaffirmation within the JX Group of the importance of occupational safety as a CSR issue, the JX Group Environmental Committee has been reconfigured as the Environment & Safety Committee. Under the committee’s guidance, extensive efforts will be taken to further safeguard occupational safety. Reduction of 1.21 Million Tons in JX Group CO2 Emissions Each company within the JX Group takes action to prevent global warming through individualized targets and measures to this end. As a result, CO2 emissions in fiscal 2011 fell 1.21 million tons year on year, or 5.9%. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 26 JX Group Values thi Alongside compliance with laws and rules, the JX Group believes that the basis of trust from society is formed by fair and honest business transactions, protection of intellectual property and human rights, and other behaviors that underlie ethical decision-making and actions in all of its business activities. Together with the promotion of thorough compliance with laws and strong risk management, the JX Group has formed a highly ethical stance based on the management that respects human rights, and has set its sights on becoming a truly leading company in the field. Compliance –Basic Approach– To promote fair and honest corporate activities and earn greater trust regarding the direction of compliance activities and compliance from society, the JX Group has established regulations and other response across the entire JX Group. The committee selects policies rules to ensure thorough compliance among all Group companies, to guide JX Group compliance and reports the outcome of activities. and has declared a policy of full compliance with laws, the Articles of Furthermore, all principal group companies have an internal Incorporation and regulations in every aspect of work performance. whistle-blowing system in place for the early discovery and correction The JX Group Compliance Committee has been established as a of any behavior that has or could result in violation of the law and subcommittee under the JX Group CSR Council to examine matters other regulations. Policy Prohibiting Connection to Anti-social Forces paperwork through the proper channels, and inspecting compliance at overIn January 2012, the JX Group formulated a basic policy designed to prevent seas bases. Corrective measures were immediately formulated and instituted for any connection whatsoever to anti-social forces. Along with publicizing this any problems exposed as a result of these inspection activities. policy internally and externally, the Group drafted a set of basic rules for counThese annual compliance status checks, together with a host of other tering antisocial elements and promotes concrete measures in this regard. compliance activities, highlight cases in which questions regarding compliance exist, enabling appropriate improvement steps to be taken. More Compliance Status Checks importantly, these activities help foster greater compliance awareness Fiscal 2011 again saw compliance status checks instituted at JX Group compaamong executives and employees. Nevertheless, in July 2012, a compliance nies. As a common group initiative, individual interviews were held with manviolation pertaining to safety tests stipulated by the High Pressure Gas Safety agers at each worksite and their subordinates, allowing them to freely express if Act came to light regarding JX Nippon Oil & Energy’s Mizushima-B Refinery. there were any problems, concerns or points of uncertainty regarding legal Compliance violations warrant a reassessment of the way that we perform compliance across the range of their respective duties. In addition, key themes compliance status checks, which to date have relied solely on our own were set for each company to check compliance risk in line with their business voluntary inspections. operations. These included topics such as obtaining permission and submitting Human Rights –Basic Approach– The JX Group recognizes that achieving corporate behavior firmly performing meaningful work. While individual policies and specific rooted in high ethical values ultimately rests on the actions of its indimeasures are decided based on group company business characteristics vidual executives and employees. Accordingly, the JX Group strives for and scale, we endeavor to improve working environments by promotlabor, personnel management, and human resource development ing best practices across the entire group. underpinned by respect for human rights. JX Holdings has also placed special emphasis on the development of Beyond respecting international rules such as the United Nations human resources responsible for group management, and is fostering a Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO Conventions, the JX Group management class with high ethical standards through specific training strives to cultivate strong ethical values among its executives and for executives at each group company and joint training for managers employees by providing them with supportive environments for across the group. United Nations Global Compact compact’s 10 principles in the 4 areas of human rights, labor, the environment JX Holdings and its three core operating subsidiaries are also participants in and anti-corruption. the United Nations Global Compact, implementing and promoting the Please refer to page 36 for the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles. 27 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 v n e i e Dedicated to meeting the challenges of cutting-edge research and technology development with advanced ideas, the JX Group will contribute to society as a whole by creating technologies, products and services that help to answer social concerns. Technology and R&D –Basic Approach– With advanced nations leading the move to structure low-carbon, aggressively pursuing technology development in each of its business recycling-oriented societies amid growing awareness of the urgent domains. At the same time, we are advancing joint research and demneed to address global environmental problems, the role of the onstration tests in collaboration with public institutions, universities energy, resources and materials industry has become more important and other entities. In parallel, JX Holdings will seek to comprehensively than ever before. manage and coordinate a host of technology development themes Guided by its Group mission statement to “contribute to the develbeing advanced by the group. Efforts here include encouraging the opment of a sustainable economy and society through innovation in establishment of a technology and development platform across the the areas of energy, resources and materials,” the JX Group is entire group. Development of Paraffinic Latent Heat PCM Ecojoule® Development of Next-generation Smelting Technology Normal paraffin derived from the crude oil refining process is highly biodeJX Nippon Mining & Metals is aggressively developing new copper smelting gradable, making it a widely used material, including as a raw material for processes based on a wet process to create a highly efficient, next-generation surfactants. Normal paraffin has three characteristics that make it suitable as a smelting technology with low environmental impact. One of those processes, latent heat* storage material: (1) the ability to store heat at ordinary temperathe Nikko Chloride Process, is a wet smelting technology that uses hydrochloric ture ranges (approx. 3 to 30°C), (2) the potential to store substantial latent acid, in which metal is submerged in a chloride bath. The key point of this heat in narrow temperature bands, and (3) unchanging storage performance technique is its ability to efficiently recover not only copper from low-grade due to its chemical stability. Seeking to exploit these properties, JX Nippon Oil copper concentrate, but also gold, silver and other precious metals. & Energy developed Ecojoule® as a paraffinic latent heat storage material. The copper concentrate produced at existing mines has seen both a sharp Sales of Ecojoule® were launched in 2008. In addition to normal paraffin drop in quality and a notable increase in impurities in recent years. Use of the varieties, the material has been processed into a gel to make it available in Nikko Chloride Process will make it possible to recover precious metals from packs and modular formats. Ecojoule® is already used in an array of fields, this low-grade copper concentrate. Along with promoting effective utilization including in automotive parts, textiles, and controlled-temperature transport. of scarce resources, this technique is an efficient way to extend a mine’s useful The material is also helping promote efforts to save energy. In the building life, and is expected to spur the development of mine types previously conclimate control field, Ecojoule® is enabling the use of nighttime power considered too challenging to pursue. sumption, allowing for peak shifts and cuts in daytime power consumption. Furthermore, this technology does not require the massive energy input Similarly, use of Ecojoule® as a residential building material will make the associated with smelting. Compared to the mainstream pyrometallurgical effective utilization of solar and other natural energy sources more viable. smelting process for producing copper, this technique generates no sulfur Based on the strength of these achievements, Ecojoule® was presented the oxides, saves a considerable amount of energy, and reduces carbon dioxide Grand Award at the “‘CHO’ MONODZUKURI Innovative Parts and Components emissions. Demonstration testing ahead of commercial application of the Award 2011” sponsored by the Conference for the Promotion of MONODZUtechnology is currently underway at a pilot plant in Australia. KURI and Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun Ltd. * Latent heat is the heat energy released or absorbed when a substance changes phases from a liquid to a solid or a solid to a liquid, as seen with water and ice. Latent heat storage is the storage and usage of such heat. Packs of Ecojoule® in gel form A gel pack module Exterior view of pilot plant facility Trial pilot plant equipment JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 28 JX Group Values e tion hi with o iet We strive to earn society’s trust by faithfully meeting the needs of our diverse stakeholders. Through sports, culture, programs for positive youth development and support, and environmental protection activities, we hope to deepen our relationships with communities and the public, and to coexist with society as a corporate citizen. Relationship with Stakeholders –Basic Approach– The JX Group conducts business activities while maintaining relationassessing the demands of these many stakeholders, and sincerely ships with a variety of stakeholders, among them shareholders, invesresponding to them, we seek to earn society’s trust. tors, customers, business partners and employees. By accurately Shareholders and Investors Business Partners JX Holdings is committed to the swift, proper and fair disclosure of information JX Nippon Procurement Corporation oversees purchasing operations for JX to shareholders and investors in accordance with its disclosure policy. FurtherGroup companies. Besides making purchasing information available to business more, the company conducts highly transparent investor relations (IR) activities partners in accordance with related laws and regulations and actively providing in line with regulations to prevent insider trading, including in-house training opportunities to business partners, JX Nippon Procurement is seeking to to promote awareness. As in the previous term, in fiscal 2011, JX Holdings won develop bonds of mutual trust with partners by ensuring fair and honest tradexternal recognition from several organizations for its IR activities. ing opportunities. The JX Group also purchases equipment and services with low environmental impact. • The Securities Analysts Association of Japan Award for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure Employees First place in the Oil & Mining category The most vital issue for business continuity is the retention and development • Nikko Investor Relations Co., Ltd. Best Company Surveyed Award of human resources. JX Group companies are committed to ensuring occupa(in Nikko Investor Relations’ ranking of the tional safety and offer a full menu of personnel systems. These include systems websites of listed companies in fiscal 2011) for encouraging workforce diversity, such as employment opportunities for • Daiwa Investor Relations Co., Ltd. seniors and those with disabilities, as well as systems for achieving a better Internet IR Best Company Award work-life balance. Corporate Citizenship –Basic Approach– The JX Group views CSR activities that contribute to society as an the JX Group, deliberates and reports on the group’s social contribuimportant issue, and takes proactive steps in this area. The JX Group tion efforts, while sharing information on such contributions with Corporate Citizenship Committee, with members drawn from across group companies. ENEOS Environmental Classes ENEOS Forests JX JNippon Oil & Energy employees visit elementary schools and other sites to In a partnership with local governments and the National Land Afforestation offer ENEOS Environmental Classes on topics such as the importance of oil to Promotion Organization, the JX Nippon Oil & Energy Group is involved in a field daily life, how petroleum products are created, the current state of global warmof activities supporting the stewardship of specified sections of undeveloped ing, and new environment-friendly energy sources. The employees use quizzes, forests in Japan. Named ENEOS Forests, these areas are located in the eight experiments and observation of prefectures of Hokkaido, Miyagi, Kanagawa, Nagano, Nara, Okayama, Yamaguchi actual crude oil to present the mateand Oita. At each of the ENEOS Forests, group employees, friends and family rial in an intuitive way to students. take part in activities led by local NPOs and other groups specializing in forest Classes were held at 28 schools stewardship. In addition to conservation activities such as tree planting, thinacross Japan in fiscal 2011, and were ning and brush clearing, participants get closer to nature by observing flora and attended by roughly 1,170 children. fauna, building birdhouses, and lightly harvesting forest products. An ENEOS Environmental Class 29 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 r tworth ro t ervi e To satisfy customers, the JX Group works diligently to improve product and service quality from the customer’s perspective, and to ensure product safety. As the aspects that make up product quality diversify, we aim to provide even more trustworthy products and services. Quality Assurance, Product Safety and Customer Satisfaction –Basic Approach– The JX Group is involved in a broad range of operations—from oil JX Holdings has extensive knowledge of the quality control and refining and marketing, to oil and gas exploration and production, and product safety policies and annual targets of each company. If a metals. Each group company practices quality control, and each comproduct-related accident does arise, JX Holdings works together with pany and business site has obtained ISO 9001 certification, the internathe group company involved to minimize damages and formulate steps tionally recognized standard for quality management systems, as part to prevent recurrence, in line with crisis management rules. of efforts to ensure quality. Trustworthy Products additive technology called “ZP Technology.” This combination delivers a level The JX Group offers a range of products and services highly rated for both quality of fuel-efficient performance and engine protection that sets it apart from and safety that assist in the creation of low-carbon, recycling-oriented societies. conventional motor oil. In fiscal 2011, The Chemical Society of Japan awarded ENEOS Premium Motor Oil SUSTINA, produced and sold by JX Nippon Oil & ZP Technology “The CSJ Award for Technical Development” for its significant Energy, is a type of oil that protects engines from sludge to indefinitely extend contribution to Japan’s chemical industry. high fuel-efficiency performance. Since its debut in November 2010, the product has been well received from customers, who credit it with delivering Improving Customer Satisfaction better fuel efficiency and a quieter, smoother ride. The base oil for SUSTINA is In order to have customers chose our products and services, it is vital that WBASE, which has a world-class viscosity index, coupled with a fundamental each employee has an adequate grasp of customer needs, and that they consider and take action to deliver products and services that meet customer expectations. For example, JX Nippon Oil & Energy has prepared TASUKI Spirit, a collection of cases that have been highly rated by customers that it shares in-house. Through this activity, individual employees have a chance to reflect on their performance from the customer’s viewpoint, reaffirming that all the work they perform is tied to customers. At the same time, employees get to consider what options work best for meeting customer expectations, and can put ENEOS Premium Motor Oil SUSTINA these into practice in their work to gain even greater customer satisfaction. Purchasing –Basic Approach– Responsible supply chain management has become an important purchasing activities, the group will pursue stronger communication element in garnering trust in products and services. JX Nippon Prowith business partners, aiming for mutually beneficial outcomes by curement will spearhead the JX Group’s efforts to promote transparbuilding partnerships grounded on mutual trust. ent, fair and honest transactions. Along with environmentally friendly JX Nippon Procurement’s Activities in Fiscal 2011 Nippon Oil & Energy and JX Nippon Mining & Metals, in an effort to pursue In addition to procuring supplies, materials and services with low environenvironmental activities together with business partners. mental impact in line with its basic purchasing policy, JX Nippon ProcureVisit the website below for more on JX Nippon Procurement’s basic purchasing ment conducted a questionnaire survey among main business partners of JX policy (in Japanese only). http://www.pr.jx-group.co.jp/policy/ JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 30 JX Group Values H rmon with the environment We develop technologies and services for creating a better global environment. As a corporate group closely connected to the Earth’s resources, the JX Group is involved in ongoing and vigorous efforts to use resources and energy effectively, and to ensure safety and preserve the environment. Environment –Basic Approach– “Harmony with the environment” is one component of the JX Group Environmental Management System (EMS), coupled with deliberation Values. Accordingly, the environment is a vital theme in the Group’s and reporting on the Group environmental safety by the JX Group CSR activities. Environment & Safety Committee, the JX Group manages progress on Through environmental actions enabled by operation of an the Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan by the Group. Reconfiguration into the Environment & Safety Strict Compliance with Environmental Laws Committee The JX Group views compliance with environmental laws as critical to its In fiscal 2012, the JX Group reconfigured the Environmental Committee into business activities, and conducts extensive compliance checks and environthe Environment & Safety Committee. Compliance, social contribution and mental education to this end. In fiscal 2011, compliance checks performed at the environment have been positioned as key CSR issues since the establishJX Holdings and core operating companies turned up no major violations. ment of JX Holdings in 2010, with action in these areas worked by three In February 2011, it was revealed that a falsified report had been submitted committees under the CSR Council. The recent reconfiguration reaffirms the regarding the measurement of dust concentrations at Plant A of JX Nippon crucial importance of occupational safety in JX Group CSR activities, providing Oil & Energy’s Mizushima Refinery. To prevent any recurrence of major incia basis for steps to better ensure safe working environments. dents of this kind, the JX Group has set fully developed “training on environAs part of safety-related initiatives in fiscal 2011, we continued to implemental laws” and “more intensive environmental auditing” as two key themes. ment safety education programs, held Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Accordingly, the Group has instituted education around specific environmenmeetings, and conducted environment and safety compliance checks at all tal laws and compliance cases and audits by pollution prevention managers core operating subsidiaries. We are committed to further steps to ensure at all business sites linked to the manufacture of petroleum products. occupational safety going forward through the exchange of information and opinions facilitated by the Environment & Safety Committee. -COLUMNEnvironmental Efforts at JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration From October 2011 to February 2012, JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration giving priority to consideration conducted seismic exploration surveys in the vicinity of Kushiro, Japan. for the environment, assessed While the surveys took place atop local roadways, the area lies between the environmental impact of a both Kushiro Shitsugen (Kushiro wetlands) National Park (protected seismic survey beforehand and under the Ramsar Convention) and Akan National Park. Kushiro Shitsugen then conducted the survey. in particular is an important natural habitat, and is home to the endanAlthough the resulting projecgered Japanese crane. In Japan, the Environmental Impact Assessment tions showed no predicted Law and the Mining Act have no provisions requiring assessment of impact across virtually all Japanese cranes in Kushiro Shitsugen environmental impact for categories, these projections seismic surveys. Nevertheless, were verified as the work was performed. Consequently, JX Nippon Oil & “Harmony with the environExploration can confirm that these seismic exploration surveys had no ment” is one of the JX Group impact on the environment. Values. From this standpoint, In the future, any exploration activities to be performed will be similarly especially given the natural assessed and verified in cases where potential environmental impact, no environment involved, JX matter how minor, is a concern. Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration, Vibration trucks performing seismic work 31 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 [Principal Activities and Progress in the JX Group Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan (FY2010–2012)] Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business (JX Nippon Oil & Energy Group) Activities Specific energy consumption reduction Soil contamination countermeasures Waste reduction Reduce 3% over 3 years compared with FY2009 Operating properties: Prevent external leakage Maintain the waste-to-landfill ratio and Reduce 1% in FY2010 (compared with FY2009) Targets Reduce 2% in FY2011 (compared with FY2009) Decommissioned properties: Conduct deliberate surveys “Zero Emission Plus” goals Reduce 3% in FY2012 (compared with FY2009) and treatment measures Maintain at 0.5% Soil surveys implemented: 352 sites FY2010 results and Reduced 1.6% compared with FY2009 Treatment measures: 103 sites 0.33% evaluation Target achieved (refining division) Target achieved Target achieved Soil surveys implemented: 406 sites FY2011 results and Reduced 1.1% compared with FY2009 Treatment measures: 87 sites 0.41% evaluation Target not achieved (refining division) Target achieved Target achieved • Continuous implementation of measures including • Implementation of continuous improvement • Continuous implementation of measures including Planned measures for operation improvement operation improvement FY2012 • Further accumulation of improvements to achieve targets • Further accumulation of improvements to achieve targets Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business (JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group) *CO2 emissions are calculated from energy consumption. Management of final waste disposal volume and oil Maintenance and management of Activities Reduction of CO2 emissions* content in produced water disposed to the sea environmental management systems Reduce 3% over 3 years compared with FY2009 Appropriately manage the HSE Committee, and maintain Reduce 1% in FY2010 (compared with FY2009) to no more than 323 thousand tons Monitor volumes, including at overseas sites Targets Reduce 2% in FY2011 (compared with FY2009) to no more than 319 thousand tons (Vietnam, Malaysia) the environmental management system throughout Reduce 3% in FY2012 (compared with FY2009) to no more than 316 thousand tons the JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration Group FY2010 results and 294 thousand tons Implemented Held 3 HSE Committee meetings, etc. evaluation Target achieved Target achieved Target achieved FY2011 results and 303 thousand tons Implemented Held 3 HSE Committee meetings, etc. evaluation Target achieved Target achieved Target achieved • Control of supply vessel and helicopter operations • Continuous implementation • Continuous implementation Planned measures for • Reduction of unplanned shutdowns due to facilities FY2012 problems, etc. Metals Business (JX Nippon Mining & Metals Group) Activities Reduction of CO2 emission intensity Specific energy consumption improvement Waste reduction FY2010: 7.5% reduction (Compared with FY2003–2005 average) FY2010: 5% reduction (Compared with FY2003–2005 average) FY2010: 70% reduction in waste-to-landfill ratio Targets FY2011: 1.0% reduction (Compared with FY2008–2010 average) FY2011: 1% reduction (Compared with FY2008–2010 average) (Compared with FY2003–2005 average) FY2012: 2.0% reduction (Compared with FY2008–2010 average) FY2012: 2% reduction (Compared with FY2008–2010 average) FY2011 and FY2012: Under 1% (non-application waste ratio) Reduced 8.1% Reduced 5.4% Reduced 78% in waste-to-landfill ratio FY2010 results and compared with FY2003–2005 average compared with FY2003–2005 average compared with FY2003–2005 average evaluation Target achieved Target achieved Target achieved Increased 5.9% Increased 5.3% Non-application waste ratio FY2011 results and 0.8% compared with FY2008–2010 average compared with FY2008–2010 average evaluation Target achieved Target not achieved Target not achieved • Updating to high-efficiency equipment and reduction • Updating to high-efficiency equipment and reduction • Further accumulation of improvements Planned measures for of power consumption of power consumption FY2012 • Reduction of power consumption through waste heat • Reduction of power consumption through waste heat recovery, etc. recovery, etc. Other Businesses (Listed Subsidiaries and Other Companies) Activities NIPPO CORPORATION Toho Titanium Co., Ltd. Other Group Companies CO2 emissions intensity (sales amount) reduction targets CO2 emissions intensity (Titanium volume) Implement the JX Group EMS at each company, establish FY2010: 3% (Compared with FY2007) FY2010: 3% reduction (Compared with FY2005–2007 average) Targets FY2011: 2% (Compared with FY2009) FY2011: 4% reduction (Compared with FY2005–2007 average) environmental targets according to business characterisFY2012: 3% (Compared with FY2009) FY2012: 5% reduction (Compared with FY2005–2007 average) tics, and implement PDCA cycle Reduced 5.1% FY2010 results and Reduced 6.3% compared with FY2007 Reviewed target achievement at each company via the JX compared with average for FY2005–2007 evaluation Target achieved Group Environmental Committee Target achieved Reduced 4.0% FY2011 results and Reduced 6.2% compared with FY2009 Reviewed target achievement at each company via the JX compared with average for FY2005–2007 evaluation Target achieved Group Environmental Committee Target achieved • Further accumulation of improvements to achieve targets • Improvement of yields for each process • Appropriate operation of the JX Group EMS Planned measures for • Continuation of emissions intensity improvement FY2012 activities through prevention of nonconformance • CO2 emission reductions via equipment upgrades JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 32 JX Group Values H Harmony with the environment Environmental Performance –Basic Approach– The environmental performance data on pages 33 to 34 covers a total For the Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business, we have of 52 business sites at 25 companies engaged in the Petroleum Refinrecorded data on business sites involved in petroleum product refining ing and Marketing Business, the Oil and Gas Exploration and Producand production only. For the Oil and Gas Exploration and Production tion Business, the Metals Business, and Other Businesses. Business and the Metals Business, we have retroactively restated the ■ Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business: 15 sites at 5 companies figures from fiscal 2009. Consequently, the figures differ from the data ■ Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business: 3 sites at 1 company for previous fiscal years in “JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2011.” ■ Metals Business: 25 sites at 16 companies ■ Other Businesses: 9 sites at 3 companies Initiatives to Prevent Global Warming JX Nippon Oil & Energy fell short of its specific energy reduction target due Global warming is a problem that all humanity faces. The companies within to the impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake and lower capacity utilizathe JX Group are addressing this issue by setting proprietary activity targets tion at refineries caused by equipment trouble. and concrete countermeasures, and energetically reducing energy consumpJX Nippon Mining & Metals experienced sharp increases in both CO2 emistion and taking steps to cut CO2 emissions. sion intensity and specific energy consumption. Both were the result of Energy consumption in fiscal 2011 (crude oil equivalent) was 6.83 million increased intensity attributable to sudden drops in production volume trigkL in the Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business, 0.15 million kL in the Oil gered by the Great East Japan Earthquake and flooding in Thailand. and Gas Exploration and Production Business, 0.43 million kL in the Metals Business, and 0.27 million kL in Other Businesses. The JX Group total was 7.68 Initiatives to Prevent Air Pollution million kL, 0.14 million kL lower than in fiscal 2010. In line with laws, ordinances, accords and voluntary standards to prevent air CO2 emissions were 17.47 million tons in the Petroleum Refining and pollution, the JX Group closely monitors gases emitted into the atmosphere Marketing Business, 0.38 million tons in the Oil and Gas Exploration and by its facilities. The Group also works diligently to prevent air pollution by Production Business, 0.94 million tons in the Metals Business, and 0.54 million adopting a range of equipment to enhance environmental performance and tons in Other Businesses. The JX Group total was 19.33 million tons, 1.21 by switching to low-sulfur fuels, among other actions. million tons lower than in fiscal 2010. The JX Group’s total SOx (sulfur oxide) emissions in fiscal 2011 were 14,123 Actual results versus targets for specific energy consumption and CO2 tons, 1,115 tons lower than in fiscal 2010. The JX Group’s total NOx (nitrogen emission reductions in the Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan and oxide) emissions in fiscal 2011 were 10,878 tons, 1,203 tons lower than in elsewhere are shown on page 32. Targets for some operations were unmet. fiscal 2010. ■ Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business ■ Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business ■ Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business ■ Metals Business ■ Other Businesses ■ Metals Business ■ Other Businesses Energy Consumption (Crude Oil Equivalent) SOx (Million kL) (Tons) 10.0 20,000 0.21 0.24 7.5 0.44 0.27 15,000 182 125 0.45 0.43 90 0.15 4,073 3,913 0.15 0.15 4,399 5.0 10,000 7.46 6.98 6.83 2.5 5,000 10,661 11,200 9,634 0 0 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) CO2 Emissions NOx (Million of tons) (Tons) 25 20,000 0.46 0.49 20 0.95 0.93 0.54 15,000 0.94 15 0.48 0.42 0.38 115 99 118 10,000 1,142 1,078 1,024 10 19.11 18.70 17.47 5 5,000 10,247 10,904 9,736 0 0 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) *CO2 emissions include emissions from energy consumption (electricity, fuel, etc.) *Not applicable for the Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business as well as greenhouse gases emitted mainly in oil and gas production converted Figures for NIPPO CORPORATION in Other Businesses were estimated by its to CO2. 50 main plants. 33 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 Initiatives for Protecting Water Resources Initiatives for Management of Chemical Substances As one of its resource conservation measures, the JX Group firmly manages its The JX Group conducts proper management of specified chemical subuse of water resources and monitors wastewater produced by its facilities in stances stipulated under the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) line with laws, ordinances, accords and voluntary standards, in an effort to Law. The Group also strives to reduce chemical emission levels as part of steps reduce its environmental impact. to reduce environmental impact. Where the Material Safety Data Sheet In the water resources consumed in fiscal 2011, freshwater resources (MSDS) system is concerned, the group presents information on the behavior consumed were 87.71 million tons in the Petroleum Refining and Marketing and handling of target chemical substances in a readily accessible manner. Business, 0.71 million tons in the Oil and Gas Exploration and Production The release and transfer of specified chemical substances in fiscal 2011 was Business, 21.50 million tons in the Metals Business, and 2.35 million tons in 506 tons in the Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business, 178 tons in the Other Businesses. The JX Group total was 112.27 million tons, 24.01 million Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business, 1,083 tons in the Metals tons lower than in fiscal 2010. Business, and 336 tons in Other Businesses. The JX Group total was 2,103 tons, Seawater consumption was 0.92 billion tons in the Petroleum Refining and 304 tons higher than in fiscal 2010. Marketing Business and 0.12 billion tons in the Metals Business. The JX Group ■ Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business ■ Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business total was 1.04 billion tons, 0.03 billion tons lower than in fiscal 2010. ■ Metals Business ■ Other Businesses The chemical oxygen demand (COD) load volume, an indicator of water Release and Transfer of Specified pollution levels, was 698 tons in the Petroleum Refining and Marketing BusiChemical Substances (Tons) ness, 103 tons in the Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business, and 2,500 172 tons in the Metals Business. The JX Group total was 973 tons, 31 tons 2,000 336 1,500 lower than in fiscal 2010. 338 446 1,000 407 488 1,083 ■ Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business 500 172 173 178 ■ Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business 615 692 506 ■ Metals Business ■ Other Businesses 0 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) Freshwater (Millions of tons) *Figures for overseas sites (Malaysia and Vietnam) are not applicable in 150 the figure for the Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business. 1.65 2.14 120 21.37 0.52 20.61 0.62 2.35 Initiatives to Reduce Waste 90 21.50 0.71 JX Group companies each set waste reduction targets in line with their own 60 112.60 112.91 87.71 medium-term environmental management plans, and take steps to reduce 30 0 both their waste-to-landfill ratio and final waste disposal intensity. 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) The final waste disposal volume in fiscal 2011 was 945 tons in the Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business, 161 tons in the Oil and Gas Exploration Seawater and Production Business, 1,713 tons in the Metals Business, and 7,430 tons in (Billions of tons) 1.2 Other Businesses. The JX Group total was 10,249 tons, 3,128 tons higher than 0.12 0.00 0.00 0.00 in fiscal 2010. 0.9 0.00 0.13 0.00 0.12 0.00 ■ Petroleum Refining and Marketing Business 0.6 ■ Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business 0.96 0.94 0.92 ■ Metals Business ■ Other Businesses 0.3 Volume of Landfill Waste 0 (Tons) 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) 12,000 9,000 Chemical Oxygen Demand Load Volume (Tons) 6,000 9,151 7,430 1,000 3,000 5,279 0 0 157 172 1 1,713 161 750 165 120 103 0 1,699 130 1,441 19 945 518 382 500 105 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) Conclusion 727 698 250 570 0 As outlined on page 32, the JX Group in fiscal 2011 was unable to meet 2009 2010 2011 (Fiscal year) certain targets in its Medium-Term Environmental Management Plan. In most *Figures for overseas sites (Malaysia and Vietnam) are not applicable in cases, this shortcoming was attributable to external factors such as the Great the figure for the Oil and Gas Exploration and Production Business. East Japan Earthquake and the flooding in Thailand. As these impacts recede, we will redouble efforts to meet all targets in fiscal 2012. JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 34 JX Group Values H Harmony with the environment -COLUMNInitiatives at the Caserones Copper and Molybdenum Deposit Development Project JX Nippon Mining & Metals acquired interests in the Caserones Copper and Molybdenum Deposit Development Project in Chile in May 2006. Since then, the project has been evaluated for both its economic and environmental performance. Today, progress on the construction of production facilities is moving apace ahead of a production launch in 2013. In tandem, SCM Minera Lumina Copper Chile (MLCC), the operator of the project, has put a Community Management Program with three main focuses into practice. These are “local employment,” “water management” and “transportation safety measures.” Care is also given to the natural environment both within and around the project site. Aerial view of the Caserones Copper and Molybdenum Deposit Development Project • ■ Community Management Program Implementation Local Employment As of March 2012, roughly 6,000 people were involved in construction work at the Caserones Project. Training programs to promote employment are underway, with the goal of having 20% of the workforce recruited locally from Region III once operations commence in 2013. • Water Management The Copiapo River, where the Caserones Project is located, is known for grape production and other agricultural goods, making supply and demand for water a vital issue. To achieve sustainable water manageCopiapo River (after weed removal and steps to prevent osmosis) • ment, the JX Group aims to hold water consumption to 0.3 m3 per ton of ore processed, the lowest level among all copper mines worldwide. Transportation Safety Measures Efforts to this end will include devising ways to dramatically increase Plans call for transporting the copper, molybdenum concentrate and water reuse in ore processing. refined copper produced by the Caserones Project to the local harbor by MLCC, meanwhile, is working hard to safeguard water for downstream trucks, where they will then be shipped via marine transport. MLCC is agricultural use by buying up farmland to stop hay production and working to ensure transportation safety for the surrounding area by removing weeds along the riverbank to control evaporation. instituting safety training for the drivers involved in truck transport operations, developing a robust system for monitoring truck transport status and bypass construction. ■ Care for Biodiversity Of the expansive 385 km2 parcel of land it owns, MLCC has set 0.87 km2 of land impacted by construction of facilities for the Caserones Project as a preserve for the protection of native flora and fauna. Additionally, any area where trees are cleared within the preserve must be replaced by an area of new plantings 1.6 times its size. In the event that protected flora is cut down, this must be replaced by 10 times as many plantings of the same protected species. Transplantation of vega plant 35 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 Guide to JX Group Websites Various JX Group companies, including JX Holdings, Inc. and the three core operating subsidiaries, disclose a variety of CSR-related information on their websites. Please feel free to have a look at the information on these websites. JX Holdings JX Holdings Corporate Social Responsibility http://www.hd.jx-group.co.jp/english/csr/ Other Related Information About JX Holdings JX Children’s Story Award > About JX Group > Corporate Profile > Investor Relations JX Group Volunteer Activities • Establishment of JX Group • JX Group Mission Statement • Management Policies Supporting Restoration and • JX Group Mission Statement • Group Companies • Financial Highlights Recovery • Objectives and Basic Concept • Management Strategy • IR Library • Business Integration Disclosure • Corporate Data • Shareholder & Stock Information JX Group CSR Report Materials • Executives CSR Activities at Core Operating • Organization Companies • Corporate History JX Nippon Oil & Energy JX Nippon Oil & Gas Exploration http://www.noe.jx-group.co.jp/english/ http://www.nex.jx-group.co.jp/english/environment/index.html Corporate Profile HSE Policy CSR Report HSE Management System Products Operational Safety Environment Community and Compliance Our Measures to Support Raising Children of the Next-Generation JX Nippon Mining & Metals NIPPO CORPORATION http://www.nmm.jx-group.co.jp/english/ http://www.nippo-c.co.jp/english/index.html Corporate Profile Business Segments Toho Titanium Products http://www.toho-titanium.co.jp/en/index.html Corporate Social Responsibility The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and P26–27 Principle 2 make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. P26–27 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; P27 Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; P27 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and P27 Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. P24–27, P29 Environment Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; P21–23, P26, P31–32 Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and P13–23, P26–29, P31–32, P35 Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. P13–20, P26, P28–31, P35 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. P21–23, P26–27, P29–30 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 36 Third-Party Opinion We received comments from an outside expert on the JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012. Masaatsu Doi create new connections and generate synergies among employees who have Associate Professor no direct ties with one another in their day-to-day duties, apart from coming Faculty of Regional Policy together as volunteers. Takasaki City University of Economics Professor Doi earned his undergraduate degree at the Responding to Compliance Violations Hitotsubashi University Faculty of Economics, and completed his doctoral degree at the Hitotsubashi University Graduate School of It was very unfortunate to hear of the incident involving a safety test report at Commerce and Management in March 2011. He joined the faculty JX Nippon Oil & Energy’s Mizushima Refinery, which resulted in nonof Takasaki City University of Economics in 2006, and is the co-author of CSR Management: Corporate Social Responsibility compliance with the High Pressure Gas Safety Act. This was especially disapand Stakeholders, and The Rise of Social Enterprise, both pointing since the same refinery was the site of a problem involving published by CHUOKEIZAI-SHA, Inc. falsification of dust level concentrations in 2011. The Group is showing that it is taking this issue seriously, immediately disclosing relevant information and The JX Group has been off to a great start since its formation, achieving two establishing a new Internal Control Council. I expect that steps like these will consecutive years of record earnings. Similarly CSR initiatives, centered on the ultimately make the JX Group a more sustainable entity. work coordinated by the three core operating companies, have been coming along steadily. At the same time, the next set of issues facing the Group has Looking Ahead to Fiscal 2012 also come into focus. Below I will discuss three broad points for consideration, Calls have grown since the Great East Japan Earthquake for the developas well as my expectations for the JX Group in fiscal 2012. ment of new energy technologies and new lifestyle approaches that will utilize them. Approach to Information Disclosure Society’s attention today has very much turned to the technologies that The fiscal 2011 report has fewer pages compared to the previous edition, the JX Group possesses. This spans everything from residential fuel cell sysmaking it more compact and readable. However, it is undeniable that in some tems and other areas in the field of new energy, to the development of the respects, this has made it a bit more difficult to get an overall view of JX Caserones Copper Mine, where production is slated to begin from fiscal 2013. Group activities. For future editions, the Group needs to explore options for Given its wide array of business domains, the work of ensuring that the JX more organically linked information disclosure when considering the diverse Group Mission Statement penetrates through to every employee, and that range of Group company initiatives it has to choose from. This should include CSR is embedded in the business activities of Group companies is going to linkages between the publication medium and methods, as well as the take time. Part of this effort, I have heard, is the distribution to all executives integration of financial and non-financial information, as the decision is made and employees in April 2012 of the “Handbook for the Future (X),” a booklet on about what information and how it should be put forward to stakeholders as the Mission Statement being used as a workbook at Group business sites that representative of the JX Group. is eliciting feedback. It will be interesting to see how these steps are utilized to result in new initiatives and create new value from fiscal 2012. Initiatives After the Great East Japan Earthquake In closing, if the two years since the JX Group’s founding was a phase for The feature section makes it clear that the entire JX Group is involved in solidifying the fundamentals of CSR management, the Group has likely now restoration and recovery efforts in the wake of the Great East Japan Earthentered a new phase. Among other things, it will now need to take advantage quake. In particular, I am greatly anticipating the further upgrade and funcof stakeholder engagement that fully incorporates outsider perspectives and tional enhancement of the new type of earthquake-ready service station the input. The purpose of stakeholder engagement is not simply to take in tough Group is unveiling. I very much hope to see this new style of service station criticism from stakeholders, but to pursue constructive dialogue with them. appear across Japan as a haven of safety and security in local communities. The suggestions that emerge can then be incorporated into management My expectations also extend to the JX Group’s recovery support activities. The activities, leading to better competitiveness. Group earns unequivocal praise for the 19 continuous rounds of volunteer Dialogue opportunities with stakeholders will give rise to new ideas and activities it has sponsored since the disaster. The issue going forward will be innovations that will define the JX Group. I look forward to seeing the the extent to which the JX Group can best put its strengths to use. I look Company lead Japanese industry as an integrated energy, resources and forward to seeing how the Group, through these volunteer activities, will materials business group. Response We are very grateful for Professor Doi’s valuable opinions and suggestions for As for the compliance violation, the criticism leveled here is deserved and the JX Group’s CSR activities. well taken. We take this violation seriously, and consider it to be a problem for Through the business operations of Petroleum Refining and Marketing, Oil the entire JX Group. Among other actions, we are extensively re-enforcing our and Natural Gas Exploration and Production, and Metals, the JX Group has an legal compliance in a determination to be more sustainable. integral role in everyday life. Our business efforts reflect a commitment to our The JX Group is dedicated to working together with stakeholders to social mission of ensuring the stable supply of energy, resources and materials. contribute to the development of both a sustainable economy and a sustainThe Great East Japan Earthquake was a very emphatic reminder of our social able society. mission. The Group has worked together since to maintain and strengthen our supply chain, along with trial demonstrations of new earthquake-ready service stations and dispatching volunteers as part of 19 rounds of activities to assist in Toshihiko Ogawa Senior Vice President, General Manager, the recovery work. We are deeply honored that our initiatives around the General Administration Department disaster have met with such praise outside the Group. JX Holdings, Inc. 37 JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 Independent Review Report JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012 38 6-3 Otemachi 2-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8161, Japan http://www.hd.jx-group.co.jp/english/ General Administration Department Inquiries (e-mail) csr@hd.jx-group.co.jp After you have read the JX Report for a Sustainable Future 2012, feel free to submit any opinions or comments you may have. Please write to the General Administration Department or send an email. As of September 30, 2012, JX Holdings was a constituent of the following major SRI Indexes: DJSI Asia Pacific: A global index of 154 companies selected for their outstanding sustainability from among the 600 largest companies in the Asia-Pacific region. MS-SRI: This index comprises 150 stocks selected from among listed companies in Japan on the basis of noteworthy social responsibility efforts. This is Japan’s first socially responsible investment index. This report was printed using an environmentally friendly waterless printing process and vegetable oil ink. In support of the Kizukai Undo (Tree-Use Movement) promoted by Japan’s Forestry Agency, JX Holdings has printed this report on “3.9 paper,” made from wood produced through forest thinning in areas where the JX Group is engaged in forest maintenance. This contributes to increased absorption of CO2 by Japanese forests. Original Japanese Version Published in October 2012
