Amsterdam RAI Sustainability Report 2012 Table of contents 1 Foreword 3 2 Summary 4 3 About this report 6 4 Profile 7 5 CSR policy 9 5.1 CSR ambition 9 5.2 Renewed CSR ambition 10 5.3 cSR policy areas 10 5.4 Stakeholders 10 5.5 External evaluation 13 CSR results 15 6 Employees 15 7 Energy & climate 19 8 Waste 22 9 Mobility 26 10 Water 29 11 Procurement 30 12 Social engagement 33 13 Financial overview 40 GRI Table 41 Annex 1: Representation of Amsterdam RAI in industry associations 45 and business networks Annex 2: Personnel figures 46 Annex 3: Energy consumption 47 Annex 4: Waste 48 Annex 5: Water consumption 50 RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [2 ] 1 Foreword We are proud to present Amsterdam RAI’s fifth Sustainability Amsterdam RAI continue to meet its sustainability ambitions? What Report, which marks a major milestone for us. It is now five years is certain is that we wish to stay on the same path, following the ago since we made a deliberate decision to give sustainability a principles of the UN Global Compact. We are convinced that a prominent place in the company. This foundation has now been good CSR policy adds value and contributes to the success, strengthened to the point where one of our core values is ‘Amstercommercial and otherwise, of companies. To be distinctive within dam RAI ​​ achieves sustainable results.’ A great deal has happened in the current ‘green wave,’ one must have ambition. We have recent years. We have celebrated successes, detected bottlenecks defined ours: ‘Amsterdam RAI aims to be one of the visible leaders and learned that broad support within the company is an absolute in the field of sustainability in the conference and event industry in prerequisite for realisation. At the same time, we saw the attention Europe over the next five years.’ to the issue of sustainability grow exponentially in the world and our own industry. After five years we are taking stock. Are we one This is undoubtedly a challenge. The multitude of initiatives within of the European leaders in our industry? Perhaps that is for you to the RAI and, in particular, the commitment and motivation of its judge. employees to achieve sustainable results, strengthen the Board in its expectation that Amsterdam RAI will continue to play a distinctive The theme of this report is ‘the RAI listens.’ In 2012, we started a role in the exhibition and convention industry in the years ahead. dialogue with several stakeholder groups. By listening to our The fact that reputable industry bodies such as UFI and HSMAI customers, partners, suppliers and environment, we will ensure that recognised our sustainability policy with international awards in our sustainability ambitions continue to respond to their needs and 2012 fully underlines this conviction. perspectives. The report contains several quotes in which stakeholders give their views on the sustainability themes within Amsterdam I wish you pleasant reading. RAI. In the following chapters, we reflect upon the achievements of Hans Bakker recent years. At the same time, we look ahead. How will Managing Director [3 ] 2 Summary This report provides insight into Amsterdam RAI’s CSR policy and the progress it has achieved in the various themes contained within it. The summary below shows the most important results at a glance. Each topic is discussed more thoroughly in the report itself. . Highlights in the past Topic Highlights in 2012 five years • Main lines of a new CSR policy • Five-year CSR ambition and policy formulated • CSR board established to determine • Additional core value ‘Amsterdam RAI achieves CSR ambition level and monitor progress. sustainable results’ • Extensive stakeholder consultation • ISO 14001, gold Green Key and silver • ‘Best Sustainable Development Strategy’ Earthcheck certification CSR policy award and winner of the European HSMAI • Hiring of CSR ambassadors as drivers within Award in the category ‘Social Responsibility’ the company • Employee satisfaction rating of 7.7 • Practical translation of CSR for the • Partnerships with the internship office of the organisation and employees Amsterdam University of Applied Sciences • Improved CSR awareness among employees (Hogeschool van Amsterdam) and the • Annual CSR targets per department vocational secondary school MBO College Zuid Employees • Vitality portal • Further implementation of the new work methods • Neon lighting on the RAI complex replaced by • Increase in power consumption was limited: LED Thanks to reduction measures, energy use rose • One combined heat and power (CHP) system by 8% compared to 2009, instead of the fitted and operational expected 19% • All building wraps lit with LED • Better understanding of power consumption Energy and and possibilities for reduction, among other things by fitting electricity meters in various climate rooms • Creation of an energy work group comprising representatives from different departments, who contributed to initiating energy saving measures • Construction of the Elicium • All lighting within Amsterdam RAI was replaced by more economical versions of Greenfox in cooperation with the social workplace Pantar • Structural cooperation with the waste • 25% more separation of waste than in 2008 processing plant, including, as the most • Installation of a 10,000-litre swill tank to important targets, an increase in the percenconvert food waste into biofuel tage of waste sorted and implementation of • Deploying EcoCassettes and waste removal by the ‘polluter pays’ principle water via MokumMariteam Waste • Additional sorting methods (and smaller containers) for different types of waste • Better understanding of the carbon footprint • Cooperation with the Dutch railway operator and possible mobility improvements NS to provide special deals that encourage • Acquisition of an electrical company car visitors to travel via public transport • Participation in the Greendriver Challenge with • Cooperation with Amsterdam’s municipal the aim of making driving more environmentransport company GVB to make travelling Mobility tally sound within the city by tram, metro or bus easier for visitors and exhibitors • Introduction of slots for freight traffic allowing waiting times to be reduced • Cooperation with Taxicentrale Amsterdam to streamline taxi traffic and limit noise and pollution RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [4 ] Summary Highlights in the past Topic Highlights in 2012 five years • Research into an alternative water cooling • Total savings of some 9% were achieved in system 2012 with respect to 2008 • Research into individual water supply for each • Toilet flushing quantities reduced from eight to stand six litres • Automatic faucets installed Water • Social Return included in the procurement of • Agreement for the cleaning and window security services cleaning industry including arrangements on • Organisation of RAIlation; a meet & greet optimal working conditions platform where suppliers can come together • Supply of green electricity and showcase new products • Contract with the organic catering company Procurement Hartverwarmend Amsterdam • Financial contribution via exhibitions to the • Support the charities AMREF and Emma charities AMREF and Emma Children’s Hospital Children’s Hospital of the AMC Amsterdam via of the Academic Medical Centre Amsterdam financial means, know-how, facilities and • Educational seminar ‘Walking for water’ opportunities for exposure • Organisation of an open house for neighbour• The Kenya Classic, in which ten of our Social hood residents employees covered 350 kilometres to raise funds for AMREF Flying Doctors engagement [5 ] 3 About this report Amsterdam RAI publishes a report every to its stakeholders allows Amsterdam RAI (see page 10), as well as, naturally, anyone year to account for the progress made in to continue to focus on the themes most with an interest in Amsterdam RAI’s terms of its CSR performance. The important to them. This report includes a sustainability policy. Amsterdam RAI warmly organogram on page 8 shows the entities number of quotes which illustrate the invites readers to react to the contents of referred to in the report. For each substantive vision of our stakeholders on the sustainathis report. The relevant contact details are topic, Amsterdam RAI deploys committed bility topics relevant to Amsterdam RAI. indicated in the colophon. employees who monitor specific progress in each relevant field and contribute to the The results of the stakeholder consultation preparation of this report. are also included in the elaboration of Amsterdam RAI’s new sustainability policy. Amsterdam RAI listens This policy is discussed in section Dhe contents of the report focus on topics Amsterdam RAI follows the directives of the which were already determined in 2008 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in its within the framework of the original reporting, and considers that level B applies sustainability policy. In 2012, these themes to this report. More information on the were scrutinised as part of an extensive directives is available on GRI’s website dialogue with the representatives of various (www. globalreporting.org). This report is stakeholder groups important to. Listening intended primarily for the most stakeholders RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [6 ] 4 Profile To place Amsterdam RAI’s CSR policy and attendant results in the right context, here is a brief description of the structure of Amsterdam RAI. Amsterdam RAI ‘Inspiring People’ We believe in the power of connection. The world is full of opportunities to bring people, ideas and visions together. Based in the cosmopolitan city of Amsterdam, we have been connecting different worlds, people and markets for more than a century in the Netherlands and abroad. We link context, content and communities with each other as a facilitating or organising partner. We create the right conditions for inspiring meetings to take place and for different languages to become mutually intelligible in a single thought. This is the synergy which allows for the added value of an enriching experience or a business success. A creative commercial spirit and focus on operational excellence enables us to make the impossible possible for our clients, for the city of Amsterdam and for ourselves. This ambition gives the energy required to do business in a welcoming and sustainable way, and to learn from others. In doing so we connect people both physically and virtually, allowing them to inspire, surprise and enrich each other, always with an open mind and a global perspective. The result is a shared future full of new experiences, opportunities and meaningful moments which truly matter. Core values: Amsterdam RAI ➧ Inspires ➧ Stimulates business ➧ Energises ➧ For everyone ➧ Achieves sustainable results Clients and activities exhibitions, which Amsterdam RAI carries such as the Woonbeurs and Millionaire Fair, As an exhibition and conference centre, out as organising and facilitating partner. and a wide variety of conferences. The Amsterdam RAI facilitates the meeting of Its own exhibition titles include the multifunctional conference centre can also people, brands, and experiences. Its main Huishoudbeurs and Horecava. In addition, be let as a theatre, while the Elicium offers activities involve international trade exhibitiAmsterdam RAI also facilitates exhibitions, large-scale event and meeting facilities. ons and national trade and general conferences and events by third parties, Amsterdam RAI works with many different [7 ] Profile types of clients, including organisers, council (ROR), which meets on a monthly bonus based on various financial and exhibitors and visitors. Organisers are basis and makes recommendations to the non-financial key performance indicators responsible for exhibitions where exhibitors Board. (KPIs). A positive financial result is a showcase their products and services at condition in awarding these variable stands. Governance and reward rewards. At least one CSR goal is included policy on the Business Balance Score Cards (BBSC) Structure and Board Amsterdam RAI is aware of its role in which are available both for Amsterdam This report refers to the company Amstersociety and the resulting responsibilities to RAI as a whole and for each division and dam RAI BV, whose activities take place its stakeholders. The latter are described in department. under the responsibility of RAI Holding BV. our core values, business principles and The shareholders in the holding are the RAI regulations. The aforementioned docuAssociation (75%) and the City of Amsterments are available on the website of dam (25%). A shareholders’ meeting takes Amsterdam RAI via the corporate goverplace every year. The holding has a nance page. Another aspect of Amsterdam Supervisory Board and a Statutory Director. RAI’s policy is its reward plan. All permaThe Supervisory Board meets four times a nent RAI employees receive a fixed salary, year. Amsterdam RAI has an employees’ and there is also the possibility of a variable Organogram General Manager A.J. Bakker Secretariat J. Ven Financieel directeur a.i. M. Roodenburg Corp. Communication J. Tensen Controlling/FAC HRM J. Broex Legal Affairs ICT S. Hanrath B. Baas Convention Centre Convention Centre Convention Centre Exhibitions Sales Productie & Gebouw Operations I. Boersma M. van der Sluis J. van den Bosch M. van Nierop Planning & Revenue Production Event Management International Exhibitions B. Crapels J. Moens M. ten Oever Th. Lingmont Mktg. & Innovation Purchasing Service Management ManagerDomein Y. Nassar R. Ligthart M. Arends ManagerDomein Business Development Security Kitchen Management M. Steinebach-Verstoep F. Cairo R. Mulder Marketing & Dutch Exhibitions M. Visser Account Management Building & Technical Flex Management B. van der Heijden W. van den Born V. Elsing ManagerDomein Quality, Health & Safety ManagerDomein Exhibitor & Visitor Serv . Traffic Management E. Tangelder and Environment E.J. Leenders M. Tjon Exhibitor Serv. MVO Hotel & Travel Serv. M. Krul RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [8 ] 5 CSR policy The foundation of Amsterdam RAI’s social responsibility is explained in a CSR policy with an attendant organisational structure. This section explains how Amsterdam RAI organises and implements its CSR policy in practice. The sections following it will focus on the concrete results of the CSR policy. 5.1 CSR ambition what extent objectives were realised CSR policy (see also page 11). This input regarding the various CSR themes: contributed to a renewed CSR policy for Amsterdam RAI formulated its CSR • Employees the coming period. The premises were ambition in 2008, and can now look back • Energy and climate formulated in 2012, and Amsterdam RAI on the results completed over the past five • Waste will flesh out the new policy in 2013. years. • Mobility Naturally, Amsterdam RAI’s annual reports • Water will continue to report on the progress in There has been a great deal of work • Procurement this field. regarding CSR over the past years. • Social engagement Amsterdam RAI has realised many of its objectives, and made great strides in While learning from the past is important, others. These efforts have not passed looking ahead is even more so. This is why unnoticed, and Amsterdam RAI is seen as a Amsterdam RAI emphasised listening and leader and an example within the confeevaluating over the past year, and mapped rence and event industry. the most important lessons learned from the last five years. In addition, 2012 saw an The various sections of this report look extensive consultation of stakeholders back on the past five years and explain to regarding their vision on Amsterdam RAI’s [9 ] CSR policy 5.2 Renewed and implements the activities (programme) Amsterdam RAI has a CSR Manager whose necessary to realise these goals. In 2013, role is primarily to coordinate and define CSR ambition each owner will develop this further by the general outline of the CSR programme. articulating long-term goals for 2013-2017 Since 2008, Amsterdam RAI has seen an and defining projects and activities to reach 5.3.3 CSR ambassadors increasing number of companies in the these goals. Amsterdam RAI will give details Over the past five years, Amsterdam RAI industry pick up the gauntlet in terms of of the result in its 2013 report. has been able to rely on the support of its their CSR policy. This is a positive developcompany-wide network of CSR ambassament, as it lifts the whole sector to a higher 5.3.2 New: The CSR Board dors for the deployment of various CSR level. Amsterdam RAI aims to continue One component of the new approach will activities. This role is still vital and the CSR being a leader in this field, and being seen be the appointment of an Amsterdam RAI ambassadors are distributed over the as such, while achieving a visibility that CSR Board. Each member of the CSR Board various policy areas to support the owners. allows it to serve as an example. The more will sponsor one or several owners of the They remain an important face of CSR knowledge and experience is exchanged abovementioned policy areas. within Amsterdam RAI. within the industry, the better it is for the individual players. This is why Amsterdam The CSR Board will meet ten times each RAI’s new CSR ambition is as follows: year. Its main tasks will be: 5.4 Stakeholders • Determining the ambition level for CSR ‘Amsterdam RAI aims to be • Starting CSR projects and directing their Amsterdam RAI’s stakeholders are: implementation • Clients one of the visible leaders in • Monitoring progress and detecting and • Suppliers the field of sustainability in the solving bottlenecks • Employees conference and event industry • Improving internal support • Shareholders in Europe over the next five • Reporting • The corporate sector • Neighbourhood residents. years.’ Amsterdam RAI’s Amsterdam RAI strives to take into account 5.3 CSR policy areas CSR policy areas the interests of these different partners in its day-to-day operations, and therefore Fifteen policy areas have been formulated maintains regular lines of communication. within the new CSR policy. 1. Employees There are a number of contact opportuni2. Waste ties for each group every year. In 2012, 3. Energy Amsterdam RAI carried out an extensive 5.3.1 An owner for each 4. Water consultation of stakeholders. policy area 5. Mobility A major insight developed by Amsterdam 6. Emissions RAI over the past years is how important it 7. Certificates is to have the involvement of the entire 8. Procurement company in CSR. The experts in the 9. Assortment different policy areas who are best placed 10. Catering to formulate SMART goals are found in the 11. Cleaning departments of the company, not at the 12. Event content top. Furthermore, letting the departments 13. Visibility of CSR set up their own goals increases internal activities support for CSR. 14. Social engagement 15. CSR involvement of In the new CSR policy, each policy area has employees a specific owner, with a pioneering role in formulating concrete goals for its relevant topic. In addition, the owner coordinates RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [ 10 ] CSR policy Stakeholder consultation Two meetings with voluntary attendance were also organised in In 2012, Amsterdam RAI discussed its CSR policy with representawhich employees could discuss together important CSR themes, tives of most stakeholder groups. The objective was to test the current performances, communication regarding CSR and the current policy and include the interests and expectations of future ambitions of Amsterdam RAI. The findings of the consultastakeholders in the development of the new CSR policy. Eleven tion were integrated in the formulation of this report and into the in-depth interviews were held with external stakeholders from the new sustainability policy. various stakeholder groups. The following topics were discussed: • Key CSR themes for Amsterdam RAI Amsterdam RAI intends to continue to listen in 2013. The agenda • Current CSR performances of Amsterdam RAI for 2013 includes at least one consultation among organisers, a • Definition of leadership position/future CSR ambition of group of clients that had not been included in 2012, and whose Amsterdam RAI vision Amsterdam RAI wishes to hear as well. • Contents of the Sustainability report Amsterdam RAI listens mportant CSR themes Amsterdam RAI’s ambition levels The stakeholder consultation has shown that corporate social Stakeholders encourage Amsterdam RAI to continue to aim for a responsibility is crucial in the operations of Amsterdam RAI. position as industry leader. They feel that this suits an internatioAmsterdam RAI’s CSR policy themes were found to fit what nal exhibition organiser of its calibre, and that it is important in stakeholders, too, find most important. Catering is an example order to be able to set a good example. of a highly relevant topic, which is why this area is now being addressed separately. CSR report The stakeholders are very positive regarding Amsterdam RAI’s Current CSR performances reporting. They gave a number of different tips to make the The stakeholders were generally pleased with the progress report even more reader friendly, such as making it easier to find in Energy & Climate, Waste, and Mobility – fields in which on Amsterdam RAI’s website. The summary table inserted at Amsterdam RAI was found to be on the cutting edge. Relevant the beginning of this report is a concrete example of a tip by a examples mentioned include the availability of green electricity, stakeholder. the near-elimination of generator sets around the building, the removal of waste via an emissions-free boat and the schemes to encourage visitors to take the train. Policy items such as having a CSR Manager are also experienced as very positive by stakeholders. Furthermore, local residents are satisfied with communications regarding the neighbourhood and with the information provided on activities in and around Amsterdam RAI. Of course, concerns were also raised. For instance, certain observers found that some of the lights in and around Amsterdam RAI were unnecessary and that more could be done in the field of sustainable supplier management. The ‘grey concrete’ appearance of the building has also been brought up as an issue. Amsterdam RAI takes these comments seriously and they are covered in the different sections of this report. [ 11 ] CSR policy Satisfied customers into this new system, as have communicatifrom organisers, visitors, local residents and In order to stay abreast of what is ons from exhibitors related to events. The other stakeholders will also be integrated happening among its stakeholders, first analyses have already led to projects within the system in the future. Amsterdam RAI regularly measures designed to further improve service customer satisfaction. The new survey provision to exhibitors. Communications method for measuring customer satisfaction introduced in 2011 was fully implemented in 2012. This method is used within both the Convention Centre and Accessibility for disabled persons Exhibitions departments, and is based on the Customer Experience Journey concept, In 2011, Amsterdam RAI carried out a study aiming to improve i.e., customers’ experience and attendant accessibility for disabled persons. An independent audit was needs/challenges in their relationship with carried out by the agency Projectbureau Toegankelijkheid (PBT) Amsterdam RAI before, during and after an in 2012, which tested the building for NEN-1814 (the Dutch event. standard for the accessibility of a building or outdoor space to disabled persons) and the International Symbol of Access (ISA). Within the Convention Centre, the Once this study was completed, a number of improvements were customer satisfaction and loyalty of implemented right away. For instance, a tool for reading out loud organisers is measured before and after was built into the new website of Amsterdam RAI, allowing each event. The customer satisfaction and visually impaired users to hear the text on the site. This tool loyalty of exhibitors and visitors is measured works in both Dutch and English. There is also a separate Accesafter the event for each exhibition that sibility tab where disabled persons can easily find relevant infortakes place in Amsterdam RAI. The ultimate mation on wheelchair accessibility for spaces, lifts, lavatories and purpose of this is to improve the results. parking spots. Furthermore, a high-contrast route description for the visually impaired can be downloaded. The number of disaTo gain more insight into the desires and bled parking spots will be expanded in cooperation with the interests of future visitors, specialised municipality. Further actions will be taken in 2013 to allow agencies were contracted to carry out Amsterdam RAI to fulfil one of its core values – ‘Amsterdam RAI is surveys on Generations Y and X and the for everyone’ – even better, including for disabled persons. Connected Society. The results will be published in 2013 in the form of a trend report offered to customers and partners. Various master classes with managers and employees will also be organised in 2013 to build on this. Management of complaints Part of the policy regarding customer satisfaction is the careful handling of complaints. Amsterdam RAI implemented a Management Information System (FMIS) in 2012, which allows communications, including those coming from customers, to be handled and monitored by the responsible department at Amsterdam RAI more easily. Internal technical communications and communications relevant to facility management have since been integrated RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [ 12 ] CSR policy Representation in the 5.5 External evaluation business environment Global Compact The ambition to be visible and have a The Global Compact Initiative is Corporate social responsibility is not pioneering role goes together with a solid an international platform where something that a company does for profit. Amsterdam RAI presence in networks companies, UN organisations, Amsterdam RAI believes in this principle relevant to the industry. The networks in trade unions and civil society because it allows the achievement of good which Amsterdam RAI is represented things through the careful consideration of cooperate to interpret ten princiinclude: a company’s responsibility. Of course, this ples in the field of human rights, • UFI The Global Association of the does not mean that it is not rewarding to labour conditions, protecting the Exhibition Industry be recognised for efforts made. As well as • ICCA – International Congress & environment and battling corrupconfirming that Amsterdam RAI is on the Convention Association. tion. By participating in Global right path, it is also good for the company’s • GMIC Green Meetings Industry Compact, Amsterdam RAI endorimage and visibility. Council ses the ten Global Compact • NBTC – Netherlands Board of Tourism & principles. Amsterdam RAI has had ISO-9001 and Conventions ISO-14001 certificates, a gold Green Key • CLC-Vecta – Centre for Live Communiand EarthCheck Silver Certification since cation 2011. • Amsterdam Marketing – Amsterdam Congress Bureau The complete list of networks can be found in Annex 1. [ 13 ] CSR policy Awards in 2012 Amsterdam RAI’s CSR policy received two CSR policy declaration major international awards in 2012. Amsterdam RAI has merged its CSR and environmental policy Best Sustainable Development declarations. The accessibility of the facilities was also integrated Strategy in the merged policy declaration to reflect the RAI’s ambitions to UFI (the Global Association of the Exhibibe open to all. tion Industry) proclaimed Amsterdam RAI winner in the category ‘Best Sustainable Development Strategies,’ in which it was The policy declaration relevant to CSR and the environment is as one of six nominees. All finalists were follows: invited to present their case studies during the UFI Focus Meeting on Sustainable In the rich history of Amsterdam RAI, business decisions have Development, which took place in June never been taken on purely economic grounds. The societal 2012 in Hamburg. implications for the city and region have always been explicitly taken into account when organising and facilitating successful and hospitable events. Amsterdam RAI is committed to sustainable leadership in the congress and events industry in Europe. We strive for a safe, healthy and eco-friendly environment for all visitors to and stakeholders in our convention centre. Ambitious yet realistic targets have been set to reduce environmental impact, which involve all parties connected to the RAI This CSR and environmental policy is widely supported within Amsterdam RAI and by an ISO-14001 environmental management system, where continuous efforts to improve the environmental performance is leading. Social Responsibility winner Over the past year, Amsterdam RAI has Amsterdam RAI also won in the Social invested a great deal of energy in involving Responsibility category of the European employees and departments fully in HSMAI Awards. HSMAI is the trade corporate social responsibility. It is rewarassociation for sales, marketing & commuding that this is so clearly recognised by nication professionals in the hospitality important trade associations. industry in Europe. Announcing the winner, the jury stated the following: “From The nomination of Amsterdam RAI’s involvement in the workplace to the sustainability report 2011 for the European business decisions being taken, the winner Excellence Award was another bonus. This in the Social Responsibility category is international award by the European trade clearly focused on making its activities magazine Communication Director more sustainable and creating a safe, acknowledges performances in the field of healthy and environmentally friendly communication and PR. environment for all its visitors and stakeholders.” RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [ 14 ] CSR results 6 Employees A look back on the last five years Over recent years, Amsterdam RAI has succeeded in translating the abstract concept of corporate social responsibility into practical applications throughout the company. Employees are aware of the importance of CSR for Amsterdam RAI and of the different ways in which they can contribute to it themselves. The formulation of specific CSR goals for each department has strengthened this awareness and contributed to the further development of sustainability within Amsterdam RAI. Social engagement plays a part, as do other measures such as the guest lectures on AMREF given by a number of employees every year in primary schools, or individual contributions such as paperless working, carpooling and smart power consumption. At the same time, the “I have the impression that customer always remains in focus, sometimes at the expense of the CSR employees are treated very philosophy. The next step will therefore be to show that CSR and well. I can tell partly because customer focus can mutually reinforce each other. people stay here and we see the same faces every year.” Employees are of the utmost importance in Amsterdam RAI’s operations. The company has a culture in which Hellen van Vugt, Babypoint exhibitor. qualities such as pride in one’s work, customer focus, hospitality, international orientation, creativity and passion for virtual applications are central. [ 15 ] Employees The latest employee survey showed that implemented as a pilot project. This was diversity in control and work groups is empthe average satisfaction is quite high. One received very positively, as shown by the hasised by ensuring that there is always at of the ways in which this is reflected is the score for working conditions in the least one woman and one person from average duration of service of almost ten employee satisfaction survey. Generation Y (i.e., born after 1980) in years (9.8). This is something that Amstereach. There are three main considerations dam RAI is justifiably proud of. When it Learning capacity regarding generation management within comes to CSR, the company’s HR policy this A Dare2Share programme was set up to Amsterdam RAI. First, the company must year focused on the ‘new way of working promote learning capacity. This programme be prepared to accommodate new platform (‘het Nieuwe Werken’), diversity, makes it possible to have a look behind the generations of employees. Second, the workplace safety, cooperation with scenes of other employees’ activities in the generations must be able to cooperate education institutes, and vitality. framework of the so-called ‘DiscoverRAI’ harmoniously. And third, given the greying initiative and facilitate a better use of of the population, senior employees must The new way of working in-house knowledge potential. For the be deployed in more sustainable ways. Amsterdam RAI has chosen to implement same purpose, agendas were made its own version of the Dutch ‘new way of available across departments and the use of In 2007, Amsterdam RAI formulated an working’ platform throughout the SharePoint was increased and improved. ambition to get more women into top company. The goal of the programme is to A plan was also set up to strengthen the positions. In 2008, a strategy was elaborarealise a working environment that enables versatility of employees so as to make ted to achieve a level of twenty per cent of Amsterdam RAI to: connections and work together across job women in management over a period of description and department borders. five to seven years. This ambition and ➧ Better realise its goals objective were reinforced by the company’s ➧ Get the best out of its employees Management & space signing of the national charter ‘Talent to through a more targeted use of their The ‘new way of working’ requires a the top’ in 2009. talent and potential different leadership style. To allow for ➧ Improve customer focus and customer suitable leadership development, over the Since 2010, a great deal of attention has satisfaction past year managers were made more aware been paid to developing talent in general of the importance and effects of manageOur motto in this process is: ‘Working togement style. Workshops were arranged and ther on a working environment that works.’ a film clip explaining old and new rules of Characteristics of The basic idea for the new methods is that conduct was shown so as to shine more of Generation Y they are in line with Amsterdam RAI’s aims a spotlight on the new working methods. and that the working strategy and methods These measures are the first elements of a Generation Y, also known as reinforce each other. The programme was conduct adjustment project, which is ‘generation Einstein,’ followed originally based on four pillars: Flexible already showing its first results. There is, for on from Generation X. People working, learning capacity, management & instance, greater dialogue and cooperation belonging to Generation Y space, and vision on the virtual organisabetween departments, managers and grew up in a time of swift tion, the last of which belongs to the virtual employees, and adjustments to the style of technological progress and strategy. management, as well as more focus on economic prosperity. They self-reflection. cannot imagine life without Flexible working To allow employees to familiarise themselFrom 2013, the new way of working will be the internet. The younger ones ves with working independently of time integrated in the HR assessment and among them grew up during and place, Amsterdam RAI organised a development cycle as well as in the the rise of Google. People from so-called disruption week during which Business Balance Score Card. Generation Y work together they were challenged to wander off the easily, like to co-create, have beaten track, e.g., by working in other Diversity little time for hierarchies, departments or not emailing for one day. Amsterdam RAI considers that the diversity and are eager to learn and of teams has a positive influence on results. develop. Within the Exhibitions division, a new office In addition to looking at team composition concept for fully flexible working was within departments, the importance of RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [ 16 ] Trend in accidents 2011-2012 20% 15% 10% Employees 5% 0% 2011-01 2011-02 2011-03 2011-04 2011-05 2011-06 2011-07 2011-09 2011-10 2011-11 2011-12 2012-01 2012-02 2012-03 2012-04 2012-05 2012-06 2012-07 2012-09 2012-10 2012-11 2012-12 Number of accidents 2012 by type of victim 30% 25% 20% 15% 10% 5% 0% er p er to r ee lie r or ity ild m th oy sit cu Te O bi pl pp Vi r Bu hi su Se d Ex m an Ie se St RA ou -h In Accidents: People involved in registered occupational accidents at Amsterdam RAI that resulted in 100.000 5.000.000 4.500.000 90.000 physical or psychological injuries.. A4 use 4.000.000 A3 use 80.000 3.500.000 70.000 3.000.000 60.000 2.500.000 Trend in accidents 2011-2012 50.000 2.000.000 20% 40.000 1.500.000 30.000 15% 1.000.000 20.000 500.000 10% 10.000 0 0 5% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 0% 2011-01 2011-02 2011-03 2011-04 2011-05 2011-06 2011-07 2011-09 2011-10 2011-11 2011-12 2012-01 2012-02 2012-03 2012-04 2012-05 2012-06 2012-07 2012-09 2012-10 2012-11 2012-12 Number of accidents 2012 by type of victim 30% 25% (both men and women). A programme for industry partners, and the policy was The accident analysis shows that most 20% 15% leadership development was also started, shared with colleagues in the Netherlands accidents resulted from the use of transport 10% 5% with the aim of preparing employees – woand abroad. During setup and breakdown carts. Forty new carts for transporting 0% er p er r ee r or y m to lie rit men in particular – for management periods, Amsterdam RAI is only accessible refrigerated food from the production ild Te th bi oy pp sit cu Bu O hi pl Vi Ex m su Se d Ie se an ou RA positions in time. with a valid badge provided after online kitchen to the banqueting and public St -h In registration. catering sites were purchased for the RAI One woman was named as director in 2011 facilities in 2012. The old carts were too 5.000.000 100.000 and joined board meetings in 2012. This Its policy for safety at work places Amsterhigh and too easily overloaded, and 4.500.000 A4 use often 90.000 4.000.000 A3 use 80.000 has brought the percentage of women in dam RAI in the vanguard of the European could 3.500.000 not easily be pushed over carpet 70.000 or 3.000.000 60.000 management to twenty. The general ratio event industry. The policy is explained in a on ramps. The new carts are lower, 2.500.000 50.000 of men to women within Amsterdam RAI is manual which is shared with employees as allowing 2.000.000 1.500.000 the people who operate them40.000 to 30.000 well balanced, with 48.5 per cent of the well as suppliers, clients and partners from always 1.000.000 500.000 have a good line of sight. They are 20.000 10.000 employees being men and 51.5 per cent the industry. The manual can be accessed also lighter 0 and have a protective border 0 on 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 women. This and other figures relevant to by anyone in Dutch and English on the the bottom to prevent accidents. The carts personnel are available in Annex 2. RAI’s website and is therefore also available have been custom adapted to the working to other companies in the industry. In this conditions at Amsterdam RAI. Safe and hospitable RAI way, Amsterdam RAI contributes to With 629 events in 2012, Amsterdam RAI improved safety throughout the industry. Cooperation with training remains one of the busiest convention Safety is a topic which should be in focus institutes centres in Europe. High occupancy causes everywhere and not subject to competition. t is important for study programmes to be more tension between exhibition planning properly connected to the relevant field of and the organisation of exhibitions, Results of the safety policy work. In practice, students often have conferences and events. It is very important Enforcement of the safety policy is a inaccurate expectations of the activities that safety continues to be guaranteed in challenge as the industry is not yet used to relevant to exhibitions. To partly remedy this context. In 2012, Amsterdam RAI it. The first results are, however, already this, an Experience Day was held in 2012 introduced new guidelines for safety at becoming visible. An improved culture of together with the trade association work, thereby taking a major step forward safety can be observed in the setup and Meeting Professional International (MPI) in improving safety during events, especially breakdown of exhibitions, as reflected in and Saxion Hospitality Business School regarding setup and breakdown. Everyone the increased use of safety helmets and Amsterdam RAI entered a partnership with with a presence on the exhibition floor at safety shoes, among other things. There is the Amsterdam University of Applied Amsterdam RAI must respect the safety a growing realisation among the parties Sciences (Hogeschool van Amsterdam), rules. To ensure this, various information involved that safety prescriptions must be enabling Amsterdam RAI to improve its sessions were held with suppliers and observed to avoid accidents and incidents. visibility among students by offering [ 17 ] Employees traineeships. For instance, an agreement Employees can take an online test on the was made with the Online Enterprise RAI Vitaal portal to calculate their own professorship to create capacity to guide vitality and be inspired to improve health graduates wishing to carry out research in and fitness in their life and work. The Amsterdam RAI. effects of this on vitality within Amsterdam RAI and the extent to which it motivates May 2012 marked the beginning of a employees to live and work in a healthier partnership between Amsterdam RAI and way will be studied during the course of the vocational secondary school MBO 2013. College Zuid (ROC), which was established across the street from Amsterdam RAI in Short preview 2012. Students from the Organising & A socially responsible HR policy will remain Event Support programme are following a an essential component in Amsterdam RAI’s subject called RAI hospitality, which consists ambition to be the ideal employer in the of training courses, a tour, a student future. The focus on socially conscious “The importance of vitality as assessment and a practical internship entrepreneurship, the linking of customers a concept for dealing with the lasting two days. with social developments and the role greying population in a played in this by employees are all expected timely way will increase in Influx of young technicians to become increasingly important. the future. Offering apprentiIn 2008, the ‘Leermeestergezel’ project was ceships and internships is a started to stimulate the influx of young way to ensure sufficient new technicians so as to achieve a balanced blood in the company. Amcomposition within the Technical Service sterdam RAI is already team. This is also a way for Amsterdam RAI approaching this in a good to maintain valuable knowledge and way, and I see youthful talent experience within the team by stimulating appearing at all levels. Supknowledge transfer between generations. pliers can contribute to this The project has been very successful in the by sharing their experience past years and will be continued next year. and knowledge with the new generations. This can include Vitality lectures and presentations on Amsterdam RAI aims to promote the vitality often complex topics.” of its employees so that everyone can be fit and full of energy at work. Ronald Koene, The vitality programme ‘RAI Vitaal’ was supplier Mansveld Expotech developed to initiate, facilitate and promote Amsterdam. campaigns among employees. Different tools, workshops and campaigns will be offered under the auspices of this programme in 2013, helping to improve employees’ health & fitness, promote job satisfaction & work-life balance, and prevent stress and absenteeism. RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [ 18 ] 7 Energy & climate A look back on the last five years Results Amsterdam RAI aims to reduce energy consumption RAI’s facilities and in-house concession holders and per rented square metre by 25 per cent in 2013 suppliers were given their own electricity meter. Also a compared to the reference year 2008. Power consumpnew distribution box was fitted in which all consumer tion has not decreased in the last four years – rather, it circuits are measured. The energy work group, which has increased by eight per cent. Amsterdam RAI has includes representatives of different departments taken many energy saving measures to prevent within Amsterdam RAI, also contributed to energy consumption from rising further. Without these saving initiatives. One of the major developments over measures, power consumption would have increased the past five years was the completion of the Elicium, by nineteen per cent instead of the current eight. The an energy-efficient office & conference building. The increasing energy use is due, among other things, to Elicium has a GSHP, highly effective insulation, a the expansion of the facilities (the total real estate climate regulating façade and lighting sensors. volume increased by six per cent compared to 2008), the use of pavilions in the forecourt, higher occupancy, Obstacles the expansion of technical systems, and exponentially It is difficult to affect the energy use of organisers and rising electricity consumption by exhibitors. exhibitors. Exhibitors are, for instance, making use of more and more electrical equipment and lighting, Over the past five years, Amsterdam RAI has gained while organisers are requesting increasing levels of progressively more insight into its power consumption comfort in the halls in terms of temperature. The focus and is therefore better equipped to act on this and of Amsterdam RAI has, therefore, been more on its implement measures in the exact places where the own power consumption, as this is a field in which it largest savings can be realised. For instance, electricity has more influence. meters were fitted in different spaces at Amsterdam [ 19 ] Energy & climate Electrical consumption Amsterdam RAI distinguishes three Energy saving measures 2012 different types of electrical consumers: Itself, organisers and exhibitors. Total • All lighting in Amsterdam RAI apart from in the technical spaces power use has decreased somewhat has been replaced by more economical versions of Greenfox. compared to 2011. It increased by 2.8 per Amsterdam RAI took this step despite the long ROI period of six cent compared to 2008. years and decreasing electricity prices. • Neon outlines have been replaced by LED, realising savings of Amsterdam RAI focuses on the most easily managed energy savings in its own fixed around three per cent on the RAI’s own consumption. consumption. The electricity consumption • Fitting electricity meters throughout the facility has made it by exhibitors (some 25% of the total) was possible to see where the RAI’s own consumption is particularly found to be difficult to manage, as high and to take targeted action to lower power consumption. For technological developments allow an instance, air handling units were found to often have been left increasing number of electronic devices running unnecessarily. such as laptops and special lighting effects • Lighting on building wraps was changed from TL or halogen to to be used. Although such devices are LED. This allowed for savings of 75%. becoming increasingly economical, this type • The K awning was equipped with LED lighting. of consumption has increased by 46% • In 2012, various meters were added for concession holders and since 2008. suppliers’ storage areas/offices so that these partners can be more aware of their energy consumption. The number of technical systems has • The Elicium uplighters, Elicium awning, Grand Café green wall and increased and some have been replaced so as to satisfy the more demanding customer P7 pathway are all now lit with economical lighting solutions. expectations, regulations and required • CSR elements, such as the compulsory provision of sustainable infrastructure. In 2012, for instance, the fittings to stand holders, have been added to contracts with cooling in the Main Equipment Rooms was preferred suppliers such as Mansveld Expotech. replaced and enlarged, the air treatment in the renovated foyers was replaced, and the measuring and control systems were expanded. Despite these changes, absolute energy consumption in 2012 was somewhat lower than in 2011. This was possible Heating, cooling and gas the low price of electricity will probably also because there was also a lot of focus on Gas consumption has increased sharply have consequences for the existing CHP in reduction measures, which prevented a rise compared to the reference year 2008. This 2014 and 2015. of around five per cent. The most imporis partly due to the operation of the tant measures are summarised in the combined heat and power (CHP) system Another reason for the increasing considebar. and partly thanks to higher occupancy and sumption of gas is the growing demand by more degree days2 compared to 2008. organisers. Organisers increasingly require One combined heat and power (CHP) higher comfort levels in terms of temperaElectricity consumpion system was fitted in 2012 and became ture in the halls. Other relevant Percentage change compared to 2008 15% operational in the last quarter. A CHP is a developments include higher occupancy 10% generator which generates electricity from compared to 2008, a higher number of 5% 0% gas while providing heat as a by-product. degree days and the deployment of mobile -5% -10% The heat can be used to heat or cool down cooling for the pavilions. -15% a building. The option to install a second -20% -25% CHP was examined and found to be 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Reference level Actual consumption Goal unprofitable due to the low price of electricity. If the cost of gas stays constant, 2 A degree dayGas is aconsumption excl. CHP unit for measuring changes in temperature. A degree day is given relative Percentage sorted temperature, usually stated as the level at which heating is to a reference of waste Percentage change compared to 2008 no longer necessary (typically eighteen degrees Celsius). 60% 10% 5% 50% RAI 0% Sustainability Report 2012 40% [ 20 ] -5% -10% 30% -15% 20% DRINK KNOCK/KNOCK GROw/GROw CHOP/CHOP MMM RAI coffee in the Grand Cafe. We collect the coffee grounds. GRO gives them to its oyster The oyster mushrooms are harvested. Processed into bitterballen or mushrooms. croquettes. Available in the RAI Grand Café. Energy & Amsterdam RAI Amsterdam RAI GRO-Holland GRO-Holland Amsterdam RAI climate ENERGY SAVINGS x 1000 LIGHTS CONVERTING COST SAVINGS ENERGY THE RAI FITTINGS SAVINGS SAVES Existing lights must become more Amsterdam RAI is converting its It only costs a third of the Up to 50%. 1000 tons of CO2, equivalent to a economical. lights fittings. new price. forest of 35.000 trees. Amsterdam RAI Greenfox in cooperation with the social workplace Pantar Amsterdam RAI Amsterdam RAI Even so, once the CHP consumption was Municipal heating for event managers in the so as to improve deducted and an allowance made for Amsterdam RAI is in negotiations with the awareness of current electricity consumpWATERBESPARING occupancy and degree days, consumption Dutch energy company Nuon to connect tion. This will allow issues such as lighting was found to have dropped by 8.6 per to the municipal heating network in 2013. that has been left on unnecessarily to be cent. This is the result of the following This would give the RAI the advantage of detected. making it far less dependent on gas supmeasures: plies. It would also promote sustainability, • Two goods entrances xwere fitted with 10.248.000 A study is looking into whether grey water as net energy consumption would be lower electrical operation so as to allow them after allowing for residual heat. The discus(rainwater) can be stored for later spraying to be closed more simply and frequentsions are likely to have a positive outcome. on the roof for cooling in case of high ly. This avoids draughts and reduces temperatures in the summer. Around four heat and cold losses. Energy work group million litres of water can be stored in the •  The business Amsterdam centre RAI heeft façade5was afgelopen jaar The energy work group has introduced garage. Another study aims to determine circa 10.248.000 liter water bespaard. insulated. many initiatives in 2012 to save on both whether sun panels with a total capacity of • A number of roll-up doors were electricity and gas consumption. Several 250 kWh or more could be installed on the installed in the halls. These are doors studies are conducted every year and the flat roofs. While this seems feasible in which open and close automatically, results/feasibility discussed in the energy terms of carrying capacity, the economic preventing draughts and reducing heat Electricity consumpion work group. There is also a critical overview aspect of the decision will depend partly on and cold losses. Percentage change compared to 2008 of consumption figures every two weeks new technological developments. •  15% Various measuring and control aimed at detecting notable elements and 10% 5% mechanisms were adapted so as to studying them for reduction possibilities. Construction of the Scheldeplein building 0% -5% improve the yield and efficiency of the Funding has been made available for this in will start in October. Amsterdam RAI has -10% CHP system. 2013, and the focus will be on so-called high sustainability ambitions for this new -15% -20% ‘creeping consumption,’ which will be complex, which will feature Breeam -25% Excellent3 sun panels on the roof, a gre The figures 2008 relevant 2009 to2010 power 2011 consumption 2012 counteracted by installing automated doors enhouse for urban farming, light reflection can be found in Annex 3. Reference level Actual consumption Goal and setting unused systems on standby or by means of mirrors in the building, and a deploying them more efficiently. new GSHP. The next annual report will give more details about this. Gas consumption excl. CHP Percentage change compared to 2008 Short previewPercentage of waste sorted 10% Research 60%will be carried out in 2013 into a 5% 0% new type 50% of climate system which allows -5% better mixing 40% of air and can heat spaces -10% 30% -15% using less gas. Another study will look into 20% -20% -25% the possibility to centralise cooling, thereby 10% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 reducing losses. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Gas consumption Goal A so-called green screen will be installed Sorted waste Goal 3 BREEAM-NL is an assessment method for determining the sustainability performance of buildings. The system uses qualitative weighting of criteria and gives a mark from Water consumption Waste production one to five Percentage stars for new buildings (Pass, Good, Very Good, Excellent or Outstanding). change compared to 2008 Percentage change with respect to 2007 0% 0% -5% -5% [ 21 ] -10% -10% -15% -15% -20% 8 Waste A look back on the last five years Amsterdam RAI is a leader in waste sorting in the European conference and event industry. Substantial efforts have been made over the past years related to the sorting, sustainable transportation and reuse of waste. An example is the agreement with a waste treatment plant to increase the percentage of waste sorted and implement a ‘polluterpays’ principle. Other highlights included the installation of a 10,000-litre swill tank to convert swill to biofuel and the deployment of EcoCassettes, a system with which waste is compressed for removal by MokumMariteam. Another key consideration is the fact that awareness of and attention for waste-related issues among both employees and clients has increased in the past few years. While there are several challenges remaining, Amsterdam RAI is proud of the results achieved so far. The goal to sort 25 per cent more waste than in 2008 has been reached. The goal to produce 25 per cent less waste was not realised, however. A reduction of 17 per cent was achieved but Amsterdam RAI could exercise only minimal influence on “There is a lot of attention for this. waste sorting and energy use, which is very positive!” Ronald Koene, supplier Mansveld Expotech Amsterdam. RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [ 22 ] Waste Cooperation with the waste treatment plant Important changes: 2011 saw the first pilot project with Amsterdam RAI’s waste collector (Icova) • The outsourcing of the exhibition setup and breakdown process to and cleaning service provider (GCA). The the waste collection company Icova. As soon as the setup or pilot aimed to shift waste processing breakdown begins, this is the only partner in charge of waste activities from the cleaning company to the management. The result is a cleaner, and therefore more accessiwaste collector. One of the pillars of this pilot was to achieve a clearer distribution of ble, exhibition floor, speeding up the setup and breakdown. activities between these two partners and • The deployment of Icova employees as environmental controllers Amsterdam RAI, thereby realising a more to guide exhibitors and point out their responsibilities with respect efficient deployment of personnel and to waste sorting. By passing on the cost of waste to the exhibitor, means. The most important goal is to waste streams are sorted better, and Amsterdam RAI promotes the further improve waste sorting and shift the polluter-pays principle. The organisers benefit from having less and cost of the produced waste onto the better sorted waste, reducing their costs. polluter. After a number of successful pilot • The establishment of an Icova office within the Amsterdam RAI projects, a new partnership was officially complex. started on 1 October 2012. The waste • The transfer of all administrative tasks. collector has had responsibility for waste • The acquisition of new electrical rolling equipment. management within Amsterdam RAI ever since. The new partnership also has consequences for Amsterdam RAI’s internal organisation. The outsourcing of the entire work package led to the closure of the Environmental Service Management department and the Action plan for exhibitions sorting. The ten largest exhibitions, which planning & work preparation branch of the An action plan is set up for exhibitions account for some 65 per cent of the total Planning department on 1 October. charting what needs to be done with the waste, had an average of 49 per cent of waste flows for each phase of the relevant residual waste. In 2011, this percentage Polluter pays event (setup, organisation, event, breakwas 43. Icova is now responsible for the The waste management policy within down). This describes the type of waste, goal to sort more waste each year than the Amsterdam RAI is based on the polluterthe roster of environmental controllers and previous. The sorting figures for the period pays principle. This means that organisers, the sorting means offered. The specificities from 2013 until 2017 will be determined in exhibitors, concession holders and in-house of the event are also identified. A targeted the new multiannual sustainability policy. suppliers are charged for the amount of action plan for each exhibition allows the Amsterdam RAI is confident that the waste they produce. Residual waste is the waste process to be managed better. This upward trend in waste sorting will most expensive category, and delivering has, for instance, led to the offering of continue. pre-sorted waste provides cost savings for additional sorting methods such as oil clients. The waste collector facilitates this drums for used grease, channels for the Amsterdam RAI aims to set a good example by supplying sorting trays, bags and boxes. collection of biodegradable waste and and is looking into how it can contribute to This has the added value of limiting the sorting methods for chemical waste. reducing the volume of waste and increase formation of rubbish deposits, i.e., piles the sorting figures at its own exhibitions. of residual waste in the halls where clients Waste sorting For instance, Amsterdam RAI is trying to and suppliers dump excess rubbish. It is As almost all the available time and improve awareness among exhibitors and often impossible to trace where such attention were swallowed up by the visitors regarding waste. Another example deposits originate. In addition to the outsourcing of the full responsibility for is the expansion of the number of small allocation problem, rubbish deposits also waste, the operational attention faltered sorting methods for all types of waste, as a represent logistical obstacles and a safety somewhat during part of 2012. This is response to the higher number of smaller risk in the halls. reflected in lower percentages of waste stands which do not require large contai[ 23 ] Waste “Dealing with waste requires thinking in terms of supply chains. It starts with prevention – how can you encourage clients to deal with waste at an early stage? This is something that Amsterdam RAI and Icova could work on more.” Percentage of waste sorted Percentage of waste sorted Waste reduction Cor Gerritsen, 60% 60% 50% The goal to reduce total waste by 25 per supplier Icova. 50% 40% cent with respect to 2008 was not 40% 30% achieved. There was, however, a three per 30% 20% cent reduction in 2012 compared to 2011. 20% 10% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 From 1 October, stand builders will be More advantages from the 10% 2008 2009 Sorted waste 2010 2011 Goal 2012 called to account more regarding their new partnership Sorted waste Goal waste production. In addition to the abovementioned points, other advantages have also come to light. Waste production There are different factors which influence The setup and breakdown of exhibitions is Waste production Percentage change with respect to 2007 Percentage change with respect to 2007 the amount of waste produced, over many faster and the halls are cleaner before the 0% 0% of which the company has no influence. initial and final cleaning. Furthermore, there -5% -5% -10% For instance, the current global economic is now detailed information on the waste -10% -15% -15% -20% situation leads to stand builders and produced by organisers and exhibitors, -20% -25% exhibitors reusing materials more often. which allows agreements regarding waste -25% -30% -30% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 This is a positive development for the to be clearer. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Waste production Goal amount of waste. At the same time, we Waste production Goal are also seeing that we sometimes lose Paper consumption control over the waste processing. Stand Paper consumed for printing decreased holders and exhibitors normally pay again in 2012. Wherever possible, printing ners caused by the economic situation. This Amsterdam RAI for a responsible proceswithin Amsterdam RAI is carried out in has made it worthwhile to also sort smaller sing of waste, but the deteriorating black and white on double-sided paper. The amounts of waste. economic situation has led them to take company aims to reduce printing further away their rubbish more often than before. through the use of tablets and the new pull Figures regarding the volume of waste, While this appears to result in a reduction, printing feature, which requires a RAI recycling percentages and an overview of in practice it means Amsterdam RAI can badge to pick up printed sheets. This allows what ultimately happens with the waste no longer guarantee the responsible duplicate or incorrect printing tasks to be can be found in Annex 4. processing of waste. cancelled easily. Eighty-gram FSC paper was RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [ 24 ] Waste Trend in accidents 2011-2012 20% 15% Discarded clothing from the 10% 5% Hospitality Crew Centre used 0% until the end of 2012. The multifunc2011-01 2011-02 2011-03 2011-04 tional pull printing devices can, however, 2011-05 2011-06 2011-07 2011-09 2011-10 2011-11 2011-12 2012-01 2012-02 2012-03 2012-04 2012-05 2012-06 2012-07 2012-09 2012-10 2012-11 2012-12 Amsterdam RAI’s Hospitality Crew Centre (HCC) provides temps with approalso use 75-gram paper. In 2013, this priate uniforms for their activities at various events. All discarded clothing thinner paper will be used for printing from the HCC has, since 2012, been collected by Icova for donating or whenever possible. Its lighter weight will Number of accidents 2012 by type of victim destroying. Icova periodically reports how much clothing was donated and allow 30% 25% 6.3 per cent savings in paper how much was destroyed. Icova deals with organisations such as the Salvapurchasing 20% 15% and reduce waste. High-quality tion Army and ReShare. ReShare sells the donated clothes in its own printing 10% 5% will still use 80-gram or thicker second-hand clothing shops at social prices. The money raised this way 0% paper, however. The new printers feature a er m p th r to r oy ee ier sit r Se finances various projects by the Salvation Army in the Netherlands and ild Te e bi pl o cu rit meter which shows how much paper, CO2 abroad, and the Salvation Army also sometimes supports local environmental Bu O pl su Vi Exhi m p y d Ie se Stan RA ou and water is saved with the new methods. projects. The collected clothing is also used in supplies which are distributed -h In to people affected by disasters and crises. 5.000.000 100.000 4.500.000 A4 use 90.000 ReShare determines whether old clothing can be reused. When this is not the 4.000.000 A3 use 80.000 3.500.000 70.000 case, the clothing is destroyed by Icova. The non-viable but reusable textiles 3.000.000 60.000 2.500.000 50.000 are then defibrated, i.e., broken into loose fibres. New products can be made 2.000.000 1.500.000 40.000 30.000 with these fibres, such as felt for the automotive or construction industry, 1.000.000 20.000 luggage straps, or thread for the making of new clothes. 500.000 10.000 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Short preview Different agreements have been made with the waste collector regarding key performance indicators (KPIs). These have led to new insights for Amsterdam RAI. For instance, it has become clear that Amsterdam RAI needs to make better agreements with its concession holders and in-house suppliers with respect to waste. The experiences with this new work method will contribute to better waste management for 2013 and beyond. While continuing its current waste policy, Amsterdam RAI aims to add a number of new products in the coming year, such as a paint depot, a PET bottle collection centre and new waste bins which allow rubbish to be sorted during the exhibitions. Furthermore, Amsterdam RAI aims to discuss a pilot project with organisers regarding communication with exhibitors and visitors to stimulate waste sorting and improve the awareness of organisers. The web shop for exhibitors will also provide better information with regard to waste sorting systems, including a focus on the smaller new methods. [ 25 ] 9 Mobility A look back on the last five years Hundreds of events take place at Amsterdam RAI every year. The huge amount of transport traffic by clients and suppliers that this generates has to be properly managed. Important steps were made over recent years to improve traffic flow and limit noise and pollution. Crucial components of this were partnerships with the Dutch railway operator NS, Amsterdam’s municipal transport company GVB and the central Amsterdam taxi organisation. Another success was the introduction of buffering and slots for freight traffic designed to decrease waiting times. The latter has also led to fewer lorries getting stuck in traffic jams around the building. Our efforts have improved traffic flow and reduced traffic-related “The RAI is certainly working hard to control and reduce disruption, especially for local residents. Less traffic and fewer traffic traffic flows. It also stimulates jams have also helped reduce air pollution, which is very important in a visitors to use public transbusy city such as Amsterdam. port via a combined train and admission ticket, which is a very good initiative.” Goof van der Peijl, association of local residents and retailers (Scheldestraat). RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [ 26 ] Mobility The mobility policy of Amsterdam RAI has Mobility and climate several main objectives: CO2 footprint • Preventing traffic congestion on In 2011, a team of students from one of exhibition setup days Wageningen University’s master program• Stimulating the use of other modes of mes were commissioned by the RAI’s Traffic transportation instead of cars Management department to carry out a • Limiting and preventing emissions study into Amsterdam RAI’s CO2 emissions. • Limiting and preventing traffic The emissions goals were examined and a problems and noise model was developed to measure the CO2 produced by visitors, exhibitors, suppliers A number of activities have contributed to and employees. The share of international these objectives in 2012: visitors coming to Amsterdam RAI by air or “Despite what the signposts international road transport was also taken say, cars often come to Congestion on setup days into account. Amsterdam RAI only to be When there is insufficient space to let turned away because there incoming lorries into the work decks, a are no parking spots. This buffer terrain is set up at an external situation could be improved location. This approach ensures that there by ensuing visitors know are no trucks waiting on the access roads more about the alternative around Amsterdam RAI. car parks and commuting services.” Alternatives to car transport Partnership with NS Amsterdam RAI aims to continue offering Marleen Munniksma, visitors alternatives to car transport. In Friends of the Beatrixpark 2012, a public transport deal was impleElectrical transport Association. mented for thirteen Amsterdam RAI For a number of years, Amsterdam RAI has exhibitions, offering special train travel had four charging stations for electrical cars rates to visitors with RAI admission tickets. in its garages. Their use is free of charge, The competitive element, the weekly allowing Amsterdam RAI to make a updates and the practical tips improves Partnership with GVB contribution to promoting electrical car use awareness among participants and Amsterdam RAI has had a partnership with in the Netherlands. Since the beginning of stimulates them to drive in a more Amsterdam’s municipal transport company 2012, Amsterdam RAI has had its own elececonomical way. The Greendriver Challenge GVB since 2008. This facilitates ad hoc trical car, an Opel Ampera used by thereby decreases overall CO2 emissions. agreements regarding the transport of employees for commuting. Amsterdam RAI The almost 700 participants in this exhibitors and visitors on GVB trams, buses aims to expand the number of charging competition managed to reduce consumpand metros. In concrete terms, GVB deploys stations in 2013. The feasibility and tion and CO2 emissions by fourteen per extra personnel and equipment during desirability of charging stations for scooters cent without any technological intervenlarge events, making it easy to travel by and e-bikes is also currently being analysed. tion. tram, metro or bus in the city. In 2012, such agreements were made for five major Greendriver Challenge events. In 2012, Amsterdam RAI took part in the Greendriver Challenge, a competition for According to calculations, more than lease car drivers. This contest allows 40,000 visitors used a bus, tram or metro companies to make their vehicle fleet more to reach Amsterdam RAI. Furthermore, sustainable while also realising considerable visitors and exhibitors during other events fuel savings. The Challenge lasted for four also increasingly appear to choose local months, during which forty participants transport, helping further reduce traffic competed individually, in teams and against congestion around Amsterdam RAI. other participating companies. [ 27 ] Mobility personnel and equipment for Amsterdam RAI’s own exhibitions and exhibitions organised by third parties. Cooperation with NS will also continue in 2013, and the successful OV (public transport) deal will be offered during twelve of Amsterdam RAI’s own exhibitions focusing on both the Dutch and international markets. Exhibitions by third parties will not be covered this year. The most important reason for this is the current economic recession. The OV e-ticket deal (electronic alternative to a paper ticket) will remain until 2014, which means that the partnership will continue again in the following year. The introduction of the public transport smart card means that the continuation of the OV deal in the medium term is uncertain at this time, as it is not possible to link an OV deal to an OV-card as an e-ticket. A carpool project will be started in 2013, with employees encouraged to drive Limiting and preventing Taxis together in order to further reduce traffic disruption and noise Since 2010, Amsterdam RAI only admits movements. Another measure to further Parking taxis from TCA (Taxicentrale Amsterdam) to improve traffic flow around the RAI will be Municipal initiatives have been reducing its grounds to pick up visitors. TCA uses a to tweet information to visitors to busy the number of parking spots outside coordinator to guide the taxi traffic exhibitions, who can then decide in Amsterdam RAI for years. Five hundred properly, ensuring that local residents advance whether to take the car or public parking places were eliminated in the experience less disruption from waiting transport to Amsterdam RAI. This also immediate vicinity in 2012. taxis. allows parking information to be provided. A pilot project was during the HuishoudUntil now, this was compensated for by A partnership with TAXI-E was considered beurs 2013. other car parks made available by Amsterin 2012. This electrical taxi company is very dam RAI. Amsterdam RAI has advanced environmentally friendly. Using fully In the framework of mobility and climate, plans to build a new parking garage next to electrical taxis would allow Amsterdam RAI Amsterdam RAI aims to look at how the the complex for a thousand cars, which will to contribute to a cleaner Amsterdam. It number of suppliers using electrical vehicles help reduce unnecessary traffic movements would also fit with the policy of the City of or vessels can be increased. Another goal is by visitors. Amsterdam to reduce fine particle and CO2 to have quantitative insight into the results emissions. The next annual report will regarding climate, traffic movements and Although Amsterdam RAI strives to inform provide more information on a possible traffic jams around Amsterdam RAI. visitors about the parking options in future partnership with TAXI-E. Making the situation and activities simpler advance via Digital Route Information to measure would make it easier to take Panels (DRIP) and Twitter, they still often Short preview action to lessen any social impact. spontaneously decide to take the risk to Cooperation with Amsterdam’s municipal drive to Amsterdam RAI. It has been transport company GVB will continue in difficult to have any influence over this 2013. Agreements will continue to be tendency. made on additional deployment of GVB RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [ 28 ] 10 Water A look back on the last five years The amount of water saved would be enough to flood more than 10,000 m² of The goal for water consumption is to achieve a reduction of 25 per cent the huge Europa Hall to a depth of 78 cm. per rented m² by the end of 2013 compared to the reference year 2008. Total savings of around nine per cent had been achieved by 2012, which is below the target of twenty per cent. An important reason for this are the regulations regarding legionella, which have made many water-saving measures difficult as they would contradict the relevant legionella legislation. Measures which did considerably reduce consumption in recent years are the change of the flushing Electricity consumpion volume of toilets from eight to six litres and the fitting of automatic will be required Percentage change and then to fitcompared remove to 2008 faucets. Other potential reductions in water consumption which do not the pipes. This measure will be exa15% 10% conflict with legionella legislation will also be considered in the year mined 5% for feasibility and compliance 0% ahead. with -5% legionella legislation in 2013. -10% -15% Short -20% preview -25% The possibility 2008 to collect 2009 2010 grey 2011 for water2012 watering the green spaces around Goal Reference level Actual consumption Amsterdam RAI uses mains water not be implemented. Amsterdam RAI will be considered in primarily for sanitary and kitchen An alternative water cooling system 2013. If the water is clean enough, it installations, as well as the cooling was conceived in 2012, allowing savings be Gas will also Percentage usedconsumption excl. CHP for applications such change compared to 2008 towers. While there has been consideby replacing water cooling by a closed as10% cleaning the garages. The next 6 rable progress in the field of water water system. A pilot project resulted in sustainability 5% report will look more 5 0% conservation, many ideas have to be savings of around two million litres extensively into grey water collection -5% 4 -10% 3 discarded as they conflict with legisla(fifteen per cent of the total consumppossibilities. -15% 2 tion and regulations regarding tion) and will continue in 2013. The -20% -25% 1 legionella. An example is the aerators possibility to organise the provision of 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Gas consumption Goal fitted in 2012 on faucets – a measure water for individual stands and that could potentially reduce water exhibitors in a different way was also consumption by up to 95 per cent. considered. This could, for instance, be Water consumption Since the water flowed through the achieved by replacing the existing Percentage change compared to 2008 pipes at a lower pressure, however, this copper pipes with new low-density 0% caused a tunnel effect and stagnant polyethylene pipes. This would mean -5% -10% water against the walls of the conduits, that water wells and attendant pipes -15% which increased the risk of legionella. no longer need to be flushed through, -20% In other words, this water conservation facilitating savings of some five per -25% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 measure did not comply with drinking cent on the total consumption. There Water consumption Goal water legislation and could therefore are, however, costs involved, since work [ 29 ] 11 Procurement A look back on the last five years Five years ago, Amsterdam RAI set itself the goal of purchasing 25 per cent of its products and services from sustainable sources by 2012. This goal has turned out to be hard to realise. This is partly due to the difficulty of defining what sustainable products and services are. Another issue is the dilemma between sustainability and costs. In lean times in particular, there is less room for manoeuvre in terms of choosing pricier alternatives. Nonetheless, steps have been made to make purchasing more sustainable. Some highlights include: The signing of an agreement for the cleaning and window cleaning industry, including arrangements on optimal work conditions; the delivery of green electricity to exhibitors; more sustainable catering, such as switching to organic chips; purchasing of tea and coffee with the Rainforest Alliance certification; and providing a sales range which comprises sustainable alternatives. Other ways to make procurement more sustainable and embedded within Amsterdam RAI will be critically considered in the coming year. “In the future, Amsterdam RAI should offer a set of recommendations for making the organisation of exhibitions more sustainable. This would allow it to instruct organisers and exhibitors to make their own purchasing more sustainable and sort waste themselves.” Eric Bakermans, trade organisation NBTC. RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [ 30 ] Procurement Kleurverloop / schrijfbaretekst FROM COFFEE GROUNDS TO CROQUETTE DRINK KNOCK/KNOCK GROw/GROw CHOP/CHOP MMM RAI coffee in the Grand Cafe. We collect the coffee grounds. GRO gives them to its oyster The oyster mushrooms are harvested. Processed into bitterballen or mushrooms. croquettes. Available in the RAI Grand Café. Amsterdam RAI Amsterdam RAI GRO-Holland GRO-Holland Amsterdam RAI Procurement and suppliers other aspect of the chain, namely custoselecting candidates with difficulties in Amsterdam RAI is aware of its responsibilimers. The price of socially responsible entering the labour market was chosen in ENERGY SAVINGS ties in the supply chain. As a large company products is usually somewhat higher than this case. The role of Amsterdam RAI within and organiser, Amsterdam RAI can that of the standard range, which often the partnership is to create work opportuencourage its suppliers to operate in a causes people to prefer either premium or nities by making security service workplaces sustainable way. Furthermore, Amsterdam cheaper options. available. The goal is to allow candidates to RAI is looking for ways to also stimulate acquire work experience and knowledge by customers to make more sustainable Purchasing organisation training them to become security speciachoices. The current procurement process addresses x 1000 lists. Social return is a priority within the sustainability in two ways. The first way is procurement policy of the City of AmsterCOST SAVINGS ENERGY At LIGHTS this moment, it is difficult CONVERTING FITTINGS to indicate by means of an open SAVINGSquestion to suppliers, THE RAI SAVES dam. As an important stakeholder, the Existing lights must become more Amsterdam RAI is converting its It only costs a third of the Up to 50%. 1000 tons of CO2, equivalent to a with a percentage the share economical. of sustainable new price. lights fittings. who need to indicate how they integrateforest of 35.000 trees. municipality expects Amsterdam RAI to also purchasing in Amsterdam RAI’s procuresustainability into their processes. This open focus on this topic. Amsterdam RAI Greenfox in cooperation with the social workplace Pantar Amsterdam RAI Amsterdam RAI ment, as no yardstick is available to question makes comparisons very difficult. measure it. This is why Amsterdam RAI is Second, contracts with suppliers comprise a Sustainable alternative in currently looking into the various sustainastandard clause in which Amsterdam RAI the food assortment bility standards (i.e., Green Key, indicates that it will not do business with Amsterdam RAI presented its new food EarthCheck, ISO 14001, and possibly ISO suppliers who do not comply with its assortment in 2012, which comprises at WATERBESPARING 20121) to which it subscribes in order to standards and values. least one sustainable alternative in each examine to what extent they are appropricategory. To achieve this, Amsterdam RAI ate for setting up a relevant tailored Suppliers will be exposed to additional entered partnerships with various local yardstick. x 10.248.000 scrutiny in the coming years so as to ensure product suppliers. This means that the sustainability better throughout the company can now offer a fully sustainable As the entire chain is involved, cooperation purchasing process. In 2013, three range if a client should request it. is crucial. Advice and initiatives by suppliers suppliers from the top twenty tender list The oyster mushroom croquette is a fun sometimes conflict with the standards Amsterdam RAI heeft afgelopen 5 jaar will be audited to examine in which ways addition in this framework. The oyster formulated circa 10.248.000 by liter thewater Green Key eco-label – bespaard. they comply with sustainability agreements. mushrooms for the croquette are grown on for instance, suppliers might choose to These audits will represent a starting point the coffee grounds collected in our Grand produce certain products in small packages for improvement processes. Café (see infographic). to promote shelf life/hygiene and reduce waste, while Green Key forbids mono Social return While there were only a few specific packaging. Amsterdam RAI looks for A new initiative in the field of procurement requests from conferences for a fully solutions in cooperation with a number of is the outsourcing of security services. This sustainable assortment last year, Amsterits important suppliers, such as Coca Cola, tender requires a certain focus on social dam RAI is going to examine options to Friesland Foods and Earth Water. return, which involves taking up social help increase the demand. conditions, demands and wishes in the Sustainable alternatives are added to the purchasing process for products and/or While many sustainable products can, in range wherever possible. Naturally, services. A partner in security services with practice, already be purchased, this Amsterdam RAI remains dependent on the considerable experience in recruiting and unfortunately often has an impact on profit [ 31 ] Procurement Other initiatives related to procurement in 2012 • Full transition to organic chips by McCain. This has made Amsterdam RAI the first exhibition and conference centre in Europe to only serve these 100% sustainable French fries to its guests. • Purchasing of table linens with a Fair Trade label. The lessor of party material to Amsterdam RAI is also prepared to agree to such an investment, meaning that fair trade table cloths will also be used when additional capacity has to be rented. • Laundry: A more environmentally friendly process is now used for all Amsterdam RAI’s linens and clothing. “We will look at our purcha• Instead of being thrown away, the flags and banners around the sing in a different way, complex are washed and restored in cooperation with the supplier. focusing more and more on This allows for a longer lifespan. use instead of ownership. • After switching to coffee approved by the Rain Forest Alliance in There will also be a shift from 2011, Amsterdam RAI has also been buying tea with this certificate acquisition to leasing. Amwhenever possible since 2012. For juice dispensers, Amsterdam RAI sterdam RAI will need to adapt its purchasing policy to chooses products with the Max Havelaar certificate. this.” • Since its reopening, the RAI Grand Café has been serving local vegetables. The Grand Café has a two-storey vertical garden; a large part of the menu comes from local farmers and city greenCor Gerritsen, houses in and around Amsterdam. supplier Icova. • The possibilities to build a city greenhouse next to Hall 1 are being analysed in 2012-2013. The goal is to use more of the suppliers’ expertise related to sustainability in their specific field. In addition, Amsterdam RAI margins. An example of this is the step to Short preview will continue to bring Green Key and provide free access to mains water through Amsterdam RAI has formulated a five-year important suppliers within the industry the installation of more water faucets, strategy for its purchasing organisation. An together so as to determine the most which leads to a revenue shortfall of some important objective in this context is to sustainable choices jointly. 600,000 euros. This illustrates the obstacles make purchasing even more professional to making more sustainable choices. and centralised. Well-organised purchasing can improve the response to the challenge RAIlation platform of formulating a sustainable purchasing Amsterdam RAI organised a so-called policy suited to Amsterdam RAI’s needs. RAIlation day for seventy suppliers and concession holders last year. Suppliers One major component will be to draw up a were given the chance to present themselquestionnaire for suppliers based on the ves to the employees of Amsterdam RAI in EarthCheck, Green Key and possibly ISO an informal, creative way at a small 20121 standards. Each of the different exhibition within the RAI. questions will be connected to a value This allowed more insight into the knowrelevant to the assessment of the tender. ledge and expertise of suppliers and The questionnaire thereby resolves the relationships were strengthened. This subjectivity issue related to the open highly successful event will be organised question previously asked of suppliers again in 2013. regarding sustainability. RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [ 32 ] 12 Social engagement A look back on the last five years Amsterdam RAI has been actively supporting two charities since 2005: AMREF Flying Doctors and Stichting Steun Emma Kinderziekenhuis AMC (Foundation for Support to Emma Children’s Hospital AMC). Over these years, Amsterdam RAI has been able to raise € 181,000 for AMREF and around € 144,000 for the Emma Children’s Hospital. In addition to this financial Amsterdam RAI plays the social role of physically and contribution, Amsterdam RAI has also made expertise and virtually bringing together people every day, both in other means available for the Netherlands and abroad. It aims to contribute to various fundraising activities. meaningful moments and realise the ‘Inspiring People’ Looking back, we can see that motto. Amsterdam RAI’s efforts on AMREF’s behalf during the The bringing together and connecting of people and African Experience gala evening and the Kenya Classic, ideas is reflected in Amsterdam RAI’s policy for social for instance, were very succesengagement. Amsterdam RAI actively works to connect sful. International exhibitions socially relevant partners with each other, for instance have also found a way to help provide money and name in the case of the charities Foundation for Support recognition for AMREF by to Emma Children’s Hospital AMC and AMREF Flying means of the Innovation Awards. Other highlights Doctors. In addition to giving an annual financial include the many spontaneous contribution, Amsterdam RAI provides these partners activities organised during this with a platform at exhibitions to get in touch with their period, such as the graffiti lorry at BedrijfsautoRAI for the target groups. Emma Children’s Hospital. [ 33 ] Social engagement to AMREF Flying Doctors. This allowed the successful completion of a project in Mtwara a district in south-eastern Tanzania where water is extremely scarce. AMREF provides better access to sustainable and safe water and sanitation and more knowledge about good personal hygiene in Mtwara (see http://www.amref.nl/english. html for more information about AMREF’s work). Of the total amount donated by Amsterdam RAI to AMREF since 2005, more than € 120,000 has been invested in the Mtwara project. This means that Amsterdam RAI has provided a whole village with clean water and sanitary and hygienic facilities – a great result! Emma Children’s Hospital name recognition is generated by regularly AMC hanging large adverts on building wraps on Amsterdam RAI is contributing to the called the Amsterdam RAI complex. Amsterdam RAI and AMREF have stated metamorphosis of the Emma Children’s that they are happy to continue their Hospital, a transformation process which AAMREF Flying Doctors cooperation. The future financial contributiincludes the total physical renovation of the In 2012, Amsterdam RAI donated € 42,700 ons of Amsterdam RAI will be used for the hospital facilities. Amsterdam RAI has donated a total of € 144,000 euro since 2005. Work is ongoing on departments such as intensive care for children, Contribution to own fairs paediatric surgery, teens, big kids, paediatric oncology and neonatology. The next Some € 6,588.40 was raised for Emma Children’s Hospital at the 2012 editions of stage will be a children’s restaurant, Huishoudbeurs, Negenmaandenbeurs and HISWA boat show. The € 5,307.90 of scheduled to open in 2014, to which proceeds during the Huishoudbeurs and Negenmaandenbeurs was achieved through Amsterdam RAI has contributed € 27,000 online ticket sales and donations at the Emma stand. At Festival Fantastique there euros. was also a stand with a volunteer from the AMC which allowed visitors to hang a ribbon in a tree for one euro. Emma Children’s Hospital already has a new department for infants. The staff at During HISWA, visitors could buy an Emma Children’s Hospital sailor wristband for Amsterdam RAI who worked on the one euro. This brought in € 1,280.50. During the HISWA boat show two volunteers EmmaRAIrun had an advance look and from AMC were on site each day to make contacts with visitors. were hugely impressed by the positive change – especially now that they could An idea to raise money for charity arose spontaneously during BedrijfsautoRAI. A see the old and the new side by side graffiti artist was given free range to create a striking design on a brand new Scania G 400 tractor. The idea was to support a good cause. Emma Children’s Hospital was The deployment of knowledge, expertise chosen in consultation with Amsterdam RAI. and resources for various fundraising activities constitutes an important part of The Scania graffiti tractor will continue to promote the foundation in the near future, the commitment to charities. For instance, after which it will be offered for sale. To strengthen the donation drive, the Scania Amsterdam RAI can act as a sounding graffiti tractor will soon also be available as a miniature. A portion of the proceeds board for Emma Children’s Hospital and will again benefit Emma Children’s Hospital. give advice where required. An example is the text on its website regarding the Emma € 5,000 was donated to Emma Children’s Hospital AMC during BedrijfsautoRAI. Christmas Wishes campaign. In addition, RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [ 34 ] project ‘Clean water, healthy Maasai’ in Visiting lecturer Ids Boersma, Kajiado, Kenya. Water is an important managing director of RAI Exhibitions theme in the RAI’s own exhibitions, which is why it fits so well with the company’s In addition to money and manpower, CSR policy. AMREF’s activities are also a Amsterdam RAI supports AMREF with good match for Amsterdam RAI’s internaorganising events and sharing expertise and tional character. contacts. Every year, Amsterdam RAI lets AMREF use its spaces, technology and Walking for water personnel for fundraising and events so as AMREF is brought to life within Amsterdam to keep down the organisation’s costs in RAI not just through water-related the Netherlands. The funds raised by exhibitions – employees, too, put in a lot of AMREF through events in the Netherlands “It may be important to do hard work for the Flying Doctors. For are spent in Africa as much as possible. even more cross-border work example, each year a number of staff from Jointly raising awareness of the health in the future. Social problems Amsterdam RAI spend a day giving lessons situation in Africa among Amsterdam RAI’s cannot, after all, be solved related to water to a primary school class. various stakeholders (employees, suppliers, locally, but relate to transnaThese information lessons are part of the customers and clients) helps strengthen the tional causes. This is why it’s ‘Walking for Water’ project. Students in the name recognition and positioning of important to support causes seventh and eighth grades experience what AMREF Flying Doctors. both in your own country and their peers in developing countries have to abroad. Amsterdam RAI has do to get drinking water: Walk an average Involvement of employees in thought this through well.” of six kilometres while carrying six litres of charities water. This lesson is also about awareness Amsterdam RAI tries to keep its employees of water consumption in the Netherlands. involved by regularly informing them about Hellen van Vugt, Five employees gave water-related lessons charities via the intranet. But it is the BabyPoint exhibitor in 2012. physical encounters between AMREF and the RAI’s employees which many find “This was a lot of fun. One thing especially stimulating. An example is that struck me in particular was the difference between the age groups. The kids in seventh grade sat on the edge of their seats, while those in eighth grade were clearly on the verge of puberty and I occasionally had to maintain order. I made a so-called leaky tin together with my own children. This consists of an empty two-litre milk bottle with a hole and a nail in it which can be hung up on a string. If you need to wash your hands, you pull out the nail and voilà! water runs out – that’s how you do it in Africa. Of course I try to encourage the children to collect as much money as possible. All in all, I think this was a fun experience for the children, the teacher and the guest lecturer!” [ 35 ] Social engagement separate from the Emma Children’s Hospital charity, which makes it less closely linked to Amsterdam RAI. Local involvement Amsterdam RAI places great store on good relations with its direct vicinity – the city of Amsterdam as a whole and local residents in particular. It is always aware of the fact that the RAI operates in a busy city centre where work and everyday life have to coexist harmoniously. While this is usually a good thing for all involved, it can also cause problems. Amsterdam RAI keeps the needs of its neighbourhood in mind as “Another thing I love are the “I think it’s important that much as possible in its operations and aims spontaneous campaigns Amsterdam RAI spend energy to keep any disruption to a minimum. organised by your employees on supporting local projects. from time to time during Creating apprenticeships and The key word when dealing with the local which they think of us – a traineeships for young people community is transparency. Good explanatigood example was the sale from Amsterdam is a good ons enhance understanding. Local residents of old PCs.” example of this.” are kept abreast of developments related to large events. For instance, a meeting was Henriette van Eeghen, organised in the lead-up to the event Foundation for Support to Valhalla in December 2012 to give local Emma Children’s Hospital Eric Bakermans, residents a peek behind the scenes. AMC. NBTC. Together with the adjacent ‘Strand Zuid’ City Beach, Amsterdam RAI has expanded AMREF’s campaign to visit staff at Amstersecondary education (HAVO) students also the existing ‘noise map’ for the RAI dam RAI during the Sinterklaas celebration have the option to spend a few days in a complex, allowing a better assessment of to hand them a traditional chocolate letter social traineeship or trial internship. This when the neighbourhood might be (made from fair trade chocolate) ‘D’ for takes place once a month on average. See affected by noise. This unique tool was ‘dank,’ i.e., ‘thanks’ in Dutch. The employthe Employees section for more details on developed together with an external ees were also able to ask AMREF questions traineeships and visiting lecturers. consultancy bureau and allows an advance directly. prognosis of whether the environmental Emma at Work permit for noise disruption will be exceeded Teaching and practical Amsterdam RAI has had a partnership with and, if so, which measures can be taken to experience Emma at Work since 2011. This non-profit prevent this. Amsterdam RAI takes its social responsibiliemployment agency for young people with ties seriously and offers traineeships to a a chronic physical illness or handicap was Short preview number of schools in the vicinity. At least founded in 2006 in cooperation with Emma In 2013, the AMREF and Emma Children’s ten students from the Amsterdam UniverChildren’s Hospital. While the partnership Hospital charities will again be given a sity of Applied Sciences take part in between Emma at Work and Amsterdam platform to present themselves and raise traineeships at Amsterdam RAI every year. RAI continues today, it is currently on the funds at exhibitions at Amsterdam RAI. In There is also a partnership with the backburner as it has been difficult to find a 2013, AMREF Flying Doctors will start its vocational secondary school MBO College good match between the young people project ‘Water in Kajiado’ (see sidebar). The Zuid (ROC) related to training courses and helped by Emma at Work and the activities ‘Walking for Water’ project will also be on traineeships. Pre-vocational secondary at Amsterdam RAI in practice. Emma at the agenda again, and RAI employees will education (VMBO) and senior general Work is also an independent organisation once more take part in the Kenya Classic. RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [ 36 ] Kajiado is in a particularly dry part of Kenya inhabited by around 600,000 people, mostly nomadic Maasai. It is affected by a shortage of water sources A meeting between AMREF and AmsterAmsterdam RAI to raise funds for the dam RAI employees gave a forum to wishes foundation while creating a link between and sanitary facilities which and ideas emanating from the company, so the company, the neighbourhood, the leads to many cases of disease. that employees continue to feel involved in suppliers and the charity. The FunRun will In order to counteract this, the charities. be open to everyone. AMREF Flying Doctors has started a project focused on In June, Amsterdam RAI will help AMREF drinking water, sanitary faciliwith the organisation of a friends’ dinner ties and hygiene in the region, for partners. RAI employees will be able to thereby automatically improvolunteer to help organise an enjoyable ving the health of the event for AMREF while Amsterdam RAI population. provides the space, knowhow and facilities required. Amsterdam RAI will organise a Fun Run through the halls of the RAI complex and the adjacent Beatrixpark towards the end of 2013. The money raised will benefit the Emma Children’s Hospital. This will allow [ 37 ] Social engagement The Huishoudbeurs & sustainability Amsterdam RAI strives to integrate sustainability into its own exhibitions as much as possible. The Huishoudbeurs is an example of a RAI event in which durability has been a theme for many years. Different social themes are placed in the spotlight by means of workshops, playful campaigns and partnerships with various social organisations. This is a short explanation of how the sustainability theme is brought to life each year during the Huishoudbeurs. The Huishoudbeurs is an annual event that years have seen a number of CSR topics People 4 Earth. The goal of this Pavilion has been organised by Amsterdam RAI and initiatives at the Huishoudbeurs, was to show that sustainability need not since 1950. The exhibition, which traditionincluding: get in the way of the good life. The Green ally focuses on women, allows exhibitors to Pavilion was opened by a number of Dutch present products and services in the field of Partnership with Urgenda celebrities, including Wubbo Ockels and fashion and cosmetics, health, interior Amsterdam RAI has had a partnership with Victoria Koblenko, and generated lots of decoration, household appliances and Urgenda since 2010. This foundation aims publicity for Urgenda. leisure time. to make Dutch companies more sustainable through top-down and bottom-up During the Huishoudbeurs 2012, visitors More than 400 exhibitors showcased their initiatives, under the motto ‘sustainability could exchange their old (clean!) underlatest products and services to the general together. ’Urgenda decorated a Green wear for a pair of undergarments produced public in 2012. In addition to leisure time Pavilion at the Huishoudbeurs 2011 with in an environmentally sustainable way. and relaxation, the Huishoudbeurs is also a the help of partners such as the NetherUrgenda, the underwear retailer Saint platform for sustainable initiatives. The past lands Council of Women, Good! and Basics and the development organisation Humana challenged visitors to think about the production process of their underwear. The old undergarments were collected by Humana directly at the exhibition. Partnership with Coca Cola A campaign to collect plastic bottles was started together with Coca Cola in 2012. The recycled bottles were made into bean bags, t-shirts for the personnel and VIP goodie bags. There was a large container in the outdoor area of the Huishoudbeurs where visitors could deposit their bottles. Unfortunately the results were unimpressive so the campaign will not be repeated in 2013. The possibilities for the reuse of recycled bottles will continue to be showcased to the public, however. RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [ 38 ] WOMEN Inc. of empty batteries at the next HuishoudAmsterdam RAI is experiencing increasing Huishoudbeurs and WOMEN Inc. strengbeurs in 2013 as well. interest for talk shows and workshops thened each other’s activities by combining targeting social themes. There was a their different types of expertise: WOMEN Other initiatives qualitative survey of the preferences and Inc. provides individual development and In 2012, a partnership was started with the wishes of visitors in 2011. invests in opportunities for women social enterprise Toogethr, which developed everywhere while the Huishoudbeurs a carpool app for visitors wishing to travel represents a fun outing attended by to the Huishoudbeurs together. Toogethr is 250,000 women, allowing the former to a Dutch start-up which aims to deploy reach out to a wide audience and make the social networks to get the most out of female visitors aware of issues facing them existing sustainability facilities. as women in society. Workshops and talk shows organised for visitors by WOMEN After Huishoudbeurs 2012, products and Inc. provided information on topics such as materials left over from stands were the glass ceiling and how to combine a collected by the foundation Zending over career with household work. The WOMEN Grenzen (the Dutch section of the internaInc. Festival was opened by Princess (now tional interdenominational charity Mission Queen) Máxima, ambassador for WOMEN Without Borders). More than forty Inc. volunteers asked stand holders for donations of items which might otherwise Stibat be thrown away, including articles related A battery collection campaign took place in to hygiene, clothing, food and baby 2012 with Stichting Batterijen (Stibat), the products. After the collected products were organisation which deals with used sorted, they were taken to eastern Europe batteries in the Netherlands on behalf of and distributed to people in need who manufacturers and importers. In 2012, the wouldn’t normally be able to afford them. visitors brought in around 45,000 empty The food was brought to a local food bank. batteries, a resounding success which has There is more and more focus on sustainaled Stibat to plan a stand for the collection ble initiatives at the Huishoudbeurs. [ 39 ] 13 Financial overview This section provides a short overview of came for events organised by third parties. In 2012, costs increased by € 2.9 million the financial results of Amsterdam RAI in The total number of exhibitors in 2012 was compared to 2011 due to setbacks at RAI 2012. A detailed financial report is available 16,364 (2011: 16,453 and 2010: 15,688). Landfords and MECC Maastricht. The result in the annual report for 2012. The RAI was in use for international events of the core activities was considerably on 265 days. The financial results for the higher than in 2011, however. Amsterdam RAI aims to achieve sustainable core activities rose by 26.4% compared to results and generate profits in a socially the year 2011. Operating profit was € 6.0 million (2011: responsible way. The company looks to € 7.8 million). After the deduction of realise a balance between financial, social Financial results interest charges and taxes, the net profits and ecological considerations in its decision In 2012, RAI Holding achieved a net were calculated at € 2.1 million (2011: making. turnover of € 134.7 million, 0.8% more € 3.4 million). than the € 133.9 million realised in 2011 Activities and 7.8% more than the year 2010, which In 2012, the Amsterdam RAI Convention was more comparable in terms of its events Centre hosted 629 events which attracted calendar. The increase is due to the return nearly 1.4 million visitors (2011: 1.6 million of the biennial BedrijfsautoRAI and the and 2010: 1.4 million). Of these visitors, RAI’s own international events, as well as approximately 490,085 visited events the growth in events organised by third organised by the RAI itself, while 942,752 parties. Core financial data over the past five years 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Turnover 134.7 133.9 125.0 108.2 123.5 Operating profit 6.0 7.8 11.6 4.4 10.9 Net profit 2.1 3.1 5.7 0.2 5.3 Amsterdam RAI Activities 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 International exhibitions and conference 48 47 48 36 50 Visitors 392,034 306,382 291,146 197,575 308,529 Exhibitions and conferencesfor the Dutch market 59 59 57 60 53 Visitors 763,622 1,057,815 773,728 1,015,544 752,298 Theatre shows 119 83 85 159 89 Visitors 125,238 81,986 84,645 198,755 108,092 Other events 403 406 400 318 281 Visitors 151,943 140,375 235,700 421,867 211,495 Total RAI 629 595 590 573 473 Total visitors 1,432,837 1,586,558 1,385,219 1,833,741 1,380,414 RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [ 40 ] GRI table Amsterdam RAI GRI GRI G3.1 information directives 2012 code 1 Strategy and analysis Statement from the Management Board about the relevance of sustainability to 1.1 Page 3 the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Page 3 2 Company profile 2.1 Name of the company. Pages 78 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Pages 78 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating 2.3 Pages 78 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of the company’s headquarters. Pages 78 Number of countries where the company operates (as relevant to sustainability Amsterdam RAI is only active in the 2.5 issues). Netherlands. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Pages 78 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of 2.7 Pages 78 customers). 2.8 Scale of the reporting company. Pages 7-8, 40, 46 There were no significant changes Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or 2.9 during the reporting period regarding ownership size, structure or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Pages 13-14 3 Report parameters Report profile 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. Page 6 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. Page 6 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). Page 6 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Page 52 Report scope and boundary Process for defining report content, including: Relevance, materiality and 3.5 Pages 6, 11 stakeholders. Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, 3.6 Page 8 joint ventures, suppliers). 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. N/a Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 3.8 N/a operations and other entities. [ 41 ] GRI table GRI GRI G3.1 information directives 2012 code Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumpti3.9 ons underlying estimations Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier 3.10 N/a reports. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or 3.11 N/a measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table of contents. Page 2 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the Amsterdam RAI has not had the report 3.13 report. verified externally 4 Governance, commitments and engagement Governance Governance structure of the company, including committees under the highest 4.1 Pages 7-8 governance body. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive 4.2 Pages 7-8 officer. For companies that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members 4.3 of the highest governance body who are independent and/or non-executive N/a members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or 4.4 Pages 7-8 direction to the highest governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the Management Board, senior 4.5 Pages 7-8 managers, and executives and the company’s CSR performance. Processes in place for the Management Board to ensure conflicts of interest are 4.6 Pages 7-8 avoided. Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the 4.7 Pages 7-8 Management Board for managing the CSR strategy. Internally developed statements of mission and codes of conduct relevant to CSR 4.8 Pages 7-8 performance and the status of their implementation. Procedures of the Management Board for overseeing CSR performance, including 4.9 relevant risks and opportunities, and compliance with internationally agreed Pages 7-8, 9-14 standards and principles. Processes for evaluating the Management Board’s own performance, particularly 4.10 Pages 7-8 with respect to CSR performance. 4.11 Explanation of how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed. Pages 7-8, 13-14 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles or 4.12 Page 13 standards to which the company subscribes. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and national/ 4.13 Pages 13, 45 international advocacy organizations. Consultation of stakeholders 4.14 List of stakeholder groups relevant to the company. Page 10 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders. Pages 10-12 4.16 Approaches to stakeholders and frequency of engagement. Pages 3, 6, 9-12 Response of the company to key topics and concerns that have been raised Page 11 and reactions by stakeholders 4.17 through stakeholder engagement. throughout the report. RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [ 42 ] GRI table GRI GRI G3.1 information directives 2012 code 5 Management approach and performance indicators Economic performance indicators DMA economic aspects Pages 9-14, 40 EC1 Direct economic value generated. Page 40 Amsterdam RAI receives no financial EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. overview support from the government. Environmental performance indicators DMA environmental aspects Pages 10-14, 19-30 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Pages 19-21, 47 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Pages 19-21, 47 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Pages 19-21, 47 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and EN6 Pages 19-21, 47 services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Water EN8 Total water consumption. Pages 29, 50 Emissions, effluents and waste EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Pages 22-25, 48-49 Society performance indicators: Labour practices DMA labour practices and decent work. Pages 9-18 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region. Page 46 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region. Page 46 Labour/management relations Amsterdam RAI B.V. has its own work LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. conditions package and is not covered by a collective agreement. Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is LA5 This indicator is regulated by Dutch law. specified in collective agreements. Occupational health and safety Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and total LA7 Page 46 number of work-related fatalities by region. [ 43 ] GRI table GRI GRI G3.1 information directives 2012 code Training and education All employees have an evaluation and Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development assessment review every year, in which LA12 reviews. personal performance and career development are discussed. Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees according to LA13 Pages 8, 16-17, 46 gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity.. Equal remuneration for women and men Amsterdam RAI has fixed salary scales LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men and women by employee category. which do not distinguish between men and women. Society performance indicators: Human rights DMA DMA human rights Pages 9-14, 30-32 Investment and procurement practices Procurement: The percentage of significant suppliers tested for respect of human rights was zero. In 2013,three suppliers from the top 20 tender list will Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners who HR2 be audited to determine whether have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. agreements are respected and whether these partners do in fact satisfy the sustainability requirements specified by them. Society performanceindicators: Society DMA local communities Pages 9-14, 33-39 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local SO9 Pages 33-39 communities. Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant SO10 Pages 33-39 potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. . Society performance indicators: Product responsibility DMA product responsibility Pages 12, 17 Product and service labelling Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring PR5 Page 12 customer satisfaction. RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [ 44 ] Annex 1 Representation of Amsterdam RAI in industry associations and business networks Industry association/ business network ACC International Association of Exhibitions & Events (IAEE) Amsterdam Economic Board International Congress & Convention Association (ICCA) Association of Event Organisers (AEO) Innovatielab [initiative by NBTC, HSMAI and NHTV] International Association of Congress Centres (AIPC) Leading Centres of Europe Amsterdam Centre for Service Innovation (AMSI) Meeting Professionals International (MPI) Amsterdamse Kring MOA, vereniging Marketing Research & Marketing Intelligence Amsterdam Marketing (previously ATCB, Amsterdam Partners, Amsterdam in Business) Mobile Monday Amsterdams Theateroverleg (OAT MOAT) NBTC New York ASAE (Centre of Association Leadership) Nederlands Bureau voor Toerisme & Congressen (NBTC) Corporate Event Marketing Association (CEMA) Nederlands Institute voor Marketing (NIMA) Centre of European Experience Economy Nederlandse Vereniging Directiesecretaresses City Wide Task force Nieuw Amsterdams Peil (NAP) CLC VECTA NNBN Clusters & Congressen MRA Platform Innovatie in Marketing (PIM) Congresen Vergaderclassificatie Professional Convention Management Association (PCMA) De Industrieele Groote Club Society of Independent Show Organisers (SISO) Event Branche Topsport Amsterdam Freelance Event Profs UFI Genootschap voor Eventmanagers Union of International Associations (UIA) Golfclub The Dutch United Nations Global Compact Green Meetings Industry Council (GMIC) Vereniging van Evenementen Het Innovatiediner WTC Business Club Hospitality Sales & Marketing Association International (HSMAI) [ 45 ] Annex 2 Personnel figures Number of Amsterdam RAI employees on 31-12-12 Men Women Total 205 219 424 48.35% 51.65% Number of Amsterdam RAI FTEs on 31-12-12 Men Women Total 201,49 187,15 388.64 51.84% 48.16% Number of full time vs. part time employees on 31-12-12 Men Women Full time 185 96 Part time 20 123 Number of employees leaving in 2012 Men Women Total 22 22 44 10.38% Absenteeism percentage Number of employees arriving in 2012 at Amsterdam RAI in 2012 Men Women Total 3.43% 20 19 39 9.20% Employees by age on 31-12-12 Age up to 25 26-35 36-45 46-55 56+ Employees 13 135 134 89 53 RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [ 46 ] Annex 3 Energy consumption Electrical Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Power purchases mWh 17,095 17,103 17,506 18,682 17,292 Generated by CHP mWh 1,204 Actual consumption mWh 17,095 17,103 17,506 18,682 18,495 Fixed net consumption mWh 13,982 13,699 13,616 13,911 13,949 Commercial occupancy index 100 94 105 110 111 Percentage change compared to 2008 Reference consumption 0% 4% 3% 10% 11% Real consumption 0.0% 3.1% -0.1% 4.1% 2.8% Fixed net 0.0% 0.9% -5.0% -5.2% -5.2% Goal 0.0% -5.0% -10.0% -15.0% -20.0% Heat/cooling Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Consumption m³ 2,055,109 2,637,796 2,571,382 2,298,490 2,522,414 Consumption by CHP m³ 330,836 2,191,578 Consumption GJ 68,491 63,486 81,384 72,747 69,363 Index of degree days 100 102 127 95 105 Commercial occupancy index 100 94 105 110 111 Percentage change compared to 2008 Gas consumption 0.0% -6.7% -8.8% 6.1% -8.6% Goal 0.0% -5.0% -10.0% -15.0% -20.0% Conversion table m³ 1 GJ 32 [ 47 ] Annex 4 Waste Waste from events in volume (m³) Year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Residual waste 22,439 14,021 12,085 14,028 13,280 14,132 Paper 527 2,443 5,086 4,566 6,416 4,625 Glass 7 35 119 111 50 42 Plastic 81 1,079 1,111 901 1,213 Wood 4,638 3,653 3,095 5,242 4,295 2,978 Carpeting 0 0 2,247 2,688 2,517 2,893 Total 27,611 20,233 23,711 27,746 27,459 25,883 Waste sorting at events Year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Residual waste 81% 69% 51% 51% 48% 55% Sorted waste 19% 31% 49% 49% 52% 45% Goal 19% 24% 29% 34% 39% 44% Waste reduction Year 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Waste production (*1000 kg) 4,226 3,442 2,673 3,433 3,521 3,420 Sorted waste (*1000 kg) 1,707 1,578 1,185 1,576 1,707 1,460 Commercial occupancy index 100 87 82 92 96 97 Percentage change compared to 2008 Waste production 0% -7% -23% -12% -14% -17% Goal 0.0% -5.0% -10.0% -15.0% -20.0% -25% RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [ 48 ] Annex 4 Waste Calendar year: 2012 Clients: AMSTERDAM RAI B.V. CRED.ADM. (45004615) Reuse, Type of waste (x in TONS) recycling, Landfill burning 10.00 –A-quality construction and demolition 464.460 99.5% 0.5% waste 10.35 –roofing waste (contaminated with coal tar) 5.680 100.0% 0.0% 11.00 cleaning debris 171.600 100.0% 0.0% 11.20 asphalt containing tar 54.820 100.0% 0.0% 13.00 A-quality woodwaste 516.480 100.0% 0.0% 13.01 B-quality wood waste 40.700 100.0% 0.0% 15.00 iron (FERric metals) 27.455 100.0% 0.0% 30.01 –B-QUALITY COMMERCIAL WASTE (sortable) 1.960.560 100.0% 0.0% 30.06 –G-QUALITY COMMERCIAL WASTE(carpeting) 351.720 100.0% 0.0% 30.11 – SWILL 129.160 100.0% 0.0% 30.47 grease waste 21.440 100.0% 0.0% 33.01 PAPER/cardboard 291.800 100.0% 0.0% 33.10 archives/confidential 2.214 100.0% 0.0% 34.03 contaminated flat glass 1.800 100.0% 0.0% 34.05 mixed GLASs 93.960 100.0% 0.0% 70.00 refrigerators, freezers 0.032 100.0% 0.0% 70.06 large household appliances containing 0.672 100.0% 0.0% dangerous substances 70.09 – ICT and TELECOMMUNICATIons equipment 0.446 100.0% 0.0% 73.01 WASTE OIL CAT. II(synthetic) 0.010 100.0% 0.0% 75.01 paint residue in plastic/steel packaging 0.448 100.0% 0.0% 79.02 NIcKEL-CADMIUM BATTERIes 0.226 100.0% 0.0% 79.11 GAS discharge lamps 0.646 98.0% 2.0% 80.01 – SPECIFIc hospital waste, unspecified 0.020 100.0% 0.0% [ 49 ] Annex 5 Water consumption Water Year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Consumption m³ 68,891 62,449 65,908 67,572 66,221 Commercial occupancy index 100 94 105 110 111 Percentage change compared to 2008 Water consumption 0.0% -6.6% -6.7% -6.5% -8.7% Goal 0.0% -5.0% -10.0% -15.0% -20.0% RAI Sustainability Report 2012 [ 50 ] [ 51 ] Colophon Editors: Marjolijn Krul (CSR Manager) and Corine van Rijsingen (Corporate Communications) Advice and text: Ernst & Young | Beco Translation: Writewell Quality Text Amsterdam Design: Vormplan Design, bno Amsterdam Amsterdam RAI Europaplein Photographs: Richard van Yperen 1078 GZ Amsterdam Otti Fotografie PO Box 77777 NFP Photography 1070 MS Amsterdam T +31 20 549 12 12 Corrections: Cisca Pisano and Albert Gerbel F +31 20 646 44 69 www.rai.nl Contact: Amsterdam RAI welcomes your reactions to the sustainability report via corcom@rai.nl
