Communication on Progrees March 2013 COPENHAGEN GROUP A/S • SANKT ANNAE PLADS 11 • 1250 COPENHAGEN K • DENMARK OFFICE PHONE: +45 33 93 19 88 • FACSIMILE: +45 33 93 19 87 • VAT NUMBER: DK28698941 • WWW.CPHGROUP.COM 120912 LEHO COPENHAGEN GROUP COP H.E. Ban Ki-Moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 United States of America Copenhagen, 09 March, 2013 Re: Continued commitment to the UN Global Compact Dear Mr. Secretary-General: I am pleased to confirm that Copenhagen Group A/S and its subsidiaries, Copenhagen Contractors A/S, Copenhagen Global A/S and Copenhagen Election A/S reaffirms support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This statement is formed as an introduction to the 2013 Communication on Progress, where Copenhagen Group will demonstrate areas of development, implementation, and measurement of the Global Compact principles and outcomes. We are committed to continuing to make the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day to day operation of our company. This statement is further intended to inform all stakeholders of our continued support and value for the ten principles. Yours Sincerely, Jeppe Handwerk President and CEO COPENHAGEN GROUP A/S • SANKT ANNAE PLADS 11 • 1250 COPENHAGEN K • DENMARK OFFICE PHONE: +45 33 93 19 88 • FACSIMILE: +45 33 93 19 87 • VAT NUMBER: DK28698941 • WWW.CPHGROUP.COM 120912 LEHO COPENHAGEN GROUP COP Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicity in human rights abuses. Copenhagen Group Policy Statement: Human Rights As an international company, Copenhagen Group does not work with agents or companies who fail to respect human rights in any form. We adopt non-discriminatory policies, thus any discrimination of employees related to our business or our suppliers’ business based on age, gender, culture, religion, race or political affiliation is not tolerated. Actions in 2012 Measurement of Outcomes 2013 Objectives and Targets Formalized deviation forms for employees to Employees have been trained and introduced Development of deviation reporting systems for report deficiences or irregularities in work place on usage of deviation system. System has been all Copenhagen Group subsidiaries. activities realted to HR issues, technical issues made available to all staff in headquarters and and health and safety matters. is monitored by senior management. Supplier Audits and industrial visits where No instances of human rights abuses noticed Continued audits of all suppliers and future products are produced – photos taken, and no indications of issues. suppliers on yearly basis. conditions are monitored, ensuring safe and healthy environments. Regularly inform suppliers of Copenhagen’s Copenhagen Group subsidiaries informed all Continued awareness to current suppliers and policies towards human rights and working relevant suppliers of human rights policy new suppliers. relationship with firms who engage in correct statement and confirmed policies were human rights practices. understood (no work with companies that discriminate, participate in forced labour, etc.). Engagement and support of NGOs focused on In 2012, Copenhagen Group and its Continued support of human rights groups human rights issues. management supported the Orchid Project, the engaged in ending human rights violations in only international NGO focused solely on regions where our businesses operate. Further ending the practice of female genital cutting. engagement and expansion support planned The company has donated office space, IT for Orchid Project in 2013. support, office equipment, and volunteer time to building the organization. COPENHAGEN GROUP A/S • SANKT ANNAE PLADS 11 • 1250 COPENHAGEN K • DENMARK OFFICE PHONE: +45 33 93 19 88 • FACSIMILE: +45 33 93 19 87 • VAT NUMBER: DK28698941 • WWW.CPHGROUP.COM 120912 LEHO COPENHAGEN GROUP COP Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses will uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. Copenhagen Group Policy Statement: Labour Standards Copenhagen Group and its subsidiary operations adopt strict policies concerning labour practices and uphold and implement labour procedures in accordance with international labour standards. Actions in 2012 Measurement of Outcomes 2013 Objectives and Targets Audit of all suppliers to make sure not In 2013, during a quality management survey, a Promote continued awareness of Copenhagen complicent in child or compulsory labour. specific check was made to ensure no human Group policy related to labour standards and rights abuses or child labour is used at facilities human rights. Promote awareness with new where Copenhagen Election sources its suppliers. Continued checks through QM supplies. No such instances were recorded or system to ensure no cases or instances of noted. labour issues. Work Place Assesment Questionarre. Copenhagen Group distributed a work place Higher satifastion level score on work place assesment questionarre to gauge level of assesment questionarre. satisfaction related to cleanliness, health and Implementation of questionarre throughout all safety in the headquarters operations. All Copenhagen Group subsidiary locations. employees in headquarters completed questionarre on confidential basis. 99% of all answers were above satisfactory in all categories. Review of employment contracts in Kuwait Contract reviewed by local legal representative Review of other entities to ensure compliance. entity to ensure compliance with relevant laws. Review of current benefits to employees in Company agreed to provide greater benefits for field. time off, wages, health care than requried under law. 4/6 COPENHAGEN GROUP A/S • SANKT ANNAE PLADS 11 • 1250 COPENHAGEN K • DENMARK OFFICE PHONE: +45 33 93 19 88 • FACSIMILE: +45 33 93 19 87 • VAT NUMBER: DK28698941 • WWW.CPHGROUP.COM 120912 LEHO COPENHAGEN GROUP COP Environment Principle 7: Support a cautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Copenhagen Group Policy Statement: Environment Copenhagen Group A/S and its subsidiary operations place stewardship and protection of the environment as a high priority as we conduct our daily business activities. The company will reduce emissions and energy consumption wherever possible; utilize the latest technology wherever possible; and comply with all applicable laws and regulations. Actions in 2012 Measurement of Outcomes 2013 Objectives and Targets Shift of production (Election) for cost savings Shifted production of critical material to Further review of environmental impact of and lowering company’s carbon footprint. locations closer to delivery locations and closer production of material and shipping methods. to company headquarters. Copenhagen moved Address impacts and look for alternatives to production of certain materials from Asia in an further reduce company’s emissions. effort to cut costs and to also reduce company’s carbon footprint (less travel time to production facility, shorter shipment destinations, supplier using EU environmental production standards). Introduction of Environmental Mapping in Copenhagen Group obtained ISO 14001 Introduce environmental mapping in subsidiary Copenhagen Group headquarters through ISO certification in the past year. Reduction of operations in order to develop additional certification 14001. paper use and other recyclable materials. methods for reducing company’s overall CO2 Reduced use of chemical agents in office. footprint. Formalized information in regards to handling and storage of chemical agents in subsidiary offices. Reduction of CO2 emissions. Paper use in headquarters office reduced by Reduce air travel by 25% for all company 25%. Printing restricted to critical material and personnel by end of 2013. Calculation of all printing done double sided. baseline carbon footprint for all CPH employees In 2012, Copenhagen Contractors changed over to raise environmental awareness. its large equipment and vehicle fleets in Kuwait to more fuel efficient vehicles. 5/6 COPENHAGEN GROUP A/S • SANKT ANNAE PLADS 11 • 1250 COPENHAGEN K • DENMARK OFFICE PHONE: +45 33 93 19 88 • FACSIMILE: +45 33 93 19 87 • VAT NUMBER: DK28698941 • WWW.CPHGROUP.COM 120912 LEHO COPENHAGEN GROUP COP Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Copenhagen Group Policy Statement: Anti-Corruption Copenhagen Group strives to conduct all business dealings and relationships with integrity, honest and respect toward fellow employees, customers, suppliers and others with whom the company does business. No employee should knowingly permit any transaction to occur that does not honour the company’s principles. Actions in 2012 Measurement of Outcomes 2013 Objectives and Targets Implementation of quality management system Quality management system provides Further integrate QM and anti-corruption as a result of ISO 9001 certification. employees a forum for understanding the understanding in all CPH Group subsidiaries via company’s zero tolerance for corruption. education and training in QM system. Guidelines for quality allow for employees to note any cases of corruption in supply chains, or any other daily operations. In 2012, the QM reporting system yielded no instances of corruption. Work with supply chain members and business Via audits of suppliers, contract reviews and Continue audits of suppliers and other partners partners to adhere to anti-corruption principles. strict financial oversight systems put in place in to ensure full compliance with Copenhagen 2012, no instance of corruption were revealed Group’s position on anti-corruption. or reported. Implementation of Code of Ethics In 2012, a formalized and written code of ethics Ensure 100% of all employees in each understanding and training. was introduced to employees in certain subsidiary have read and been trained in code subsidiaries. Code of ethics was incorporated of ethics. Further incorporate code into all into employment contracts for new employees employee contracts by end 2013. and also existing employment contracts were revised to reflect commitment to code of ethics. 6/6 COPENHAGEN GROUP A/S • SANKT ANNAE PLADS 11 • 1250 COPENHAGEN K • DENMARK OFFICE PHONE: +45 33 93 19 88 • FACSIMILE: +45 33 93 19 87 • VAT NUMBER: DK28698941 • WWW.CPHGROUP.COM 120912 LEHO COPENHAGEN GROUP COP
