GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COP Company Name One Call Group (Holdings) Ltd Date 7 February 2013 Unit (if applicable) Address Six Enterprise Park Black Moor Road Membership date 8 November 2010 Verwood BH31 6YS Country UK Number of employees 22 Contact name Paul Anderson Contact Position Managing Director Sector Building & Maintenance Contact telephone no. 01202 829329 Brief description of nature of business One Call Group (Holdings) Ltd provides reactive maintenance and PPM to clients throughout England, Scotland and Wales, major and mini renovation, dilapidations and refurbishment of listed and non listed buildings, deep cleaning of commercial kitchens, grease extract systems & ducting, catering establishments and MOD facilities, low level and high rise window cleaning, refuse chutes, void property deep cleaning and refurbishment works. Fire & flood restoration and refurbishment. Statement of continued support One Call Group (Holdings) Ltd are a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and its Ten Universal Principles. These Principles are derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (’UDHR’) and incorporate human rights, labour, environment, bribery and corruption. One Call Group supports the UDHR and the International Labour Organisation’s Declaration of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We support all United Nations efforts to ensure the effective abolition of child forced compulsory labour and will never use any such labour in any of our operations. The rights of every employee are respected and we act in ways that ensure all employees are treated with openness, mutual trust, dignity and respect. All employees will be treated fairly and without discrimination on the basis of race, gender, language or religion. We firmly commit to make the Un Global Compact and its principles an integral part of our business strategy, day-to-day operations, and organisational culture. To incorporate the Un Global Compact and its principles in the decision making processes at board level. Take actions in support of Un goals and issues, including the Millennium Development Goals. Communicate annually with its stakeholders on progress made to implement the principles. To advance the Un Global Compact and the case for responsible business practices through advocacy and active outreach to peers, partners, clients, consumers, and the public at large. 1 Signature Paul Anderson Position Managing Director 1 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Our Commitment or Policy It is the policy of One Call Group (Holdings) Ltd to provide, practicable and adequate control of the health and safety risks arising from our work activities or that of our subcontractors. We recognise our duties under the Health and Safety at Work. Act 1974 and the Management of Health and Safety at Work Regulations 1999 and will, as far as reasonably practicable, maintain safe and healthy working conditions, equipment and systems for all our employees and for all subcontractors who are affected by our activities. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Control through risk assessment and risk control systems, recorded management inspections and actions taken. We have employed a H&S Officer who is IOSH, IIRSM, NEBOSH certified and all staff understand their legal H&S duties. Cooperation through management and staff cooperation. All staff understand that safety is everybody’s responsibility. All staff are consulted with and agreement is reached on hazards and work place precautions. We have an open and no blame safety culture. We implemented a system of KPI’s, including targets for induction training for all new staff, and a training matrix to ensure all employees reach their full potential and continued provision of personal development. Measurable Results or Outcomes All employees have taken part in ongoing H&S training and have attended and passed CSCS courses and other relevant Health and Safety courses. Reference to pages in sustainability report (if applicable): Targets for future years: To monitor the company policy on employee CPD and to make sure every employee has the same opportunity for job specific training and personal development. Other relevant information: 2 LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Our Commitment or Policy All our work is based on the following principles: Knowing that all of our work involves human sensitivities and relationships. We will never exploit or compromise this and we encourage a creative environment in which every voice is heard, every interest represented and every heart engaged. We seek always to work through dialogue with our employees, clients, supply partners and communities, treating all as friends with whom we can learn and have fun while bringing about a lasting change. A brief description of our Processes or Systems We strive to generate economic, social, cultural and environmental capital in all our activities and to identify and progressively reduce any detrimental impact of our activities. We believe that a socially and environmentally responsible business serves the best interests of all stakeholders. Through our work, we strive to enrich and inspire and to be receptive to the richness and inspiration of our clients and partners, to transcend the constraining formalities of business and to remember always that we are all just people working together. This strategy has helped us grow in a very difficult economic climate and we are firmly committed to the continued adoption of these basic but very important working practices. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year Learning is the product of everything we are and do, we are committed to learning something new every day, our own learning and our joint learning with our staff, subcontractors and our customers. Measurable Results or Outcomes We have positive feedback from staff who are happy with the support they receive from their supervisors/managers with their ability to contribute and the way they are managed in general. There were no complaints from employees regarding this principle and we continue to apply this on an everyday basis bringing a healthy, happy working environment to all staff, suppliers and customers associated with the company. . Reference to pages in sustainability report (if applicable): Targets for future years: To maintain our policy standards as a minimum Other relevant information: 3 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment or Policy One Call Group (Holdings) Ltd are committed to delivering high quality programs, which have a minimal impact upon the environment we work in. Our policy includes: Compliance with, and wherever possible exceeding, environmental legislation and local users agreements. Environmental Impact Assessments of all potentially hazardous activities. Management of waste products including recycling of all possible office and work generated materials. Regular reviews and reporting of environmental policies and practices throughout the company. Public disclosure of our policies. Transport strategies and careful planning of our workload to minimise all journeys made. A brief description of our Processes or Systems We recycle, repair, reuse or dispose of (responsibly) all items associated with our business these include: Energy – we only use Energy saving light bulbs, Fluorescent tube style lighting is used throughout our office buildings resulting in significantly less energy being used than with conventional tungsten light bulbs. Hazardous Chemicals – We use biodegradable products where possible Recycling of paper, glass, cardboard, plastic, batteries, toner cartridges and general materials wherever possible. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year We have future plans to further reduce our impact on the environment by focusing on the following areas; • Our office buildings and grounds • Waste Management • Our activities which impact on the environment • Energy exploring the possibility of using alternative sources to run our fleet of cars and vans • Designing training programs to educate, promote and engage employees and clients about environmental issues, including Climate Change. Measurable Results or Outcomes Current schemes include; • Recycling stations in all offices • Educating employees and subcontractors to keep all waste to a minimum and to reuse, repair and recycle. • Employment of additional personnel geographically placed to reduce journey distances and times •Appointed an Environment advisor • Regular company updates on environmental policies • Our Environmental Policy Reference to pages in sustainability report (if applicable): Targets for future years: To maintain our policy standards as a minimum whilst looking to improve wherever possible. Other relevant information: 4 ANTI-CORRPUTION PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Our Commitment or Policy We firmly believe that all businesses should work against corruption. Our staff handbook states that we expect all employees to behave in a professional and ethical manner both internally and externally. This includes working against extortion and bribery. A brief description of our Processes or Systems If employees do not support this principle as outlined in the staff handbook, disciplinary action will be taken which could result in possible termination of employment. Actions implemented in the last year / planned for next year We will continue to promote and practice our principles and our high standards of ethics. We will continue to the best of our ability not to enter into relationships or contracts with companies who apply these practices to everyday business. Measurable Results or Outcomes No disciplinary action taken on any of our employees as a result of any acts of bribery, corruption or extortion. Reference to pages in sustainability report (if applicable): Targets for future years: We have produced a written company policy against corruption of all kinds and this will be discussed with all staff and they will be issued with a copy. Other relevant information: How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? A COP is a direct communication from business participants to their stakeholders. For this reason, you are required to make their COP widely available. On the UNGC website. 5
