 Absolute Care Staffing Health Agency, Inc is strongly committed to the Ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Statement of Environment and Anti-Corruption. This is our first Continued Support Communication On Progress and we have incorporated the Ten Principles in our daily business By the CEO approach and directives to all employees. We continue Leslie A Gibson to strive to make sure we touch our community and the 2012 people we do business with in a positive way. We do this by continuing to demonstrate the Ten Principles of Global Compact and encouraging those we encounter to adopt these Principles. The Ten Principles of Global Compact has become part of the backbone of the company’s focus and resolve.  We are totally committed to the principles of Universal Human Rights. We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. We have incorporated these beliefs into our core business Our Actions principles and is part of our orientation to all new employees. Human Rights  We will never be complicit whenever we find human rights abuses. It is our commitment to speak against human rights abuses wherever we find one.  We have therefore added Human Rights to our Company Code of conduct which is distributed to all employees.  Our goal is to make sure that all partners that we deal with, are aware of our stance on Human Rights. We will only do business with parties that observe the Universally accepted Human Rights standards.  We have an open door policy for our employees to be able to approach management with any grievance they might have about unfair treatment. We have trained all management to take and act on all concerns of our Our Action employees or partners.  Any allegation of Human Rights abuse within our Human Rights cont’ organization will be thoroughly investigated addressed. We conduct quarterly assessment of our employees to make sure that everyone adheres to all policies of our organization. Management is instructed to offer training to employees that require it.  We have always believed that employees must have the freedom of association. Employees at Absolute Care Staffing Health Agency, Inc has the right to collective bargaining if they choose to. We do not Our Action threaten or retaliate against any employee for their associations. Labor  We do not and will not engage in any form of forced labor. Every single employee of our company, is through a mutual agreement between the employee and the company. We adhere to all local, state and federal labor laws. All employees are paid for all work performed. Absolute care Staffing Health Agency, Inc has strictly defined job descriptions for every position within our organization. We do not force an employee to perform any job that is not within their defined job role. We are very robust in making sure that our clients and partners adhere to these same principles.  Absolute Care Staffing Health Agency, Inc does not engage in child labor. We strictly adhere to all child labor laws. We are committed to the elimination of child labor whenever or wherever it is practiced.  Absolute Care Staffing Health Agency, Inc is an equal employment opportunity employer. We do not discriminate against anyone for any reason such as age, race, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, religious belief, national origin or disability. Absolute Care Staffing Health Agency Inc guarantees a nonhostile work environment. All employees are guaranteed equal pay for equal work.  Absolute Care Staffing Health Agency, INC believes that our environment is our greatest asset and most be taken care off. We believe that we have an obligation to leave our planet in the same or better condition for Our Action future generations.  With this belief, we have adapt practices that Environment encourages and utilizes energy conservation; such as the use of energy efficient light bulbs in our facility, using recycled products and proper disposal procedures.  We committed to safe environmental practices in every location that we do business. Our employees are trained and continue to receive continuing education on safe environmental procedures. We will share with our partners any technology that assist in the global fight against environmental destruction.  As part of our policy and procedure, we train every employee on the proper technique for disposal of hazardous materials. This handled as part of our orientation program and also our continuing education program for all employees.  Absolute Care Staffing Health Agency, INC does not engage in practices of corruption and bribery. It is our policy not to do business with any party that engages in corruption and bribery. We will work with all Our Action partners and clients to stamp out corruption in all it’s forms including extortion and bribery. We do not Anticorruption tolerate any form of corruption in our business practices and anyone found to be involved in such practices, are dismissed.  Any for of corruption is against our company code of conduct. The code of conduct handbook is distributed and made available to all employees.
