We create D E T A IL E D S U S T A IN A B IL IT Y RE PORT 201 2 S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 II 89 III IV 88 50 63 97 49 75 62 79 84 48 91 Construction Infrastructure Operations and Other Investments 42 61 55 85 40 47 4 33 78 24 36 74 39 46 70 44 3 2.5 3.6 Baja California Sur Peru Coahuila Chihuahua 34 32 77 81 23 90 5 73 38 45 31 43 2 76 1 Los Cabos International Convention Center 30 San Martín Contratistas Generales 55 Ciudad Acuña water treatment plant 77 Ciudad Juárez Airport (AAA) 14 14 (AAA) Campeche 2 Chicbul Ciudad del Carmen aqueduct 3 Marina Atasta shore protection 4 Boqueron del Palmar bypass Puebla 31 Puebla highway interchange Sonora 32 Navojoa Ciudad Obregón highway Mexico City 56 Autovía Urbana Sur highway Mexico State 57 Río de los Remedios highway (AAA) 78 Chihuahua Airport Coahuila 79 Torreón Airport Mexico City 14 Coahuila 33 Sonora State highway maintenance Guerrero 80 NH Terminal 2 Hotel, Mexico City International Airport 5 Saltillo General Hospital 58 Acapulco tunnel Durango Baja California Colombia 59 Acapulco Scenic Bypass* 81 Durango Airport A bc d e fg hijk A bc d e fg hijk 6 Caño Limón pipeline maintenance 34 Tanks for the Mexicali power plant Hidalgo A bc d e fg hijk Guerrero Baja California Sur 7 Northern Interceptor Tunnel, Río Medellín 60 Atotonilco water treatment plant 82 Acapulco Airport 35 El Boleo copper mine Costa Rica Jalisco 83 Zihuatanejo Airport 69 Coahuila 8 Atlantic Petroleum Terminal expansion 61 Agua Prieta water treatment plant Nuevo León 68 36 AHMSA steel and plate line Mexico City 62 RCO FARAC I highways 84 Monterrey Airport 29 Hidalgo 9 Mexico City Airport runway rehabilitation 63 SPC Jalisco San Luis Potosí 14 28 37 Tula Refinery 10 General Manuel Gea González Hospital Michoacán 85 San Luis Potosí Airport 8 27 Nuevo León 11 Nacional Cancer Institute Hospital 64 La Piedad bypass Sinaloa 38 Cadereyta clean fuels plant 12 CENEVAL headquarters 65 Lazaro Cardenas TEC II container terminal 86 Culiacán Airport 39 Cadereyta refinery repairs 13 Mexico City Metro Line 12 Oaxaca 87 Mazatlán Airport 40 Tractebel Spain, Portugal, Morocco, Central America 66 Barranca LargaVentanilla highway Tamaulipas Oaxaca 14 Rodio Kronsa 67 Mitla Tehuantepec highway 88 Reynosa Airport 41 Salina Cruz clean fuels plant Mexico State Panama 89 Tampico Airport 71 72 7 6 Sonora 15 Rio de la Compañia Tunnel 68 Corredor Sur highway (operation only) Zacatecas 20 21 22 37 60 42 Cananea SX/EW III plant 16 Eastern Discharge Tunnel 69 Corredor Norte Highwway (operation only) 90 Zacatecas Airport Tabasco 17 La Caldera pumping station PueblaVeracruz 43 Dos Bocas II dewatering plant Campeche 18 Cefereso No. 4 maintenance 70 Nuevo Necaxa Tihuatlán highway 44 Ethane Recovery, Ciudad Pemex 91 AakBal 19 Toluca Airport maintenance Querétaro Tamaulipas Mexico City 98 30 Hidalgo 71 Aqueduct II Queretaro 45 Litoral T offshore platform 92 Reserva Escondida 20 El Yathé reservoir dam 72 Palmillas Apaseo El Grande* 46 Ayatsil C offshore platform 93 Rosedal 3107 21 Mexico City Pachuca highway San Luis Potosí 47 Madero clean fuels plant 94 Espacio Condesa 22 Casaflex production plant 73 Río Verde Ciudad Valles highway 48 Tsimin B offshore oil platform 95 Marina Nacional 385 Jalisco 74 El Realito aqueduct 49 Madero Refinery rehabilitation 96 Reforma 27 23 La Yesca hydroelectric project Sonora 50 Reynosa Refinery rehabilitation Nuevo León 1 86 26 25 58 15 9 41 51 24 Los Panales reservoir dam 75 SPC Sonora Veracruz 97 Javer (Headquarters)2 35 87 64 59 16 10 66 52 Michoacán Yucatán 51 Chicontepec II oil field project Peru 17 11 25 Morelia General Hospital 76 Playa del Carmen expansion Mayab highway 65 82 67 53 52 Poza Rica cryogenic plant I 98 Los Portales Nayarit 83 18 12 54 53 Minatitlán clean fuels plant 26 Tepic bypass 1 *Awarded 2012; Concession agreement pending. 19 13 54 Etileno XXI petrochemical complex 2 The transaction is expected to close in 2Q13. Panama 57 56 civil construction 27 Corredor Norte highway 80 industrial construction 28 Avenida Domingo Díaz 92 concessions 29 Panama Canal, PAC-4 93 airports 94 Housing Development 95 Protected areas 96 S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 SUST AINABILIT Y RE PORT 20 1 2 SUSTAI NABI L I TY REPORT 2012 C o nte nt s 3 We a r e IC A 2 5 S ta k ehol d e r s 4 Me s s a g e f r o m t he C hai r m a n o f t he Bo a r d 2 8 Ec o no mic pe r fo r m a nc e 6 Me s s a g e f r o m t he C EO 3 5 S oc ia l pe r fo r m a nc e 8 C o r po rat e s t r u c t u r e 43 IC A Fou nd at io n 9 Share structure 4 4 Envi r o n me n ta l pe r fo r m a nc e 10 Aw a r d s a nd r ec og nit io n s 5 5 I n nov at io n 12 C o r po rat e g ove r n a nc e 6 2 Pa ra me t e r s o f t his r e po r t 14 Et hic s a nd c o m plia nc e 6 3 Gl o b a l C o m p a c t 15 R isk m a n a g e me n t a nd i n t e r n a l a u d it 6 5 G RI I nd ex 18 S u s tai n a bilit y m a n a g e me n t a nd visio n 7 3 C o n ta c t a nd feed b a c k S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 3 We ar e ICA 2.1 ICA was established in 1947 as Ingenieros Civiles Asociados, S.A. de Aside from Mexico, ICA operates in Colombia, Peru, Panama, Portugal, 2.5 2.4 C.V. to provide construction services for public sector infrastructure Spain and Costa Rica, making it one of the most important infrastruc2.6 projects in Mexico. Today we are a publicly traded company (societure companies in Latin America. dad anónima bursátil de capital variable) incorporated as Empresas ICA, S.A.B de C.V. (hereinafter referred to variously as “ICA” and/or the “Company”). Our headquarters are located at Blvd. Manuel Avila Mission Camacho 36, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, Miguel Hidalgo, 11000 We offer innovative solutions to address the most complex infrastrucMexico City, Mexico. ture and construction challenges in Mexico and the world. We are known for our integrity, passion for quality and our focus on environ2.2 In July 2012, ICA completed 65 years of service in the Mexican mental conservation. This is how we add value to our shareholders, construction industry. During this time we have earned the trust of our our people and the communities where we work. clients by providing innovative and comprehensive solutions to meet their infrastructure needs. The projects we build are critical to the functioning of the economy and improving quality of life: underground Vision transportation systems, highways and bridges, airports, hydroelectric To contribute to the development of Mexico and the world with soluprojects, combined cycle power plants, offshore oil rigs, hospitals, tions to complex infrastructure challenges. hotels and resorts, aqueducts and deep drainage projects, refineries, processing plants for natural gas and petrochemicals, mining facilities, universities, convention centers, sports stadiums and residential developments, to name a few. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 4 Messag e f r o m the Chair man of the Boar d 1.1 Without question, 2012 was an important year in the history of ICA, as We know that our actions and decisions influence the course not only of 1.2 we celebrate 65 years of actively contributing to the development of ICA, but also of the lives of millions of people; as such, we have made infrastructure, industry, transportation routes and virtually everything sustainability an integral part of our corporate culture, and we see our in which the growth of our country is reflected. responsibility as striving to integrate our stakeholders within that. Few companies have contributed so fundamentally to the transformation We have implemented best practices in corporate governance to of a country as ICA has in Mexico. Through the efforts of all our people, ensure efficient and complete oversight of the business; as part of today we are the leading construction firm in the country and one of the its duties, the Board of Directors assesses strategic issues with a most important in Latin America, as well as one of the leading operators sustainability lens, and defines policies that align with international of toll roads, water infrastructure and airports in Mexico. standards in this regard. The Finance, Planning and Sustainability Committee is responsible for monitoring, standardizing and defining Throughout this successful history we have built strong leadership not actions and strategies to be adopted on these issues, while ICA enonly in our industry, but in the business sector overall. Such leadership sures ethical management at all levels of the Organization by updatis accompanied by a growing responsibility to all our stakeholders: ing, improving and disseminating its Code of Ethics and Business shareholders, employees, clients, suppliers, communities, government Conduct. institutions, and society in general. We build productive relationships with our clients and suppliers based In this regard, and in line with trends adopted by leading companies on respect, communication, transparency and integrity. We work worldwide, several years ago ICA made an unwavering commitment: shoulder to shoulder together on the comprehensive, efficient and into collaborate in building a better country and a better planet through novative execution of our projects, under the basic premise that their the sustainable management of our business, for the benefit of present success is ours too. and future generations. We recognize the environmental and social impact of our operations Today we can proudly say that ICA is a sustainable company. We can where we develop. In this regard, we seek to minimize our environaffirm that every project in which we participate is permeated with mental footprint through the rational use of natural resources and that spirit of sustainability. And most importantly, we can be confident energy, water and building materials, and through our forestation, rethat every person in this great Company has taken on this commitment. forestation and biodiversity conservation efforts. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 5 We also see the communities around our work sites as valuable allies ICA’s strong operating and financial results, and the sustainability of our operation, thus we promote social programs in accordance with achievements that are detailed throughout this report, encourage and the needs of each region. challenge us to move forward more dynamically in order to improve our performance. I have full confidence that sustainable business is In our approach to human capital management, our employees are good business, hence, in the coming years we will increase our quality the Company’s most important investment, an investment which we standards, continue to work with integrity, strengthen our approach to protect every day by providing safe working conditions, training at all service, manage resources efficiently and make innovation part of our levels and opportunities for professional and personal growth. DNA, in order to keep creating value for our stakeholders, the environment and society as a whole. The value we generate for our shareholders is reflected in our solid financial results, including strong growth in Adjusted EBITDA, which increased 12% over the last year. Ing. Bernardo Quintana CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS EMPRESAS ICA, S.A.B. DE C.V. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 6 Messag e f r o m the CEO Thanks to the effort, commitment and innovative spirit of all who effective and innovative options available to its clients for the implehave worked at this Company, past and present, ICA has been able mentation of their infrastructure projects, the Company has similarly to provide expertise and quality across its 65 years in contributing to assumed the responsibility to plan, develop and put into practice efficreating much of the most important and representative infrastruccient solutions for the challenges posed on the road to sustainability. ture of modern Mexico. As such, we have taken on the task of ensuring that our environmenIn recent years, ICA has undergone a change at all levels to make it tal, social, labor, ethics and human rights practices are as notable as a more competitive company. Beyond the most important – and obviour operating and financial performance. It is our conviction that in ous – improvements in the way we operate, grow and manage, the today’s world this is the right path and one which gives us greater most important transformation has been, ultimately, in our corporate certainty for the future. culture: every person at ICA has taken on the role of change agent, and this has resulted in a rejuvenated company, open and highly flexICA specializes in the construction and operation of infrastructure, an ible to meet market needs. industry that cannot be understood without strong environmental and social components. This underscores the importance of ensuring that While each ICA employee has a specific job and different daily objecsustainability is indeed an integral part of our corporate culture, and tives, we are all united by the Mission and Vision of the Company, as not only that, but also to share this vision with all our stakeholders. well as our shared values, which we subscribe to as individuals and as a company: As part of this process, we have found that being a sustainable company has real advantages: the standards to which we hold ourselves • Quality: we achieve excellence in everything we do. have made our operation more efficient; beyond the environmen• Integrity: we are ethical, fair and respectful. tal benefits, optimizing resource consumption results in tangible • Service: we work together to anticipate needs and exceed economic benefits; the bonds have been strengthened with clients, expectations. suppliers and communities; workplace accidents have decreased; and • Efficiency: we do not waste time, talent or resources. our employees feel more connected to and proud of the company they • Innovation: we always go one step further. work for. This renewed focus is naturally reflected in our vision of sustainabilThis Sustainability Report demonstrates our commitment to operate ity. Just as ICA has always been distinguished for making the most under this framework, documents our performance and makes public S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 7 our short-, mediumand long-term goals. For the third consecutive before as in 2012 was the phrase so true that at ICA, We create. year, we are submitting the report with Global Reporting Initiative In line with the above, our social, environmental and corporate gover(GRI) guidelines and indicators, which facilitates the comparison of nance was also of note: 2012 results with those of previous years. • Our relationships with the communities neighboring our As a responsible corporate citizen, we are equally aware of the role projects were constructive, contributing to the continuity of we play as change agents. To that end we are a signatory to the our operations. Global Compact of the United Nations and actively participate in the • In line with our human resources strategy, over 760,000 Commission on Private Sector Research for Sustainable Development man-hours of training were provided to our employees in (known by its Spanish acronym CESPEDES), of the Business Coordi2012. nating Council (CCE). • Our consumption indicators showed an overall trend toward improvement. 2.8 Our financial results reflect these achievements. Revenue increased • To ensure ethical management throughout the Company, 17% to Ps. 47,542 million. Adjusted EBITDA grew 12% to Ps. 6,964 we continue to disseminate our Code of Ethics and Business million with an adjusted EBITDA margin of 14.6 percent. Conduct, as well as to promote our values through the new Code of Ethics for Suppliers, Subcontractors and Business Like these financial figures, our performance during the year is a Partners. reflection of this new way of operating. Never before as in 2012 have we inaugurated as many important projects for our company and our This strong performance is proof that despite our 65 years, we are a nation, such as La Yesca, the second highest dam of its kind in the young company, full of strength, and with long-term vision and objecworld; the San Marcos Bridge, one of the highest on the planet; and tives; all of us here are committed to ensuring that won’t stop. With the Poza Rica cryogenic plant, which will bring energy savings and this same commitment we are redoubling efforts to continue building environmental benefits to our country, among many others. Never together a prosperous and generous future. A sustainable future. Ing. Alonso Quintana CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Empresas ICA, S.A.B. de C.V. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 8 C o r po rate st r u c tur e 2.2 ICA has two core, complementary businesses: construction and manInfrastructure operations and other investments 2.3 agement of a portfolio of long-term infrastructure concessions and Concessions 2.7 other investments, organized in five major business units. ICA Infrastructure develops and operates long-term concessions and public-private partnerships (PPP) for highways, water projects, ports Construction and public services. We are the largest highway operator in Mexico, Civil Construction with more than 1,700 km of roads under management. We had a portWe carry out large-scale infrastructure construction projects. These infolio of 20 concessions at the end of 2012: 11 operational, 7 under clude dams and hydroelectric projects; highways, tunnels, and bridges; construction, and 2 pending finalization of contracts. drainage systems, aqueducts, and water treatment plants; structures including stadiums, hospitals, and airports; and rail and subway sysAirports tems. Our specialized construction subsidiaries give us additional exWe operate 13 airports through our publicly-listed subsidiary OMA. pertise in geotechnology, subsoil engineering and prefabricated comThe airports include Monterrey, Mexico’s industrial capital, and key ponent manufacturing. regional cities in the north and central areas of the country. We also operate a hotel in Terminal 2 of Mexico City’s International Airport, Industrial Construction provide other commercial services, and develop the real estate in and Through ICA Fluor, a joint venture between ICA and Fluor Corporation, around our airports. we carry out the engineering, procurement, construction, management and operation (EPCM) of complex industrial facilities, including oil and Housing Development gas processing plants, LNG plants, steel mills, mining facilities and We develop high-end and affordable housing developments in Mexico other manufacturing plants. With more than 1,000 design engineers, and Peru, and also invest in tourism developments and other real eswe have one of the largest design engineering groups in Mexico. tate projects in these markets. Most of these projects are developed through our strategic alliances with Javer (in Mexico) and Grupo Raffro (in Peru). S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 9 Shar e s t r u c tur e • 79%* of the shares trade in the Mexican market. At December 31, 2012, ICA had total liabilities of $88,026 million pesos, • 9%* of the shares are represented in the form of ADRs (American shareholders’ equity of $20,662 million pesos and total capitalization Depositary Receipts). of $108,688 million pesos. • 12%* of the shares are held by officers, directors and employees, through the management trust, treasury and ICA Foundation. ICA made no announcements in 2012 that had any impact on the share 2.9 * Approximate structure. ICA is listed on the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) and on the New For more details on this and other matters, please refer to the CompaYork Stock Exchange (NYSE) since 1992. ny’s 2012 annual report at www.ica.com.mx. **All information presented is as at December 31, 2012 unless otherwise stated. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 10 Awar d s and r ecog nitio ns 2.10 In 2012 ICA and its employees received numerous recognitions, a testament to the commitment, effort and dedication we bring to our work every day. Granting institution Recipient Reason Indiana Tech University Bernardo Quintana Isaac Honorary Doctorate in Global Leadership. Cementos Mexicanos (CEMEX) La Yesca Hydroelectric Project First place in the CEMEX Building Awards Competition 2012. Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, ViveICA “Safe Company”, based on compliance with regulations in level 1 of the Paseo de las Torres, ViveICA, S.A. de C.V Federal Government of Mexico (STPS) STPS Workplace Safety and Health Self-Management Program. Hewlett Packard Mexico La Yesca Hydroelectric Project Permanent partner in the HP Planet Partners Return & Recycle Program. Federal Agency for Environmental CFE and La Yesca Hydroelectric Project Clean Industry Certificate, derived from the Voluntary Environmental Audit. Protection (PROFEPA) Congratulations to Empresas ICA, S.A.B. C.V. for the inauguration of the “Ing. Alfredo Elias Ayub” La Yesca Hydroelectric Plant. What stands out again is that National Chamber of Consulting Firms, La Yesca Hydroelectric Project Mexican engineering soundly resolved the technical and construction problems Mexico that arose, proving once more that it stands with the best in the world. The effort and commitment of ICA helped goals and project execution times to be met. First national airport to successfully implement the Quality Upgrade Program, Ministry of Tourism OMA, San Luis Potosí which consists of adopting best practices for both employees and the company itself. Airport Service Quality Award 2011 OMA, Mazatlán Airport Best Regional Airport in Latin America and the Caribbean. Great Place to Work Institute of OMA 100 Best Companies to Work For in Mexico. Mexico Recognition in Health and Safety for encouraging companies to implement and operate health and safety management systems in the workplace, based on Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare OMA Torreón Airport national and international standards, and for meeting the requirements for Level III in the Safe Company program. ICA, Realito Aqueduct and Agua Prieta Project Finance International Latin American Water Deal of the Year 2011. Wastewater Treatment Plant ICA Social Infrastructure Projects, Federal Project Finance International Latin American Project Bond Deal of the Year 2011. Social Rehabilitation Centers S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 11 Project Finance International ICA Developer of the Year. Latin Finance ICA, Social projects 20-year bond for financing social projects. Mexican Center for Philanthropy ICA Socially Responsible Company 2012. (CEMEFI) Qualifying Committee of the Latin FIIC Latin American Award for Corporate Social Responsibility for 2012-2014, as American Award for Corporate Social ICA one of the most important companies in Latin America in this field. Responsibility (FIIC) For the third consecutive year ICA received the recognition: Commitment to the ICA future of Mexico. ICA, Prefabricados y Transportes, S.A de C.V. Educational Gap Program 2012. (PRET), Autovía Urbana Sur National Institute for Adult Education (INEA) ICA, Autovía Urbana Sur Company committed to the education of its workers. ICA, Pápagos social projects Company committed to the education of its workers. ICA, Marina 385 Company committed to the education of its workers. ICA, La Yesca Hydroelectric Project Recognition for helping reduce the educational gap for dam workers at La Yesca. Non – English A.R. (Annual Report): Sustainability Report. 2012 International Annual Report Non – English A.R. (Annual Report): Construction & Building. ICA Competition Awards Photography: Sustainability Report. Interior Design: Construction & Building. First place in the Employee Communications category, for the ONE x ONE EngageMexican Association of Organizational ICA ment Survey. Merit Recognition Electronic and Digital Communication category, Communicators (AMCO) for the Website. Reforma ICA The eighth most admired company in the country. Palacio de Minería International Book For participation in the XXXIII edition of the Palacio de Minería International Book ICA Foundation Fair Fair. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 12 C o r po rate Gove r nance Highest Governance Body 4.1 As at April 16, 2013, the Board of Directors of Empresas ICA, S.A.B. Furthermore, by determination of a questionnaire, the Board of Direc4.9 4.3 de C.V. is composed as follows: twelve Directors, seven of which are tors appraises its own performance and adherence to best practice 4.10 independent under the Securities Market Law. standards of publicly traded companies. chairman of the board Effective April 16, 2013, the Shareholders approved changes to Bernardo Quintana strengthen the company’s corporate governance, increasing the flexibility of its Board of Directors by reducing its size and enhancing the directors separation between the Board and management. These changes are José Luis Guerrero Álvarez in line with international best practices in corporate governance. Alonso Quintana Kawage Board size decreased from seventeen to twelve directors, includDiego Quintana Kawage ing only two members of the current management team; seven are Fernando Flores y Pérez (1)(2) independent directors. Similarly, Shareholders approved the Board of Elsa Beatriz García Bojorges (1)(2)(3) Directors’ proposal for the constitution of three special committees to Salvador Alva Gómez (1)(2) support this collective body. Margarita Hugues Vélez (1)(2) Ricardo Gutiérrez Muñoz (1)(2) Corporate Practices Committee Carlos Guzmán Bofill (1)(2) Carlos Fernández González (1)(2) chairman Eduardo Revilla Martínez Fernando Flores y Pérez (Appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 16, 2013) (1) Independent Directors in accordance with the definition in Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended. directors (2) Independent directors in accordance with the definition of Margarita Hugues Vélez Mexican Securities Market Law. Salvador Alva Gómez (3) Audit committee financial expert, in accordance with the requirement of Section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. Focused on carrying out the duties of corporate practices in matters of succession, nomination, compensation, evaluation and policy 4.2 The Board of Directors is the highest governance body and its members proposals, with the ability to lead the design and structure of the 4.7 are approved based on their experience and training by the ShareholdCompany’s corporate governance system, in compliance with appliers. The Chairman of the Board does not hold an executive position. cable laws, corporate best practices and the standards and policies approved by the Board of Directors. In carrying out its functions, the Board of Directors evaluates sustainability issues related to the management and operation of the Company. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 13 Finance, Planning and Sustainability Committee The shareholders and employees of the Company have the following 4.4 mechanisms to communicate with the highest governance body: chairman Fernando Flores y Pérez AUDIENCE MECHANISMS (Appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 16, 2013) (i) Shareholders Meeting; (ii) investor relations office; (iii) conferences, (iv) meetings with financial analysts, Shareholders shareholders, investors, banks, rating agencies and other directors financial market participants. Salvador Alva Gómez (i) Business unit and/or area information activities; (ii) Carlos Fernández González Employees hotline; (iii) direct access to the General Counsel’s office Ricardo Gutiérrez Muñoz via email; (iv) escalating concerns up through the hierarchy. Carlos Guzmán Bofill Our internal regulations dictate that compensation be granted to key 4.5 4.9 Addresses matters relating to finance, strategic planning, risk executives of the Company only if they meet the conditions of their management and sustainability in compliance with applicable laws, performance. Additionally, remuneration of the members of the Board corporate best practices and the standards and policies adopted by of Directors is approved by the Shareholders in accordance with the the Board of Directors. proposals considered by the Corporate Practices Committee. With respect to issues of sustainability, the Finance, Planning and To avoid conflicts of interest in the highest governance body, inde4.6 Sustainability Committee is responsible for monitoring compliance pendent directors sign a statement of independence, while nonwith our policies, international sustainability standards and our own independent directors complete a quarterly questionnaire in which Code of Ethics and Business Conduct (the “Code of Ethics”). Additionthey declare any conflict of interest and any transaction with related ally, it identifies the risks facing the Company in this regard. parties of which they are aware. In order to carry out these transactions, and depending on their amount, authorization must be obtained Audit Committee from the Chief Executive Officer, the Corporate Practices Committee The Audit Committee is comprised of three independent members of or the Board of Directors. the Board of Directors. chairman Elsa Beatriz García Bojorges (Ratified by the Shareholders’ Meeting of April 16, 2013) directors Margarita Hugues Vélez Fernando Flores y Pérez The Audit Committee is responsible for the duties set forth in Section II of Article 42 and other applicable provisions of the Securities Market Law; among these is to review and evaluate the independent auditor and to report to the Board of Directors on the Company’s internal audits and the quality or deficiency of its internal control mechanisms. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 14 Ethic s and co m pliance Code of Ethics 4.8 The Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all employees of 2011, one proceeded. In all of these cases, the personnel involved the Company and is available for review on our website: www.ica. were dismissed from the Company. The 47% increase in the number com.mx of complaints over 2011 speaks to the growing confidence our stakeholders have in this tool. SO2 During 2012 training was provided for approximately 400 senior execSO3 utives, directors and managers of ICA regarding combating corrupThere were no complaints about workplace discrimination or violaHR4 tion and promoting the Code of Ethics. An anti-corruption program tions of indigenous rights. HR9 was also provided for technical and administrative personnel in the Company’s offices, projects and business units. Over 3,000 technical Hotline: 001 877 495 33 15 and administrative employees have been trained in ICA’s policies and Available 24 hours x 365 days a year procedures on this matter. for all our stakeholders. SO4 In 2012 the ICA hotline received a total of 323 complaints, of which ICA does not make financial or in-kind contributions to political parties SO6 46 (14%) were related to acts of corruption; of those, two (0.6%) or similar institutions, nor has it been the subject of legal actions relatSO7 proceeded and four (1.2%) are under investigation, while the remained to monopolistic or anti-competitive practices. We have not been SO8 ing 40 did not advance. Of the eight cases in process at the end of subject to significant penalties or fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 15 Risk manag e me nt and inte r nal au dit 4.11 The Risk Committee is comprised of vice presidents, general managengineering and construction industry. ECRI encourages the exchange ers from various areas of the Company and the General Counsel; of ideas among professionals on issues related to risk management, its primary objective is to strengthen the risk management culture and ICA’s head of risk serves as the Regional Director for the Board throughout the Organization. of Directors of this organization. To date, we have incorporated international best practices from this institution into our risk management ICA is exposed to four types of risk: operational, compliance, strateprocedures. gic and financial. Beyond those that must be managed on an ongoing basis, in 2012 the Risk Committee identified ten risks considered to be The Company uses a unique risk management methodology and also strategic, that is, those that affect the entire Company, and specified relies on the “ICA Risk” tool which incorporates the fundamentals and control actions for each of them. rules of the Project Management Institute (PMI) and the necessary internal control measures. In 2012 over 1,000 risks were identified and The Risk Committee is responsible for developing the performance managed in more than 50 different projects. management model for all projects; mitigating risk through a proper planning process; and promoting engineering that generates efficienThere are several stages in the analysis of risk and different levels of cies and optimizes the critical path, among other actions. risk in each project; to ensure comprehensive management, evaluation work is multidisciplinary and includes technical expertise from the Each year, every business unit is examined by Internal Audit and every departments of Tenders; Engineering; Quality Assurance, Safety and project undergoes a risk analysis with automated tools that allow Environment (ACSMA); Legal and case by case specialists. a universal methodology to be implemented, which facilitates the comparison, control and monitoring of positive or negative events that To verify proper risk management, the ACSMA and Internal Audit may have an impact on our projects. departments perform periodic reviews. The Risk Committee holds “Lessons Learned” sessions during the implementation and operation These tools include risk catalogs with technical, financial, social and of projects, which promotes an open, cooperative and mutually enrichenvironmental categories that help measure their impact on scope, ing culture. time and cost. ICA’s strategy of identifying environmental, social and corporate goverICA is a sponsor of the Engineering & Construction Risk Institute (ECRI), nance (ESG) risk is essential to meeting the expectations of all our an international forum on risk management focused exclusively on the stakeholders. For that reason we conduct risk identification, prevenS U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 16 tion, planning and assessment at different stages of our projects, with various areas of ICA are expected to continue being incorporated into the aim of providing security, supporting good decision-making and the Tableau system. contributing to the achievement of our strategic objectives. The Internal Audit Department, in addition to its compliance review CASE STUDY: GOVERNANCE, RISK role, seeks to be a strategic advisor that adds value to the areas under AND COMPLIANCE audit. To that end, automated Continuous Audit tools are implementProper management of corporate governance is more important than ed through which it is possible to apply tests and monitor a greater ever. At ICA we do this through GRC (Governance, Risk and Complinumber of transactions on a timelier basis. ance). These three elements support each other to improve the efficiency of the Company’s processes: through Governance, authority and The tools allow rapid query access to the Company’s databases in responsibilities are assigned; Risk identifies, evaluates and manages order to sort, filter, combine and analyze different data and present it anything that may jeopardize the achievement of objectives; and laston electronic dashboards, so that information is available to help idenly, Compliance validates adherence to standards and guidelines. tify what is happening, what could happen and what actions should be taken. Thus, key information for decision making is made available In 2012 we conducted an assessment of GRC practices at ICA to deterto management and different areas of the Company. mine their level of maturity and identify the actions required to bring them to optimal management. This project consisted of three stages: Currently, we are already working with databases from the areas of Planning, Understanding of the current situation (research), and Design Expenses, Labor, Equipment and Procurement. Processes from the of the desired future state. Components Current state Industry Future state Governance Risk management Integrated capabilities Business performance Basic Developing Established Advanced Leader S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 17 General Evaluation The future challenge The GRC assessment indicated a maturity below the desired level, The startup of the GRC initiatives has given us the needed impetus to so a decision was made to implement an action plan that would help continue our efforts to achieve better Corporate Governance. In the incorporate best corporate governance practices and thereby achieve future we will monitor identified risks appropriately and take the necesan optimal maturity level. sary control measures, such as the incorporation of ICA’s GRC Module into the enterprise resource planning (ERP) system and the establishThe objectives pursued in this action plan are: ment of mechanisms to monitor operational risks through Risk Management. • Integrate, coordinate and align risk functions. • Implement sustainable and proactive practices. The face multiple challenges as an organization during this GRC • Establish appropriate strategies, responsibilities, methods and maturity period, ranging from maintaining a labor environment that technology. promotes trust, integrity and responsibility, to demonstrating conclu• Improve business productivity. sively that good practices in this area add value to our business. The plan impacts the Civil Construction and Infrastructure businesses of Empresas ICA, where opportunities for improvement were found in relation to: • Organizational structure. • Risk identification and evaluation. • Risk response and monitoring. • Risk tolerance and analysis. • Mandate alignment and coordination. • Mandate coverage and scope. • People skills and resources. • Methods planning and focus. Initiatives and Overall Progress of the Project To address the identified opportunities for improvement, the action plan includes seven key initiatives that began to be implemented during 2012. Current Initiative weighted progress 1. Definition of the risk structure 7% 2. Optimization of processes and controls 55% 3. Change management 7% 4. Comprehensive risk assessment 13% 5. GRC policies 2% 6. Requirements definition for risk software 5% 7. Software deployment 0% Key business risks were identified from these initiatives, resulting in guidance documents such as the Empresas ICA Risk Matrix, the ICA Risk Universe and GRC Policies and Guidelines. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 18 Su staina bility manag e me nt and visio n Sustainability management Sustainability vision As a leader in its industry, ICA seeks to be at the forefront of sustainTo be leaders in sustainability in the construction and infrastructure ability and to permeate this concept throughout the Organization. industry. Sustainability management at ICA takes place through commissions or Sustainability mission specialized areas: Environment; Quality; Human Capital; CommunicaFor ICA, sustainability means providing attractive returns to our tion; Safety and Health; Social Environment Management; Research, shareholders and meeting the needs of our clients by adopting best Development and Innovation; Risk and Internal Audit; and Procurecorporate practices and conducting efficient and responsible busiment, Subcontracts and Equipment. ness economically, socially and environmentally. Thus, our concept of sustainability is aligned with our Mission, Vision and corporate Values. The commissions have representation from all business units and are chaired by members of senior management. They meet regularly to discuss any material issues, generate necessary guidelines for the operation and to review periodic progress and results, which are reported to the Sustainability Committee and in turn to the Finance, Planning and Sustainability Committee. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 19 Sustainability Management Board of Directors Finance, • Corporate Governance Planning and Sustainability • Market ORGANIZATIONAL CULTURE Committee Chair: Chief Executive Officer • Executive Committee • BU Directors Executive • Strategy • CFO Officers and Executive • Policies • Human Capital Committee • Organization • Internal Audit / Risk Sustainability • Legal Division • IT Sustainability • Objectives Committee Commissions / • Goals Initiatives / Activities • Common activities Operating within business units and projects • Goals by unit • Activities by project •Initiatives BUSINESS UNITS PROJECTS Directors Managers • Human Resources • Personnel officer • Internal Audit / Risk • Project control • Administration • Administrative officer • ACSMA • ACSMA • Internal Communication • Construction manager • IT S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 20 5 Culture of Sustainability • Monitoring • Maintain 4 commissions, positive 2 sustainability relationships initiatives with stakeholders • Measuring KPIs • Measure and safeguard ICA’s reputation • Disseminate • Define sustainability sustainability actions 1 policies • Ensure that the Sustainability 3 Balanced Scorecard • Public information is aligned with ICA’s audited by a third party 4.9 The Finance, Planning and Sustainability Committee analyzes and monitors our performance so that it meets the sustainability mission of the Company. The Sustainability Policy on matters of corporate, social and environmental governance is mandatory for all employees of ICA and its subsidiaries and controlled or affiliated companies. It is available for review at www.ica.com.mx. After a strategic planning process, in 2011 we defined our sustainability objectives. Following is a table where we present the shortand medium-term sustainability objectives and their level of progress, with a view towards achieving our vision and mission in this area. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 21 Very low Low Medium High Completed 4.16 Sustainability / Corporate Level of Level of mediumActivities short-term Evidence Activities Evidence term progress progress Implement and strengthen the • Pgs. 4-7, 25-27. stakeholder relationship strategy. • The Hotline is operating in Expand the scope of the Mexico and Panama; its Hotline in international dissemination will be carried projects. out in Peru, Costa Rica and Colombia. • Sustainability Reports in 2010, 2011 and 2012. • Member of the Mexican Stock Exchange’s Sustainability Index (IPC Sustentable). • Signatory to the Global Compact of the United Nations and member of its • Initiated a project with a board in Mexico. third party specialist to • Five years as a Socially facilitate the consolidation Responsible Company. Processes for and traceability of the Strengthen the culture • Member of the board of the compliance with information requested from of sustainability in favor Commission on Private Sector sustainability indicators. ICA’s various areas and of profitability. Research for Sustainable sustainability commissions Development (CESPEDES), for the preparation of the of the Business Coordinating Sustainability Report. Council (CCE). • Chair and vice chair of the board of the Trust for Electricity Conservation (FIDE). • Signatory to the Partnering Against Corruption Initiative (PACI) of the World Economic Forum. Training and Monitoring supplier development for • Pgs. 33-34. and subcontractor • Pgs. 4-7. suppliers and processes. subcontractors. • As previously mentioned, a project has been initiated with a third party specialist to facilitate the consolidation • Audit of the Sustainability Internal Audit of the and traceability of the External audit of the Report by an independent Sustainability Report. information requested from Sustainability Report. third party. ICA’s various areas and sustainability commissions for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. Expand the scope of • Publication of the Code Strengthen ethics and the Code of Ethics of Ethics for Suppliers, • Pgs. 4-7, 14. compliance programs. to suppliers and Subcontractors and Business subcontractors. Partners. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 22 Very low Low Medium High Completed Health and Safety Level of Level of mediumActivities short-term Evidence Activities Evidence term progress progress Zero fatalities. • Pg. 40. Zero fatalities. • Pg. 40 Lower the Company’s Lower the Company’s frequency index to 1.80 • Pg. 40. frequency index to 1.30 in 2012. in 2013. • In process of unifying a single • Aims to train the areas in Strengthen and upgrade Implement safety and set of safety and health charge of safety and health initiatives for safety and health regulations. regulations for all business at projects and among health. units. subcontractors. • In 2012, 17 cross audits were • In process of creating a conducted and such audits Implement cross audits Develop policies on workplace safety and health are currently in process of on projects disciplinary measures. policy that will be applicable being implemented at several to all business units. projects. • In process of creating tools to Contribute to the culture support employee awareness Increase safety training of safety and health • Pg. 36. and the construction industry at the level of workers. in the construction on matters of workplace industry. safety and health. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 23 Very low Low Medium High Completed Social Level of Level of mediumActivities short-term Evidence Activities Evidence term progress progress • A socioenvironmental analysis is currently underway at two toll roads in Oaxaca, • All actions carried out by the Mitla – Tehuantepec and Social Commission aim to Conduct analysis of Barranca Larga – Ventanilla. Mitigate social impacts mitigate the social impacts on social risk in select The aim is to understand at projects. the communities where we projects. local and regional satisfiers undertake our projects. for maintaining positive and • Pgs. 41-42. stable relations throughout the process. Develop plans and • Socio-environmental analysis measure impacts on at the two toll roads under Strengthen social community relations • Pgs. 41-42. construction in Oaxaca: Mitla responsibility programs. (before, during and – Tehuantepec and Barranca after) at projects where Larga – Ventanilla. ICA is involved. Very low Low Medium High Completed R&D+i Level of Level of mediumActivities short-term Evidence Activities Evidence term progress progress Strengthen the culture • ICA is working to achieve Implement effective focused on innovation, • Pgs. 15, 33, 47. a culture change in the R&D+i programs. development and workplace. research. • At ICA we try to impart knowledge through strategic alliances with various institutions. Strengthen relations • Acerca Una Escuela Program with educational • Pg. 42. Share the knowledge. pg. 42. institutions. • ICA’s Sustainability Department has given a number of conferences on sustainability analysis at universities. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 24 Very low Low Medium High Completed Environment Level of Level of mediumActivities short-term Evidence Activities Evidence term progress progress Initiate a process to • Measuring the carbon Optimize energy and measure the carbon • Pgs. 45-48, 50. footprint will begin in 2013. water consumption. footprint. • The Company’s Procurement Department has already been Strengthen biodiversity Improve productivity in unified at the corporate level, protection and • Pgs. 49-50. the use of materials. leveraging scale to purchase conservation programs. of materials. • Pgs. 44-45. • We partner with Pro Activa Medio Ambiente México, a company specialized in providing comprehensive environmental management services for water and waste Analyze environmental • Caso Nuevo Necaxa. Develop environmental that specifically respond to the business opportunities. • Pgs 58-61. businesses. needs of: -Partial and integrated water systems -Partial and integrated municipal solid waste systems S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 25 Sta kehold e r s 4.14 ICA has direct and high impact relationships with six stakeholder It is our responsibility to keep stakeholders informed in a transpar4.16 4.15 groups: shareholders, clients, suppliers, employees, government, and ent, accountable and timely manner, and in line with the information institutions and communities. We identified these groups through a needs of each group; we have several channels for communication materiality analysis that included social, environmental and ethical and feedback: issues relevant to our vision of sustainability. Stakeholder group Areas of interest Communication channels • Annual shareholders’ meeting. • Investor relations office. • Financial results. • Quarterly reports. • Short-, mediumand long-term economic performance. • Annual report. Shareholders • Business continuity and backlog. • Annual reports to the Mexican and New York Stock Exchanges. • Sustainability performance. • Sustainability report. • Conference participation • Meetings with financial analysts, shareholders, investors, debt holders and banks. • Service requests. • Tenders / bids. • High quality projects and services. • Contracts and work logs. • Responsible and ethical business management. • Direct meetings. • Eco-efficiencies. Clients • Satisfaction surveys (quality). • Innovation. • Sustainability report. • Avoidance of conflicts of interest. • Al Frente magazine (quarterly). • Zero tolerance for corruption. • Annual report. • Confidential hotline. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 26 • Service requests. • Evaluation. • Quality and distribution of materials purchased. • Direct meetings. • Fair contract terms. • Confidential hotline. • Transparent supplier and subcontractor evaluation. Suppliers • Training and follow-up meetings with key suppliers. • Competitive value chain. • Website. • Avoidance of conflicts of interest. • Supplier and subcontractor development. • Zero tolerance for corruption. • Surveys and feedback. • Code of Ethics for Suppliers, Subcontractors and Business Partners. • Business unit or administrative area reporting and information activities. • Annual meeting for business unit managers. • Annual information meeting for all board members, officers and managers. • Human resources management. • Confidential hotline (365 days a year). • Workplace safety. • “ComunICA” internal electronic bulletin board (twice a week). • Professional development. • Al Frente magazine (quarterly). Employees • Technical proposals. • ICActiva (monthly posters). • Labor standards. • Direct email access to the General Counsel’s office. • Human rights. • Remote and project training. • Institutionalization. • Annual Report and Sustainability Report (print and electronic). • Surveys (commitment). • Employment initiatives through schools in conjunction with the Institute of Adult Education (INEA). • Contact with local authorities. • ICA support for social causes. • Social initiatives through schools. • Contracting local suppliers. • Service contracts with local companies and individuals. • Job creation. • Distribution of 1,500 sustainability summaries (print). Communities • Efficient use of natural resources. • Annual Report and Sustainability Report available online. • Social and financial investment. • Conference participation. • Human rights. • ICA Foundation as a means of communication with the scientific and cultural • Local environmental impact. community. • Adherence to domestic and international legislation through: • Associations. • Publications. • Lectures. Government • Technical innovation and professional standards. • Exhibits. and institutional • Talent recruitment and development. • Quarterly report. relations • Legal compliance. • Annual Report. • Sustainability Report. • Sustainability summaries. • ICA Foundation. 4.17 We respond to our stakeholders’ key concerns, which reach us through a range of communication channels; the following table outlines our response to such concerns: Key issues received through ICA’s communications channels: How they are resolved: Offers for land sale/rental. Forwarded to the appropriate business unit. Offers for equipment rental/service. Forwarded to the Equipment division. Offers for employee training services. Forwarded to the Human Capital area. Multiple service offers. Forwarded to the appropriate business unit. Job applications. Forwarded to the Human Capital area. Depending on the type and classification of complaint, forwarded to the appropriate area or Complaints. the General Counsel’s office. Questions from university students related to sustainability. Immediate response from the Sustainability area. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 27 4.13 ICA proactively participates in the following organizations and associations: INSTITUTION OR ORGANIZATION TYPE OF PARTICIPATION Mexican Business Council on Foreign Members of the Board. Trade, Investment and Technology (COMCE) Business Coordinating Council (CCE) Members of the Board. The International Chamber of Member of the Board, Executive Committee and Vice Chairmanship. Commerce, Mexico Chapter Issuer Committee of the Mexican Stock Exchange Member of the Board. United Nations Global Compact Signatory PACI (Partnering Against Corruption Signatory Initiative) of the World Economic Forum National Autonomous University of Strategic alliance to promote a range of wildlife rescue programs at ICA’s projects. Mexico (UNAM) –Biology institute. College of Civil Engineers of Mexico (CICM) ICA staff are part of the Advisory Board and Board of Honor. Trust for Electricity Conservation Members of the Technical Committee; Chairmanship and Vice Chairmanship. (FIDE) Engineering and Construction Risk Institute Inc. (ECRI) Sponsor. Mexican Chamber of the Construction Industry (CMIC) Committee participation by our staff. SO5 Part of our goal in participating in these organizations is to promote legal and public policy improvements for our industry. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 28 Eco no mic pe r fo r mance total revenues 6% 3% 10 32 ,008 11 40,481 9% total 12 47 , 54 3 r e ve nue s 47 , 543 14% mi l l i on operating inc o me pe sos 68% 10 1 ,95 5 11 3,474 12 3,6 81 CIVIL CONSTRUCTION 32,597 E B IT D A 17% growth INDUSTRIAL CONSTRUCTION CONCESSIONS 6,507 4,408 10 11 4,1 7 6 6,2 1 7 AIRPORTS 3,098 12 6,9 6 4 2011-2012 HOUSING 1,492 millions of pesos Other 3% ebitda mar g in 3% 10 1 3.0% 11 1 5 .4 % 20% CONSOLIDATED 12 1 4. 6 % EBIT DA 6,964 32% E A RN IN g s P E R s H A RE ( P s . ) mi l l i on 10 0.97 pe sos 4% 11 2 .34 38% 12 1 .86 CIVIL CONSTRUCTIONL 2,250 bACkLOg* 12% gROWTH INDUSTRIAL CONSTRUCTION CONCESSIONS 306 2,632 As of December 31 10 35 ,2 99 35 ,31 8 AIRPORTS 1,368 11 2011-2012 HOUSING 224 12 5 0, 4 04 millions of pesos * IIncludes mining services as of 2012 S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 29 9.9% 14% 8.0% CIVIL industrial ConstruCtion ConstruCtion 12% 7.7% revenues revenues 49.9% 32,597 million 6.7% 38% 6,507 million pesos pesos 12% 5.9% 5.8% 7% 9% 2.6% 3.4% 8% URBANA SUR HIGHWAY 3,222 sALINA CRUz CLEAN FUELs PLANT 929 sPC jALIsC0 2,623 ahmsa 834 sPC sONORA 2,506 MAdERO CLEAN FUELs PLANT 751 RIO dE LOs REMEdIOs ECATEPEC HIgHWAy 2,196 MINATITLáN CLEAN FUELs PLANT 611 LA yEsCA HydROELECTRIC PROjECT 1,929 CAdEREyTA CLEAN FUELs PLANT 498 EAsTERN dIsCHARgE TUNNEL 1,892 POzA RICA I CRyOgENIC PLANT 435 MExICO CITy METRO LINE 12 1,106 OTHER 2,449 LOs CAbOs INTERNATIONAL CONvENTION CENTEr 850 millions of pesos OTHEr 16,273 millions of pesos 28% 20% 18% 24% ConCessions airports HOUSING revenues revenues unitS 4,408 million 3,098 million sold pesos pesos 6,677 13% in mexiCo 39% 76% 82% TOLLs 948 AERONAUTICAL 2,140 LOW INCOME 5,458 FINANCIAL 1,833 NON-AERONAUTICAL 680 OTHER 1,219 OPERATINg sERvICEs 608 millions of pesos units CONsTRUCTION 1,351 millions of pesos S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 30 Eco no mic pe r fo r mance EC1 Direct Economic Value Created and Distributed Direct cost by input EC9 Millions of pesos 2012 2011 2012 2011 Millions Millions TOTAL DIRECT COST 33,969 100% 31,193 100% % % (Pesos) (Pesos) Labor 4,447 13% 5,748 18% DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE 100% 48,875 100% 43,300 Raw materials and CREATED 9,737 29% 7,927 25% construction materials a) Revenues 100% 48,875 100% 43,300 Depreciation and 740 2% 929 3% ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED 96% 47,015 91% 39,289 amortization b) Operating costs 69% 33,685 66% 28,615 Maintenance and repairs 778 2% 929 3% c) Employee wages and benefits 16% 7,850 17% 7,280 Subcontractors and 11,373 33% 9,652 31% maquilas d) Payments to suppliers of 10% 4,934 7% 2,927 capital Freight and transportation 782 2% 809 3% e) Payments to government 1% 531 1% 453 Equipment rental 2,681 8% 2,430 8% f) Donations and other Insurance and bonding 17 0% 21 0% 0% 15 0% 13 community investments Maintenance 778 2% 929 3% ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED 4% 1,860 9% 4,010 FINANCING COSTS Financing expenses 2,323 7% 1,322 4% Interest income (275) -1% (32) 0% Exchange rate fluctuation (64) 0% (152) 0% Valuation effect on 0 0% 1 0% financial instruments Commission and other 143 0% 175 1% expenses Other direct costs (476) -1% 98 0% DIRECT COST 32,984 97% 30,695 98% Budgeted costs for 874 3% 480 2% housing Financing expenses for 111 0% 17 0% housing DIRECT HOUSING COSTS 985 3% 497 2% S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 31 Clients and suppliers PR2 Company policy is that all ICA projects and facilities provide the best safety and hygiene conditions, promoting good housekeeping to avoid accidents among personnel, clients, suppliers, visitors and the general public. PR3 In designing and developing its projects, ICA identifies and monitors the implementation of federal, state and municipal legislation; Official Mexican Standards on technical matters, environmental protection, health and safety; and our clients’ basis of basis and predetermined standards. In terms of quality, health, safety, environmental protection and social responsibility, the ICA companies are certified as follows: Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing ISO 9001 P P P P ISO 14001 P P P P OHSA 18001 P P P P ESR CEMEFI P P P P CRE6 Following is the percentage of our operations that have a recognized and verifiable Health and Safety Management System (OHSAS 18001:2007): Civil 100% Industrial 100% Infrastructure 88% Housing 100% PR5 To measure client satisfaction, several surveys are conducted with the following results: Areas of improvement identified by Business Unit Frequency Mechanism Most recent results Strengths identified by clients clients Opinion on services 80.11% -Technical experience and capability. -Technically knowledgeable and -Planning and scheduling of activities. Semiannually Written survey Project execution up-to-date personnel. -Supervision and control of all fronts. 81.75% -Application of safety regulations and -Adherence to execution schedule. processes. -Quality in construction processes. General opinion -Competitiveness. Civil 82.64% -Product quality. -Problem identification and solution. In person -Planning and scheduling of activities. -Efficient management of project Annually 91.3 % interview -Personnel honesty and commitment. changes. -Timely attention and correction of errors. -Institutional communication. Direct -Faster execution times. -Manufacturing capability. communication, -Better responsiveness to orders. 88% -Transport and assembly. via email, -Adequate technical support. -Attention from personnel. Civil Annually meetings -Development of engineering for improved designs. -Fulfillment of scope. -Timelier fulfillment. Written survey 8 (scale of 1 to 10) -Good communication. -Timely attention. -Personnel skills. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 32 -Institutional communication. -Administrative quality. -Faster execution times. Written survey -Environmental compliance. -Better responsiveness to orders. Industrial Annually In person 89% -Compliance with quality systems. -Adequate technical support. interview -Execution quality. -Development of engineering for improved designs. Monthly, -The use of a management system for Opinion and craft -The use of job specifications, to Infrastructure quarterly, 80% communication. surveys simplify administrative procedures. semiannually -Low Maintenance management. Post-sales area Satisfaction Monthly and -Service provided by the post-sales Housing surveys 67% -Delivery times. quarterly area Nonconformity report PR8 No significant fines were levied against any project at ICA’s business • Urban features such as rainwater filtration systems using PR9 units related to products and services provided, nor concerning privapermeable pavement. cy or leaks of customer data. Our contracts include contractor confi• Low consumption urban lighting and solar lights. dentiality clauses. Also, in cases where we are required to protect • Solid waste management systems. data in accordance with the Federal Law on Protection of Personal • Vegetation recovery and reforestation. Data Held by Private Parties, corresponding privacy notices have been • Progressive urban design. circulated to protect personal data against any type of usage stipu• Reuse of water for irrigation. lated by the Law. • Urban centers, schools, civic centers. EC6 As a company with a clear vision of sustainability, we believe that one of the ways to contribute to the sustained growth of the country, CASE STUDY: ROAD SAFETY MANAGEMENT job development, poverty reduction and the strengthening the middle SYSTEM class is through responsible work with small and medium enterprises In response to the need to protect the lives on our roads, we began PR1 (SMEs). At ICA, more than 50 projects were undertaken in 18 states to develop the Road Management System in 2008, which is currently this ear. We carried out transactions with more than 5,300 companies, used on all the highways we operate in Mexico and Panama. of which at least 4,900 were Micro, Small and Medium. The solution to the problem of road safety is influenced by numerous While the Company’s activities currently extend across half of Mexiactors, thus our system was planned to completely intervene in all co’s states, the benefits reach almost the entire country as providers aspects of our operation and support those outside our area of responare based nationwide. Approximately 76% of the economic work is sibility. The initiative covers four types of actions: concentrated in the Federal District (Mexico City), in terms of both project and vendor location. A trend consistent across all business 1. Improve the identification of problem stretches. units is that 20% of total costs stay in state, with the remainder going By concession contract we must identify “black spots”, 400 meter to other entities. Only projects in the Federal District differ: 71% stays stretches where three accidents happen per year. To complement this, local while the remaining 29% goes to the Republic. at ICA we add: CRE8 According to criteria established by INFONAVIT, ViveICA is SustainThe “Accident Concentration Stretch”, which occurs when the able Housing (2009-2010) certified. Hazard Index (number of vehicular injury accidents per kilometer in the last three years) of a specific kilometer-long stretch exceeds Sustainable housing developments have common areas and promote the average Hazard Index of the highway by four times. the social inclusion of their residents, with particular care to environmental preservation. The “Black Stretch”, which occurs when a kilometer-long section has a concentration of more than four serious accidents in the past Some of the characteristics of sustainable developments are: three years. • Energy conservation systems. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 33 We also calculate the Risk Index using the EuroRAP (European Road is precisely through responsible work with SMEs. Therefore, in 2012 Assessment Programme) method, which establishes a relationship we transacted with more than 5,300 suppliers, of which 4,900 were between the number of fatal and serious accidents per 100 million micro, small and medium enterprises across the country. The Company vehicles per kilometer. carried out more than 50 projects in 18 states, with a total outlay of more than 23 billion pesos. 2. Educate personnel road safety issues. A “Defensive Driving” course was given to midand senior-level projICA’s effort with regard to supplier development is ongoing and ect managers and general office staff, which delves deeply on the involves several areas. The Development Division is involved in causes of accidents. the Center for Mexican Competitiveness of the Mexican Council of Businessmen, in activities ranging from communication to training 3. Actions to reduce the number and consequences of acciand consulting. The group has participated in recent editions of the dents. Economic Ministry’s SME Week, during which interviews were held with more than 200 companies; if they do not become part of our Prevention: twice a year Security Brigades walk the highways to supplier registry, they can be referred to other developers, clients identify potential accident spots, propose corrective actions and and suppliers. A communication and follow up system is currently follow up on them to eliminate potential hazards. being developed to create a database with developer requirements and SME products and services, to serve as an alternative registry. Problem solving: we install speed cameras, virtual patrols, restricCourses on best practices are also being given through the Business tive signage, speed bumps and alarms, among others. to Business program and consulting has been provided on specific requirements of some SMEs. Institutional interaction: we coordinate with government agencies to provide security for specific stretches, participate in municiIt is a fact that today, with sustainability already a necessity, we must pal, state and national forums on safety, and sit on coordinated ensure that business partners are headed in the same direction. Thus action committees with the authorities. the Procurement Division has taught courses on issues such as health, safety, environment, finance and ethics, among others, to more than 4. Evaluate results. 150 companies. The Procurement Committee has implemented an Each project tracks accidents and generates its monthly statistievaluation system through a specialist in supplier management and cal Accident Index, which is reported to the corporate office every development; we share any identified areas of opportunity, design month. We ensure that the metrics used for tracking accident rates programs to address them and offer consulting to resolve them. are compared with accident levels domestically and internationally. Such strategies not only benefit ICA, but Mexico as a whole, as the process of modernizing and optimizing SMEs is a prerequisite to the CASE STUDY: DEVELOPMENT OF SMALL AND growth of our country. MEDIUM ENTERPRISES The influence of small and medium enterprises on the global economy is increasingly important. According to the World Bank, Inter-AmeriCASE STUDY: ICA ENGINEERING can Development Bank and the Economic Commission for Latin AmerOne of the greatest challenges we face at ICA is achieving sustainica, SMEs in Latin America account for 90% to 98% of production able development while maintaining a high level of competitiveness units, generate approximately 63% of jobs, and contribute up to 40% at an international level. To do this, first it is essential to be able to of GDP, while according to the INEGI economic census (2009), SMEs in respond to the demand for services in our country, and second, to Mexico comprise 99.9% of production units, generate approximately have high quality solutions. 72% of employment and drive 52% of GDP. Thus strengthening these organizations is vital to boosting regional and national economic In 2010, the diversity of infrastructure projects evidenced the need development. to strengthen and establish an Engineering department in one of our business units, which, with the ingenuity and skill of its personnel, As a company with a clear vision of sustainability, we believe that one was able to generate valuable solutions for our clients, providing of the ways to contribute to the sustained growth of the country, job services both to our own projects as well as to other companies that development, poverty reduction and strengthening of the middle class like ICA, seek to promote the development of our country. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 34 Two years after this change in strategy, ICA Engineering has estabment to provide comprehensive services to each of the 35 projects lished itself as one of Mexico’s largest specialized design firms. currently underway, generating savings that exceed the operating It has 200 engineers and specialists who provide approximately cost of the business unit itself. 420,000 man-hours per year of comprehensive engineering services for all types of domestic and international projects, and at year end A notable example of the services the company offers to projects is 2012 had participated in a total of 55 projects. the design of highly complex tunnels. With the type of soil in Mexico City, the implementation of this service has been successful in large For ICA Engineering, providing comprehensive service is more than projects such as the metro’s Line 12 and the Eastern Discharge Tunnel. developing a plan and submitting it to the client, but rather coordinating Moreover, the site engineering service makes available to the develan entire interdisciplinary project so that a developer can take the reins oper multidisciplinary teams who provide immediate on-site response. of his project without losing sight of the smallest detail. This requires This service aims to develop timely and suitable designs for the particconstant communication and interaction among the specialists in the ular conditions of each project. various civil engineering branches working on each project. The achievements of ICA Engineering in the last year have strengthSpecialists in structures, geotechnics, water management, faciliened its trajectory of becoming the best engineering firm in Mexico ties, architecture and land routes, as well as personnel in mobilinfrastructure and civil construction project design. This is a source ity and traffic studies, instrumentation, topography and bathymetry of great pride for ICA and a testament to the world class talent of work alongside the areas of Technology Development and EnvironMexican engineers. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 35 Social pe r fo r mance ICA operates under the premise of working in a socially responsible Employment way both internally – being a quality employer; promoting gender equiAt December 31, 2012, ICA had 34,363 employees. The number of 2.8 ty, diversity, training, equal opportunity and human rights; and prioriworkers depends on our volume of construction and infrastructure tizing the health and safety of its employees and contractors – and development work. externally – effective social management in the communities where it has contact. Following is a graph of the total workforce by employment type and LA1 gender. LA2 11% 3% MEN 24% UNIONIZED 62% TOTAL WORKFORCE TECHNICAL ADMINISTRATIVE 24% AND BY TYPE OF total 86% EMPLOYMENT AND WOMEN GENDER UNIONIZED 3% TECHNICAL ADMINISTRATIVE 11% total 14% 62% S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 36 EC5 225 (0.6%) of our employees have the minimum wage as their base • Communication. payment. • Empowerment and innovation. • Stress and workload. LA3 Technical and administrative personnel have a benefits package that • Integrity, respect and fairness. exceeds that of the law: • Intention to stay and retention. • Leadership. • Annual bonus based on seniority. • Safety. • Bonuses and vacation day according to the law. • Salaries and benefits. • Savings accounts. • Supervision. • As of 2012, food vouchers. • Operational efficiency. We also provide several benefits for the welfare and development of Based on these sessions, 61 action plans were designed to address our employees. the main concerns expressed by employees through this tool. It is important to note that participation in the projects was extraordinary. • Disability. • More days off than required by law. We conducted a review of each action plan to identify which could be • Technical training and personal development. freely implemented at projects, that is, those not directly related to actions being developed by the Human Capital area with regard to our LA5 Some of our most important clients are public agencies, which makes Company’s current transformation. In this review we identified: the number of workers vary according to their infrastructure needs. Thus the majority of our labor contracts are temporary and we cannot • 32 actions to be freely implemented at projects; offer our employees a minimum period of notification prior to organi• 6 major projects at the organizational level that are developing zational changes. and enhancing the Company’s Human Capital platforms and processes. During the year we continued to consolidate the Engagement human resources management model, which see employees as the CompaAll plans included actions, immediate goals, accountability, deliverny’s most important investment. A significant part of the focus in 2012 ables, delivery dates and success indicators. was to design action plans that address the main concerns of employees in line with the Company’s objectives. Progress on the design of A success case derived from the results of opinions provided by employaction plans to address the Organization’s needs was 70 percent. ees in the One x One Survey are several changes to Company benefits; in particular, the number of vacation days increased (four more days per year worked) and vacation bonuses (from 25% to 75%), as well as a CASE STUDY: ONE X ONE SURVEY series of measures to promote professional development, performance Meetings were held in the first half of 2012 to present the results of differentiation and growth opportunities for our employees. the One x One work commitment survey, with successful participation of 87% of the Company’s total workforce. The survey was conducted Labor Relations to gather the views of employees from all areas of the Company on All laborers at ICA are members of a union with national representaLA4 the following indicators: tion. All ICA projects have a collective labor agreement for specific work. As with most companies in the country, the technical and • Authority and decision making. administrative staff are not affiliated with any union. • Training and development. • Collaboration. Wages are set annually in accordance with the provisions of the • Competitiveness and customer orientation. Federal Labor Law. • Commitment. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 37 Training LA10 ICA offers its employees a work environment where they can develop personally and professionally. In 2012 we provided 760,483 man-hours of training, an average of 27 hours per technical and administrative personnel and 15 hours per unionized worker: PERSONNEL PERSONNEL TOTAL T-A HOURS T-A HRS/EMP UNION HOURS UNION HRS/ EMP HOURS TOTAL 334,017 12,401 27 426,466 28,920 15 760,483 LA11 The Company’s training programs develop our employees’ professionof interviews and skills assessment, after which two were selected al, personal and social skills and help them reach higher levels within to participate. or outside of the Organization. The Training Program for Administrative Managers lasts 142 days LA12 Technical and administrative staff receive regular performance and and is supported by corporate management from Human Capital, career development evaluations; these cover directors, managers, Administration and Finance, and Project Management, as well as coordinators and supervisors. Civil Construction and Infrastructure. The structure of the training is progressive and includes four stages: The scope of performance evaluations was expanded in 2012 to include more technical and administrative personnel, with the number Induction: provides a comprehensive overview of the Organization, of employees evaluated nine times higher, rising from 306 in 2011 to ranging from the Mission and Vision of ICA to an understanding of our 2,889 employees in 2012. Corporate Governance, policies and procedures, and the role of corporate areas and their relationship with the business units. CASE STUDY: TRAINING PROGRAM FOR Training in Civil Construction and Infrastructure: in Project CoorADMINISTRATIVE MANAGERS dination, participants learn about functions in the projects area, with a In view of the growth of our operations, market leadership and the specific focus on the accounting impact projects have at the organizachallenge of maintaining and improving this position, ICA has develtional level; through direct execution of a project, they learn everything oped a business strategy focused on increasing our output, value from policies and procedures to payroll preparation, and at the head creation and continued inclusion on the BMV’s Sustainability Index. office they learn about administrative and financial processes such as accounting consolidation, tax, treasury, applicable policies and the The key element in this new business strategy is human capital. relationship between business units and corporate areas. At the end of Aside from redesigning job profiles, the performance management this stage, participants must complete an assessment of their technical policy and succession plans, we identified the need to attract talent knowledge and of the business cycles of our Company. at the management level with the profile and skills needed for the growth of our Organization. Therefore Corporate Management DiviCorporate Training: at Corporate, participants learn about the sion developed a new Training Program for incoming Administrapurpose and function of the areas of accounting and fiscal consolidative Managers who, once selected as candidates, will be quickly tion, its relationship with the business units and the accounting and tax integrated into the organization, promoting greater efficiency in the impact the companies at each business unit have at the consolidated workplace and providing them with a better professional developlevel. ment opportunity. Feedback: This is the final stage of training and approval to hold a The Program includes a definition of the profile and skills of new management position. Participants must demonstrate their acquired managers, who require extensive experience, a detailed definition knowledge and ability to meet the profile and needed skills. This is of the training process – which includes a sponsor for each activdone through a review of their areas of opportunity in reports develity or training process – and measureable indicators. In its first oped during the earlier stages, and a final evaluation in which they application, a number of candidates entered an intensive process must obtain a performance level of at least 81 percent. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 38 In its first implementation, the Program was successfully carried out Table of technical and administrative personnel by position, age and LA13 for incoming personnel who now hold two posts within the Organizagender: tion: International Administrative Manager and Accountant Manager; we expect to add three more managers in 2013. AGE RANGE LEVEL MEN WOMEN Total UNDER 30 TOTAL 1,453 966 2,419 These programs help fulfill our strategic objectives, strengthen our EMPLOYEES 1,447 964 2,411 position as leaders in the construction and infrastructure industry, and MANAGERS 6 2 8 make us a highly competitive organization internationally, demonstrat30-40 TOTAL 1,405 630 2,035 ing that ICA makes great ideas real. EMPLOYEES 1,328 609 1,937 MANAGERS 65 19 84 Diversity and equal opportunity EXECUTIVES Our Company is committed to providing equal opportunities to its 2 2 (VP, DG,CEO) employees in hiring, training, development and promotions. DIRECTORS 9 1 10 BOARD 1 1 40-50 TOTAL 918 243 1,161 EMPLOYEES 794 232 1,026 MANAGERS 84 6 90 EXECUTIVES 6 6 (VP, DG,CEO) DIRECTORS 32 3 35 BOARD 7 0 7 OVER 50 TOTAL 747 107 854 EMPLOYEES 613 102 715 MANAGERS 93 5 98 EXECUTIVES 4 4 (VP, DG,CEO) DIRECTORS 26 26 BOARD 11 0 11 OVERALL 4,523 1,946 6,469 ICA has also tried to increase employment opportunities for people with disabilities, in line with our commitment to creating a work environment free from discrimination. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 39 LA14 Wage ratio table by gender and employment level: Minimum wage ratio women: men EMPLOYEES 0% MANAGERS 30% EXECUTIVES (VP, DG, CEO) DIRECTORS 10% The percentage shown in the table is the difference between the lowest wage level for a female director or manager, and the lowest wage level for a male director or manager. Health and safety As a company whose work involves occupational hazards, we have made occupational health and safety one of our strategic priorities. We offer our employees a work environment that promotes health, safety, prevention and shared responsibility. LA8 As such, in 2012 we provided 1,232,308 man-hours of training on workplace healthy and safety, while 118,731 medical exams and 49,696 medical consultations took place. These activities are detailed in the following tables: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY HEALTH OTHER AND FORMAL TRAINING SAFETY SAFETY OHS MANDRILLS PERFORMED AWARDS CAMPAIGOHS AUDITS COMMITCOMMITHOURS NS TEES TEES EVACUAFIRE RESCUE TYPE Ext Int. TION 122 85 1,232,308 105 116 72 176 116 78 99 S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 40 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH MEDICAL OTHER HEALTH ACTIVITIES (STUDIES) FOR WORKERS VACCINATION(DOSES SUPPLIED) MEDICAL EXAMS CONSULTS OR THEIR FAMILIES T-D M-R (tetanus HepatiSeasonal PneumoSPIROAUDIOEye PAP Breast (measles Entrance Periodic Special Men Women diphthetis B influenza coccus METRY METRY exams smears exams rubella) ria) 114,265 3,900 17,213 2,075 3,922 105,093 8,068 5,811 43,579 5,876 583 858 18,438 970 704 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH MAN-HOURS OF TRAINING ON HEALTH ISSUES ENDEMIC DISEASES CHRONIC NUTRIDOMESDEGENELEISHCYSTIALCOADDICTION ORAL TIC MALAIYELLOW STDs RATIVE OTHER DENGUE MANIACHOLERA CERCOHOLISM TION AND HEALTH VIOLENRA FEVER DISEASIS SIS HEALTH CE SES 4,636 3,858 2,161 11,355 6,823 2,835 1,032 1,858 3 46 0 0 1 3 ENDEMIC ILLNESSES Health and education MALARIA DENGUE YELLOW FEVER LEISHMANIASIS CHOLERA CYSTICERCOSIS programs in projects and communities 3 46 0 0 1 3 97 LA7 While we have improved our indices in the area, we regret to report that in 2012 we lost eight employees and six contractors due to workInjury Rate (injuries per 200,000 man-hours worked) place accidents. We have conducted an analysis of the root causes of People affected 2010 2011 2012 these incidents and are taking steps to avoid them in the future. ICA employees 3.42 2.62 1.83 Contractors (internal and 1.06 0.71 0.44 external) Fatalities Total 2.88 1.95 1.27 People affected 2010 2011 2012 ICA employees 18 14 8 Contractors (internal and Total hours worked 4 1 6 external) People affected 2010 2011 2012 Total 22 15 14 ICA employees 90,480,529 104,280,400 93,390,919 Contractors (internal and 26,936,115 42,193,598 67,151,377 In 2012 the rate of workers injured at work decreased notable relative external) to the previous year and, in general, our safety indicators reflect a Total 117,416,644 146,473,998 160,542,296 trend towards improvement. Days lost Injuries People affected 2010 2011 2012 People affected 2010 2011 2012 ICA employees 12,958 13,973 12,129 ICA employees 1,532 1,258 858 Contractors (internal and 908 1,039 2472 external) Contractors (internal and 139 149 148 external) Total 13,866 15,012 14,601 Total 1,671 1,407 1,006 S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 41 Health and safety frequency index 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 3.7 2.8 2.2 1.7 0.9 0.5 0.6 0.8 0.9 0.7 1.2 1.1 1.1 0.8 1.5 1.95 1.27 LA6 The Company set up Health and Safety commissions at its projects, • Compliance with employee-employer obligations. comprised equally of worker and company representatives, so that • 100% coverage of employee IMSS and Infonavit payments. 100% of employees are represented on these commissions. Their func• Compliance with ICA safety policies (personal protective equiption is to verify compliance with all applicable regulations concerning ment for field personnel such as boots, gloves, helmets, jackets, workplace health and safety, take measures to prevent accidents and eyewear, etc. ). illnesses, and investigate root causes in order to mitigate their risk of • Medical service, drinking water and restrooms in the workplace. occurrence. • Verification that companies do not hire minors and do provide opportunities for people with disabilities. The members of the commissions specialize in the areas of safety, and advise workers on the measures that must be taken into account To promote our safety, quality and environmental policy, we offer to prevent occupational hazards and illnesses. This helps ensure the contractors at our project five minute daily lessons on these topics. physical integrity and health of all of the Company’s employees. No human rights complaints were reported during this fiscal year. All HR10 LA9 During 2012, collective agreements were in place at all ICA projcomplaints are resolved through a formal system (confidential hotline). HR11 ects, establishing the obligation to meet social security provisions in order to ensure all operating personnel their right of access to Community Relations health services. We are conscious of the impact of our operations on society. The SO1 benefits our projects bring to communities are evident, from jobs and SO9 Human rights the economic impact generated by the health, education and environHR1 All our labor contracts meet legal and regulatory requirements on ment activities and initiatives we have implemented. Notable activihuman rights. Our contracts and projects that involve international ties in 2012 include: financing today include human rights clauses, so we have contractual obligations with the World Bank, including adherence to the Equator • 1,134 students visited our projects and experienced engineering Principles. and construction first-hand. HR5 The Constitution of Mexico states that all workers are free to join • 48,135 children benefited from the donation of building materithe union of their choice. In 2012 100% of our workers were union als, electrical repairs, plumbing, public works and environmental members working under a collective bargaining agreement. talks and hospitality events at various schools. HR6 ICA only hires personnel over the age of 18; this requirement is estab• We launched 45 activities to promote health, including most lished in all collective labor agreements and workers are requested to notably vaccination campaigns and awareness talks. provide proof of age with valid photo identification. In the contracts ICA signs with its clients, we set forth prevention SO10 HR7 The Company respects the individual freedoms of all its workers, and and mitigation measures for operations with potential or actual CRE7 no one is forced to work without consent. impacts, either positive or negative, for which clients are always responsible, not ICA; the same occurs if people are displaced and/or HR2 During 2012 we strengthened the Contractor Development program relocated due to development. started in 2011; a training program was developed to reinforce identified areas of opportunity and we adapted and updated contract Nonetheless, we seek to go beyond our contractual obligations; as 4.12 templates with emphasis on the following areas: such, we carry out social and environmental programs in the communities surrounding our projects. In 2012 these were our results: S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 42 Actions impleProgram People benefitted Man-hours mented Adopt a school 156 48,135 3,427 Bring a school 26 1,134 655 ICA helps 130 927,949 3,701 ICA environment 69 106,452 3,827 ICA health 45 262,708 976 Institute of Adult 23 679 1,737 Education (INEA) Volunteering 38 5,370 6,618 Total 487 1,352,427 20,940 As indicated in the table, we benefitted more than 1.3 million people during the year through the social responsibility initiatives we implemented. Furthermore, in order to help young people find effective alternatives for professional education, in 2012 ICA supported vocational guidance based on human development. The Company sponsored a gathering of students at the National Auditorium, attended by 17,000 high school students, to address their concerns by developing their professional calling. ICA also supported an event for 1,000 middle and high school teachers, who were provided training tools. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 43 ICA Found atio n During this reporting year, the ICA Foundation (FICA) worked on porary Art (MUAC), but not before undergoing an exhaustive effort of supporting higher education, scientific research and the disseminaregistering, checking and packing the materials, to optimize the space tion of engineering, as well as undertaking substantial improvements they would occupy and properly document their overall content. to its historical legacy in terms of security and control. The classification and location of the archive’s contents are of utmost importance. Thus it was necessary to make a detailed map for placing FICA works in conjunction with the Faculty of Engineering at the the materials in the MUAC vault and their eventual return to the FICA UNAM to offer mobility scholarships to low-income students so they vault. Once the 764,000 items in the archive were transferred, the may enrich their training at universities around the world. remodeling of the vault was begun. Furthermore, through the FICA Social Service and Professional PracThe project included the installation of fire detection and extinguishing tice program, ICA Engineering brings on interns who participate in the systems with dry extinguishing technology to protect equipment and department’s projects for one year. This program gives students the people; air conditioning to control temperature, humidity and environopportunity to work at a world class company, with the possibility of mental purification; high density storage to optimize the conservation joining upon completing their studies, while for ICA this is an imporof materials and use less space; and an access control system using tant tool to attract talent. magnetic cards and CCTV, as well as a renovation of the electrical system and restructuring of the voice and data system. CASE STUDY: INNOVATIONS IN SECURITY One of the most important adjustments within the storage vault was AND CONTROL OF ICA FOUNDATION’S the decision to keep all the systems of the facility, knowing that it HISTORICAL LEGACY would be easier to avoid any problems that might arise because of the ICA Foundation owns a photographic archive consisting of hundreds age of the building. of thousands of images, from physical negatives to electronic microchips, which has tremendous value not only for the Company but for The primary considerations for the civil works were the maintenance, the entire country. Many public institutions (INEGI and CONABIO, operation and safety of the personnel and equipment safeguarded by to name a few) have used this archive to enrich the documents and the Foundation. We also envisaged a special area for visitors to the services they offer. archive, restructuring the space inside to serve the public, controlling their access and keeping work and storage areas clean and secure. In 2012, we recognized the need to strengthen the special vault for safeguarding this photographic collection, as the facilities where it was The implementation phase of the project concluded successfully the stored were no longer adequate in terms of conservation and security. materials sent to MUAC were received back. Thus an asset as valuable as our photographic collection will have the home it deserves. In order to completely remodel the storage vault, the materials had to be moved to a special vault at the University Museum of ContemS U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 44 Envir o n me ntal pe r fo r mance Environmental Management Approach Materials The Environment Commission developed a scoreboard of environmenThe volume of strategic materials was distributed as follows in 2012: EN1 tal objectives to comply with and enforce ICA’s sustainability policy and procedures. A number of elements were taken into account in developProduct Unit size Quantity % of Cost ing it, including an analysis of environmental strengths, weaknesses, Steel Ton 121,461 39% opportunities and threats at each business unit, as well as the criteria Concrete m3 1,147,784 33% used by the Mexican Stock Exchange for its Sustainability Index, of Fuel Liter 51,631,278 12% which ICA is a member. Asphalt Ton 98,647 12% Wood m3 9,971 2% The general topics included within the business units’ environmental Tires Piece 8,179 2% objectives are: • Environmentally responsible supply chains. Following is how project costs are distributed, including construction • Incorporation of secondary and renewable materials. materials and raw materials. • Optimizing electricity and water consumption. • Using renewable energy. • Reducing emissions, discharges and waste. 9% • Conservation and improvement of environmental services. 28% • Developing key competencies in environmental management. • Monitoring the impact of machinery and transportation usage. 19% PROJECT • Environmental investments. OPERATING • Control of environmental operating risks. COSTS To meet these objectives, each business unit determines its strate21% 23% gies according to its area of specialization. For tracking and reporting purposes, we standardized the 2010 and 2011 methods of measuring and tracking environmental indicators. Raw materials and materials 28% Equipment rental 23% The Company’s key environmental indicators are outlined below. Labor 21% Subcontractors and maquila 19% Other 9% S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 45 EN2 It should be noted that the reinforced steel industry in Mexico is increasingly using recycled scrap as a raw material, and less iron ore. It is estimated, in fact, that currently 60% of the raw material is sourced from scrap and the remaining 40% from ore. This year we did not consume secondary energy in significant quantities as we did in 2011 and 2010, due to the end of the contract with the company producing fuel from used oils. However, used oil continued to be recycled as an alternative fuel for cement production (energy recycling) through authorized companies that provide collection services for used oil. Energy consumption EN3 Diesel, gasoline and liquefied petroleum (LP) gas are the primary fuels ICA uses for the operation of machinery and equipment required for civil and industrial construction, and for the operation of road and water concessions. All fuel is reported as purchased. Energy consumption by type of fuel: Fuel source Unit size Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing Diesel L 85,820,246 1,850 222,064 1,032,241 Unleaded gasoline L 6,237,881 206,596 1,048,650 531,126 Premium unleaded gasoline L 204,223 0 0 0 LP Gas L 597,574 0 3,843 0 Fuel source Unit size Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing Diesel GJ 3,137,817 68 8,119 37,741 Gasoline GJ 193,724 6,213 31,535 15,972 LP Gas GJ 16,235 0 102 0 Fuel purchased GJ 3,347,777 6,280 39,755 53,713 Fuel source Unit size Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing Diesel GJ 91.02% 0.00% 0.24% 1.09% Gasoline GJ 5.62% 0.18% 0.91% 0.46% LP Gas GJ 0.47% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Fuel purchased GJ 97.1% 0.2% 1.2% 1.6% S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 46 EN4 Electricity consumption by division: The total electricity consumed in 2012 was equivalent to 209,536 GJ, used mainly for national and international infrastructure construction. Fuel source Unit size Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing Indirect energy purchased GJ 154,792 28,921 21,198 4,625 74% 14% 10% 2% One of the Company’s policies is that most machinery and equipment should be new and have the best available technology in order to ensure efficient energy consumption. Of note are the machines used to build full section tunnels, which are highly efficient compared to conventional systems. Excavation is done by a swivel head powered by hydraulic motors, which in turn is fed by electric motors, thereby avoiding direct consumption of fossil fuels. During the excavation process, machines position the permanent tunnel support using precast reinforced concrete, resulting in safer tunnels with longer lifetimes. To guarantee the supply of electricity, we have contracts with CFE for the three tunnel boring machines (TBMs) currently working on the Eastern Discharge Tunnel, which have already excavated 12,731 meters. CRE1 Following is a table of energy consumption figures in construction: Fuel source Unit size Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing Consumption of purchased kWh 37,753,308 8,033,716 5,888,318 1,284,754 electricity Workforce Persons 13,097 953 14,507 177 kWh per capita 2,883 8,428 406 264 S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 47 EN6 Moreover, at the Nuevo Necaxa Tihuatlán project, four COMANSA cranes were used to optimize energy consumption. The cranes normally need a 250 kW or 350 kW generation facility, while the COMANSA system requires a 150 kW electric generator, representing savings in both cost and consumption of fuel. Metric Power generation Difference 150kW 250kW Monthly fuel consumption (l) 8,160 11,328 3,168 litros Monthly fuel cost (Ps.) 62,260 86,432 $ 24,171 CASE STUDY: ENVIRONMENTAL INITIATIVES AT THE INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION CENTER OF LOS CABOS EN6 Aside from being one of the largest and most symbolic buildings in Baja California Sur, the International Convention Center of Los Cabos (CIC) is one of the most innovative of its kind. Of particular note is its efficient use of energy and water resources due to the integration of eco-technologies throughout the project: • Photovoltaic panels: the roofing has 1,008 solar panels that supply power to the entire building, through an inverter connected directly to a bidirectional meter that supplies the electric grid when the building is not in use. These panels generate an average of 412,000 kWh annually. • Thermal insulation: the entire building is covered with high density expanded polystyrene beads (EPS) insulation, which provides an insulation factor 33 times greater than a reinforced concrete wall. This results in substantial savings on air conditioning. • LED lighting: most of the lighting at the CIC, both interior and exterior, uses LED type lighting, which significantly reduces the building’s power consumption, lasts longer than common light bulbs and emits less heat. • Dome and saw-tooth roof: 18% of the building’s roof is designed to let in natural light through domes and a saw-tooth design, thereby completely avoiding reliance on artificial light to service and maintain the property. • Water treatment plant: with 2.65 liter per second capacity, the treatment plant captures, treats and reuses all wastewater from the building’s washroom facilities and irrigation. • Rainwater catchment: the system includes two storm tanks with 3,000 cubic meters of capacity to capture all rainwater for use in outdoor areas and bathrooms. • Green wall: we planted a green wall, the world’s largest vertical garden (2,038 square meters) with endemic species of the succulent family. This feature reuses its own water from special tanks and has automated irrigation equipment. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 48 Water EN8 We source water through surface or groundwater sources, or from municipal water utilities. Source Unit size Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing Surface m 3 477,062 0 0 0 Groundwater m3 240,103 0 539,775 197,598 Captured and stored rainwater m3 0 0 0 0 Supplied by water utilities m3 53,352 36,528 0 138,125 Treated m 3 53,264 12,300 0 193 Undetermined origin m3 501,684 1,456 4,878 134,398 Total water consumption m3 1,325,464 50,284 544,653 470,314 Total % 55 2 23 20 We consumed 2,390,715 cubic meters of water in 2012. We do not report water consumption required for the production of concrete acquired from third parties. The principal uses of water are for excavation, compacting dirt during highway construction, manufacturing concrete and precast components, and services. EN10 The following shows the volume of treated water in our processes with respect to direct consumption of natural sources: Unit size Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing To treatment plants for reuse m3 2,973 450 2,226 15,493 Consumption of treated water m 3 53,264 12,300 0 193 Total volume of treated water consumed m3 56,237 12,750 2,226 15,686 and sent to treatment plants for reuse Total consumption of water m3 1,325,465 50,284 544,653 470,314 (see indicator EN8) Source Unit size Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing Percentage of water treated m3 4.24% 25.36% 0.41% 3.34% It should be said that there is a significant shortfall in wastewater treatment due to a lack of infrastructure; notably, ICA is participating in the construction of the two largest wastewater treatment plants in the country and Latin America, which combined will have capacity to treat 43,500 liters per second. The Agua Prieta plant will treat 8.5 m3/s of wastewater, equivalent to 80% of the sewage from the Guadalajara metropolitan area. The Atotonilco wastewater treatment plant will be the second largest of its kind, with maximum treatment capacity of 42 m3/s. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 49 Ecosystem protection EN12 When certain construction activities were completed, ICA reforested more than 1,200 hectares with approximately 1,326,600 trees as part of EN13 its environmental responsibilities. We have voluntarily reforested over 600 hectares (502,400 trees) in the Ajusco; and through a joint fund with the National Forestry Commission we have also preserved an area equivalent to the size of Benito Juarez International Airport (615 hectares, or 676,578 trees) in high value ecosystems which are created by the forests of Mexico City (primarily carbon sequestration, watershed replenishment and biological diversity).* Environmental responsibility: Habitat area Unit size Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing Compensatory plantings Ha 1,164 0 0 0 Restored urban woodland Ha 12 0 0 0 Recovering green spaces Ha 29 0 0 5 Total Ha 1,206 0 0 5 Social responsibility: Habitat area Unit size Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing Corporate Preserved high value forest areas Ha 0 5 615 0 0 Compensatory plantings Ha 0 3 0 0 0 Restored forest areas Ha 0 0 20 8 6 Recovering green spaces Ha 0 1 0 0 0 Total Ha 0 9 635 8 6 Rescued wildlife EN15 In 2012, we rescued or sheltered more than 57,000 specimens of flora and fauna important to the biodiversity of the regions where they live.**. By environmental responsibility: Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing Delivered to wildlife research centers 1 0 0 0 Rescued and immediate relocation to forest areas 3,177 0 0 0 Rescued and immediate relocation to urban areas 14 0 0 0 Sheltered at environmental management units 16,563 0 0 0 Sheltered in nurseries 37,627 0 0 0 Total 57,382 0 0 0 By social responsibility: * The number of trees planted varies from year to year depending on the volume of our construction activities and their duration. ** The number of specimens rescued varies from year to year depending on the volume of our construction activities and their duration. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 50 Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing Delivered to wildlife research centers 0 0 0 0 Rescued and immediate relocation to forest areas 0 0 0 0 Rescued and immediate relocation outside industrial areas 0 122 0 0 Rescued and immediate relocation to urban areas 23 0 0 0 Sheltered at environmental management units 0 0 0 0 Sheltered in nurseries 0 0 0 0 Total 23 122 0 0 Top ten species rescued or sheltered which are in a special risk category in Mexico: Category of Protection under Official Mexican Specimens rescued or Common name Genus Species Standards sheltered A Chamalillo or little chamal Ceratozamia microstrobila 267 A Mexican spiny-tail iguana Ctenosaura pectinata 480 A Camedor palm Chamaedorea alternans 8,635 P Tree fern Cyathea mexicana 408 Mexican west coast Pr Crotalus basiliscus 4 rattlesnake South American rattlesPr Crotalus durissus 63 nake Pr Yellow serpent orchid Euchile citrina 1,184 Southwestern cat-eyed Pr Leptodeira maculata 5 snake Mexican patch nose Pr Salvadora mexicana 8 snake Pr Owl-eye cactus Mammillaria parkinsonii 2 11,056 Greenhouse Gases We continued to calculate fuel consumption in 2012 using our ERP system, in an effort to establish a baseline for measuring the carbon footprint EN16 of all equipment across the group; we now know with certainty the consumption of 85% of all machinery and Company vehicles. The total consumption of diesel and gasoline for machinery and vehicles in 2012 was 43,739,670 liters, equivalent to 1,093 pipes of 40,000 liters. It should be noted that our consumption of cutter stock, an alternative fuel used as a diesel substitute, totaled 160,366 liters at our asphalt plants. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 51 EN21 Waste management More than 80% of wastewater discharge was directed to sewage, drainage and treatment systems to ensure proper contaminant levels prior to being discharged in natural water bodies. Just over 15% of wastewater was discharged to natural water bodies, and in all cases it contained less than the maximum allowable contaminant load under applicable regulations. In cases where it was necessary, wastewater treatment plants were used prior to final discharge. The maximum level is determined by the environmental authorities to ensure conservation of natural water bodies. Wastewater discharge Unit size Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing To sewage systems m3 92,371 4,754 32,816 204,831 To treatment plants for reuse m 3 2,973 450 2,226 15,493 To water bodies m 3 75,129 0 0 0 Other, unspecified m3 11,191 0 0 0 Total wastewater discharge m3 181,663 5,204 35,042 220,324 Final destination Unit size Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing To sewage, drainage or treatments m3 95,344 5,204 35,042 220,324 systems To natural water bodies m3 75,128 0 0 0 Unspecified m 3 11,191 0 0 0 Total water consumption m 3 181,663 5,204 35,042 220,324 Percentage % 41 1 8 50 EN22 Managing municipal solid waste and handling special or hazardous waste in all of our divisions is standard to our work. Based on the laws and regulations of the countries where we operate and their administrative jurisdictions, waste is classified according to its hazardous or handling characteristics prior to disposal in landfills, recycling or special management facilities. We have procedures in place for each type of waste which are adapted to local categorization and classification wherever we operate. Hazardous waste Type Method Unit Design Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing Used oils Recycling Kg 0 540,601 0 409 206 Solids impregnated with hydroEnergy recovery Kg 0 40,484 97,400 3,427 453 carbons Lead batteries Recycling Kg 0 276 0 45 0 Printer cartridges Material recovery Kg 0 1 0 0 0 Asbestos piping Authorized sites Kg 0 10,090 0 0 0 Infectious biological waste and Sterilization and Kg 0 13 102,400 0 0 bio-solids treatment Refrigerant gases Material recovery Kg 0 82 0 0 0 Mercury lamps Material recovery Kg 0 520 0 759 0 Natural soil contaminated with Material recovery Kg 0 141,360 0 0 0 hydrocarbons Packaging and other hazardous Material recovery Kg 0 114,871 120 105 490 materials S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 52 Specially treated waste Type Method Unit Design Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing Wood Material recovery Kg 0 1,516,941 741 0 81,380 Steel and other metals Recycling Kg 0 1,610,606 987 0 77,620 Polyethylene and polystyrene Recycling Kg 63 10,547 350 0 23,828 Paper and cardboard Recycling Kg 453 423,304 1,265 0 21,100 Demolition and excavation waste Authorized sites Kg 0 495,653,284 99 0 0 Used tires Energy recovery Kg 0 3,732 0 38,038 0 Solid municipal waste Type Method Unit size Design Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing Mixed inorganic waste Landfill Kg 0 83,235 0 0 0 Mixed municipal waste Landfill Kg 767 321,507 0 0 37,715 Food and trimming waste Landfill Kg 88 268,125 844,929 0 66,400 Hazardous waste (%) Type Method Design Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing Used oils Recycling 0.00% 99.89% 0.00% 0.08% 0.04% Solids impregnated with hydrocarbons to be recycled Energy recovery 0.00% 28.56% 68.71% 2.42% 0.32% through energy recovery Lead batteries Recycling 0.00% 85.98% 0.00% 14.02% 0.00% Printer cartridges Material recovery 0.00% 100.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Asbestos piping Authorized sites 0.00% 100.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Infectious biological waste and Sterilization and treatment 0.00% 0.01% 99.99% 0.00% 0.00% bio-solids Refrigerant gases Material recovery 0.00% 100.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Mercury lamps Material recovery 0.00% 40.65% 0.00% 59.35% 0.00% Natural soil contaminated with Material recovery 0.00% 100.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% hydrocarbons Packaging and other hazardous Material recovery 0.00% 99.38% 0.00% 0.00% 0.42% materials S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 53 Specially treated waste (%) Type Method Design Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing Wood Material recovery 0% 95% 0% 0% 5% Steel and other metals Recycling 0% 95% 0% 0% 5% Polyethylene and polystyrene Recycling 0% 30% 1% 0% 68% Paper and cardboard Recycling 0% 95% 0% 0% 5% Demolition and excavation waste Authorized sites 0% 100% 0% 0% 0% Llantas usadas Energy recovery 0% 9% 0% 91% 0% Solid municipal waste (%) Type Method Design Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing Mixed inorganic waste Landfill 0% 100% 0% 0% 0% Mixed municipal waste Landfill 0% 89% 0% 0% 10% Food and trimming waste Landfill 0% 23% 72% 0% 6% It should be noted that a significant volume of excavation waste is used for backfilling and restoring altered sites (abandoned or depleted open pit mines), a process approved by the authorities. In addition, an emphasis is placed on using precast concrete at our projects, which reduces construction time and the volume of waste compared to processes using steel, formwork and casting on site. EN23 One characteristic of the construction sector is that heavy machinery is subject to difficult work conditions and bad weather, so it may show wear and tear on casing, containers and hydraulic pipes, including unexpected perforations and cracks during operation. These can cause minor leaks and drips to reach the environment. Our personnel implement service procedures and emergency response, and onsite brigades launch the protocols for control, service and cleaning, including bringing the contaminated material to recycling or treatment. Managing these contaminated materials is provided for in the applicable laws and regulations, and combined with our industry experience, we have determined that a significant event is one having more than one cubic meter of contaminated soil or 250 gallons of spilled hydrocarbons in a natural environment, which to control requires the coordination of brigades operating out of the center of operation. In 2012 there were no such significant events; nonetheless, we still report the total volume of soil and sequestrants contaminated with hydrocarbons resulting from cleaning to protect the environment in the areas where we operate. Design Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing Total volume of contaminated soil and absorbents Ton 0 119 56 0 0 Design Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing Number of significant events Number 0 0 0 0 0 S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 54 CASE STUDY: SOIL REMEDIATION WORK ON LINE 12 CRE5 During the construction of Metro Line 12, ICA found that part of the soil on which one of the stations would be built was contaminated with hydrocarbons, due to the fact years earlier a gas station had operated at that location. In light of that, we presented to PROFEPA and SEMARNAT a proposal for site remediation, which was authorized. In 2011 we began work to remove the contaminated soil, which was sent to two SEMARNAT-approved companies. In 2012, the soil restoration process was completed; a total of 7,228 tons of contaminated soil was remediated. On November 6 we obtained the certificate of completion of remediation activities from SEMARNAT. Environmental investments EN30 We consider environmental expenditures as an investment that goes beyond protecting the environment to ensuring the continuity of our operations over the long term. Civil Industrial Infrastructure Housing Reactive investment Integrated solid waste management 3,754,879 1,435,336 0 0 Integrated water management 9,891,442 3,331,867 1,195,152 0 Emissions monitoring and control 8,088 0 0 0 Remediation 1,743,738 0 0 0 Preventive investment Environmental management 24,770,145 2,465,988 1,984,799 0 Prevention 7,868,797 0 101,144 0 Total (Ps) 48,037,089 7,233,192 3,281,095 0 S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 55 In novatio n CASE STUDY: INTEGRATED AND SUSTAINABLE totals 136,000 cubic meters including the plinth, the supporting INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT. LA YESCA wall on the left side and the parapet. HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT One of the most ambitious power generation projects in our country Power generation works: located on the right bank of the projin recent years was the La Yesca Hydroelectric Project. In 2007 the ect, comprised of the intake works, pressure pipes, power engine Federal Government awarded construction to ICA as a result of our house, suction tunnels, oscillation gallery, exhaust tunnel and other competitive proposal that met all necessary requirements and capaelements that provide the plant’s functionality. It also has an exterbility as a leading infrastructure developer in Mexico. nal substation to accommodate the control building, power transformers and an area for reactors. The generators are the largest in Inaugurated in late 2012, La Yesca has the second highest concrete the country in terms of installed hydroelectric capacity. face in the world, after the Shuibuya dam in China. It is located on the border between Jalisco and Nayarit, on the embankment of the Spillway works: composed of a 62m long channel, six 12x24m Rio Grande de Santiago, and has 1,210 GWh of generating capaccontrol gates, three discharge channels more than 400m in length, ity, equivalent to the electricity supplied to the metropolitan area of and buffer works to return the flow to the river Guadalajara 24 hours a day for a continuous 3.5 months. Associated works: aside from power generation and water Construction work management, 39 km of roads and support facilities were built, The construction project was led by ICA in partnership with several including two concrete plants with 120 m3/h each of production domestic and international companies. The project was comprised of capacity and a crushing plant producing 350 tons per hour, addifive main stages: tional roads, fords and bridges, offices and an IMSS clinic for emergency care, as well as cafeterias, dormitories and sports facilities Diversion works: excavation, treatment and lining of two portal for personnel. tunnels 14m high and more than 700m long, a maximum flood design of 5,730 m3/s, three cofferdams with an elevation of 47, 21 The use of Integrated Management Systems such as ISO 9001, ISO and 26 meters and flexi-impermeable diversion screens. 14001 and OHSAS 18001, coupled with the capability and experience of the personnel, was critical to the success of each of these stages. Containment works: construction of a 208.5m high concrete face with a reservoir of more than 2,500 million m3. During this During construction, the project was subject to international guidestage we placed more than 12 million m3 of compacted rock fill lines on manufacturing, installation and commissioning of power materials. The volume of concrete in the impermeable curtain face generators, and in compliance with specifications and regulations S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 56 such as AWS, ASTM, ACI, OHSAS and ISO, among others. In addition, this system allows for real time data processing and control, reducwork adhered to the Equator Principles as required by international ing execution times by more than 50 percent. financing arrangements, and we received quarterly verification visits on social, environmental and occupational health and safety issues. Equipment for supporting the processes: from the start of the project, we incorporated a 1m3 dump vehicle, a BobCAT skid steer, and a three-ton mini handler for excavating galleries, which Stabilization of the worksite allowed for simultaneous coating and injection works and a signifiDuring the diversion phase, land instabilities were discovered due to cant reduction in execution times. a major fault line in the area, whose magnitude was about 2.5 million m3 and traveling at a speed of 9.27 mm/day. This fault was a risk not Electric concrete pumps in the galleries: the use of these only to personnel working in the tunnels, but also to the viability of pumps allowed for pumping at a distance of 30m, which eliminated the project. the installation of piping up to 500m, prevented clogging and helped obtain a better finish for the concrete. Extraordinary situations require extraordinary solutions, and ICA got to work. With the advice of several world-class experts, and using a Agreement and follow-up books: we conduct random monivery efficient process, we developed the engineering and planning to toring during the development of each process to detect possible stabilize the project with specialized processes and additional work, deviations on a timely basis, which are dealt with immediately by such as excavating more than 800,000 m3 on the slope, equivalent those responsible for that process, together with client representato filling more than three quarters of the Azteca Stadium, constructtives, helping eliminate the generation of preventive and nonconforing a 112,000 m3 monolith in the entry portal and false tunnels, as mity reports. These actions are recorded in the Agreement, Followwell as caps on both tunnels in the fault zone. Together, these three Up and Closure books of the QA inspectors; it is important to note projects required more than 146,000 m3 of concrete, equivalent to the that as a result, 5,913 actions arose in 2012, and since the start construction of 5,860 affordable housing units. of the project, 17,367 preventive actions have been documented, supporting the low number of nonconformity and preventive reports To achieve final stabilization of the land it was necessary to build generated. six cutting ports filled with concrete to act as large anchors on the hillside; the lining of the diversion tunnels was also reinforced with Laboratory Accreditation by the Mexican Accreditation concrete caps a meter thick in the area of influence of the fault line. Entity (EMA): this achievement of the Quality Control area allowed Another major underground structure was the mid-depth discharger, concrete tests and analyses to be conducted in our own quality labowhich was part of the solution envisaged for the safety of the dam ratory, which resulted in significant cost savings and a competitive given the reservoir’s operating levels and the potential impact of the advantage over domestic and international competitors. geological fault on the left bank which characterized this project. Its function is to control the reservoir level, triggering the drain valves by The project also spearheaded the introduction of innovations in placwhich the necessary outflow will lower the level of the reservoir in ing graded materials in the curtain face, using the latest equipment for case of any structural problem on the curtain face or slopes. producing stone aggregates, a modern conveyor system, systematic monitoring of equipment tires, the massive use of sliding formwork This situation took on international importance because the solutions and implementation of the Skills Process for Personnel. were unprecedented in dam construction, and it remains an example of superior engineering thanks to the minimal distortion of the curtain face after filling the reservoir. The workforce behind the project A total of 9,162 people participated in the construction over four years. At the peak of activity, the project employed over 3,500 people, most Innovations of them from the states of Jalisco, Nayarit and Chiapas. The La Yesca Hydroelectric Project introduced a number of construction innovations that provided benefits to multiple processes. The One factor that distinguished the project was the effort regarding the most notable include: participation of women, who usually hold administrative positions in such projects. In the case of La Yesca, hundreds of women took on Numerical Injection Control System (Dialog): used to control operational roles, from personnel supervisors, inventory managers,, the injection of the impermeable screen on the plinth and galleries, site managers,, project supervisors and lab technicians, as part of the S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 57 Company’s determination to have greater participation of women in The construction project maintained a focus on the benefits, first substantive areas of project work. on neighboring communities, and second, on the consumption of domestic products; local suppliers from Jalisco were given preferThe personnel who worked on the construction project had safe workence for supplying inputs; more than 60% of the more than 9,000 ing areas and facilities for rest and recreation that promoted their people contracted throughout the project came from the region, and well-being and development. These facilities included a first-class base 85% of all the products and equipment purchased were of domestic camp that comfortably housed over two thousand workers, canteens origin. that promoted food hygiene and balanced diets, an onsite IMSS clinic with all the necessary equipment, sports facilities (soccer pitches, tennis, volleyball and basketball), illuminated public area with timers Quality of life for the communities and electric water heaters, as well as an occupational medicine unit Projects of this magnitude have a direct impact on surrounding equipped for major emergencies and a T-2 ambulance for intensive care. communities, and we do everything in our power to support them. In this case, the villages that benefited the most from the project were Through classroom sessions and videoconferences, more than 125,000 Paso de la Yesca, Nayarit; Mesa de Flores and Hostotipaquillo, Jalisco. man-hours of training were provided over the life of the project to update personnel and provide them with new information, as well as The inhabitants of Paso de la Yesca and Mesa de Flores went through to enhance the culture of quality work, environmental protection and a radical change. First, the families living there were relocated to nearrisk prevention. by places where they enjoyed services they previously had no access to, such as drinking water, mobile phones and sanitary infrastrucEvery year Health Week events took place, whereby medical services ture, among others, and they saw improvements in their housing and were brought to workers on the frontlines, for a total of more than access roads. Second, residents now have a primary school, church, 200,000 procedures during the project benefit ICA’s personnel, shops, restaurants, function halls, paddocks, plumbing, electricity, cell subcontractors and clients, as well as inhabitants of neighboring phones and drainage, as well as concrete roadways. towns. We also organized Environment Week, which included various activities such as a race for carts made of industrial scrap materials, In all cases, the social conditions of community residents significantly a fashion show using scrap, rowing races, knowledge marathons and improved due to various social responsibility initiatives that emerged conferences. during the project. Both weeks were similarly held in communities such as Mesa de Flores A total of 18 communities in both states now have electricity, paved through the Municipal Service Center of Etzatlán as part of the Adopt roads, water containment dikes for times of drought, and livestock a School program. pens. In addition, the communities closest to the project which did not have health care services, today have access to an IMSS clinic and residents have greater employment opportunities to meet the needs Economic benefits and regional development of their families. EC6 The benefits of the La Yesca Hydroelectric Project in economic terms EC7 go beyond generating power at lower cost. At the regional and local levels, construction of this dam generated a significant economic Environment impact through the creation of direct and indirect jobs, and fostered The area in which the project was built is a deciduous forest ecosyscommercial and tourist fishing. tem; a total of two hundred hectares were used for the construction of the La Yesca Hydroelectric Project. The river interconnection along the reservoir and the construction and improvement of land access roads will improve connections among To mitigate the environmental impact, a management system was inhabitants of the area, giving them greater access to development deployed based on the ISO 14001:2004 International Standard, an and trade activities. This benefit is tangible in the communities of Environmental Policy and operating procedures for addressing signifiMagdalena and Hostotipaquillo, where there has been remarkable cant environmental impacts, maintaining legal compliance and adaptgrowth in the number of commercial establishments. According to ing objectives and programs at each stage of the project. statistical data from the Mexican Business Information System, 12 and 45 companies were created respectively in the municipalities of One of the most visible impacts was the deforestation of some areas Hostotipaquillo and Magdalena. for the installation of infrastructure. To reduce this impact and assist S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 58 rapid ecosystem recovery we implemented a Procedure for the Restotion of these stretches of highway, which forced major changes to the ration and Reforestation of Affected Areas, whereby 58.4 hectares of layout of the highway: the areas used for project construction were reforested at a density of 1,320 plants/ha. Where reforestation could not take place, other 1) The first fault required modifying the original San Marcos bridge measures were implemented such as revegetation. project, which was very different from the design considered during the bidding. Flora was protected through relocation, and reproduction of species that could not be relocated; for wildlife, protection activities included 2) In the second case, the fault line in the Zoquita tunnel jeoparthe operation of a shelter, rescue and relocation of species that were dized the foundation and substructure of the Zoquita bridge; the caught, release in selected areas of species fit for survival, and the solution was to run that stretch toward the area of limestone implementation of a Wildlife Protection Regulation. bedrock, remove the bridge, and lengthen the tunnel from the original 850 meters to 1,360 meters. EN5 The successful conclusion of the La Yesca Hydroelectric Project will benefit our country through clean and economical power generation, 3) The third fault is located in the Xicotepec 2 tunnel, which has and is a great source of pride for ICA. suffered a slippage of the hillside. The solution in this case was to strengthen the final coating of the tunnel with reinforced steel and to build, before the last tunnel slab, an inverted arch CASE STUDY: INTEGRATED AND SUSTAINABLE made of reinforced concrete to provide continuity to the upper INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT. SECTION OF arch of the tunnel. The longitudinal footings were also strengthNUEVEO NECAXA – TIHUATLAN HIGHWAY ened with a final coating of vertical anchors or micropiles. Thanks to our experience in the construction and operation of highway infrastructure and our financial capacity to offer lower net payments The geological conditions in the Xicotepec 1 tunnel deserve special than the competition, on June 27, 2007 the Ministry of Communicamention, as multiple faults led to over 50,000 m3 of ground slippage tions and Transport granted ICA a 30-year concession to build and during the tunnel excavation. The solution to this problem was to operate sections of the Nuevo Necaxa-Avila Camacho highway (37 demolish the slope and reinforce it with drains, anchors and a concrete km) and the Avila Camacho-Tihuatlán highway (48 km). screen wall in the area where the tunnel begins. Both sections have four lanes and are part of the Mexico-Tuxpan expressway, designed to increase transport efficiency between the Innovations center of the country and the Gulf of Mexico, enhance development of The innovations of this project differed from other highways built on the northern part of the state of Veracruz, and open a new connection similar land or areas: with the United States through Tamaulipas. The implementation of the anchor system for tunnel opening led Once completed, these highway sections will bring multiple benefits to the import of the country’s first (and thus far only) horizontal to communities by significantly reducing travel times, as current roads radial drilling machine of 6” and up to 20 meters in length, on the are mainly unpaved, making transportation and marketing of goods upper perimeter of the tunnel. difficult. They will improve tourism in the region, given that Xicotepec has obtained the “Magical Village” designation and Huauchinango is The TH-29 metal frames significantly streamlined the primary on track to do so. All of the above will improve the regional economy. reinforcement of the tunnel, and in combination with reinforced shotcrete layers, constituted the final coating; this means no rebar was used in the final coating, a solution unique to this project. The construction process The construction project was led by ICA in partnership with strategic The entire inner surface of the tunnel was sealed with a geomemsuppliers with extensive experience in the construction and execution brane, an uncommon solution in Mexico, which prevents water of highly complex technical projects. seepage and makes it more comfortable for users, especially in an area with a high rate of rainfall during much of the year. Innovative construction processes were utilized in this project, which improved the construction process and brought significant resource savings. Three geological faults were identified during the construcS U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 59 The workforce behind the project • Train the trainers. The Nuevo Necaxa-Avila Camacho stretch involved an average of • Handling and use of explosives. 859 workers per year, with a peak of up to 4,800 direct employees in 2010; the largest number registered in 2012 was 1,484, of which 1,110 were contracted directly and 374 indirectly. Approximately 80% of the Economic benefits and regional development workforce is local, that is, inhabitants of the communities near the The region is characterized by its unskilled labor; thus the trainEC6 project, while the remaining 20% is foreign. ing provided has been very important both for the project and the EC7 workers, who have seen their knowledge, skills, and consequently For the foreign technical and administrative staff (supervisors, managincome, increase. ers and operators), 53 encampments were installed, of which 29 were single family units (for personnel who came with their families to Local economic development is promoted primarily by using unskilled reside in the area), 18 for technical and administrative staff who did labor from the communities near the project, whose inhabitants, not move their families, and 6 general camps for operators, managers working mainly in planting, harvesting and processing coffee, have and supervisors. The encampments have cleaning and laundry service, had the opportunity to learn and be employed in other trades, includand have periodic service inspections for water, gas, electricity, televiing as masons, carpenters, welders and heavy equipment operators, sion, and in some cases, air conditioning and ventilation. among others, thereby improving their income. Five dining halls were set up in the towns of Xicotepec and La Ceiba. These are subject to periodic inspections by personnel from the projQuality of life for the communities ect’s health service, who issue comments and recommendations for The communities that have experienced major changes are Cuaxiproperly maintaining the facilities and preventing gastrointestinal cala, Cuahuayatla, San Agustín, Tepapatlaxco and Plan de Ayala. diseases among the workers. Tepapatlaxco previously only had a gap or vertical path to access the community. This gap was used as an access road to the workplace, The project’s medical service conducted health and vaccination so it was widened and the curves and slopes were improved, in some campaigns for workers and technical and administrative personnel. places with concrete pavement. Some of the roads in San Agustín, They also put in place campaigns to measure blood pressure, glucose Cuauhuayatla and Plan de Ayala were paved. In Cuaxicala, the project levels and antiparasitics, as well as to administer tetanus and seasonhelped build new classrooms, install roofing and paint the walls of al influenza vaccines. In total, these campaigns benefited 569 employthe local school. ees who had some type of illness. In addition, the medical service followed up specifically with employees who were diagnosed with Since its inception the project has maintained constant communicachronic-degenerative conditions. tion with neighboring communities to address their requests in the best way and through the proper channels. Requests are evaluated for In terms of training, internally, personnel from Quality, Safety and their feasibility, and focus mainly on the donation of various items for Environment are responsible for various subjects based on the develcommunity events, festivals, mother’s and children’s days, etc. Support opment activity. Externally, training is managed primarily by the Trainhas been given to schools, emergency services, soccer leagues, local ing Institute of the Construction Industry, suppliers of machinery and boards and town mayors, among others. equipment, explosives, formwork and civil protection. To date we have provided 6,751 man-hours of training, of which 4,263 are internal and Unsolicited support was also granted: 2,488 external. The Teteloloya community, located near the highway and down Internally, of particular note is the “Awareness” accident prevention slope, is at risk of boulders rolling down the slope; thus the “Culture program for technical personnel and workers; in regard to external of Civil Protection” program was put in place, through which emertraining, the following topics are covered, among others: gency brigades were organized and given training and equipment including fire extinguishers, first aid kits, radio equipment, signal• Project administration. ing and healing materials. • Writing technical reports. • International symposium on soil and rock tunnels. Through reforestation, the calabash tree was reintroduced to • Risk management. the Cuaxicala community; environmental training was provided to authorities, teachers, students, heads of families and the general S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 60 population. Gourds were donated to children, teachers and parents, The project implemented a hazardous waste collection and disposal and six hectares of communal land are being reforested. system, a program for the maintenance of major machinery, placement of portable toilets, and work signage. Community activities have benefited the construction team, as inhabitants of neighboring communities see ICA as a company that cares for them and generates confidence, which minimizes the risk of conflicts CASE STUDY: between the builder and communities. THE INTERNATIONAL CONVENTION CENTER OF LOS CABOS In early 2012, the city of Los Cabos, Baja California Sur, was desigEnvironment nated to host the G20 Summit. In order to receive leaders from the The project was executed under a financing agreement subject to the world’s 20 advanced and emerging economies, the facility where the Equator Principles, so an independent third party was contracted to event takes place must be first class. verify legal, safety and environmental compliance with these guidelines. The Presidency of Mexico and the State Government entrusted ICA The area of the project has three ecosystems: pine-oak forest, cloud with the construction of the International Convention Center of Los or fog forest, and a tropical evergreen forest. The major environmental Cabos, a construction project of more than 26,000 m2 which presentproblem in the region is the loss of forest cover, which in turn causes ed several challenges, such as a complex geographic location and a soil instability, increased erosion and decreased productivity. Accorddelivery date of less than seven months; this was undoubtedly a tough ing to the National Institute of Ecology, 56% of the land in the region challenge, but by no means impossible for us. is misused, only 44% is suitable. Other environmental problems in the area include wastewater discharge to tributaries of the reservoir, and The first thing that would lead us to successfully completing the trafficking of native plant species. project was generating a shared sense of responsibility among the members of the working group, which was comprised of more than Various programs and activities are taking place in the project to coun100 technical and administrative staff, approximately 60 contractors, ter the environmental impacts: 35 specialized suppliers, and just over 1,000 workers. This sense of responsibility began to permeate from the first planning meetings, and Wildlife rescue program: prior to our initial operations , there as a result construction work started at full throttle. are efforts to displace wildlife off the construction fronts; then the rescue activity begins for the plants and animals found there; With over three million man-hours, the construction process required 55,555 plants and 1,484 animals have been rescued this way. extraordinary effort both by those who worked on the project directly and those supplying the necessary inputs, who gave their all to the Reforestation program: through this effort we have replanted project and sacrificed personal time. three times the vegetation lost, because the project crosses the “Necaxa River Basin” natural protected area; this program has Over the course of 195 days, construction was closely overseen by the succeeded in recovering 1,347 hectares of the 1,419 hectares Mexican Presidency. President Felipe Calderon Hinojosa made three targeted within the region. visits, along with the visits of various secretaries of state, government officials and delegations of the participating foreign governments, Monitoring program: a review of the conditions that keep areas demanding that the work be carried out flawlessly. reforested; follow-up on the recovery of areas under restoration; quantifying the presence of flora and fauna, changes in the landThe delivery date was immoveable. When June arrived, the project scape during the construction process and the state of the major delivery month, the International Convention Center of Los Cabos was rivers by contribution of sediment. almost ready. Only the final details were missing. This final process was complicated by the overlap of materials arriving for the producEnvironmental education program: we solicited the support of tion of the event, such as special lighting, projectors, screens, translaSEMARNAT because of the importance of the aforementioned tion booths and hundreds of television monitors; nonetheless, the rate Natural Protected Area. The environmental issues addressed in of progress allowed both processes to be carried out smoothly and educational talks are diverse and intended to change how employsimultaneously. ees and communities act, especially teachers and preschool, elementary and secondary schools students. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 61 In the end we met the challenge. The seventh G20 Summit was The environmental approach of ICA Fluor during this project has helped successfully opened and took place in a facility made possible by a AHMSA become one of the few steel producers whose environmenteam of hundreds of ICA professionals. Acknowledgments of our tally friendly practices serve as an example for other industries. Company arrived from everywhere, and the President of Mexico received congratulations from world leaders for the quality and funcWith our support, 320 tons of steel have been recycled during Project tionality of the site. Phoenix, a high percentage of waste has been reduced, and paper consumption has declined by 40% through the use of digital systems For three days, the eyes of the world were on ICA’s work. for document production. CASE STUDY: ICA FLUOR’S PROJECT We promote regional job creation PHOENIX AT AHMSA The AHMSA expansion project generated employment for more than At ICA, when we take on management of a project, not just its admin5,000 people, either directly or through businesses in the region. istration, we also become an example of leadership and management Everyone employed during the project is native to the region and 70% in implementing sustainable practices in safety, environmental proteccome from the communities around the plant. tion, job creation, economic development and community engagement. This is the case with Project Phoenix, an ICA Fluor project at AHMSA These figures are a clear testament to the commitment of ICA Fluor to (Altos Hornos de Mexico), the largest steel factory in our country, in promote the success of its customers and support AHMSA in fulfilling Monclova, Coahuila. its promise of being the largest employer in Coahuila. Project Phoenix consists of the expansion of AHMSA’s facilities in Monclova through the installation of a steel production and continuWe support the community to create value ous casting plant, as well as a rolling mill, which together will increase We promote human development in the community through basic production to 1.2 million tons per year, a 40% increase in capacity. adult education and quality of life programs; of particular note are breast cancer and other health campaigns, whose results make us proud of the bonds we have created with the community. We have the highest safety standards in the country Aside from offering our expertise and operational capabilities, the Through partnerships with Monclova Civil Protection we have arrival of ICA Fluor to AHMSA’s facilities also introduced safety pracsupported social causes, providing donations to the impoverished, and tices that have became their new standard. The safety of all personparticipated in events such as recognizing Monclova’s fire department nel and equipment is a priority for the project team, and the way it is with awards granted by members of Project Phoenix. addressed has become a model to follow. The community of Monclova comes to us with the confidence of The safety culture at Project Phoenix has enabled AHMSA to take finding the necessary support to achieve shared goals that reflect a various practices and replicate them in their operations, so that both society focused on its own development through culture and physical their employees and contractors comply with our standard. Such is the wellbeing. case with safety meetings with workers, extensive training, and the requirement to use personal protective equipment. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 62 Paramete r s of this r e po r t 3.1 This is our third annual sustainability report. As in the previous two Social Indicators 3.2 years, it was prepared following the G3.1 guidelines of the Global The information is limited to 2012 and includes all of ICA’s consolida3.3 Reporting Initiative (GRI). Detailed information on the Company, its ted subsidiaries, unless otherwise indicated. Data is also provided for operating and financial performance, as well as the electronic versions Proactiva, a company in which ICA holds a 49% stake but over which of the 2010, 2011 and 2012 sustainability reports can be found on our it exercises significant influence in terms of its sustainability policies website: www.ica.com.mx and practices. 3.4 Any comments or questions on matters concerning this report may be sent to: sustentabilidad@ica.mx Environmental Indicators The data presented are drawn from the various projects of our busi3.5 To prepare this report we conducted a materiality analysis on the ness units in Mexico, which excludes Rodio Kronsa as it is not in Mexi4.14 Company’s administrative practices and performance, the current co, and Proactiva, as it has no significant influence, unless otherwise context of sustainability in the construction industry, and the issues indicated. Because of the variety of our projects and the differences in relevant to our stakeholders: shareholders, employees, clients, availability of information, we can only offer environmental indicators suppliers, communities, government and institutions, and our own with different scopes. Thus, we specify the scope of each indicator Company. individually. 3.6 This report will allow our stakeholders to learn in a clear, objective This report has quantitative and qualitative information on ICA’s 3.9 3.8 and transparent way about the principal sustainability developments management of and performance in sustainability issues in 2012. and achievements that we consider priorities based on our materiality The data presented were collected by the Company’s commissions in analysis, including numerous case studies that serve to illustrate our which each of its business units are represented. commitment in this area. There are no significant changes in the coverage, scope or valuation 3.10 3.7 This report covers all of ICA’s operations, including Mexican and methods included in this report with respect to those presented in 3.11 foreign subsidiaries that we control or over which we exercise signifi2011, unless otherwise indicated. cant influence, unless otherwise indicated. In the case of Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte, S.A.B. de C.V. (OMA), their information is Our third sustainability report is GRI Level B Checked. 3.13 included in financial figures and the number of employees, as OMA issues its own sustainability report independently, as it is a public company S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 63 Glo bal C o m pa c t GLOBAL COMPACT TABLE Human Rights Principle 1. Support and respect the protection of human rights. Principle 2. Do not be complicit in the abuse of those rights. Labor Principle 3. Support the principles of the freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4. Eliminate forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5. Abolish all forms of child labor. Principle 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7. Support a preventive approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8. Promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10. Work against all forms of corruption, including extortion. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 64 S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 65 3.12 G RI co nte nt ind ex Pgs. INDICATOR GRI/G3.1 1 STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 4 1.1 Statement from the highest authority of the company; strategy. 4 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 2 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 3 2.1 Name of the organization. 3, 8 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services. 8 2.3 Operational structure of the organization. 3 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Map, 3 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates and with major operations. 3 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 8 2.7 Markets served (geographic breakdown, sectors served types of customers/beneficiaries). 7, 35 Annual 2.8 Scale of reporting organization (employees, net sales, total capitalization, etc.). Report 9 9 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure and ownership. 10 2.10 Awards and recognitions. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 66 3 REPORT PARAMETERS 62 3.1 Reporting period. 62 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 62 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). 62 3.4 Contact point. REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY 62 3.5 Process for defining report content (determination of materiality, aspect priority, identification of stakeholders). Map, 62 3.6 Boundary of the report. 62 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can signifi62 3.8 cantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations 62 3.9 applied to the compilation of the indicators and other information in the report. 62 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. 62 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI CONTENT INDEX 65 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard disclosures in the report. ASSURANCE 62 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 4 GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENT AND ENGAGEMENT 12 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. 12 4.2 Indicate whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are 12 4.3 independent and/or non-executive members. 13 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 13 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives. 13 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the 12 4.7 organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social matters. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, 14 4.8 and social performance and the status of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, 12, 13, 20 4.9 environmental, and social performance. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmen12 4.10 tal, and social performance. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 67 COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES 15 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization 42 4.12 subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: Has positions in governance bodies 27 4.13 Participates in projects or committees Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues, or; Views membership as strategic. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 25, 63 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 25 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 21, 25 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to 26 4.17 those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. ECONOMIC DIMENSION: INDICATORS OF ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and 30 EC1 other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. • EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. • EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. • EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Market presence 36 EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at locations of significant operation. 32, 57, 60 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant 57, 60 EC7 operation. Indirect economic impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, • EC8 in kind, or pro bono engagement. 30 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. ENVIRONMENTAL DIMENSION: ENVIRONMETNAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Materials 44 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 45 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 68 Energy 45 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 46 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 46 CRE1 Building energy intensity. 58 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy require47 EN6 ments as a result of these initiatives. • EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Water 48 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. • EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 48 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. • CRE2 Building water intensity. Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value • EN11 outside protected areas. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high 49 EN12 biodiversity value outside protected areas. 49 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. • EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level 49 EN15 of extinction risk. Emissions, effluents and waste 50 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. • EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. • CRE3 Greenhouse gas intensity from buildings. • CRE4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from new construction and redevelopment activity. • EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. • EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. • EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 51 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 51 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 53 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 69 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention • EN24 Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the repor• EN25 ting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. Land and other assets remediated and in need of remediation for the existing or intended land use according to applicable 54 CRE5 legal designations. Products and services • EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. • EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws • EN28 and regulations. Transportation Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s opera• EN29 tions, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall 54 EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. SOCIAL DIMENSION SOCIAL: SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Employment 35 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. 35 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 36 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Labor/management relations 36 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 36 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational health and safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help moni41 LA6 tor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. 40 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities by region. Percentage of the organization operating in verified compliance with an internationally recognized health and safety mana31 CRE6 gement system. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or 39 LA8 community members regarding serious diseases. 41 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Training and education 37 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 70 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them 37 LA11 in managing career endings. 37 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group 38 LA13 membership, and other indicators of diversity. 39 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. • LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. HUMAN RIGHTS Investment and procurement practices Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone 41 HR1 human rights screening. 41 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to opera• HR3 tions, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination 14 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Freedom of association and collective bargaining Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, 41 HR5 and actions taken to support these rights. Child labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination 41 HR6 of child labor. Forced and compulsory labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the 41 HR7 elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Security practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that • HR8 are relevant to operations. Indigenous rights 14 HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. 41 HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. 41 HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. SOCIETY Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on commu41 SO1 nities, including entering, operating, and exiting. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 71 41 SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local 42 SO10 communities. 42 CRE7 Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily displaced and/or resettled by development, broken down by project. Corruption 14 SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 14 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. 14 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Public policy 27 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 14 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Anti-competitive behavior 14 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Regulatory compliance 14 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer health and safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage 33 PR1 of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of 31 PR2 products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labeling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject 31 PR3 to such information requirements. Type and number of sustainability certification, rating and labeling schemes for new construction, management, occupation, 32 CRE8 and redevelopment Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information N/A PR4 and labeling, by type of outcomes. 31 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Marketing communication Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, N/A PR6 promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, N/A PR7 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 72 Customer privacy 32 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products 32 PR9 and services. • Indicator not answered S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 73 Contact and feedback Corporate Headquarters ICA in Costa Rica Empresas ICA, S.A.B. de C.V. Oficentro La Virgen Blvd. Manuel Ávila Camacho 36, piso 15 Edificio Torre Prisma 4 Nivel Pavas, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, C.P. 11000 San José, Costa Rica Mexico City, Mexico Tel: +506 216-9028 Tel: +52 (55) 5272-9991 Fax: +52 (55) 5227-5046 Rodio Kronsa in Spain Calle Velázquez #50 ICA in Panama 7ª Planta C.P.28001 Torre de las Américas Madrid, Spain Torre A Piso 9 Oficina 902 Tel: +34 (91) 425-2890 Panama City, Panama Tels: +507 216-9028 and +507 216-9029 Rodio Kronsa in Morocco SOLSIF MAROC ICA in Colombia Km 4 Route de Casablanca, Calle 102A No. 50-49 Rabat, Morocco Bogotá, Colombia Tel: +212 (537) 79-4865 Tel: +57 4320-2940 Rodio Kronsa in Portugal ICA in Peru (Los Portales) Avda. dos Combatentes, 52, José Granda 167, San Isidro, Apartado 112 Abrunheira Lima 27, Peru 2710 Sintra, Portugal Tel: +51 (1) 211-4466 Ext: 4281 Tel: +351 (21) 915-8210 Fax: +51 (1) 211-4465 Your opinion is important. Please contact us with ICA in Peru (Minera San Martín) any comments, questions or information about this Av. Pedro Miotta 103-San Juan de Miraflores sustainability report at: Lima, Peru sustentabilidad@ica.mx Tel: +51 (1) 450-1999 or visit us at: Fax: +51 (1) 276-9851 www.ica.com.mx Scan or click this image to access the electronic version. S U S T A I N A B I LI T Y R E P O R T 2 01 2 EMPRESAS ICA, S.A.B. DE C.V. Blvd. Manuel Ávila Camacho 36, piso 15 Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, C.P. 11000 Mexico City Tel: +52 (55) 5272-9991 Fax: +52 (55) 5227-5046 www.ica.com.mx
