April 15, 2013 To All Stakeholders: Profile Trinidad Cement Limited (TCL) operates the only cement manufacturing plant in Trinidad and Tobago. The plant is a wet process with its quarry operations at Mayo Village which is approximately 25 miles east of Claxton Bay (south central of Trinidad) where the cement is manufactured and port facilities, sales and administration offices are located. Progress 2012 The company faced an unprecedented and historic 92 days industrial strike in late February 2012 which hindered the plans and progress of many projects. Notwithstanding this set back TCL management handled the situation creditably although the strike proved to have far reaching consequences for the company. Commitment Trinidad Cement Limited is pleased to reaffirm its support and commitment to the principles of United Nations Global Compact Human Rights, Labour, the Environment and AntiCorruption. TCL will lead the local and regional business community in achieving greater sustainable development and progressive partnering with all our stakeholders. It is of mutual interest to the Company, Community and Country for TCL to operate responsibly and develop products and services that address social and environmental challenges. We will:• Continually improve our efforts to corporate sustainability leadership and involve our employees in our social responsibility projects. • Participate in local networks or seek ways of benefiting from the transfer of knowledge and expertise. • Listen and respond to the varied concerns of all our stakeholders This report provides a view on the company’s focus and actions during the past year in an attempt to reinforce the principles of the Global Compact as part of TCL’S business strategy, culture and operations. Satnarine Bachew General Manager Trinidad Cement Limited Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights.  The company’s policies affirm its commitment to the principles of fair employment and the elimination of all vestiges of discriminatory practices that might exist. We encourage all employees to take advantage of opportunities for growth and development within the organisation.  TCL’s commitment to maintaining a healthy, safe, and environmentally sound workplace extends to every stakeholder. The company continues to embrace the Zero Accident Philosophy which upholds that accidents in the work are preventable and in 2012, this was fully achieved.  TCL’s policies are in compliance with all applicable laws, including without limitations, laws relating to industrial relations and employment, discrimination, health, safety, competition and securities trading. No employee has the authority to violate any law or to direct another employee to violate any law on behalf of the Company. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations.  The industrial strike hindered the distribution of safe water from TCL’s resources to its fenceline community at Mayo Village used for agriculture and domestic use. To relieve the problem the company teamed with the Water and Sewerage Authority and was able to resume the supply of the necessary water to the affected villages during the strike period.  During the latter part or 2012 the company introduced the concept of a rain water harvesting training programme for residents with a view to start early 2013.  The strike at TCL in early 2012 also brought a new dimension to the people relations on the plant. Significant sacrifices by employees’ who did not participate in the strike, ensured the viability of the Company and kept the plant in operation until the completion of the industrial action and the return to work of the larger body of employees. Relations between striking and non-striking employees were very strained requiring significant interventions over the following months to settle the workforce.  As time progressed there was an easing of the situation as returning employees began to accept the choices made by their colleagues who returned during the strike. There has not been thus far any significant fallout on the operations as employees go about their work. The return of the R&R programme, the town meetings, the One-on-One meetings are all helping to bring the employees back together.  The Return to Work Plan was implemented in June 2012. This Strategy foresaw a patient, gentle and coherent approach to the re-integration of the workforce that was applied consistently across all departments. The Return to Work Plan included formalized Health, Safety, Security, Environment and Quality (HSSEQ) re-orientation as well as mandatory participation in a re-integration session hosted by an external facilitator. All employees by departments, including those who did not strike, participated in a Post-Strike team building session to aid in the re-integration of the workforce and bring everyone back to a productive order.  The HR Department launched the 4H Programme – Happiness; Healing; Harmony; Health highlighting the importance of coming together for team building and interventions.  The company’s Materials Department launched its “Charity Matters” initiative and raised funds to help distribute food hampers to over twenty (20) families within the community.  TCL employee ‘CAN’ support drive for Diego Martin Disaster Relief provided assistance to the flood ravaged residents of the Diego Martin disaster community with relief items such as schools stationary, mattresses, canned food supplies.  A combined effort between TCL and Employees donated a wheelchair and cash to TCL retiree.  In its efforts to go beyond the traditional approach of charitable giving and to become actively involved in the social and environmental development of the communities the company introduced Corporate Volunteering Initiatives to employees via the volunteer triangle company(product, service and customers) employees(skills and interest) and community(social and environmental needs).  TCL Volunteers provided their time, skills, and labour to assist in building a new expansion shelter at the Animals Alive Sanctuary in Oropouche, Trinidad. Animals Alive is a nonprofit organization dedicated to advocating the humane treatment of all domestic and working animals.  With the aim of continually improving its efforts to corporate sustainability leadership and involve employees in social responsibility projects, TCL partnered with Buccoo Integrated Summer Camp in Tobago for differently abled children. Employees volunteered their time and skills in a session with the children in the art of making concrete stepping stones and planters.  The company continued the promotion of education for employees’ children writing Secondary Education Assessment (SEA) and providing opportunities for secondary and universities’ students by facilitating tours and School Base Assessment projects in relation to their specific topics.  The thrust to improve customer service both internally and externally continued in 2012. Various activities were undertaken inclusive of Customer Service training sessions hosted for TCL Customer Service Champions (employees from various depts.).  External technical seminars were also hosted for four (4) branches of vocational schools with the main objective of promoting proper techniques and methods in the industry.  The establishment of a Truckers’ Rest Stop at Claxton Bay operations and Tobago Dispatcher’s Office project also commenced in 2012 and is expected to be concluded by 1 st quarter 2013.  The value of diversity at TCL is shared with the hosting of many programmes throughout the year such as Carnival celebrations, Easter Observances, celebration of 50th Anniversary Independence of Trinidad and Tobago, Divali Celebrations, Fun and Family Day, Eid Ul Fitr, Children Christmas Party. The programmes covered national celebrations, cultural and religious holidays to benefit the organization and the employees for a sense of belonging, which in turn increases their commitment to the company and allows each of them to contribute in a unique way.  TCL’s Wellness Program was scheduled to be officially launched on 01 st March, 2012, but due to Strike Action taken by some employees, the start of the program was pushed back to June, 2012. In the interim, arrangements were made with an external fitness centre for interested employees to join and use the facilities there. This was well received by many non-striking employees. When the official program kicked off in June 2012, the response was significantly less than the previous years.  A Fitness Boot camp was designed and started for employees to test their levels of strength, endurance, team work and fortitude. Attendance was exceptional. Starting in June and with the final event held September, employees thoroughly enjoyed the events. In the end, every participant graduated from the Boot camp and friendships, camaraderie and team work, together with the overall aim of fun and fitness was achieved. The basic premise of our programs continues to be maintenance of a healthy lifestyle through diet and regular exercise.  The Company’s Nurse and Wellness Champions continue to remain on board to guide employees throughout the year. HSE Personnel were an integral part of this year’s programs to ensure the safety of all participants.  Blood Donation drives remain an integral part of the Wellness Programs. During 2012, two (2) sessions were held.  The Health Surveillance program for employees (including Spirometry and ECG testing) is ongoing. Baseline surveys continue to be done for all new employees while existing employees have scheduled re-tests done.  A continuous education drive continues for all employees. The TCL Group Health Site continues to be updated with new and interesting topics. By sharing health related information we can empower employees to make better choices for themselves and their families and to seek professional intervention as early as possible.  First Aid care and attention continue to be offered to those requiring such services in a safe and professional manner with good results in every case. Follow up is also carried out as necessary.  Employees continue to be referred for assistance for Personal and Job related concerns to our Employee Assistance Provider.  In an attempt to reach employees at a different level, Care Packages have been distributed and special visits have been arranged for employees and their families in the following cases : ⁻ Birth of a new baby ⁻ Birthdays ⁻ Illness ⁻ Retirement ⁻ Death  This initiative has been received exceptionally well by employees and their respective families. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  The success of TCL’s efforts as a team is dependent on its communal dedication, competence, efficiency, adaptation and conduct. Because of this, TCL ensures that performance is monitored regularly and in a manner that is fair and objective.  All thirty-one (31) Management One-On-One Safety Walks were completed for 2012. In addition the TCL Management Team conducted eight inspections during the last six months of the year.  Post Strike Interventions: This Initiative comprised of six (6) levels as follows: • Stage #1 Venting (Storming) – All employees who came back to work after the ninety (90) days period, were engaged by an external facilitator, to assist employees to cope with and express their sentiments about the strike.  Stage #2Venting (Storming) – Non-strikers were also engaged by an external facilitator to assist employees to cope with and express their sentiments about the strike.  Stage #3 Forming: Bringing back the team as one. Employees came together as a team and got the opportunity to interact with each other after the 90 day period.  Stage #4 Norming: The team gained an understanding and had a clear mental model about the whereabouts of the team’s goal.  Stage #5 Performing: The team shared a great rapport. The employees were understanding and extended complete support and cooperation.  Stage #6 Follow-up: Audit was administered by the HR Department in order to track the progress of each employee within the team.  From the sessions, specific observations were brought to our attention of how employees were coping with the re-integrated workforce, and as such some employees were referred for individual sessions with the EAP or Coaching. Ten (10) employees were advised to seek counseling with the EAP and three (3) for additional coaching with the consultant.  A Competency Assurance System that is consistent with international industry standards was introduced and based on the skills gap analysis taken from the competency assurance system completed, craft and technical training for key personnel will continue at both the individual and group level. The pilot project focused on jobs at the Mayo Quarry and was designed to develop Occupational competencies in accordance with National and International Occupational Standards for all (20) classifications within the Process, Electrical, Mechanical and Asset Management Occupations/Departments. 53 employees participated in this exercise.  All employees are obligated to promptly report any suspected violations of the Code of Ethics or of applicable laws, rules or regulations by any employee or manager regardless of the person’s status or position within the company.  The 2012 Performance Appraisals for Junior Staff, Confidential Secretaries, Hourly Rated Workers & Security commenced in October without reviews being scheduled. Appraisals were completed for all employees within each of the Bargaining Units by 30th November. Employees who have been absent for more than 6 months were not appraised.  KPIs and Performance Contracts for all Senior Staff positions were developed and forwarded to the respective line managers for their review and confirmation with their Senior Staffers with a view to finalizing all documents in preparation for the parallel run of the new system in January. Draft Job Descriptions for all Senior Staff positions were also developed and forwarded to the respective line managers for review.  This year 2012 saw an increase with respect to participation and utilization of the R&R Programme. The concept of presenting R&R Awards at the Town Meetings has served to both heighten the awareness of the R&R Programme and motivate and inspire employees towards attainment of both their individual needs as well as those of the organisation.  The 2012 Awards Ceremony was held at TCL’s Poolside on December 14th, 2012 under the theme “Rewarding Excellence.” The occasion was successfully executed with Awards being presented in eleven (11) categories of the R&R Programme for the period 2010-12. Category of Awards are:Sports Personality, Outstanding Community Involvement, Academic Achiever of the Year, Team Spirit of the Year, Creativity and Innovation, Most Improved Employee, Safe Worker of the Year, Safe Department of the Year, Department of the Year, Green Collar Award, Employee of the Year.  Management held its Planning Session on July 4th to assess performance and discuss the Six Months Strategic Priorities – To Achieve Targets and the Business Plan 2013 & Five Year Plan. Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; the effective abolition of child labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation  All operations at Trinidad Cement Limited (TCL) was shut down on February 27th, 2012 when workers walked off the job when the Oilfields Workers’ Trade Union (OWTU) served strike notice on the company after a breakdown in wage talks. By midday the plant was closed and the gates locked. Cement trucks waiting for goods, were turned away as no cement was being loaded to distribute to customers. At the end of the 92 days the majority of workers returned to work and the Negotiation talks between the company and the Trade Union was referred to the Industrial Court for final determination. Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights.  TCL fully respects, support and continues to uphold the freedom of association of its employees and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations.  The year 2012 was the most challenging with regard to Industrial Relations in our fifty-eight years of operations. The year started with Negotiations for all four Bargaining Units at TCL (Senior Staff, Junior Staff, Confidential Secretaries and Hourly Rated Weekly Paid) at the Ministry of Labour for Conciliation.  After fourteen days of meetings with the Union for conciliation, the latter immediately followed with Notice of its intention to take Legal Strike Action.  The Strike started on 27 February 2012 and continued for ninety-two days, ending on 27th May 2012 after being referred back to the Minister for his referral to the Industrial Court for determination.  During the Strike there were interventions by the Minister of Labour to facilitate a resolution but to no avail. The Strike became very tense after the first few days with several reports of physical threats being made to non-strikers and the stoning of the vehicles that were transporting them onto the plant.  The Company took Legal Lockout Action after a few days in order to offer Individual Contracts of Employment, with over one hundred employees returning to work.  At the end of the Strike, several employees were suspended for their alleged involvement in acts of misconduct, which has led to seven Industrial Relations Offences being filed against the Company by the OWTU. The Breakdown of Negotiations continues in open hearing at the Industrial Court and is expected to be determined by June 2013.  The Return to Work Plan/Post Strike Sessions was implemented in June 2012. This strategy foresaw a patient, gentle and coherent approach to the re-integration of the workforce that was applied consistently across all departments. The Return to Work Plan included formalized Health, Safety, Security, Environmental and Quality re-orientation as well as mandatory participation in a re-integration session hosted by an external facilitator. All employees by departments, including nonstriking employees, participated in a Post-Strike team building session to aid in the re-integration of the workforce to bring everyone back to a productive order.  The Return to Work Plan laid the foundation for the 4H (Happiness, Healing, Harmony and Health) Plan that was implemented subsequently to sustain the normalcy in the operation of the organization.  The Estate Police Association also broke down the Negotiation process and that matter is now before the Industrial Court for arbitration.  Training sessions are held with supervisors so that they fully understand each clause of the Collective Agreement to address any labour risks for peaceful resolutions.  Suppliers and Contractors are also required to adhere to the ethical conduct and values of the company as well as those enshrined in our policies. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  TCL values good labor relations and ensures that a continuous communication with employee representatives exists. Employees are encouraged to solve problems by discussing them openly with their supervisors/managers or the Human Resources Department. Non-crisis meetings are also held regularly between the Union and Management to address any issues which may arise in the employment relationship.  Despite the worsening economic conditions locally and regionally and general anxiety about the future of the company, the workforce continued to have unrealistic expectations in relations to the settlement of the collective agreement. This culminated with the breakdown of negotiations between TCL and the Trade Union in February 2012.  At the end of the strike, following investigations and an internal tribunal, the company imposed disciplinary action against 53 employees who committed several infractions.  While issues are being dealt with at the Ministry of Labour and Industrial Court for determination, TCL management will continue to focus on facilitating ongoing dialogue and communication with its employees highlighting the sustainable strategies to improve morale, productivity and profitability. Environment Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and; Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection.  TCL has recognized that its business have an impact on the environment and is committed to ensuring that this impact is minimised or reduced where practicable. TCL seeks to ensure that the resources and materials used by its business are sustainable and capable of being recycled; are used effectively with the minimum of waste; that were practicable, utilised technologies, materials and processes which do not have an adverse impact on the environment and where such impact is avoidable it is mimimised and that suppliers and contractors have the same objectives.  The company has maintained its Environment Management Systems Certification status during the year and a re-certification is due in early 2013. The company Environmental Policy is located in the following link: http://tcl.co.tt/docs/tclfiles/tcl_revised_environmental_policy_feb2011.pdf?sfvrsn=2  The company’s focus in 2013 is to continue creating AWARENESS, fostering COMPLIANCE and ACCOUNTABILITY and actioning ENFORCEMENT in order to achieve its stated objectives ⁻ Environmental goals for 2013:⁻ Pollution Prevention ⁻ Compliance with all legal and other requirements ⁻ Maintenance of the certification of TCL’s ISO 14001 Environmental Management system ⁻ Continual Improvement of TCL’s Environment and TCL’s interaction with the outer environment (beyond fenceline). ⁻ Influence sustainable environmental performance through increased employee environmental awareness and education. ⁻ Re-introduce recycling initiatives. ⁻ Completion of risk assessment for Mayo and Claxton Bay operations. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents.  TCL is required to report all environmental and social events that may have caused damage; caused health problems; attracted the attention of outside parties; affected project labor or adjacent populations; affected cultural property; or created liabilities.  The HSE Department conducted Contractor HSE Meetings with in-house contractors throughout the year. A total of nine (9) meetings were held. The objective of the meeting is to ensure that all levels of HSE are not compromised by contractors’ activities at TCL.  In 2012 Categories of environmental non-conformances were:-, ⁻ Outpour of cement from bulk loading equipment, inadequate maintenance of settling ponds. ⁻ Complaints of mud from TCL trucks on the road causing an environmental hazard for the private vehicles and pedestrians at Corosal quarry road crossing, emissions from kiln 3 stack, dust affecting residents, blockage of drain on St John’s Trace. ⁻ One noise nuisance to fenceline resident from Packing Plant area caused by the guzzler in operation was satisfied with the installment of a new silencer on the guzzler. ⁻ Four (4) internal environmental complaints were received: heavy dusting/venting, spills – material/oil, silo overflow, inappropriate storage of oil drums.  All the above issues were addressed immediately with a greater commitment to prevent, contain and cleanup all housekeeping areas of dusting and spillages that may contribute to pollution at TCL.  Discussions are continuing with the Government of Trinidad and Tobago and other regulatory agencies regarding TCL’s proposal for agreement to dispose of used tyres in its cement kiln as a sustainable option for waste management in Trinidad and Tobago.  World Day for Health and Safety at Work was held on April 28th and even under strike conditions was celebrated at TCL by reaffirming our commitment and responsibility towards the protection of the environment and at the same time ensuring the safety of all its stakeholders – employees, customers, communities, business partners and the public in general. TCL employees and Contractor employees attended and shared in an HSE Motivational Moment facilitated by Ms. Antonia Lucky Corporate Lead EHS at the National Gas Company of T& T on Friday 27th April at the Training Room. Employees were encouraged to wear something green on Friday as our continuing commitment to protecting our environment in a safe and healthy way.  In commemoration of World Environment Day 2012, TCL hosted the Caribbean Permaculture ConsultantsMr. Erle Rahaman-Noronha and Mr. John Stollmeyer. A presentation/interactive session was held in which the concept of Permaculture was introduced to employees. The aim of the session was to introduce employees to another means of becoming self-sufficient, healthier, environmentally conscious individuals  TCL’s 2012 Annual Holiday Camp primarily for children of employees commenced on 16th July with a total of twenty-one (21) children and for the first time five (5) children from the neighbouring community were invited to participate. This year’s camp focused on the environment an integrated programme to raise participants’ awareness of the importance of preserving Planet Earth and to help them discover ways in which they can participate in living green. Activities included Art & Craft, Permaculture Gardening, Field Trips, Drama, Swimming, Maths, Language Arts, Re-use, Recycle, Reduce, and lots of fun ! The camp closed on August 9th. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance.  There were no exceedances with the Noise Pollution Rules, 2001 recorded for both Mayo Quarry and Claxton Bay Operations.  Ambient Air Monitoring was conducted with no exceedances recorded.  Results from monitoring conducted showed exceedances with the standards set in the Water Pollution Rules, 2006 with respect to Total Suspended Solids, pH and Faecal coliform for TCL Claxton Bay and exceedances with respect to Faecal Coliform for TCL Mayo. The exceedances in Mayo were recorded 2 out of 2 (2/2) times at the Mayo River – after bridge at Cement Drive leading to Facility and one out of two (1/2) times for Dam 2.  There are identified Pollution Prevention and Control Plans & Projects to tackle the wastewater exceedances/issues at TCL Claxton Bay. These projects are due to be completed by June 2015.  Various inspections, audits and surveys were carried out throughout the year to ensure as best as possible that all equipment, facilities, the environment and its associated day to day activities are in good order.  A total of 982 employees received HSEQ Orientation for 2012. Sessions took place on Mondays and Wednesdays. At the end of each session, individuals were assessed to determine training effectiveness. Anti-Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anticorruption.  In accordance with its published Code of Ethics and Business Conduct employees must not defraud or attempt to defraud any customer, supplier, shareholder or other person with whom TCL communicates or does business. In particular, employees must always make truthful statements, both verbally and in writing about the company’s products, services and financial condition. Any employee found to be attempting fraud or engaging in fraud or bribery will be subject to strict disciplinary action, up to and including termination. The company reserves the right to refer such matters to public authorities for possible criminal prosecution.  Strict compliance with competition and antitrust laws around the world is essential. Employees and other representatives of the company must avoid even the appearance of such conduct. Such conduct includes – agreements of joint actions between competitors regarding prices, bids, products or territory allocations or divisions, selection of customers or suppliers or limits on production, inventory or research and development; and agreements with customers or licenses regarding the minimum resale price at which they will sell TCL goods and services.  Material non-public information often called “insider information” shall not be used by employees for their own gain or for the gain of others, friends, relatives or other employees. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anticorruption risks and respond to incidents.  The year 2012 saw a slight drop in adherence to the Procurement Policies. There were several instances of contractors and suppliers being engaged without the necessary prior approvals and paperwork being done. This was mainly due to the strike action earlier in the year, and the challenges encountered with the majority of workers being on strike, systems controls and checks and balances were sometimes circumvented in the interest of keeping the operations going. A complete audit was conducted in order to assess the extent of the actions. This was a learning experience that in the event that any such action is repeated, these controls must be adhered to at all times.  Employees are required to contact the relevant legal department before taking action concerning any specific situation.  In accordance with the guidelines for whistleblowers, all employees are obligated to promptly report any suspected violations under the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct or applicable laws regardless of the person’s status or position within the company. Failure to report criminal activity can itself be considered a crime and may result in disciplinary action.  The Code of moral principles based on the company’s core values – honesty and integrity, accountability and responsibility, trust and transparency governs the behavior of a person or group with respect to what is right and /or act as a guide when discretion is required to be exercised.  The Code sets out general principles to guide employees in making ethical decisions.  All employees have a responsibility to understand and follow the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct. Employees are expected to perform their task in keeping with the company’s core business values as it relates to anti-corruption. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance.  TCL’s Internal Audit has the responsibility to review any systems breaches that the company incurs in a compliance risk or suffers damage likely to derive from its noncompliance with applicable laws, regulations and internal rules falling under the scope of the compliance function or under the domains assigned to it by the Management.  The Board of Directors, via the governing Audit Committee, meets on a quarterly basis to assess any such reports and recommendation for containment of the compliance risk.  No claim or request for monetary sanction for corruption was reported in the period covered by the COP.
