The network that cares for society KPN Sustainability Report 2012 Contents Introduction 1 2. Our social themes 34 4. People connected 78 Appendices on the website Foreword 2 2.1. Our social policy 34 4.1. Our vision: our strength lies in The appendices on the website connecting people 78 (www.kpn.com/csrreport) contain Review of the year 2012 4 2.2. Best ICT infrastructure 37 details of our social and environmental 4.2. KPN Finest Contact Foundation 78 figures. Our GRI index can be Trends in telecom and ICT 6 2.3. Healthcare of the future 41 4.3. Sports sponsorship 80 downloaded by using this web link. Who we are and what we do 8 2.4. The New Way of Living & Working 45 4.4. Cultural sponsorship 81 Our main achievements 12 2.5. Energy-efficient 50 4.5. Challenges and dilemmas 81 Our strategy 14 2.6. Security & Privacy 58 Strategy at a glance 16 Appendices to the Report Strategy in action 18 3. Our employees and suppliers 66 Scope, reporting process and materiality determination 82 Our role in society 20 3.1. Our employees 66 Independent assurance report 84 3.2. Our suppliers 72 1. Quality of our service 24 1.1. Our aspiration: to become the best service provider 24 1.2. Quality programs and service improvements 25 22 32 KPN is a leading supplier of telecommunications and ICT services. We offer consumers total solutions for fixed and mobile telephony, internet and TV. For business customers – from multinationals to SMEs and home offices – we provide fixed and mobile telephony and data services. In addition, we provide a broad range of ICT products and services, such as workspace management, data centers, consulting and cloud services. In the Belgian and German mobile markets, we are a strong challenger. We aim to be the best service provider in the Netherlands. Thanks to us, our customers can be online wherever and whenever: at home, at work and on the move. Our products and services make this as easy as possible for them. Thanks to our cables, transmission masts and data centers and the thousands of KPN people, Schiphol Airport, the port of Rotterdam, the railways, internet banking, pin payments and many other things can all function. Day in, day out. We want to bring the society further, with each other and for each other, in a sustainable way. That’s where our strength lies. 64 76 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 1 Introduction TRUST IN THE FUTURE 2012 was a turbulent and challenging year for the KPN Group. It was a year where we accelerated our commercial and infrastructure investments to stabilize market positions and improve customer service, thus taking the necessary steps to realize our ambitions. These ambitions go hand in hand with our social policy. However, share price development and dividend policy changes impacted our shareholders’ returns. 24/7 T he effects of the measures needed to for the increase in broadband customers for become the best service provider were the first time in years was our growth in fiber clearly visible in 2012. Our customers activations and good performance of the were able to see improvements in our Telfort brand. Our new, transparent mobile services and products. We boosted the quality propositions triggered positive reactions free helpdesk launched of our services, but at a slower pace than from consumers and business customers. expected at the beginning of 2012. Investments Nevertheless, revenues in the mobile market in our services and products enabled us to continued to decrease, partly as a result >1M achieve our market share targets in both the of a change in customer behavior: people business and the consumer market. However, are communicating more and more via apps. the improved operating performance was not Another factor in the drop in our revenues reflected in improved financial results. was increasing competition. In the business segment we maintained our market position Quality of services but the adverse economic conditions had an IPTV customers The Net Promoter Score, which was impact on our customers in 2012. They in the Netherlands considerably higher among consumers than remained circumspect regarding their ICT in 2011, proves that we are making the right investments or postponed them, putting investments in the quality of our services. further pressure on prices. The sentiment in Among the reasons for the higher score were the Corporate Market was also characterized the launch of our free 24/7 helpdesk, an by reticence and uncertainty. That confirmed improvement in the call center service and the need to integrate the Business Market the opening of XL shops. The main driver segment and parts of Corporate Market. 2 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 We were once again successful in 2012 with Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Secondly, the change in our shareholding our subsidiaries in our neighboring countries. We recorded good results in 2012 in the whereby América Móvil acquired just over The number of customers rose substantially domain of CSR. We have been increasingly 27% of KPN’s shares in June 2012 received a in Germany. Primarily as a result of increased successful in integrating our social policies and lot of attention. As announced on February 20, price competition, revenue growth slowed in thereby making it a self-evident part of our 2013 the support of our largest shareholder in the fourth quarter. Belgium continued to show business operations. Through our social our intention to raise EUR 4 billion of equity strong revenue growth, driven by B2B, themes we explicitly show that, as a telecom equivalent capital is a major step towards wholesale and data. and ICT service provider, we can do a lot for successful execution of our capital raise. This the community. “Best ICT infrastructure” is one will consist of a EUR 3 billion rights issue and, To further improve the quality of our of our themes for good reason, as it allows us in addition, issuance of hybrid capital services we ramped up customer-driven to stress that a modern society cannot do instruments. I am pleased that important investments. We went ahead with upgrading without ICT. Moreover, we are convinced that progress has been made towards aligning our our copper network, enabling us to offer our KPN makes an essential contribution. And the financial position with our strategy and that customers even higher upload and download more important ICT becomes, the greater the our relationship agreement will enable us to speeds. We also improved our existing mobile demands people make on secure and reliable have the benefit of a strong relationship with network and we laid the foundations for the internet traffic. To safeguard this, we give top a global leader in the telecom sector going mobile network of the future by acquiring an priority to the theme “Security and privacy”. forward, among other things, by the intended attractive frequency package, including 4G In terms of procuring green power and saving appointment of two individuals, designated LTE. We have made an energetic start to the energy we are now among the world’s by América Móvil, to KPN’s Supervisory Board rollout of our 4G network, so we expect to “greenest” telecom and ICT companies. during the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) have 50% coverage in the summer of 2013. Our listing in the Carbon Disclosure Project in April 2013. We also expanded our fiber network in 2012 and the Newsweek Green Rankings prove that and we strengthened our “fiber position” we are able to distinguish ourselves through To conclude thanks to the takeover of several fiber service our sustainability framework. We make The A year ago in this report I wrote, “KPN is a providers. Uncertain economic prospects, the New Way of Living & Working possible for healthy company with stretching customerneed to strengthen our financial position and a growing number of companies, thereby oriented and social ambitions”. Those words the flexibility to finance strategic investments underlining the positive effects on the apply just as much today. We have made underlay our decision to stop our share buy environment and society as a whole. Also in good progress and I am pleased with the back program at the start of 2012 and to the healthcare sector we are able to highlight operational performance as a team. This offers reduce our 2012 dividend. Unfortunately, the value of ICT. good prospects of success on our strategic these circumstances contributed to a decline path. KPN is a strong and resilient company, in our share price during the year. We demonstrate the fine potential of ICT with thanks to the efforts, knowledge and qualities KlasseContact, the most important project of of thousands of KPN employees. Organization the KPN Finest Contact Foundation. In 2012 To align our organization with our strategic we enabled 200 chronically ill children to goals and to be able to respond adequately continue taking lessons via a special Eelco Blok to the changing market, we revamped our top communication set. We will give this project Chairman of the Board of Management structure at the beginning of 2012. We formed additional support in 2013, so that even more and CEO. the Executive Committee and appointed Joost children can stay in contact with their class Farwerck as Managing Director Netherlands. and their classmates. In the fall we added a There was one change in the composition cultural dimension to our social policies by of the Board of Management in 2012: in entering into a partnership with the new September Eric Hageman was officially Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam. appointed as Chief Financial Officer, the job he had already partially performed on an Special topics interim basis in the previous months, along I would especially like to mention two topics with Steven van Schilfgaarde. that received a lot of attention within the company and in the outside world. In January We are continuing our personnel reduction we were confronted with a computer hack. program in the Netherlands. Consequently, We took the incident very seriously, we learned at the end of 2013 the workforce will show our lessons and used this to focus even more a decrease of 4,000 to 5,000 employees in on security and privacy, both internally and comparison with the start of 2011. We realize externally. It goes without saying that we are the significance of the impact on employees conscious of how important it is for customers concerned, but a smaller, simpler and more to have confidence in our ability to keep their efficient organization is essential if we are data secure. We have taken necessary to operate at lower cost. A social plan is in measures, including setting up the Security place for colleagues who have had to leave Operations Center, which reduces the risk the company; this is geared to helping of security incidents in the future. those employees find a new job as quickly as possible. In 2010, KPN affiliated itself to the Global Compact, the United Nations sustainability platform. In so doing, we have promised to contribute towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals for 2015 set by the United Nations. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 3 Introduction REVIEW OF THE YEAR 2012 From the strategy update in January to the acquisition of frequencies in December. The last twelve months at KPN summarized on two pages. JANUARY FEBRUARY MAY To have more direct and efficient control over Using the headline “Two million apologies”, KPN closes the sale of Getronics International. its operational activities, KPN introduces a KPN publishes an advertisement in the daily The transaction is part of KPN’s proven new top structure including an Executive papers to apologize for inconvenience caused strategy of strengthening its global delivery Committee, under the final responsibility by the hack in January. KPN asks all e-mail capabilities for major international clients of the Board of Management. customers to change their passwords as a through partnerships. precautionary measure. KPN presents its strategic update, with First in Belgium to offer mobile services a focus on stabilizing domestic market positions and does not announce a share MARCH without a minimum contract duration. buy back program. The Mexican company América Móvil makes Young people’s brand Hi introduces a new a partial bid for just over 27% of KPN’s series of subscriptions centered around A hacker obtains access to servers on the KPN ordinary shares. mobile internet, with options for voice network. KPN immediately takes steps and calls and text messages. informs all relevant authorities. JUNE KPN sets up a Security Operations Center. In Amsterdam IJburg and Nunspeet KPN This measure is just one of the ways In the Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam, newspaper introduces high-speed internet via fiber in which KPN aims to prevent security Het Financieele Dagblad and KPN organize broadband with speeds of up to 500 Mb incidents such as that in January. the debate “Het Nieuwe Holland”, with per second. The New Way of Living & Working as a central theme. At the National Privacy Debate KPN announces its Privacy Mission. The mission is part of the measures to safeguard customers’ privacy and security. In midsummer the KPN Finest Contact Foundation continues a fine tradition: the XL days. In five Dutch cities 500 KPN employees give 550 elderly people a day to remember. APRIL The NMa approves the acquisition of fiber service provider Lijbrandt and Reggefiber Wholesale. This results in more efficiency and a clearer division of roles: KPN provides the fiber services, whereas Reggefiber can completely focus on the fiber network roll-out. E-Plus introduces a value for money data proposition under the new brand name Yourfone. Following its multi-brand strategy, Following América Móvil’s partial bid, KPN similar propositions are introduced for Simyo investigates various options for creating and Blau in the months thereafter. more value, including selling E-Plus. Due to the tough conditions on the capital markets, no agreement can be reached with prospective buyers. 4 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 JULY NOVEMBER KPN introduces new commercial propositions The number of customers taking services via for consumers, becoming the first mobile the fiber network exceeds 350,000, more provider in the Netherlands to offer unlimited than three times as many as a year ago. calls and text messages with corresponding data bundles – for a flat fee. KPN sells part of its German mobile towers. Among other things, the cash proceeds KPN reduces its 2012 dividend to EUR 0.35 will be used to support the investments per share to maintain a prudent financial in the accelerated roll-out of its German framework. In order to make the necessary mobile network. investments in frequency licenses possible, KPN further adjusts the dividend in December KPN and the labor unions reach a provisional to EUR 0.03 per share for 2013. The Carbon Disclosure Project acclaims KPN agreement on a new collective labor as the world’s number one telecom company agreement running from April 1, 2012 in terms of its climate policy. KPN is the only to June 1, 2013. Dutch company that is listed on both the performance index and the disclosure index. To further strengthen its fixed network strategy in the Netherlands, KPN acquires an additional 10% of the shares in Reggefiber, After an absence of a year, KPN Group is once increasing its share to 51%. again listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index. This means that KPN is one of E-Plus is ranked 3rd in network quality by the top five most sustainable telecom Germany’s biggest computer magazine companies in the world. “Computerbild”, who performed an extensive network test amongst consumers. KPN Group Belgium introduces BASE ALL Unlimited: unlimited calls, text messages and data for a flat fee. DECEMBER AUGUST OCTOBER Thanks to the upgrade of the copper network KPN now offers two thirds KPN starts renewing the mobile networks of Dutch households a download speed KPN sells part of its Dutch mobile in the Netherlands, making mobile telephony of at least 40 Mbps. towers to a large operator of wireless and internet even more stable and reliable telecommunication masts. than before. Modernizing and improving The huge popularity of IPTV enables KPN the networks is one of KPN’s ways of to reach the milestone of one million IPTV In three months’ time the number of new further improving its market position customers, taking its market share from 17% mobile subscriptions in Germany grows in the mobile market. to 23% in the space of one year. by a staggering 500 thousand. Due to fierce competition, this growth does not translate SEPTEMBER to increased turnover. To put the focus more strongly on its domestic markets and core activities, KPN sells the mobile subdivisions KPN KPN starts a free telephone helpdesk that For the first time in years, the number of Spain and Ortel Mobile Switzerland. is available 24/7 to KPN consumer and broadband customers grows; reasons include business customers. more fiber connections and Telfort’s good During the spectrum auction a very attractive performance. This stabilizes KPN’s broadband combination of frequency licenses is Eric Hageman is appointed CFO. Mr. Hageman market share. allocated to KPN for the Dutch mobile market already worked partially as interim CFO since for EUR 1,352 million. the beginning of 2012. KPN reaches ninth place in the environmental rankings of the American weekly magazine Newsweek, making it the best performing Dutch company. The rankings chart the ecological footprint of the five hundred largest publicly quoted companies. The Dutch competition authority (NMa) announced the approval of the acquisition of the fiber service providers Edutel, XMS, KickXL and Concepts ICT from Reggeborgh. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 5 Introduction TRENDS IN TELECOM AND ICT The importance of telecom and ICT is increasing: businesses and consumers want to be accessible anytime, anywhere, and vital functions in society cannot work without ICT infrastructure. Traditional forms of communication are making way for new ones. The world of telecom and ICT is changing radically and rapidly. I Mobile network CT has become our economy’s central and unemployed people is rising. Bankruptcies 10X nervous system. Internet and fixed and lead to a contraction of the business telecom mobile telephony have become a basic market; companies disappear or delay their requirement of modern life, and for millions investments. Growing unemployment and of people social media such as Facebook and a decrease in purchasing power and consumer Twitter are now a perfectly normal and confidence influence expenditure. For instance, accepted means of communication. Consumers more and more consumers are opting for a faster than current mobile are becoming increasingly demanding: they single fixed connection (with a cable or Internet connections with want products and services of the best quality telecom company). Competition and declining 4G LTE for the best price. They expect personal service revenues are encouraging telecom and other and a reliable, secure and fault-free network. companies to operate more efficiently. Specific 249% activities are being outsourced to specialist The challenges are considerable, particularly companies domestically or abroad that can in economically tough times, that are also do the work more cheaply without any loss affecting the telecom and ICT sector. The of quality. economies of the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium, the countries in which KPN Market dynamics are changing as mobile increase in data traffic at KPN operates, are relatively strong. But even here providers enter the fixed consumer market customers compared to 2007 the number of bankruptcies, redundancies and they and cable service providers increase their focus on the business market. 6 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 From 3G to 4G CSR The unrelenting growth of smartphone The New Way of Living & Working, which and tablet use and associated new forms facilitates working irrespective of time and of communication, both free and paid, are place, has gained a firm foothold in society. pushing mobile data traffic to new heights. Now that the facilities are becoming more That places high demands on the quality widely available and quality continues to and security of the mobile infrastructure. improve, the next challenge is to solve The transition from a 3G to a 4G LTE network intangible issues such as striking an will change the mobile market radically: 4G appropriate work-life balance. LTE will level the playing field between mobile and fixed internet in terms of speed. The impact A relative scarcity of raw materials such as of this modernization is hard to estimate, but iron and copper and social concerns about will offer big opportunities for all parties “conflict minerals”, such as tin and coltan, are involved. Among other things, it could simplify encouraging the telecom sector to conduct a and accelerate the implementation of The New more environmentally aware procurement and Way of Living & Working and innovations processing policy. Lease propositions, recycling in the healthcare sector. In the field of fixed of obsolete peripherals and other equipment, telephony, optimal utilization of the copper and the quest for alternative materials are network and the rollout of fiber are on-going. therefore becoming more important. Dutch and European legislation affect the While the growth in data traffic is pushing up developments in the telecom and ICT market, energy consumption, our aim is nevertheless especially with regard to pricing policies. to reduce our total energy consumption and Telecom companies are being forced to lower CO2 emissions. For several years, the rise in their mobile termination rates (MTR) and energy prices has made the trend towards roaming tariffs. In addition, an increasing more sustainable energy consumption number of strict rules are meant to create apparent. But growing environmental a level playing field for new entrants and awareness is a contributory factor as well: incumbents alike. Similar rules for cable more and more consumers are generating service providers are virtually non-existent. their own renewable energy. The sustainability This situation has changed the balance of trend among businesses and consumers is power in favor of the latter. expected to grow in the years ahead. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 7 Introduction WHO WE ARE AND WHAT WE DO In the radically and rapidly changing world of telecom and ICT, KPN is the network that has been bringing people together for the last 125 years. Through our services, products and network we ensure that people and businesses are online wherever and whenever they want, with whatever device they choose. That’s where our strength lies. As the challenger on the German and Belgian mobile markets we are playing a significant role in shaping the market place. KPN Group in 2012 The Netherlands Consumer Residential Consumer Mobile Business Market Corporate Market NetCo We offer a diverse and With our multiple brands We offer our small and KPN offers multinationals The beating heart of KPN broad range of products KPN, Hi, Telfort and Simyo medium-sized business and other enterprises a where infrastructure and and services (KPN, Telfort we offer various customer customers a wide range broad range of services ICT coincide. This division, and XS4ALL) in and around segments customized of services, from fixed and products: consulting, which is responsible for the house, such as (IP) TV, mobile services and and mobile telephony workspace management, the fixed and mobile internet and fixed products, ensuring that and internet to a variety cloud services, data networks, makes it telephony. The copper people can be contacted of data network services, center capacity and technically possible for and fiber networks are the anytime, anywhere. optionally in the cloud. other network-related KPN to ‘run’ its services technical foundation on Among the brands we ICT solutions. and products. which all communications operate are KPN, XS4ALL, are based. Telfort Zakelijk, Yes Telecom and Talk & Vision. International iBasis Germany Belgium iBasis E-Plus is the successful challenger in KPN Group Belgium is the successful Thanks to the global activities of iBasis, KPN the German mobile market with its challenger in Belgium. Its flagship is is a leading player in the international wholesale brands BASE, Simyo, Ortel Mobile, BASE, the third largest mobile provider market for telephony services. yourfone, Blau and Ay Yildiz, as well in Belgium. We also operate there with as via wholesale customers. Simyo and Ortel Mobile. 8 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 W e have a mission: to be the best and mobile services. We also offer ICT service provider and to give our applications to the government and the customers the best and most healthcare and education sectors. Corporate integrated network. At home, Market supplies large organizations with, at work and on the move. We achieve this with among other things, workspace services, high-quality customized services and products network solutions and data center services. under a number of brands, enabling us to cater We have 37 million mobile customers, of which even better to the needs and wishes of the 10 million are in the Netherlands, 23 million various customer groups. For example, we in Germany and 3 million in Belgium. make a distinction between products, services and price, so customers can choose the brand Many of our customers call our network that best suits their needs and wishes. the best in the Netherlands. The thousands of transmission masts and the countless The network that cares for society kilometers of copper cable and fiber ensure As the biggest ICT service provider in the that our mobile and fixed services can operate. Netherlands we are conscious of our (social) Other parties use our network too. A stable responsibilities. This is why over the last few and reliable network requires maintenance years we have invested heavily in the quality and modernization. Furthermore, we have of the service we give to our customers, to anticipate a strong growth in data traffic, in technology and in our fixed and mobile especially as a result of mobile internet usage. networks, as well as in simplifying our That is why in 2012 alone we invested EUR processes and our organization. For instance, 2.209 billion, of which EUR 1.509 billion in we increased the upload and download speed our fixed and mobile infrastructure services for broadband, we raised the quality of our in the Netherlands, Germany and Belgium. IPTV product to an even higher level and In December 2012 we acquired an attractive we launched new transparent mobile combination of frequency licenses for the propositions. We opened new shops, Dutch mobile market for EUR 1.352 billion. improved our call-out service and introduced Among other things, this cleared the path for the free 24/7 helpdesk. With these initiatives the roll-out of the 4G LTE network, which we we are putting the three core values of our have since started. More and more customers strategy into practice: “Strengthen”, “Simplify” are taking advantage of the latest fiber and “Grow”. technology, which makes speeds of 500 Mb per second possible. At the end of 2012 For millions of customers, the copper network the number of customers taking services via serves as the basis for our three fixed services: the fiber network had tripled in comparison IPTV, internet and fixed telephony. Around with 2011. Besides providing fiber access we 979 thousand of our customers take these continued the upgrade of our copper network, three services in a single package (triple play). enabling us to continue offering adequate In the business market, we help small and large bandwidth and upload and download speeds organizations with total ICT solutions. We offer in the Netherlands. them total integration of voice, data, fixed €12,409m €4,528m Revenues EBITDA Revenues EBITDA (2011: €13,022m) (2011: €5,138m) Germany 25% Germany 28% Belgium 6% Belgium 6% Rest of World 1% Rest of World 0% Consumer Mobile 13% Consumer Mobile 10% Consumer Residential 14% Consumer Residential 8% Business 19% Business 16% Netco 6% Netco 31% Corporate Market (Getronics) 9% Corporate Market (Getronics) 1% iBasis 7% iBasis 0% KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 9 Introduction Who we are and what we do continued Customers determine success downloading possible, throughout the The management Improving our service is the central theme in Netherlands within the next 18 months. KPN is a public limited company incorporated our strategy. We realize that it is the customer The more our society becomes dependent under Dutch law, led by the Board of who decides whether we fulfill our ambition on ICT, the more it becomes vulnerable. Management. The Board of Management, of becoming the best service provider. KPN An increasing volume of sensitive and under the leadership of Chief Executive employees who are in direct contact with our confidential information passes over the Officer (CEO) Eelco Blok, controls strategic, customers play a crucial role in this. To enable internet. Recognizing that we have to give financial and organizational matters and these employees to offer good service to our our customers secure and reliable connections, appoints senior management. The Board of customers we invested in new shop concepts we give top priority to security and privacy. Management is also responsible for overseeing and improved the management and We place the highest priority on the security the work of the Group Executive Committee scheduling of our engineers. Furthermore, of both our network and our internal privacy (ExCo), which controls the segments. The we increased the number of call center staff policy. For many years KPN has been preSupervisory Board is charged with supervising and gave them more freedom to solve eminent in the Netherlands in The New Way and advising the Board of Management. customers’ problems. And as more and more of Living & Working. Thanks in part to that people are discovering social media as a experience, we make it possible for a growing At the start of 2012 we introduced the new service we also invested in KPN Webcare, number of customers to work irrespective of segment structure, in which the NL ExCo our online customer service. time and place. More and more companies controls the operating activities in the are experiencing and recognizing the positive Netherlands and the International ExCo Social responsibility effects of this concept on, for example, is responsible for the operational activities We invest not only in our customers, services employee involvement and the environment. abroad. We carried out the organizational and technology but also in society, because In terms of energy saving we are now among changes so as to be able to run the various the role of ICT in our society is essential. the world’s “greenest” telecom and ICT business units more directly and efficiently We aim to strengthen our company and companies, because our energy consumption and to respond even better to new ICT use ICT in a sustainable manner, because is decreasing despite the exponential increase developments and the rapidly changing we regard sustainability as a self-evident in data traffic. The theme “Energy efficient” customer wishes. The ExCo falls under part of our business operations. Consequently, enables us to show that we give top priority the direct responsibility of the Board of the five themes on which our social policy to energy saving. In addition, we help our Management. ExCo Group is represented is based are under the direct responsibility customers to save energy themselves. by ExCo NL, ExCo Mobile International of the Executive Committee. We are able to highlight the value of ICT in and corporate departments on HR, Legal the healthcare sector too and we are gradually and Strategy. ExCo NL consists of Consumer We want to help the Netherlands and our improving the efficiency and effectiveness Residential, Consumer Mobile, Business customers make progress and to offer them of the healthcare sector. We reinforce our Market, NetCo, Corporate Market, the best ICT infrastructure. One of the ways ambitions in terms of healthcare with the while Germany and Belgium are part we are doing this is with 4G LTE, the new theme “Healthcare of the future”. of ExCo Mobile International. generation of mobile internet. By rolling it out quickly we aim to provide this new technology, More information about the composition which makes superfast uploading and of the Board of Management and the changes during 2012 can be found on page 52 of the Annual Report. Board of Management: from left to right T. Dirks, E. Blok and W.T.J. Hageman 10 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 The strength of KPN staff People connected As an employer, we expect commitment, Thanks to the KPN Finest Contact Foundation expertise and professionalism from our we ensured that in 2012 alone over 200 employees. We offer good employment seriously ill children could continue taking conditions and fringe benefits. As a modern their school lessons and stay in touch with company we promote The New Way of Living their classmates. Our lead sponsorship of & Working, which on the one hand offers skating is another social initiative that allows more freedom and on the other hand involves KPN to become even better connected with more personal responsibility. Currently, 9,000 the Netherlands and the Dutch population. KPN employees are taking advantage of this We sponsor skating in all its forms: from the modern style of working. professionals to the young beginners, from the enthusiastic recreational skater to the loyal We are convinced that teamwork is the key fans of the Dutch stars watching competitions to success. Its importance is expressed on on TV. With our lead sponsorship of the TEAMKPN Online, the internal communication Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam we have now also platform which connects all employees with established a cultural connection with the one another. KPN employees inform and help Netherlands. Through this partnership we are one another and share knowledge via news going to ensure that the Rijksmuseum has the reports, videos, blogs and other media. most modern ICT and telecom services, so it is TEAMKPN Magazine is another valuable connected with the entire world and can communication medium that provides make its art collections accessible to all. employees with a wealth of background and information. We believe it important for employees to continue to develop themselves and to keep their knowledge and skills up-to-date. We therefore offer them the possibility of adding to or enlarging their skill set within a specific area of competence. We run a talent program in order to find and hold on to graduates and those with higher professional training. We invest in keeping all our staff members fit. Physical and mental fitness tests are available to all KPN employees, and the results can be used to make health improvements, if necessary. The interactive coaching program I-Change helps employees to change their lifestyle. KPN’s strategy 2011-2015 targets three principles: SIMPLIFY We will create a nimble organization STRENGTHEN by simplifying the organizational structure GROW and by offering a clearer set of products We will strengthen our market and services in both the business and We aim to increase our customer base for positions in the Netherlands by an consumer markets in the Netherlands. fixed and mobile telephony and we see enhanced focus on product and service particularly good opportunities for the quality, a more efficient organization fiber network. We will continue our and a tighter policy on costs. Mobile International Challenger strategy in the coming years. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 11 Introduction OUR MAIN ACHIEVEMENTS KPN has set several specific objectives, expressed in financial and non-financial key performance indicators (KPIs). Performance indicators Customer satisfaction A number of KPIs forms the basis for the We use the Net Promoter Score (NPS) to variable remuneration of the members measure customer satisfaction. We regularly of the Board of Management and the ExCo survey a representative customer group in and of the other top managers. In 2011, we the Netherlands to calculate this score. The introduced customer satisfaction, reputation key question asked is whether customers and electricity consumption as non-financial would recommend KPN to friends or family. KPIs. These three KPIs give an indication A negative score means that customers as to whether we are on schedule with our who recommend KPN are in the minority. strategic targets. 12 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 EBITDA (in billions of EUR) Capital expenditure Free cash flow EBITDA margin (in billions of EUR) (in billions of EUR) 5.5 2.2 2.6 5.1 5.2 5.1 2.0 2.4 2.4 2.4 4.5 1.9 1.8 1.8 40.9% 39.0% 1.7 38.4% 34.6% 35.6% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Net debt / EBITDA Earnings per share Number of FTEs (EUR) as of 31 December 2.7 1.33 36,702 1.15 33,148 2.2 2.2 2.3 1.06 30,599 30,941 2.1 26,156 0.77 0.49 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Customer satisfaction Reputation Energy consumption (NPS) (Ranking in the Netherlands) (in petajoule) N/A 12 e 5.7 5.8 5.6 5.5 5.4 16e 16e -6 17e 18e -13 -13 -14 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Reputation Electricity consumption Financial KPIs We use RepTrak to monitor our reputation. KPN is a large-scale user of electricity, Healthy financial management of the business RepTrak, run by the Reputation Institute, accounting for 0.8% of total Dutch energy is critical to success. Indicators such as market publishes an annual ranking based on a consumption. Consequently, we do everything shares, capital expenditures, EBITDA, profit survey carried out among the population possible to reduce our energy consumption per share and free cash flow give a clear of the Netherlands. Along with other large and to use green energy. The sharply rise in picture of our financial performance. Dutch companies KPN takes part in this survey. data consumption makes this even more In 2012 we set a new long-term objective for necessary. Moreover, we put our customers Significant market shares 2012 2011 reputation. As from 2013 our objective is to and suppliers in a position to reduce their own Broadband Netherlands1 41% 40% improve our RepTrak score, in stead of the energy consumption through the use of ICT. TV Netherlands1 23% 17% objective to improve our position compared Mobile Netherlands2 45% 46% to other Dutch companies. Mobile Germany2 15.8% 15.8% Mobile Belgium2 ~20% ~19% 1) Based on subscriber numbers at year-end 2) Based on service revenues KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 13 Introduction OUR STRATEGY “Strengthen”, “Simplify” and “Grow” are the three principles on which we base our strategy: Our aim is to fulfill our main ambition: to be the best service provider for our customers. F Reaching ollowing a period of market share With the aim to further stabilize its leading 85% decline KPN has been able to stabilize domestic market positions as well as stabilize its market positions in The Netherlands its financial performance in The Netherlands, as a result of the ‘Strengthen-SimplifyKPN will focus on balancing profitability and Grow’ strategy outlined back in May 2011. market share objectives. The strategy in The In 2012, KPN’s domestic market positions have Netherlands is based on a strong customer stabilized, albeit at lower profitability as a focus by providing the highest quality services, of German population result of increased investments. KPN operates based on a full product range on best-in-class with HSPA+. in a challenging environment impacted by networks while striving for a lean operating regulatory pressure, a slow macro-economy structure. Consumer Mobile is facing a and strong competition in all mobile markets. changing market structure but has the 18% KPN covers The telecom sector is at a crossroads with opportunity to differentiate itself from the new technologies maturing and potential competition by offering the best customer ~ increasing clarity as to European long-term experience by combining 4G LTE with a regulation. Today, KPN covers ~18% of the nationwide fixed network. Consumer Dutch population with FttH and operates an Residential has been successful in 2012 with upgraded VDSL network, reaching ~70% of its strategy to focus on selling an increasing Dutch households with broadband speeds number of products per customer driven by of the Dutch population of at least 40Mbps. In mobile, KPN’s goal is IPTV, combined with growing ARPUs and will with FttH to realize nationwide coverage with 4G LTE continue to pursue this strategy. To address in The Netherlands in 2014, while HSPA+ the increasing need to access information has largely been rolled out in Germany and everywhere on all devices, as of 1 January 2013 Belgium. These networks are the platform for KPN has integrated parts of Corporate Market KPN to offer enhanced customer experience with the Business segment into a one-stop and, following the current period of increased shop for B2B, offering integrated packages commercial and infrastructure investments, with virtually all ICT & Telecom services. the prospect of improved profitability in its different markets in the medium-term. 14 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 In Germany, E-Plus was able to significantly We have made progress with our social grow its market share for several years themes. Our aspiration to have the best ICT accompanied by high profitability, however its infrastructure in the Netherlands is one of market share growth has been less significant those themes. In 2013, 51% of consumers of late. In 2012, E-Plus experienced a slowdown considered KPN’s mobile and fixed network in service revenue growth, but maintained a the best in the Netherlands. We are continuing strong margin. In the past two years, E-Plus to make improvements in our network and upgraded its network with HSPA+ reaching services. We are making progress in more than 85% of the German population. The healthcare too. We are already connecting upgraded network is the platform for the next more than 4,000 healthcare locations and over phase in the Challenger strategy, which is 20,000 healthcare consumers make use of our intended to transform E-Plus into a data-centric personal comfort services. We aim to enhance Challenger and which is expected to provide our contribution in 2013 by further developing new growth opportunities. Market share and rolling out our healthcare products and growth will be targeted in underpenetrated services. We achieved a 17% growth with our regions, based on a high quality network services that facilitate The New Way of Living combined with expanding onand off-line & Working. We want to increase that distribution capacity, increasing commercial percentage to 20% in 2013, partly through activity and attractive customer propositions. improved propositions and communication. This strategy is expected to lead to service We helped customers save energy and in 2013 revenue growth and market share growth, we will develop a method of keeping track of combined with lower margins in the shortenergy savings. Even though the volume of term, and improving from such base in the data traffic increased substantially, we longer term. achieved an energy saving of 6.2% in our own organization. Our target is no longer a The Belgian mobile market has experienced maximum energy growth of 5%, but we have a change in market structure in 2012. In now set ourselves an energy reduction target Belgium, as in Germany, KPN’s upgraded for 2020. With the development and launch network forms the platform for the next phase of our IT Security Top Priority Program, which of its Challenger strategy. KPN Group Belgium we will pursue in 2013, we have made an aims to realize growth through creating investment in the security of our network. a competitive edge by network speed In addition, we will offer our customers even differentiation at low cost based on innovative more products and services that will benefit partnerships. 4G LTE is expected to be the security of their information. available in the majority of the country by end-2014. This will be combined with a strong commercial focus via attractive propositions and increased presence in underpenetrated regions. In addition, KPN Group Belgium is seeing opportunities to challenge the fixed line market. This strategy is expected to lead to service revenue growth and market share growth combined, however, with lower margins. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 15 Introduction STRATEGY AT A GLANCE KPN revised its strategic market objectives to a level at which the respective businesses are expected to operate in the medium to longer term, taking into account the specific market dynamics surrounding the operations and striving for the right balance between growth and profitability. OBJECTIVES AND AMBITIONS The Netherlands ýý Minimum broadband market share of >40% ; long-term goal 45% ýý Growing Revenue Generating Units and Average Revenue Per User at Residential ýý Minimum long-term total mobile NL market share of >40% ýý Leading business and ICT player with stable market positions in the Netherlands ýý 40-45% medium term EBITDA margin in the Netherlands ýý Finalization 4,000-5,000 FTE reduction program end 2013; continued FTE cost efficiency in 2014 and onwards Mobile ýý Long-term market share goal of 20% in Germany International ýý Medium-term EBITDA margin of 30%-35% in Germany ýý Long-term market share goal of 25% in Belgium ýý Medium-term EBITDA margin of 25%-30% in Belgium Financial ýý Commitment to maintain investment grade credit profile framework Corporate Social ýý In 2015 60% of Dutch citizens consider KPN to have the best ICT infrastructure Responsibility ýý 6,000 healthcare locations connected and 48,000 healthcare consumers supplied with personal comfort services in 2015 ýý KlasseContact: 1250 chronically ill children connected to school and classmates with a webchair in 2015 ýý 20% growth in use of services for The New Way of Living & Working in 2013 ýý In 2020 climate neutral and save as much energy in the value chain as KPN itself uses every year ýý Recycle or re-use 400,000 cellular phones in 2014 ýý In 2013 70% of Dutch citizens consider that their data is safe with KPN 16 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 STRATEGIC INITIATIVES STATUS 2012 ýý Focus on bundles, offering integrated fixed and mobile services ýý Domestic market shares stabilizing, TV market share growing on all devices ýý Lower line loss and growing FttH penetration ýý Optimizing customer lifetime value ýý Accelerated growth triple play packages, increased revenue ýý Continued commitment to improve customer experience generating units per customer and quality of services ýý Expanded addressable market; ~70% coverage of Dutch Market ýý Best in class network with minimum guaranteed speed of 40 Mbps ýý Commercial launch of 4G LTE ýý Highly valuable spectrum acquired ýý Moving towards one-stop-shop for B2B ýý Prepared integration of Business Market with parts of Corporate Market ýý Accelerated restructuring program resulted in a reduction of ~1,900 FTE in 2012 ýý Market share growth in targeted underpenetrated regions ýý Lower growth in prepaid and customer optimization in postpaid ýý Expanding distribution capacity in Germany in resulted in a slow-down in growth in Germany under-penetrated regions ýý Introduction of all-net flat propositions; strong postpaid net ýý Improve underlying cost structure in Germany adds in Germany ýý Monetize competitive data network in Germany ýý Commercial initiatives launched to maintain price-leadership ýý Create competitive edge by speed differentiation in Belgium in Belgium ýý Seizing opportunities to challenge the fixed line market in Belgium ýý Market share Belgium increased to ~20% ýý HSPA+ has been largely rolled-out in Germany and Belgium ýý Substantial reinforcement of balance sheet and financial position ýý As at December 31, 2012 KPN has a credit rating Baa2 with rating ýý In February 2013, we announced a EUR 3 billion rights issue and, under review for downgrade by Moody’s, BBB with a credit watch in addition, issuance of hybrid capital instruments negative by Standard & Poor’s and BBBwith a stable outlook by Fitch ýý Dividend outlook lowered to EUR 0.12 in 2012 and EUR 0.03 in 2013 and 2014 ýý Modernizing the mobile network and improving the quality ýý 51% consider that KPN has the best network of the fixed network ýý More than 4,000 healthcare locations connected and ~21,000 ýý Further roll-out and development of the services ZorgSamen, healthcare consumers supplied with personal comfort services ZorgVrij and ZorgSlim ýý 216 webchairs in use ýý Further roll-out and expansion webchairs to connect chronically ýý 17% growth in use of services for The New Way of Living & Working ill children with school and classmates ýý 103,000 tons of CO2 emissions, 6.2% reduction in energy ýý Further roll-out and development of propositions and use of our consumption and 93% green power capability to provide service needed to facilitate The New Way ýý ~72,000 recycled or reused mobile handsets of Living & Working ýý 67% of Dutch citizens consider that their data is safe with KPN ýý 6% reduction in energy consumption in 2015 and 100% green ýý Security Operations Center set up power as from 2014 ýý Energy-efficient equipment in the network and for customers (modems, set top boxes) ýý Handset lease and collection of used mobile handsets ýý IT Security Top Priority Program and provision of Security Operations Center services to customers KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 17 Introduction STRATEGY IN ACTION In The Netherlands, we are approaching a new balance between a focus on market positions and achieving a stable performance. In Germany and Belgium, the next phases in our Challenger strategy are being implemented to fuel underlying growth in 2013 and beyond. More and more, our social policy is a natural part of our business. THE NETHERLANDS KEY Integrated Access Provider OBJECTIVE: We intend to reinforce our position in the providing a quadruple-play offering, involving Dutch market by offering a full range of fixed a converged package of mobile, fixed line, and mobile services that deliver the best broadband internet and TV services. connectivity to our customers, independent of location and device, in the most intuitive We believe that this, in turn, will improve and customer-friendly way. customer loyalty, reduce churn and limit margin erosion. We have started the roll-out of our “KPN Compleet” package as a the first step to THE NETHERLANDS KEY Best in class network OBJECTIVE: We have invested heavily in network to expand our FttH footprint through the infrastructure in the Netherlands, and plan to Reggefiber joint venture. In mobile, we are continue to do so, in order to offer the best the first operator in the Netherlands to have products and services to our customers. We launched 4G LTE services, and we expect to are continuously improving the speed and have covered approximately 50% of the Dutch quality of our fixed and mobile networks. population by mid-2013 and to offer nationwide coverage in the second half In fixed line services, we plan to continue with of 2014. upgrades of our copper network and expects 18 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 MOBILE INTERNATIONAL KEY Next phase mobile challenger strategy OBJECTIVE: We believe that we have considerable under-penetrated regions. We will do this opportunities to grow our German and by expanding our distribution channels Belgian operations. At the core of our strategy and targeted marketing on a region-byin these markets is the accelerated roll-out of region basis. mobile broadband internet services, with a continued focus on investing in mobile Furthermore, we will challenge the fixed broadband backhaul and HSPA+ network line market in Belgium and offer triple play roll-out as a priority in Germany, and on the products to our customers. In Germany we deployment of the 4G LTE network in Belgium. will continue to focus on expanding our position in the postpaid market. By leveraging the upgraded data network we will continue growing market share in CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY KEY Enable customers to fulfill their sustainability ambitions OBJECTIVE: Our high position in the Dow Jones society we live in. Notable examples of this Sustainability Index, the Carbon Disclosure are our expanding position in the healthcare Project and the Newsweek rankings sector, the development of products and confirm the course of and appreciation for services that satisfy extra-high privacy and our efforts in the domain of sustainability security requirements, the help we give and social responsibility. customers to make The New Way of Living & Working possible and save energy and CO2. More than ever before, we face the challenge of making a contribution to the quality of the KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 19 Introduction OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY Our vision: ICT is indispensable for a modern, sustainable society 51% of consumers consider I n the 2008-2011 period we focused on three social themes: The New Way of Working, Responsible energy use and People connected. So as to be able to utilize our We confirmed that role in 2012 with an external campaign entitled “The network that cares for the Netherlands”. In that campaign, which we will pursue in 2013, we turn the KPN’s network the best company and our core competencies to make spotlight on our five social themes. more of a difference we formulated five social 4,000 themes with our stakeholders in 2011: Every year we appraise our social themes, ýý Best ICT infrastructure taking into account the expectations of ýý Healthcare of the future stakeholders with respect to social topics, ýý The New Way of Living & Working along with the influence that KPN has on healthcare locations are ýý Energy efficient them. We want to take the lead in the themes connected to each other through ýý Security & Privacy that score the highest. We have therefore the use of advanced ICT services translated them into five social themes and Our themes are based on social challenges three complementary themes: “Our people”, 17% that offer us new opportunities and that are “Our suppliers” and “People connected”. inextricably linked to our strategic choices. In 2012 the analysis did not result in any We are convinced that, as a modern ICT changes to our social policy and our reporting. service provider, we can make a permanent In appendix on page 82 of the Sustainability growth in the use of services contribution to society by means of the five Report we explain the process involved. that facilitate The New Way themes. We believe that through our ICT of Living & Working business we can help improve the world Best ICT infrastructure around us. We want to utilize our energy, Information and Communication Technology 6.2% employees and resources in the best possible (ICT) forms the basis of our modern society. way. This is why the themes are logical focal Railways, ports and road and air traffic are all points. Moreover, we want to make a heavily reliant on ICT. Internet-based services, difference with our ICT activities, which facilities and products for consumers and reduction in the energy make a direct contribution to the business. businesses are growing too, making the vital consumption of the KPN importance of ICT in this segment of society Group compared to 2010 We are more than “just” an ICT service increasingly clear. Moreover, a modern ICT provider; we also want to bring about changes infrastructure drives the innovative power and 67% in society and to set or strengthen trends. As attractiveness of the Netherlands as a business market leader in ICT, builder of the network location. Because of these developments, KPN and with our network of ICT experts – our feels the responsibility and the obligation to employees – we are the obvious service provide the best ICT infrastructure in the of Dutch people consider provider to help the Netherlands to make Netherlands. In this way, a modern ICT their data secure with KPN progress through communication technology. infrastructure can contribute positively 20 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 towards making the Netherlands more Working, which is beneficial to both employee Security & privacy sustainable and economically stronger. and employer, and which is good for the People, companies and governmental economy as well. Our contribution to The New organizations are becoming more reliant Healthcare of the future Way of Living & Working is twofold: around on ICT in our society. The amount of We see solid strategic opportunities in nine thousand KPN people work independently confidential information being sent over the healthcare sector. In the coming decades, of time and place one or more days per week. the internet continues to increase. Society healthcare will undergo great changes. We are also the only ICT company in the must be able to rely on ICT service providers For example, population aging will increase, Netherlands that is capable of providing all to process this data traffic securely and as will the prevalence of diseases of affluence. the ICT services needed to facilitate The New carefully. We want to offer this confidence The number of people requiring care will Way of Living & Working. to our customers – government, companies therefore rise. Technical and medical progress and citizens – any time, any place. However, is creating a difference between supply and Energy-efficient we are also aware that certain developments demand, and medical care is becoming more The concern about climate change and put security and privacy under pressure. expensive. Patients will also demand more renewable energy supplies influences our Digital criminal activity (cyber crime and transparency and more personal, patient-centric strategic agenda as well. Energy shortages, hackers), but also the explosive growth in care. In all these developments we can see CO2 emissions and climate change have a social media, can lead to personal details that, as an ICT service provider, we will have major social impact; ICT consumes a lot of easily getting into the public domain. As the a role that will become more important as power. KPN, for example, accounts for 0.8% largest “transporter” and manager of digital time goes by. The application of advanced of the total electricity consumption in the data we are conscious of our responsibility ICT ensures that the administration and Netherlands. KPN is facing huge challenges: with respect to data security and privacy. communication among healthcare providers data traffic and the use of ICT services are We want to guarantee that every customer and between healthcare providers and growing, yet we want to cut back on energy can use our internet and mobile telephony receivers proceed more efficiently. consumption. We want to be at the heart of services without any concerns. The government, the community as an energy-conscious ICT companies and organizations need to be The New Way of Living & Working service provider. In our view there are certain that we store their data securely in As ICT services become more advanced excellent opportunities for smarter and more our data centers and in the cloud. the opportunities to work any place, any time, efficient data centers, network hardware and are increasing. Being able to work without connections. This will allow us to reduce our the constraints of time and place enables energy consumption and to ‘make it green’. people to be more in control, which allows Despite the sharp increase in ICT applications them to achieve a better work-life balance. we have set our organization an important Moreover, The New Way of Living & Working goal: climate neutral business operations in contributes towards a reduction in road traffic. 2020. This means that our operations will no KPN believes in The New Way of Living & longer have a negative effect on the climate. Assessment of relevance of social themes for the telecom industry Monitor: Demonstrable corporate Leadership: High – Biodiversity responsibility: – Quality of Service – Hunger – Competition – Security and Privacy – Shortage of clean – Electromagnetic ﬁelds – The New Way of Living Inﬂuence of drinking water – Pricing and Working KPN on theme – Corruption – Social media and – Best ICT infrastructure Social participation – Healthcare of the future – Parterships – Our people Expectations of – Young people and debt – Energy-efﬁcient stakeholders for KPN – Sustainable procurement and supply chain management Low High Possibilities for KPN KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 21 SUCCESS BEGINS WITH SERVICE QUALITY OF OUR SERVICE Our employees are at the root of the success of our service. However technical telecom and ICT may be, we remain a “people business”. For this reason we are continuing to invest in the quality of the service we provide. We enable employees to provide the service that our customers expect from us. Ultimately our customers decide how good that service is. 1. QUALITY OF OUR SERVICE OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS Indicator Result Target Result Target Target 2014 and 2011 2012 2012 2013 beyond Net Promoter -14 -7 -131 -61 +1 in 20151 Best service Score (NPS) Consumer Consumer Consumer provider in the Mobile: -6 Mobile: -4 Mobile: 1 Netherlands Consumer Consumer Consumer Residential: -10 Residential: -5 Residential: 3 Business Business Business Market: -23 Market: -10 Market: 0 KPN Corporate 6.4 6.7 6.7 7.0 over 7.0 in 2015 Market recommendation score 1 Average of Consumer Mobile, Consumer Residential and Business Market. 75% 1.1. Our aspiration: to become for some parts of our company, an overall NPS the best service provider target of +15 in 2015 has proved too ambitious. In the light of the current market conditions we Thanks to the excellent quality of our products feel that a target of +1 is more realistic but we and services we can distinguish ourselves have set the further target that all the segments of the customers from our competitors, thereby retaining will score a positive NPS (higher than zero) who called us got existing customers and acquiring new ones. and therefore have more ambassadors first-time-right help We want to be the best service provider than dissatisfied customers. A significant in the Netherlands. improvement is needed for this to be realized, however. We will therefore stick to our promise The way in which – and the extent to which to make a major step forward and achieve a – the customer experiences our service is the score that is above the average for the sector. guiding principle in the further improvements Consumer Mobile’s score is already above the we need to make. The Net Promoter Score average for the sector. Furthermore, we will (NPS) is an important measuring tool. Every continue to focus on improving the service month we conduct a survey among customers we give our customers. in the Consumer Residential, Consumer Mobile and Business Market segments. The paramount issue is whether the customer would FIGURE 1: NET PROMOTER recommend KPN and our services to others. SCORE (NPS) Although in 2012 we took steps forward that give us a lot of confidence for the years ahead, we still could not make a real breakthrough in terms of the customer experience. NPS 2012: mixed success 1 When calculating the NPS for KPN we ensured 2010 2011 2012 2015 that each of the three segments (Consumer Residential, Consumer Mobile and Business Market) counted for one third. Thanks to a -13 -13 variety of programs and initiatives we achieved -14 improvements that resulted in a considerably higher NPS for Consumer Residential and Consumer Mobile. However, this rise was At KPN Corporate Market – the former almost totally negated by the sharp fall in Getronics – we measure customer satisfaction the NPS of Business Market. Overall our NPS on the basis of the recommendation score, rose by one point to -13. a “grade” between 1 and 10. This is the most commonly used method in the corporate/ We see that the programs and initiatives we wholesale segment. We managed to achieve launched, such as our free 24/7 helpdesk, have the recommendation score of 6.7 that we set only partially resulted in a rise in the NPS. Even as our target for 2012. Our target for 2013 is 7.0. though we achieved significant rises in the NPS 24 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 Closer to the operations Improved sales channels and new shop concepts In 2011 the Quality steering committee of the We made progress with our multi-channel Board of Management was still responsible for approach, whereby we offer services via a directing and co-ordinating quality improvement. number of sales and other channels – in a In January 2012 that responsibility was taken shop, online or via a helpdesk. We are now over by the segment directors. They are able to offer a more extensive service to responsible for the development, execution customers who visit our shops, for example and results of the company-wide quality when changing a mobile subscription or improvement programs. The segment directors broadband package. Whereas previously report to the Board of Management and inform customers were in many cases referred on their own managers of the customer ratings to call centers, shop personnel are now more and associated NPS. often able to provide the necessary assistance themselves. This was facilitated partly by the XL 1.2. Quality programs and service shops and the various apps that we introduced improvements for our KPN, Hi and Telfort brands in 2012, as well as by improvements to the online services To improve the quality of our service we offered by those brands’ websites. developed dozens of programs in the segments. Some of these programs focus specifically on By the end of 2012, 9 of the 16 Business direct contact with the customer, others on Centers had been turned into KPN XL shops. organizational and functional improvements. In these shops we offer our consumers and However, we were unable to maintain the business customers the complete range of KPN expected rate of improvement in some of products and services. They can go there with the programs, which meant that those a variety of queries, from arranging a relocation, improvements were not easily discernible swapping modems and getting a smartphone to customers and employees. repaired to questions about invoices or contracts. In addition, in smaller towns we introduced 1.2.1. KPN-WIDE “KPN shops”, where all the products and 24/7 free helpdesk services of KPN, XS4ALL, Telfort and Hi can One of the most significant and eye-catching be found. We had opened eight KPN shops service improvements of 2012 was the by the end of 2012. introduction of the free helpdesk. The introduction coincided with the announcement Improved invoices of our new promise: “KPN just does it”. Thanks To improve the clarity and simplicity of our to this service we have been available 24/7 invoices we altered their lay-out in 2012. We by telephone and online (via social media) hope that a simpler lay-out will result in fewer since September. Customers have reacted customer queries and a permanent decrease enthusiastically to this service, which is still in printing and postal costs. By December 2012 unique in the Dutch telecom and ICT sector. we had altered the lay-out of half the invoices. We consider that we are still getting too Social media many technical, invoicing and product-related KPN Webcare has proved that service via social questions. We want to reduce the number of media is now a structural fixture. The KPN customer queries, complaints and problems so Webcare team made a modest start in 2011, as to get us closer to our target: improving the but in 2012 KPN Webcare made substantial quality of our service. Our aim is to see that progress and manifested itself in a variety of reflected in a rising first-time-right percentage social media-related areas. In 2013 we intend (giving the customer the right help in one go). to integrate KPN Webcare even more fully into And we are succeeding: the FTR in 2010 was our organization, whereby teamwork with the 40-80%, while in 2012 it was 75%. Our FTR internal communication platform TEAMKPN target for 2015 is 85-95%. Online will be a key priority. In September, the results of the survey by the We analyze what social media users are saying comparison site Contractwijzer.nl showed that about us and whether the general tone is we are making progress with our customer positive, neutral or negative. In 2012 we used service. In the survey, in which the waiting this technique to analyze over 500,000 postings times at call centers were compared with one about KPN. 6% of the reports were positive another, KPN emerged as the best, followed about KPN and 23% were negative. The by Telfort. remaining 71% of the reports were neutral in character. This was broadly in line with our competitors. During the year there were peaks and troughs in the tone of postings. The announcement of the hack in February resulted KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 25 Quality of our service continued 23% in a clear trough in the postings about KPN. In In the process the manager is assisted by a April and May there were more reports about “navigator”. The manager is given ten basic KPN in connection with the bid by América tools and learns to use them effectively. Móvil and an update of KPN’s strategy. At Over one hundred and fifty managers from the end of 2012 postings were influenced Consumer Residential, Consumer Mobile and our market share in the by issues such as the spectrum auction and NetCo have already been trained. At Consumer Dutch television market an internet disruption. Residential, where WoW started a year ago, the process has now been improved thanks Closed-loop feedback to more efficient communication, a different We want to have greater insight into the consultative structure and clear goals. This satisfaction of individual customers after they has helped the segment make progress on have had contact with KPN. This measurement a number of fronts, with double the number method, known as closed-loop feedback (CLF), of fiber connections, 30% fewer calls from involves calling the customer back immediately customers about service installation and a after a contact moment and asking him what renewed rise in the number of broadband he thought of the quality of our service. The customers as well as broadband market share. added value of CLF can be seen in particular Other managers in these segments will follow if a query or complaint has not been fully the WoW program in 2013 and we will roll it settled. We started CLF at the end of 2010 out in other parts of the organization. with the aim of making the method standard procedure in all the segments and gathering all the customer feedback in a single FIGURE 2: SENTIMENTS ABOUT information system. In 2013 we plan KPN AND ITS SECTOR (CONSUMER to integrate CLF fully in our service. MARKET) IN THE NETHERLANDS IN SOCIAL MEDIA WoW, Way of Working Becoming the best service provider requires 23% 23% a different way of working. We have therefore 71% 72% rolled out the Way of Working program in parts of our organization to teach managers what this other way of working entails. The guiding principles are that the customer takes center stage, employees are enabled to 6% 5% optimally carry out their work and there is a KPN Sector drive to continually improve performance. Positive Neutral Negative FIGURE 3: SENTIMENTS AND BUZZ VOLUME IN KPN SOCIAL MEDIA IN THE NETHERLANDS 21% 30% 27% 17% 14% 18% 21% 22% 18% 21% 29% 30% 67,9031 80% 75% 76% 77% 72% 75% 71% 73% 67% 64% 63% 64% 46,399 48,017 47,356 43,436 44,089 40,377 41,067 36,939 37,894 34,517 33,025 7% 7% 6% 8% 6% 6% 7% 5% 6% 7% 6% 4% January February March April May June July August September October November December Positive Neutral Negative Volume 1 A hacker gained access to a server domain in our network. 26 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 1.2.2. CONSUMER MOBILE The NPS of the three big KPN brands in KPN WEBCARE DEVELOPS STRONGLY IN 2012 the consumer market (KPN, Hi and Telfort) KPN Webcare developed substantially in 2012. As well as answering customer questions improved considerably overall in 2012, from and solving customer problems via social media, KPN Webcare also made its presence felt -18 at the end of 2011 to -6 at the end of 2012. in other areas. The NPS of KPN Mobile was -4 at the end of 2012 (-11 at the end of 2011), Telfort Mobile In comparison with the “normal helpdesk” where the interaction is solely between the -6 (-17 at the end of 2011) and Hi -11 (-24 at customer and KPN, complaints, compliments and problems are visible to everyone via the end of 2011). The NPS of Telfort Mobile social media. So the use of social media requires KPN to approach “the outside world” reached an all-time high score in 2012. A new in a different manner. In 2012 we were once again mainly active on Twitter and Facebook. element is that we now ask Simyo customers The forum (www.kpn.com/forum) took shape as well. This forum enables KPN to give whether they would recommend the brand customers the chance to share experiences, problems and – in particular – solutions to others. They scored a surprisingly high NPS, with each other. which at the end of 2012 was +30. The rise in the NPS of Consumer Mobile as a whole was We regard the growing popularity and “power” of social media as an opportunity, not a caused principally by a rise in the NPS drivers threat. January’s hack incident taught KPN Webcare a great deal, providing new insight. For “the best network”, “value for money”, “brand the first time the KPN Webcare team was involved in the crisis communication. Even though you can trust” and “first time right” for the the Webcare team initially had too little capacity, once reinforced it was able to demonstrate KPN brand, Telfort and Hi. its added value. Like our competitors, we established in 2011 The KPN page on Facebook shows the enormous possibilities of “ambassadorship”. that the “old” SMS and call services had lost Customers and non-customers give their opinion about KPN and discussions arise about further ground to data services such as KPN’s products and service. In December 2011 the number of Facebook fans was 10,000, WhatsApp and Ping. In response to this while at the end of 2012 it had grown to 100,000. development, which on the one hand had a negative influence on our revenues and The advent of social media has given the customer relationship an extra dimension: on the other hand required extra investments KPN must engage in cross-disciplinary interaction with customers, so old and new in our mobile network, we introduced new communication media will need to be integrated. Currently every segment (Consumer mobile subscriptions in 2012. The number Residential, Consumer Mobile and Business Market) has its own customer relationship. of customers with a smartphone or tablet Social media do not make that distinction. KPN has therefore created the Social Hub, continued to grow and so did data which has been in operation since September 2012, meeting weekly to provide direction consumption. As SMS and call traffic fell away and co-ordination across the disciplines (the segments). further, we were unable to halt the decline in revenues, despite the various product In 2013 we involve KPN Webcare still further in the KPN organization and the integration and service improvements. with the internal communication platform TEAMKPN Online will continue taking shape. KPN Webcare will also make more use of YouTube, on which customers can watch short New subscriptions how-to videos. Additionally, KPN Webcare is assisting in the preparation of an improved In March we introduced a new series of version of the Newsroom on kpn.com, which will more prominently feature the five subscriptions for our young people’s brand Hi, reputation themes. built around mobile internet with call and SMS services as an option. In the domain of mobile internet young people are recognized as “heavy users”: they are almost permanently online via popular social media like Facebook, Twitter and WhatsApp. We also introduced Hi ToestelLease, which enables customers to lease a device rather than buy it (see also the chapter “Energy-efficient”). This means that smartphones and cell phones no longer disappear into the desk drawer after the subscription ends, but are returned to us, which is an improvement from the point of view of sustainability and promotes recycling. Together with ToestelLease we introduced SmartCare service, with which we guarantee Hi customers that they will be online again within four hours should their smartphone malfunction. A great many Hi customers opted for the new service, so many in fact that in the months following the introduction, we were the victims of our own success; our service organization was initially unable to cope with the demand. The service organization is now operating properly again. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 27 Quality of our service continued For Telfort and the KPN brand we introduced 1.2.3. CONSUMER RESIDENTIAL new subscriptions with unlimited calls and The NPS of Consumer Residential rose four SMSes for a fixed monthly rate, with appropriate points last year, from -14 at the end of 2011 to data bundles. Although KPN customers are -10 at the end of 2012. It emerged that Telfort making increasing use of mobile internet, they and KPN customers with a fixed connection also call and SMS more than Hi customers. recommend their brand more often. For the A survey showed that making calls with a cell KPN brand, which rose from -17 to -12, we saw phone or smartphone is still the most important several positive developments: the indicators mobile activity for 67% of KPN customers. “help with problems”, “positive news reports” We introduced ToelstelLease and SmartCare and “insight into costs” improved. At Telfort for Telfort and the KPN brand too. As a we saw a similar rise in the NPS, from -18 to consequence of the introduction of the -12. The NPS of XS4ALL is still the highest NPS improved mobile subscriptions in March, in the market, but the enthusiasm of customers the number of mobile subscribers increased declined: the NPS fell from +27 to +17. by 38,000 in the first six months of 2012. The subscriber base grew by a further 28,000 Thanks in part to the further upgrade of our in the second half of 2012. Nevertheless, copper network, which makes higher upload falling average revenue per user led to a and download speeds possible, and the further decrease in revenues. rollout of the fiber network, we once again recorded a number of successes in our Dynamic sourcing Consumer Residential segment. The trend To further improve the performance of our towards purchasing the three products – four call centers we experimented with dynamic interactive television, internet and telephony sourcing for the Telfort brand in 2012. Using – as a single package (triple play) continued. two call centers, we surveyed which call center performed better on a number of key Interactive Television performance indicators, such as first time right. In 2012 the number of customers with KPN It will therefore be possible in the future to Interactive Television (iTV) rose from 439,000 to channel proportionally more customer calls more than a million, so at the end of 2012 we to the best performing call center. Under this were serving 23% of the total Dutch television method the call centers that perform less market. Thanks partly to the upgrade of our well will be forced to improve their customer copper network, better equipment and a service, which will benefit the quality of our much-improved and diverse range of channels overall service. We will expand dynamic we were able to distinguish ourselves from the sourcing in 2013. cable companies. The popularity of watching television on a tablet or laptop via WiFi rose as well, especially after we added smartphone TV in the summer of 2012. “With our fixed and mobile networks we have the wherewithal to be the provider of integrated services in the Netherlands. That combination makes us unique in the Netherlands.” Joost Farwerck, Managing Director Netherlands 28 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 Installation and relocation service All-in-one packages The growth in the number of broadband In April 2012 we introduced convenient customers also affected the activities of our all-in-one packages that enabled us to bundle customer engineers. In 2012 we carried out the individual products and services for SMEs 235,000 new installations. The service improved and the self-employed: from telephony to data considerably, thanks to a national trial with management, online back-ups and PIN-code engineers. We made a single party – KPN or an payment. We also reduced by ten days the installation partner – responsible for the work waiting time for the installation of a of all the engineers in a particular area. More connection. With the all-in-one packages customers got first-time-right help and there we fulfilled our customer promise “we keep was a significant rise in the NPS. As the results it clear and simple”. of the trial were so positive we decided to introduce this new approach permanently Goed Bereikbaar scan at the beginning of 2013. In April and July surveyed the telephone and online accessibility of 10,000 SMEs, following Moreover, many customers benefited from which we rolled out the ‘Goed Bereikbaar’ the improved relocation process that we had scan as a free service nationwide in October. set in motion in 2011. Relocation is generally With this scan we enable customers to gain the time when customers take a critical look at an insight into their telephone and online their ICT and telecom services. Approximately accessibility. The scan also shows whether the 700,000 Dutch households relocated in 2011. contact details on the company’s websites are So we realize that a good relocation service easy to find. We gave the customer our survey has a big impact on our customer satisfaction. results and findings in a report. 1.2.4. BUSINESS MARKET Attente Regisseur In 2012 we set ourselves the target of taking The results of our “Attente Regisseur” pilots the loyalty leader position in 12 out of the were promising. The guiding principle of 15 product market segments, in other words this service is to give first-time-right help of attaining a higher NPS score than our to customers who call in with a question competitors. This we achieved. The NPS of or complaint, rather than transferring them Business Market showed a downward trend, to someone else. For this purpose helpdesk especially in the first half of 2012, but after employees get an increased mandate and stabilizing in the middle of the year it rose access to more systems. Employees in various slightly in the last few months. However, overall disciplines are located in close proximity to the NPS fell 11 points to -23 points. Customers each other, making consultation and feedback feel that they get less value for money with possible. By the end of 2012 we had KPN and that the advantages of KPN in implemented the Attente Regisseur project comparison with the competition are declining. within nine teams. As this form of service In our customers’ view KPN still has the best has been so successful we will roll out Attente network, although the differential vis a vis Regisseur at KPN Contact and Business competitors is getting smaller. Despite Market in 2013. improvements in the service perception the general level of service was rated relatively Online initiatives poorly. The negative trend could also partly be We introduced Track & Trace so customers explained by price increases and consequent can track the status of their orders. We also media coverage, the accelerated reorganization received many positive customer reactions and a lack of confidence in KPN and its financial to our FAQ videos on kpn.com. stability. At the end of the year we saw a rise in customer confidence and an improvement in customer perception as regards KPN offering good value for money and the best infrastructure. This was reflected in a slight rise in our NPS. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 29 Quality of our service continued 1.2.5. KPN CORPORATE MARKET effectively with their own devices. Working in KPN Corporate Market’s recommendation the cloud has rapidly grown into a concept that score of 6.7 showed a rise in 2012 in is inextricably linked to The New Way of Living comparison with 2011. The NPS program, & Working. This was the reason behind which was launched in 2010, is bearing fruit. bringing the CloudNL service to market. A The improvement is the sum of customerunique feature of this is that the service comes specific and general improvement programs. under Dutch law and is not subject to foreign The tactic of drawing up an improvement legislation, which is a requirement of certain plan for corporate customers after every healthcare, government and financial bodies. measurement and evaluating it with customer Protection of privacy and energy savings are after a few months has worked. We are going the main reasons for that wish. We have to pursue this tactic in 2013 for the 75 biggest launched Service Aggregation to support customers and add another 50 customers. Our the implementation of cloud services. aim is to achieve a recommendation score of 7.0 in 2013. We are going to revise our 2015 1.2.6. CHALLENGES AND DILEMMAS target upwards: in any event we want to We realize that further improving the quality achieve a score higher than 7.0. of our service is an absolute necessity if we are to become the best service provider. We have Self Service Portal allotted several years for this and we need an Following a successful pilot, we introduced the organization that is appropriate to that ambition. Self Service Portal in the second half of 2012. Knowing that substantial expenditure is This service allows companies to report an ICT essential for the improvement of our customer disruption online, thereby making a call to a service, we are making investments wherever helpdesk superfluous. The online service offers necessary and are making savings wherever additional functionality too. For example, the we can. These are often long-term investments customer can view the status of previous that do not result in immediately visible quality malfunction reports and there is a chat facility improvements. For example, in the Netherlands to give details of a malfunction or to get we are making considerable investments in our more information. customers and our networks such as 4G LTE and fiber. We have to push ahead with these so Focus on core propositions that we can continue providing the best quality At KPN Corporate Market we brought more in the future. At the same time, our investments focus to our customer portfolio, resulting in must go hand-in-hand with a sound financial substantial simplification. Instead of the more position and an acceptable level of debt. than 100 separate services we introduced four new products and services, with which we In 2012 we were confronted with another placed the emphasis firmly on the large special challenge: certain propositions, potential of The New Way of Living & Working. such as the introduction of the new mobile With Unified Communications we offer subscriptions and the rapidly increasing organizations the possibility of amalgamating number of IPTV subscribers, were so successful the various digital media that employees that we were sometimes unable to keep up use to communicate. With the Any Device with demand. These situations demonstrated Management service we can enable companies the need to better co-ordinate our commercial to allow their employees to work safely and approach with our operational execution. “One million customers already enjoy KPN’s Interactive Television; it has the greatest number of channels, HD quality, movies and TV on your tablet.” Jesper Eriksen, Director Consumer Residential 30 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 31 INVESTING IN SOCIETY OUR SOCIAL THEMES We see corporate social responsibility as a logical part of our business operations that we are integrating to an increasing extent. That’s why we are investing not only in technology and service provision but also in the society. In the next few chapters we give details of our social policy and we show how in our various operating divisions we represent added value for society. 2. OUR SOCIAL THEMES 2.1. Our social policy As sustainability is a logical part of our business operations, non-financial targets Our social and corporate policies are inextricably have been included in the long-term bonus linked to one another. Many of our commercial for the top management since 2011. This products and services help to address major underlines our belief that good financial social issues. For this reason our policy is based results and a long-lasting relationship with on five themes which are appropriate to KPN's society can go hand in hand. Energy saving strengths and allow KPN to add value to society. targets make up 12.5% of top management ýý Best ICT infrastructure long term incentives; the same percentage is ýý Healthcare of the future dependent on meeting our reputation goals. ýý The New Way of Living & Working ýý Energy-efficient Every month, quarter or half-year we collect the ýý Security & Privacy financial and social data via the financial data management system and a standardized 2.1.1. EMBEDDING questionnaire. An audit environment has The Board of Management and the Executive been set up for this at group level; this enables Committee (ExCo) jointly set the company’s the KPN Audit and KPN Corporate Control social policy and targets and regularly discuss departments to assess reliability of the data. the progress achieved towards the goals of the social themes. The task force “KPN in Society” In principle, our social themes and our is chaired by the Corporate Communications corresponding reports relate to the KPN Group. Director, has a coordinating task and met three Up to now our activities in Germany and Belgium times in 2012. have been exclusively in the mobile domain, so the themes relating to our fixed network are Five ExCo members are responsible for one less applicable to them. of the five social themes: ýý Best ICT infrastructure: Eric Kuisch In 2012 E-Plus took further steps to bring its (NetCo Director) social involvement policy into line with that ýý Healthcare of the future: John van Vianen of KPN Netherlands. It adopted for the time (Business Market Director) being the three themes on which KPN focused ýý The New Way of Living & Working: specifically in 2011: The New Way of Living Steven van Schilfgaarde (KPN Corporate & Working, Energy-efficient and People Market Director) connected. E-Plus entrusted the management ýý Energy-efficient: Godert Vinkesteijn of the subject to the Corporate Communications (KPN Netherlands Chief Financial Officer) department and in the fall of 2012 published ýý Security & Privacy: René van Rooij its first online Sustainability Report (over 2011), (Chief Legal Officer, succeeded by in line with the B-level of the Global Jasper Spanbroek in February 2013) Reporting Initiative. Along with their team the ExCo members 2.1.2. IN DISCUSSION develop plans and activities to give shape to Advisory Board the social themes. Short-term and long-term To be certain that we place the correct emphasis annual targets for these themes are set and on each of the themes, develop good initiatives revised. The theme steering committees, and keep a critical eye on our social policy, we under the leadership of an ExCo member, are set up the CSR Advisory Board in 2011. The responsible for monitoring, evaluating and board, which we regard as a key sounding and adjusting progress towards the targets. Targets brainstorming group, comprises representatives are also set for the themes “Our people”, from the fields of science, sustainability and “Our suppliers” and “People connected”. investment. In 2012 the Advisory Board and the “KPN in society” task force met on one The Supervisory Board (RvC) discussed the social occasion. The board made various suggestions policy on two occasions in 2012. The RvC also for improvements, including: held talks with the Central Works Council, ýý Less focus on best-efforts targets and more among the topics being the accelerated on quantifiable long-term targets that have implementation of the strategy and the an impact on society. Determine the targets points for improvement from the employee in conjunction with stakeholders. involvement survey. ýý Set impact targets for the production chain – such as better working conditions and human rights, and rectifying reported shortcomings – rather than audits in the factories. ýý Define the partnership strategy, making clear how partners are chosen and explaining why they suit KPN. 34 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 The Advisory Board also gave us valuable 2.1.3. COMMUNICATION feedback to reinforce the social themes, An important piece of advice the Advisory including via external communication Board gave us in 2011 was to improve our and dialog sessions: communication about our social performance. ýý Make clear how much value KPN can add to They said that customers, shareholders and the themes and don’t be modest about the employees should be able to evaluate KPN innovative power of the telecom sector. on this point as well. We took that advice to ýý Give more substance to the partnership heart in 2012. At the strategy meeting in with the World Wildlife Fund and its May considerable attention was paid to activities. This is not always well known our social policy and in November it was to the outside world. featured extensively in a special edition of ýý Elucidate the collaboration with the TEAMKPN Magazine. healthcare sector, position ICT as a beneficial factor in healthcare and give examples. In June we placed three corporate Show that ICT can sometimes lead to a advertisements in the Saturday editions of the decline in healthcare demand. Stress that five major Dutch newspapers in which we set as an ICT company you are aware of this. out what KPN means to today’s society. The That applies also to The New Way of Living underlying principle for this was “Something & Working. Show the advantages and that is strong is worth making stronger”. The disadvantages, as befits a transparent, main topics were our network, our service and reliable service provider. the KPN Finest Contact Foundation. The purpose of the campaign was to show customers, Annual General Meeting of Shareholders shareholders and employees that we aim to Our Annual General Meeting of Shareholders carry out our strategy consistently. The campaign also devoted attention to our social policy and at the end of October, “The network that cares report. The Dutch Association of Investors for for the Netherlands”, was a logical follow-up to Sustainable Development (VBDO) expressed its the June campaign. We placed advertisements great satisfaction with the non-financial targets about our energy policy and our aspiration to in our remuneration policy. The VBDO asked us offer customers the best network, as well as to to describe more clearly the role of the social underline our great ambitions for KlasseContact policy within KPN’s three declared ambitions. (our principal project under the KPN Finest We have described this in the section “Who we Contact Foundation). In between these two are and what we do”. We were also asked to campaigns we introduced “KPN just does it” give information about improvement initiatives as our new slogan, reinforcing our ambition in the procurement chain and explain why of becoming the best service provider. In our recycling cell phones is not a priority for KPN. shops we used TV screens to inform our The introduction of ToestelLease is an example customers about the KPN Finest Contact of how we do more with recycling. In addition, Foundation and skating. the VBDO considered the information about social diversity inadequate but was pleased to see that KPN includes objectives regarding employing people with an impairment. We have taken that advice to heart for KPN Netherlands (see section 3.2.5). “Sustainable entrepreneurship is as self-evident to KPN as the services and products that we supply to our customers.” Hans Koeleman, Corporate Communication & CSR Director KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 35 Our social themes continued We also generated a lot of media attention documents and files than before and checks with some thought-provoking meetings in more thoroughly that we are complying with the Rijksmuseum. In June there was “The New legislation. Needless to say, we are giving our Holland’, the main theme of which was The full co-operation and we are doing everything New Way of Living & Working (see chapter we can to comply with the requests of OPTA 2.4). In October, at the meeting “Masters in so as to get back to normal regulation. At the Healthcare”, the topic was the future of beginning of 2012 we expressed the wish to healthcare and the theme “Prevention or start again with a clean slate and to improve cure” gave rise to valuable discussions among the relationship with OPTA. That led to healthcare professionals (see chapter 2.3). constructive talks with the regulator in which We were able to showcase the added value we hoped to come to an arrangement about that we want to provide as an ICT service the other on-going issues. We were unable provider in the healthcare sector. We also to reach agreement, but are still in discussion took the opportunity to manifest ourselves about restoring trust and improving the as a sustainable ICT service provider through awareness of compliance among employees. our sponsorship of TEDx in Amsterdam, where To that end we improved our compliance a sustainable future was at the top of the program and dealt with subjects such as agenda. During the National Sustainability integrity and security in team meetings and Congress 2012 we held a workshop featuring workshops. The whistleblower procedure, The New Way of Living & Working. which enables employees to anonymously report abuse, was used three times in 2012. We interpreted the advice of the board We became aware that the term “whistleblower as a stimulus not only to share our social procedure” had acquired a negative connotation performance with the outside world, but also in the media, so we renamed the scheme to celebrate the successes. Consequently, we Integrity Speak-up-line, and repositioned paid considerably more attention to our listings the scheme. in the various sustainability indices in our external communication. Knowing that good At the end of 2011 the Netherlands Competition performance and successes are worth sharing Authority (NMa) carried out a “dawn raid” at with others, we are convinced that this will KPN, Vodafone and T-Mobile to investigate strengthen the understanding and confidence the possible formation of a cartel in the mobile of our stakeholders in our social ambitions. market. This investigation, which was prompted But we have not yet managed to integrate partly by two whistleblowers, had not yet been sustainability into our marketing campaigns completed at the end of 2012. for our brands. That is a challenge that we have to take on in 2013. Penalties In 2012 eight penalties were imposed on KPN. 2.1.4. COMPLIANCE These penalties amounted to almost one In 2012 we set up a Compliance & Regulatory million euro. Four penalties were imposed by steering committee, which helps to ensure Dutch regulators, two by German regulators that business and compliance aspects are given and two by North American regulators. The timely and appropriate consideration when penalties were for breaches of the law relating decisions are taken. To monitor the progress to telecommunication, consumer protection, being made in the area of compliance by the taxation and environmental protection. individual segments and by the company as Furthermore, KPN Netherlands was involved in a whole, we draw up a quarterly compliance five court cases in 2012 in connection either report. The content of this report includes with its designation as a party with significant whether legislation has been implemented market power on a particular market, or with on time, whether the incident notification the obligations imposed as a consequence and has functioned properly and whether enough compliance therewith. A ruling was given in training has been given. These reports, which one of the court cases at the beginning of 2013 are checked by KPN Audit, are then shared with and KPN got a definite penalty of 8.5 million the Board of Management, segment directors euro for providing unauthorized discounts on and the regulator, OPTA (Independent post the business telecom market. and Telecommunication Authority). In 2012 the Dutch Advertising Code Committee In December 2011 the executive committee gave a ruling (partially on appeal) on 19 of OPTA started to monitor KPN more closely. advertising statements by KPN. In twelve cases This situation did not change in 2012. OPTA the Committee ruled that the statement in had discovered that in 2010 we had broken the question was wholly or partially in breach of law when tendering for a government contract. the Dutch Advertising Code. In Germany there Closer monitoring means that OPTA asks KPN were 13 complaints about advertising for more supplementary information, data, statements in 2012. 36 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 2.2. Best ICT infrastructure OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS Indicator Result Target Result Target Target 2014 20111 20121 2012 2013 and beyond Perception of best Percentage of the – – Consumers: – 60% in 2015 ICT infrastructure Netherlands that agrees 51% best fixed that KPN has the best network, 51% best ICT infrastructure mobile network Mobile network Percentage of the – – 0% 50% in 99% in 2014 Netherlands that has summer availability of 4G LTE Fixed network Percentage of the 40% 70% 67% – – Netherlands that has an internet speed of at least 40 Mb/s 1 We adopted this new social theme in 2012. The theme’s targets were set in 2012. 2.2.1. OUR VISION: GOOD ICT IS THE At the same time we made preparations to adapt DRIVING FORCE OF SUSTAINABLE our infrastructure for LTE, Long Term Evolution, ECONOMIC GROWTH also known as the fourth mobile generation, Our network and the Netherlands are 4G. Our NeMo program will also make antennas inextricably linked to one another. Our physical and antenna locations suitable for 4G LTE, ICT network helps the Netherlands progress. which offers a lot more bandwidth and therefore After all, ICT facilitates communication between greater data speeds, up to ten times faster than people, businesses and organizations, the 3G network. stimulates the economy and contributes to innovation in vital sectors. In a world that is To be eligible for the frequencies that make becoming increasingly dependent on mobile mobile internet traffic via 4G LTE possible, (broadband) internet and telecom services, we took part in the spectrum auction that a reliable and secure ICT infrastructure is was organized by the Telecom Agency of the essential – sometimes even a matter of life Ministry of Economic Affairs in the fall of 2012. and death. That’s why we see it as our social When the auction closed at the end of December responsibility to offer the best ICT infrastructure: four parties had acquired frequencies: stable, versatile and innovative. KPN, Vodafone, T-Mobile and Tele2. We paid 1,352 billion euro for a valuable combination 2.2.2. MOBILE NETWORK of licenses, which apply not only to 4G LTE In the spring of 2012 we started modernizing but also to the existing mobile frequencies and expanding our GSM and UMTS networks, (2G and 3G). In this way we can continue also known as second generation (2G) and providing our customers with a high-quality third generation (3G). Under the name Network mobile service for the next 17 years and 4G LTE Modernization (NeMo), over the next two years will make a substantial contribution to our we will adapt our mobile infrastructure to meet ambition of becoming the best service provider. current and future requirements over the next Moreover, with 4G LTE we have maneuvered two years. We are doing this because our ourselves into a position where we can customers demand higher mobile internet distinguish ourselves as a provider of integrated speeds and more reliability and security. services in the Netherlands, because 4G LTE The modernization of our 2G and 3G networks enables us to bring the performance of mobile means that we will replace the equipment and fixed internet closer together. and antennas at all the antenna locations. Transformer stations will be back-up facilities. In 2013 we started rolling out 4G LTE in Thanks to the modernization and the increase Amsterdam and the northern part of the in the number of mobile transmission masts, Randstad, so the first business customers and at the end of 2012 95% of the surface area of consumers were able to make use of the new the Netherlands had 3G coverage from KPN network just a month later. We expect 4G LTE and 99% 2G coverage. The target is for 97% to be available to half of the Netherlands in the of the Netherlands to have 3G coverage at middle of 2013. We aim to have 99% coverage the end of 2013. in the Netherlands in the summer of 2014. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 37 Our social themes continued The modernization also ensures fewer dropped Reggefiber progressed the installation of the calls and data sessions and a better sound fiber network, especially in new residential quality. Given the growth in mobile (data) areas. By the end of 2012 we had connected traffic in 2012 we had expected an increase in approximately 18% of the Netherlands to our the number of mobile dropped calls, but the fiber network. modernization and a different approach actually led to a reduction. We used to look at national Our belief in the quality of fiber notwithstanding, averages. Now we look at where the dropped we also continue to invest in our copper calls arise and what the local cause is. We network. There are three ways in which we tackle this by, for example, carrying out local do this: upgrading ADSL to VDSL, pair bonding repairs. Through the modernization we can and vectoring. Upgrading to VDSL facilitates reduce the number of dropped calls by 40%. download speeds averaging six times as fast However, some parts of the modernization as ADSL and upload speeds thirteen times process have a negative, albeit temporary effect, faster. To make the VDSL technology possible such as switching the network from old to new we located more telephone exchanges in the equipment and coordinating the 2G, 3G and 4G neighborhoods in question and we installed LTE networks. We therefore anticipate a rise in fiber where that was not already present. As a the number of dropped calls in 2013. result, thousands of new street junction boxes appeared in residential areas. A stable ICT infrastructure also means as few disruptions as possible. In cases where A copper connection generally comprises a potential disruption could affect more than two pairs of copper wires, only one of which 100,000 connections, we modified the is used; the other is a spare. Pair bonding architecture of our network. We installed more involves activating the other pair too, virtually capacity and back-ups at international junctions doubling the internet bandwidth. In vectoring in Amsterdam and Rotterdam, and we modified we eliminate the “noise” between the copper technical resources such as cooling and wires, which are bundled together under the emergency generators in buildings that road surface or in the street junction box. This are crucial to our service. technique also provides faster internet speeds. 2.2.3. FIXED NETWORK We had a target of offering an internet speed As far as our fixed network is concerned we of at least 40 MB per second (MBps) to 70% operated a twin-track policy in 2012: we invested of the Netherlands by the end of 2012 (40% in fiber as well as in our copper network. at the end of 2011). We did not achieve this Internet, telephony and television is offered target, in spite of the investments we made via fiber, in the same way as via ADSL, VDSL in our copper network and the installation of and cable, but fiber gives greater upload and new fiber connections. This was caused mainly download speeds and better sound and image by a delay in starting pair bonding. By the end quality. We believe in fiber as the network of of 2012, 67% of the Netherlands had an the future. Consequently, KPN and its partner internet speed of at least 40 MBps. Unfortunately we also experienced a few 4G LTE in the whole of the Netherlands incidents this year. Because of maintenance work there were two disruptions to the 112 emergency number service, which meant that 4G LTE available to several emergency centers were temporarily half the population of the Netherlands unavailable. The disruptions were remedied swiftly and an investigation of the cause was carried out. It transpired that the partial 112 Amsterdam, Northern Randstad, outage was the consequence of human error Western Randstad including in following the 112 protocol that covers the The Hague and Leiden diversion of mobile phone traffic during maintenance work. On the basis of the outcome of the investigation KPN took procedural and disciplinary measures to ensure that this error does not recur. spring summer summer 2013 2013 2014 38 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 2.2.4. PERCEPTION As we want to offer the best ICT infrastructure we continually examine whether our efforts MINISTRY OF are resulting in the required quality. As well DEFENSE as measuring the actual quality in terms of some technical parameters, this year we started measuring the perception of the best ICT infrastructure in the eyes of Dutch people. It is our ambition to raise the percentage of “EVERY PARTNER HAD TO people who consider KPN as having the best ICT infrastructure to 60% in 2015. We were JUMP OVER ITS OWN SHADOW” unable to specify this clearly and objectively Piet Voogd was very angry with KPN. Why? Too many disruptions to the C2000 for the entire ICT infrastructure. We were also network and too much time rectifying them. Unacceptable for a network which unable to take a measurement in the business handles communication between all the emergency services in the Netherlands. market because the complexity of the The problem was solved after an intensive process. “It wasn’t the fault of the measurement required more preparation time. technology, the people or the internal processes. In the end, it was all about The first measurement was therefore taken the correlation and co-operation between the partners in this chain.” among consumers, with two main questions: “Do you think that KPN has the best fixed Behind every 112 call there is a complex world, with three principal players: IVENT, the network (fixed telephony, television and Dutch Police Service and KPN. Voogd is Operations Chief at IVENT, part of the Ministry fixed internet, back-up service)?” and “Do you of Defense. IVENT procures the services of the KPN network and supplies them, along think that KPN has the best mobile network with its own services, to the Dutch Police Service. (mobile telephony, SMS and mobile internet)?” “In the event of an incident there needs to be co-ordination between the three parties. We plan to carry out this survey in the business But every organization has its own administration, its own operations and its own market in 2013. telephone numbers. Each partner has designed its process optimally but the chain as a whole was not working optimally.” The survey shows that 51% of Dutch consumers consider that KPN has the best fixed network Together with representatives of the police and KPN, Voogd created a triumvirate that and 51% that KPN has the best mobile network. ensured that people could get to know one another, that administrations dovetailed with A substantial number of the respondents have each other and that everyone spoke the same language. “As communication is crucially no opinion about who has the best network. important, it has to take precedence over your own – commercial – interests. You have One of the reasons for this is they have no to be transparent about your mistakes and commit yourself to correcting them. Every experience with different networks and cannot partner had to jump over its own shadow.” therefore make a comparison. We have not When that happened, “the oyster opened and the pearls became visible. People on the included this group of respondents in the shop floor are capable of solving 70 to 80% of the problems on their own, provided that scores. Respondents who named Telfort, Hi, you give them the authority and space. That’s what we did and we also enabled them to XS4ALL or Simyo as the best network – they jump from island to island.” operate on the KPN network – are included in the score. Although we realize that the “don’t Voogd is certain that the way KPN acted with respect to C2000 would be handy in many knows” should be as small as possible in order more situations. “It is a social trend that we are linked together in chains and in communities. for the result to represent “the Dutch people”, That applies equally to power supplies and highway signage for example. You no longer we regard this for the time being as a given solve problems on your own. KPN can surpass itself by getting all the actors in a chain to and we are concentrating on the people who work together organically as one virtual team. That’s what they did in our case.” already have an opinion about the networks. An interesting point is that respondents have more of an opinion about providers than about networks. The experience that respondents have had with the service given by a provider plays a part in the overall rating. In addition to the two central questions, specific research was carried out into why Dutch people find a particular network the best. Subjects mentioned generally relate to the quality, price and speed of services. The results enable us to make improvements to our service in 2013 and thereby also improve our overall rating. We hope to achieve the targeted 60% within two years. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 39 Our social themes continued 2.2.6. CHALLENGES AND DILEMMAS “With 4G LTE and fiber we have Our ambition to continually improve our ICT infrastructure and networks requires the most modern and best investments worth hundreds of millions. conceivable networks to help It is a growing challenge to recoup those huge investments. Although customers are the Netherlands progress.” becoming more demanding in terms of data speeds and the quality of the network, they Eric Kuisch, NetCo Director are not always prepared to pay for them. Our earnings model, which is based partially on customers paying for mobile and fixed call and SMS traffic, is under pressure because of the advent of “free” message services such as WhatsApp and “free” calls via services 2.2.5. STAKEHOLDER DIALOG such as Skype. This year we organized a dialog with stakeholders from the worlds of academia, Permission for antennas government and industry about how Private individuals and city councils expect “the best ICT infrastructure” ought to be good coverage from our mobile network. defined and what the social relevance As residents are sometimes worried about of ICT infrastructure is. the electromagnetic fields emitted by transmission masts, municipalities occasionally It became clear from the dialog that ICT refuse to issue permits for antennas to be infrastructure is more than just the physical installed. To obtain the necessary permission network. The quality of the infrastructure in good harmony with local government we is influenced also by the people who make take time to share our knowledge with them it possible and the service they provide. and explain to them the importance of a If continuity and stability are guaranteed and good ICT infrastructure and the effects of a network is accessible quickly and easily, any electromagnetic fields. time, any place, this is regarded as the “best ICT infrastructure”. Stakeholders said that the Nationwide 2G coverage ICT infrastructure is essential for major social Even though our mobile 2G network covers developments, such as combining parenthood virtually the whole of the Netherlands, there and a professional career, the development of are some outlying areas where this is not the society and keeping healthcare affordable. case. These areas are not economically viable for KPN. We recognize this and are continually They also felt that good ICT infrastructure is of in discussion with stakeholders in those regions. great economic value to the Netherlands. KPN We hope to be able to offer a new, cost-effective needs to portray itself more as a pioneer in solution to this coverage and capacity problem showing that social issues are also ICT issues. in 2013. According to the stakeholders KPN ought to draw more attention to the quality of its infrastructure, focusing on the functionalities that are possible thanks to the network. KPN should show where more than a billion euro is being invested every year. The fact that companies can store their data securely with KPN in the Netherlands, under Dutch law, is regarded as another key advantage. This distinguishes KPN from other ICT companies. Co-operation with other parties is essential in order to make adequate innovations and remain a prominent ICT company in the sector. 40 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 2.3. Healthcare of the future OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS Indicator Result Target Result Target 2013 Target 2014 20111 20121 2012 and beyond ZorgSamen Number of healthcare – – 4,038 4,500 5,000 in 2014 locations connected 6,000 in 2015 ZorgVrij Number of healthcare – – ~21,000 27,000 35,000 in 2014 consumers supplied with 48,000 in 2015 personal comfort services Vitality Percentage of employees – – 18% 25% 30% in 2014 in the Netherlands that has 35% in 2015 signed up for i change KPN Finest Contact Number of chronically 282 – 216 500 800 in 2014 Foundation ill children with a webchair 1,250 in 2015 1 We adopted this new social theme in 2012. The theme’s targets were set in 2012. 2.3.1. OUR VISION: ICT CAN HELP 2.3.2. HEALTHCARE IN OUR MAINTAIN THE LEVEL OF HEALTHCARE ORGANIZATION Keeping healthcare accessible and of good In 2012 we set up the “theme group” KPN quality is one of the challenges facing Dutch Zorg to ensure that “Healthcare of the future” society in the decades ahead. We are convinced is not just the preserve of our business. that with our ICT we can make major Representatives of the business divisions, breakthroughs in the healthcare sector. Human Resources and Corporate Through the smart use of ICT we can achieve Communications are members of this innovations in the domestic environment of group. We decided that we want KPN Zorg the healthcare customer (the patient) and in to rest on four foundation stones: the work environment of the healthcare ýý Solutions for healthcare institutions, provider. They can ensure that people remain healthcare professionals and clients at home longer or have to be admitted less ýý KPN Finest Contact Foundation frequently to a hospital or other healthcare ýý Diagnosis 2025 institution. Thanks to ICT more healthcare can ýý Our employees’ vitality be provided with less personnel, at the same cost or even more cheaply. ICT can also foster 2.3.3. SOLUTIONS FOR HEALTHCARE The New Way of Living & Working among PROVIDERS healthcare providers. We aim to make a Thanks in part to our ICT solutions healthcare contribution to these goals with our ICT providers can focus more on their core activity: services. Furthermore, we have a specialist providing care. We have defined three separate team dedicated to our healthcare services, categories: ZorgSamen, ZorgVrij and ZorgSlim. KPN Zorg. This team maintains contacts with the healthcare sector, enabling us to work ZorgSamen: better quality of care together on new solutions. By stimulating and simplifying the teamwork between service providers KPN wants to help reduce errors in healthcare. E-Zorg and ZorgConnect form the basis for a closed, secure and certified environment in which healthcare institutions can exchange information and procure services. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 41 Our social themes continued A large part of the Dutch healthcare sector To foster the freedom and independence DUTCH HEALTHCARE SECTOR IS is connected to them: 65% of family doctors of patients KPN Zorg continued developing CONNECTED and pharmacies to E-Zorg, and 65% of and repositioning two medical alarm products hospitals to ZorgConnect. We have therefore in 2012. These enable information to be sent connected over 4,000 healthcare locations automatically to a healthcare institution. The 4,038 with one another. We want to increase this first product, ZorgVrijThuis, is a medical alarm HEALTHCARE number to 4,500 in 2013 and 6,000 in 2015. system at home. This is a variation on the LOCATIONS product ZorgVrijWonen, which we were already INTERCONNECTED In 2012 we concentrated more on the services supplying to homes on healthcare institution of E-Zorg and ZorgConnect. Hospitals and sites; this is now available to people who wish family doctors can exchange laboratory results, to remain living independently at home. and second opinions can be obtained remotely from specialists on the basis of medical images. The second is Tréés, the successor to the ZorgSamen Lokafoon. Tréés is part of a service that is ZorgVrij: from supply to demand oriented to people with incipient dementia The purpose of ZorgVrij is to combine and clients receiving home care and in healthcare and comfort for the healthcare institutions. Tréés is equipped with GPS, ZorgVrij customer (the patient). In 2011 we developed which ensures that people can be traced an interactive service that allows patients to in an emergency. As soon as the wearer of receive medical information by audio-visual the device crosses a geographical boundary, means: ZiekenhuisMedia. This enables patients a family member or partner automatically ~21,000 (and their partner, family and friends) to watch, receives an SMS. An online map shows the HEALTHCARE for instance, an instruction video about an person’s location. Tréés simplifies remote CUSTOMERS WITH operation or after-care. In 2012 we extended monitoring and enhances the freedom of PERSONAL COMFORT this service with access to patient records. movement of the user. Our aim is to increase SERVICES Nurses and specialists can show the patient this group, which numbered around 100 in medical information, such as an X-ray. At the 2012, to 1,000 in 2013. Netherlands Cancer Institute, the Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Hospital in Amsterdam, we Beside this, we continued providing heart implemented ZiekenhuisMedia along with rhythm diagnostics: patients themselves these additional facilities. measure their heart rhythm. The results are sent to a medical service center that analyzes Six hospitals procured ZiekenhuisMedia in them; advice is then given to the family doctor 2011. Three further healthcare institutions about the patient’s future care. followed in 2012. We want to maintain this growth in 2013 and implement our services Around 21,000 healthcare customers are now at eight new healthcare institutions. Most making use of our ZorgVrij comfort services. of all, we aim to improve the service so as We hope to increase this number to 27,000 to give the patient more facilities and support in 2013 and 48,000 in 2015. the care process better. We stopped developing the diabetes station, a diagnostic tool that allows patients to take their own blood measurements. It emerged from an evaluation that it was more logical to first develop the project with family doctors and other first and second-line experts before putting it on the market. We passed on our knowledge and experience to the Erasmus MC in Rotterdam, with which we had worked in partnership. “With ICT we can make a major breakthrough in the healthcare sector.” John van Vianen, Business Market Director 42 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 ZorgSlim: more time for healthcare In keeping with other knowledge workers, healthcare professionals do not carry out all their work from their practice. A lot of work can be done equally well or even better from home or another location. This is, however, conditional on the healthcare provider being able to access documents and applications securely and remotely. These requirements are met by our data centers and certified network infrastructure. “WE CAN CONCENTRATE ON OUR We have started a new proposition: CloudNL. CORE BUSINESS: HEALTHCARE” This allows us to offer organizations, including healthcare institutions, storage space in our “We now have a stable, reliable network environment and that’s a great relief”, data centers in the Netherlands. Healthcare says John Hendriks, Finance and Control manager at Stichting Prisma in Waalwijk. institutions can store patient data and visual Prisma, which has 2,000 part-time and full-time employees, offers healthcare to material there in a digital healthcare archive over 2,400 people with a mental impairment. Since the beginning of 2011 Prisma and exchange with one another. In 2012 has been using KPN Werkplek Online at around 200 locations spread across we started a pilot to connect two healthcare Noord-Brabant. It is using KPN for its data and telephone network as well. institutions to this healthcare archive. We also A year ago Prisma had a large ICT department, but the developments in the healthcare introduced secure e-mail for the healthcare and ICT sectors made changes necessary. “The infrastructure, the hardware and the sector, which enables family doctors to software were out of date and in need of replacement. We then decided to concentrate communicate quickly and securely with on our core business, healthcare, and to outsource everything else.” one another and their patients. ICT supports not only Prisma’s office processes such as finance and personnel matters but Another development is that healthcare also the healthcare itself. “The current trend is towards people becoming more independent institutions and patient organizations outsource and living in their own apartments. Now all the locations are connected to a night-time to us their ICT and the management thereof. care center.” We concluded two contracts for this purpose One of the reasons that Prisma opted for KPN Werkplek Online, which is supplied by in 2012. Outsourcing ICT in this way enables KPN’s subsidiary ApplicationNet, was that they did not want a standard solution. “We organizations to save costs. It also makes it have outsourced ICT so as to relieve ourselves of a burden. We expect ApplicationNet, easier for those companies to innovate. KPN, to intercede with software suppliers and get customized solutions for us. We are not yet wholly satisfied with that aspect, but we have started the process together and 2.3.4. KPN FINEST CONTACT we are making progress. I am confident that everything will work out well in the end.” FOUNDATION More than ever before we have established At that stage Prisma’s next step will be to offer various options in the security and a relationship between the portfolio of KPN accessibility of information and systems. “To prevent files from being stored on a USB Zorg, our business and the KPN Finest Contact stick and getting into the public domain, we have decided to lock all USB ports. This is Foundation, as part of our social policy (see also restrictive. Needless to say, the electronic patient records that we are currently rolling also chapter 4). Together we have devoted out must be in a closed and secure environment, but certain information needs to be ourselves to putting a webchair at the disposal available to, for example, a client’s family members. Tablets and other modern media will of 1,250 chronically ill children in the Netherlands also be used in the primary healthcare process for the purpose of, among other things, in 2015. Thanks to this initiative – KlasseContact communicating with clients. We will definitely talk to KPN about these developments.” – children are virtually present in the classsroom and can continue to take part in lessons and school life. In 2012 KPN staff were given the option of donating the value of their traditional Christmas parcel to KlasseContact. Roughly half of our employees in the Netherlands made use of this option. KPN Zorg and the KPN Finest Contact Foundation are also collaborating on the development of Tréés, the successor to the Lokafoon. Our intention is that in 2013 we will test the applicability of Tréés in a new target group together, namely Alzheimer’s patients. We are already using Tréés for other target groups. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 43 Our social themes continued 2.3.5. COLLABORATION IN HEALTHCARE 2.3.7. STAKEHOLDER DIALOG Our experience is that collaboration is important In 2012 we held three meetings for our KPN if healthcare innovations are to be possible. Zorg employees. To ratchet up our knowledge For this reason KPN, along with a number of of healthcare and to understand what ICT can partners launched a new initiative to stimulate do for their business operations, we also invited innovations in healthcare: Diagnose Technologie, customers. Their insights help us to position our an offshoot of Diagnose 2025 of BeBright and products more from their perspective and their Rabobank. This initiative will allow us to share values. One of the outcomes of this was that our knowledge of healthcare technology over we improved our website (www.kpn.com/zorg). the next two years and to give advice on a At one of these meetings we asked a specialist, better innovation policy in the Netherlands. a nurse, a patient and a family doctor what their world will be like in 2025. When a meeting In 2012 we handed a large part of our is set up in such a way the emphasis lies more eHealthNu initiative over to the National on the value that ICT adds to our products Implementation Agenda of the patients’ and services. We discuss with customers the association NPCF, the umbrella organization introduction of new products, so that we know of specialists (KNMG) and Zorgverzekeraars which service – Tréés for example – best suits Nederland (ZN). eHealthNu was an open a target group. platform with which we intended to break down some stubborn barriers to remote At the end of October we organized an healthcare and self-management programs. event entitled “Masters in Healthcare” in These obstacles were mainly in the areas of the Rijksmuseum. The theme of the meeting, financing, professional culture and support, attended by prominent people from the and legislation. healthcare sector and CEO Eelco Blok, was “Prevention or cure”. The discussion focused on 2.3.6. OUR EMPLOYEES’ VITALITY promoting prevention and health management Naturally we also want to help our own to better effect. The central element was the employees to avoid becoming ill and to role played in this by private individuals, improve their health. Since the fall of 2012 employers, healthcare institutions and we have therefore made an online vitality healthcare insurers. program available to them: i change. By the end of 2012, 18% of the employees in the In order to share knowledge we had regular Netherlands had registered with i change. meetings with insurers, patients’ associations Our aim is that 25% will have registered in and the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport. 2013 and 35% in 2015. More information can be found in section 3.1.5. 2.3.8. CHALLENGES AND DILEMMAS Making innovations in healthcare is not a simple task. Several issues make it difficult, such as the complex financing of healthcare and the cultural change required in the primary healthcare processes. The fact that healthcare institutions often work with outdated systems makes it even harder for us as a telecom and ICT company. Our efforts to get eHealthNu onto the agenda are bearing fruit and are now being pursued in the National Implementation Agenda. Nevertheless, we acknowledge that successfully implementing changes is a lengthy process. 44 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 2.4. The New Way of Living & Working OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS Indicator Result Target Result Target Target 2014 2011 2012 2012 2013 and beyond The New Way of Growth in the Netherlands 71% in 10% in 17% in 20% in – Living & Working of the use of services that comparison comparison comparison comparison at customers make The New Way of with 2010 with 2011 with 2011 with 2012 Living & Working possible The New Way of Percentage of KPN – 85% 76% 90%1 – Living & Working employees in the at KPN Netherlands who feel they can work in line with The New Way of Living & Working 1 Employees who, by virtue of the nature of their work, cannot work in line with The New Way of Living & Working are excluded. 2.4.1. OUR VISION: SAVING TIME, The results of a survey that were announced MONEY AND ENERGY WITHIN by the World Wildlife Fund at the end of A SINGLE FORMAT November confirm the significant benefits We are convinced that The New Way of Living that The New Way of Living & Working has & Working ensures that sustainability and on the environment. If members of staff were higher productivity can go hand in hand. Using not to drive to the office one or two days a the experiences we have gained in recent years week but worked at home or elsewhere, and in our own organization we want to inspire teleconferences and videoconferences were other companies, organizations and institutions to replace one fifth of business trips, that to facilitate The New Way of Living & Working. would mean an energy saving in 2020 of the equivalent of the annual gas and power The New Way of Living & Working is a way consumption of all the households in of working that focuses on finding the right Amsterdam and Rotterdam. work-life balance. It is a part of and a consequence of political, social, economic and 2.4.2. FURTHER IMPROVING THE NEW technological developments in society that have WAY OF LIVING & WORKING an influence on businesses. KPN wants to be a At the beginning of 2012 a newly constituted pioneer in facilitating The New Way of Living steering committee reviewed the relevance of & Working because it can make a contribution The New Way of Living & Working for society to more efficient and cost-effective working and for our company. Based on the revamped and can reduce the number of kilometers driven, theme we drew up an action plan with existing energy consumption and CO2 emissions. and new aspirations. The plan is oriented to Furthermore, it can enhance the flexibility making The New Way of Living & Working of workspaces and working hours and available, wherever circumstances permit, thereby foster labor participation, vitality to everyone – KPN employees and customers. and employee satisfaction. It comprises an innovation agenda, a social agenda and a communication agenda. Within Initially we focused on facilitating working these agendas we have defined a total of seven without constraints of time and place by aspirations, for which we have formulated using technology. Now we also want to focus concrete goals. on the work-life balance and its consequences; management style; entrepreneurship and The goal of the innovation agenda is to responsibility; and the social cohesion within develop new services and products, which a company. We are gaining experience of this we will first of all use ourselves in order to gain first within our own organization. We will then experience. Only then will we offer them to our make it available to the general public in the customers. Five aspirations have been defined form of products and services. for the innovation agenda. We want to KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 45 Our social themes continued facilitate The New Way of Living & Working via ýý Any Device Management: In 2012 we gained our products and services portfolio. We also experience with “bring your own device” aim to raise the theme to the next level within (BYOD), which sets standards for control KPN, to make “bring your own device” available and security. Among other things, we drew internally and externally, and to develop a quality up directions for use. We translated our mark for The New Way of Living & Working. knowledge and experience into a service With the social agenda we will deploy The New for the society. With Any Device Way of Living & Working in such a way as to Management KPN enables a variety of reduce the environmental burden, the aspiration devices to be controlled securely and being a reduction in CO2 emissions. The effectively – not only the BYOD, but also aspiration of the communication agenda is to the devices offered by the company communicate more proactively about our own (“here’s your own”). experiences and results. We want to expand ýý Service Aggregation: Because of the our knowledge, broaden the support base and developments surrounding BYOD and the create ambassadors. We started implementing growth in online access to software, services this plan in 2012 and will pursue it in 2013. and infrastructure, ICT managers are looking for ways of maintaining a grip on applications 2.4.3. THE NEW WAY OF LIVING & and identification of users, and on costs as WORKING AT CUSTOMERS well. Secure and easy to understand, We surpassed our 2012 target of achieving 10% preferably via a single portal. Service growth in the services facilitated by The New Aggregation enables and supports the Way of Living & Working. We achieved a growth implementation of cloud services. of 17%. ýý CloudNL: A totally Dutch cloud solution covered by Dutch legislation. This means In terms of the further development of our that users are not subject to foreign service to customers and support for The New legislation, such as the American Patriot Act, Way of Living & Working, KPN launched four which facilitates the acquisition of private new propositions in the fall of 2012. The data in the event of actual or potential guiding principle is to merge existing services terrorist acts. With this service KPN meets with these four propositions, thereby creating the requirements for privacy protection clarity for customers. The result of the service and energy saving of some of its customers, is that customers can work even better without such as government, healthcare and the constraints of place, time and device. The financial institutions. four new propositions are: ýý Unified Communications: Nowadays The rollout of these new propositions will employees communicate via a growing continue in 2013. Not only do we want to offer number of channels. As well as e-mail they new products and services in the market, but use instant messaging or their company’s we also want to help existing and potential social media. With Unified Communications customers deploy and use them to best KPN offers organizations the opportunity to advantage. We have appointed specialist combine all those channels consistently, consultants for this purpose. They bring uniformly and recognizably. the products and services to the attention “Our role is to facilitate The New Way of Living & Working for many companies and organizations.” Steven van Schilfgaarde, KPN Corporate Market Director 46 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 of existing and potential customers and assist 2.4.4. THE NEW WAY OF LIVING them in understanding the possibilities of & WORKING AT KPN The New Way of Living & Working for their The contribution to the labor participation company. We will make use of consultants and satisfaction of employees made by The more frequently in 2013. New Way of Living & Working can be seen from the top 10 position achieved by KPN KPN wants to encourage employees to use Consulting in the LOF award 2012 for best work applications and databases at home, employer for working parents. In the spring and to use their own desktop or laptop, tablet KPN Consulting and its subsidiary Call2 were or smartphone at work. We are therefore included in the list of Great Workplaces 2012. examining the possibility of a quality mark for “bring your own device” (BYOD). This is We have been gaining experience of The designed to give employees of KPN and users New Way of Living & Working in our own (consumers) the assurance that they can use a organization since 2008. KPN now has over device of their choice securely and without any 9,000 “New Workers”. An internal survey problem for the benefit of an employer that has shown that 76% of our employees in has opted for BYOD. the Netherlands believe they can work in accordance with The New Way of Living & The New Way of Living & Working is self-evident Working. This means that we failed to reach for many young people. They are pioneers in our target. This can partially be explained by this form of making and maintaining contacts. the fact that employees who by the nature of We would like to know what they think of our their work are unable to operate in this way products and service, and to learn from them. were also invited for the survey. Other reasons That’s why we are going to enter into dialog given are that some people are tied to a fixed with teenagers in 2013. We will use the results workplace, some consider direct contact with to improve our products and services. colleagues essential and some were not given permission by their manager. Furthermore, Research shows that the general public does resources and applications were made available not know KPN as a service provider for The in 2012 of which not all employees were fully New Way of Living & Working. We therefore aware, and not everyone has sufficient availability need to put across to them better the of resources and facilities. In 2013 we want knowledge and experience we have gained 90% of our employees to feel that they could and the problems we have come up against. work in accordance with The New Way of To put existing and potential customers Living & Working. We are altering the survey in the picture on this issue we welcomed method: employees who by the nature of their 27 organizations to our Experience Center work are unable to operate in this way will be in Zoetermeer in 2012. During those visits excluded. We will pay more attention to the we also drew attention to the updated KPN potential and use of technology by continuing Reduction meter, which shows the saving in to engage in dialog with employees. We also energy, time and cost through The New Way plan to open an Expert Center as a Workplace of Living & Working. With a view to going Information Point and we will look at the to the market with this product, we arranged possibility of setting up a buddy system, under a webinar for our sales organization via our which young professionals are paired with senior internal social media platform. In collaboration professionals to foster the use of technology. with the World Wildlife Fund we organized workshops for our sales team. The website It also emerged from internal research that www.kpnbespaarmeter.nl had over 1,000 unique employees experience a better work-life visitors in 2012. Our specialist consultants balance. However, work and private life are talked with customers as a result of or with the overlapping more and more, so employees help of the KPN Reduction meter. We plan to have the impression that they have to make intensify this in 2013. With Cisco as our partner more hours available and spend more hours we developed a Mobile Experience Center, a than they are paid for. They nevertheless feel bus in which interested parties could experience more productive, more flexible and more vital, The New Way of Living & Working in practice. and they consider KPN to be a more attractive In 2013 we will organize five big customer employer. It also appears that there is a events about The New Way of Living & Working. difference between the divisions. The number of kilometers driven fell by 25% in 2012 in comparison to 2011. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 47 Our social themes continued Prior to the introduction of our new propositions we conducted a pilot internally to gain experience of “bring your own device”. Employees of KPN Consulting were provided with their own telephone and data subscription and were allowed to buy their own devices. Partly on the basis of this pilot we developed an internal policy: the use of devices other than “THE BENEFIT OF THE NEW WAY OF those procured by KPN is permitted, provided that the user meets a number of conditions. WORKING IS THE ENTHUSIASM IT The pilot will be completed in early 2013. ENGENDERS IN EMPLOYEES” The New Way of Living & Working places different demands on employees and managers. For instance, employees must learn ING spent five years making Connect & (The New Way of Working) possible for to find a work-life balance between working at 15,000 employees of its main offices in the Netherlands. “The New Way of Working home and keeping in contact with colleagues is so much more than just technology”, says Eefje Jonker, director in charge of and managers. Managers must manage their The New Way of Working. staff differently: more on results, less on Eefje is convinced of the importance of introducing The New Way of Working. “It can help attendance. They also need to put more ING to be an attractive employer and to create satisfied employees who can do their work emphasis on discipline and taking responsibility. effectively, in an organization that is set up efficiently.” We provided leadership programs in which we trained participants in these aspects. We KPN provides ING with a managed Unified Communications service, including fixed organized awareness workshops to give and mobile telephony, LAN network (including Wireless LAN), videoconferencing and managers and employees an understanding audioconferencing and a service desk. This makes Connect & possible, but even more of what The New Way of Living & Working important is how you deploy it. “Often we do something in a specific way – from 9 to 5 entails and to agree the rules. We facilitate for example – because that’s the way things were at one time. But that’s no longer the communication and dialog by means of a special case. So you have to ask yourself whether that way is still the best. The benefit is in more New Way of Living & Working group on our autonomous, more enthusiastic and more effective employees.” internal social media platform TEAMKPN Online. Needless to say, security and privacy have top priority for a bank. “There has been a lot of debate about that aspect, and that will continue. But in a world in which people are In the fall of 2012 we launched i change, accustomed to having access to information wherever they are, it is important to invest in the interactive vitality and coaching program providing business information securely. KPN is an essential partner for us in this. They work for employees. The program helps employees, for all kinds of organizations, so they can involve us in the developments and offer solutions if necessary and desirable, to change their if we get stuck.” behavior and it assists them in finding a work-life balance. Topics covered by the It costs money to introduce The New Way of Working but it also benefits ING, program include work pressure and sleeping according to an independent survey by Forrester Consulting of the use by ING of KPN’s habits. Based on the answers, i change gives videoconferencing facilities (at 100 locations in 45 countries). The researchers showed that tips to reduce stress and foster relaxation. ING had saved more than 4.6 million euro in three years on travel and accommodation expenses, labor productivity and ICT personnel, and 2,336 tons of CO2 emissions. To help make working from home ergonomically The New Way of Working has had an impact on Eefje’s personal life too. “I am ambitious, sound, the guide “The New Way of Working: but I also consider a good work-life balance important. The New Way of Working has How to stay healthy?” was published three ensured that I don’t have to fall between those two stools and have the room to dovetail years ago. This guide gave details of how them effectively.” employers can put their duty of care into practice. In 2012 KPN assisted in updating this guide. Together with Arbo Unie we developed a special tool to help our own employees set up their home and office workstation optimally. Arbo Unie gave advice on what topics ought to be incorporated in the tool on the basis of KPN’s policy for The New Way of Living & Working, what is expected of the employees and what the potential occupational risks are. 48 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 76% 2.4.5. CO-OPERATION KPN ought to take responsibility in the To promote The New Way of Living & Working collaboration with other organizations that we take part in the social debate. For instance, benefit from The New Way of Living & Working. we are a member of ICT~Office, the trade In addition, KPN ought to play a political role, association of IT, telecom, internet and office as a driving force behind political preconditions companies. Our participation in the Climate for The New Way of Living & Working. Savers program of the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) focused in 2012 on The New Way We acknowledge the input of our stakeholders of Living & Working. In partnership with the and use their advice and comments to help WWF we drew attention to the KPN Reduction implement the program for The New Way of meter and we took part in the National Living & Working. Sustainability Congress 2012. We shared our experiences within the Platform B50 as well; 2.4.7. CHALLENGES AND DILEMMAS 50 big employers that are innovative in terms Offering facilities and using them of working and travelling responsibly are Thanks in part to our internal research into affiliated to this platform. The New Way of Living & Working we are aware that, in order to promote it, more is 2.4.6. STAKEHOLDER DIALOG needed than “just” offering the technical Under the title of “The New Holland”, Het facilities. Consequently, we have to bring Financieele Dagblad and KPN held a debate the possibilities explicitly to the attention of in the Rijksmuseum in the summer of 2012 employees and convince them of the benefits. 76% OF KPN EMPLOYEES about a new phase in The New Way of Living This is because the vast majority of KPN & Working for employers and employees. employees do not know of the video chatting IN THE NETHERLANDS FEEL The inspirational speakers included the Swiss application and therefore do not use it. It is a THEY CAN WORK IN LINE philosopher and author Alain de Botton and challenge for us to acquire more knowledge WITH THE NEW WAY OF the father of The New Way of Working in the and pass on this experience to our customers. LIVING AND WORKING Netherlands, Erik Veldhoen. Keeping work and private life separate In November we entered into discussions with As an employer, if you offer employees the stakeholders and external specialists about chance to work at home (or elsewhere), there The New Way of Living & Working. The main is a risk that the work-life balance may be theme was the impact of The New Way of disrupted. Employees may get the feeling that Living & Working on society and KPN’s role in they have to be accessible any time, any place. it. The message for KPN was that The New Way The result of this is that they may not be able of Living & Working can be developed even to relax sufficiently. Our internal research more extensively and in greater depth. Many shows that 45% of our employees experience developments affect the cultural side of The a better work-life balance, while 14% feel it has New Way of Living & Working. However, the worsened. Although i change can contribute technology is well ahead of those developments. towards a good balance, we realize that it can We need to use our knowledge and experience be tricky for some employees to maintain that and our role as an advisory partner to respond balance. We have no ready answer for this but better to this; we ought to be able to take the we will look into it in 2013. lead here. At present KPN’s image is too product oriented. KPN ought also to give more room for products and services that are oriented to the negative aspects of The New Way of Living & Working, such as being at work “day and night”, and the gray area between the responsibilities of employer and employee. The New Way of Living & Working ensures that work and private life overlap more. To cope more easily with the gray area between work and private life the advice of stakeholders is to link business and consumer divisions. The developments relating to “bring your own device” were also a discussion topic. KPN needs to formulate guiding principles for using it and set security conditions. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 49 Our social themes continued 2.5. Energy-efficient OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS Indicator Result Target Result Target Target 2014 and 2011 2012 2012 2013 beyond Electricity Energy KPN Reduction Applying and KPN Reduction Developing consumption in the customer meter developed measuring meter applied measuring tool the value chain saves effects of KPN but effect not to measure Reduction meter measured customers’ In 2020, save as savings much energy annually in the Energy Measurement of Further Measurement of – value chain as savings at CO2 footprint of development of CO2 footprint of KPN itself uses suppliers suppliers in the technique for suppliers in Netherlands measuring CO2 Germany according to existing method Electricity Reduction Reduction of 3% Max. 3% growth Reduction Reduction of 6% Reduction of 6% consumption percentage in comparison in comparison of 6.2% in in comparison in comparison KPN Group with 20101 with 2010 comparison with 2010 with 2010 in 2015 with 20102 Fixed and mobile Energy-saving Measures that Measures that Measures that 27.5 GWh +/2.5 20% absolute network in the measures save 40 GWh save 30 GWh save 32.6 GWh GWh savings energy reduction in Netherlands measures 2020 in comparison with 2005 Mobile network, More energyGermany: 8.6% Germany: 9% Germany: 12.8% Germany: 14% 20% in 2020 Belgium and efficient than Belgium: Belgium: 5% Belgium: 12% Belgium: 13% Germany in 2009 measurements start in 2012 Data centers in More energy 27.6% 28% 30.4% 31.8% 38% in 2020 the Netherlands efficient than in 2005 Dutch vehicle Absolute CO2 3% 6% 8.2% 9% 35% in 2016 fleet reduction in comparison with 2010 Green electricity Percentage of 88%  1% 9 93% 95% 100% for KPN green electricity (The Netherlands (The Netherlands (The Netherlands (The Netherlands Group from 2014 for KPN Group and Belgium: 100% and Belgium: 100% and Belgium: 100% and Belgium: 100% Germany: 63%) Germany: 75%) Germany: 76%) Germany: 85%) Percentage of – 100%, of which 100%, of which 100%, of which 100% and biogas green gas in the 1% biogas 1% biogas 2% biogas where possible Netherlands from 2014 CO2 emissions kTon reduction 135 kTon in 35 kTon in 42 kTon in 9 kTon in Net 0 kTon of CO2 emissions comparison comparison comparison comparison emissions with 2010 with 2011 with 20113 with 2012 in 2020 Recycling Recycled and The Netherlands: The Netherlands: The Netherlands: The Netherlands: 400,000 for KPN and reuse reused cell 30,000 40,000 ~50,000 110,000 Group in 2014 phones Germany: 11,800 Belgium: 20,000 Belgium: 10,500 Eco rating Implementation – Implementation Promise to Start implementing Use international of eco rating for of eco rating take part in international eco eco rating from cell phones international rating when 2014 eco rating available 1  he percentage reduction in 2011 has been amended with respect to the Sustainability Report 2011 in connection with a correction to the method of calculation. T 2 Energy saving accounted for a reduction of 3.3% in comparison with 2010. The remaining reduction was the result of the sale of Getronics International in 2012. 3 25,000 tons of the reduction in CO2 emissions resulted from energy saving and greening. 17,000 tons resulted from the sale of Getronics International in 2012. 50 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 2.5.1. OUR VISION: ICT IS 2.5.3. ENERGY EFFICIENCY INDISPENSABLE FOR AN IN THE CHAIN 6.2%1 REDUCTION ENERGY-EFFICIENT FUTURE Energy the customer saves RELATIVE TO 2010 ICT applications can provide considerable To make it easy to see what energy, time and energy savings. We see enormous opportunities cost savings can be made through The New Way for customers to save energy through The New of Living & Working and the use of ICT services, 2010 5.8 Way of Living & Working and other ICT services. in 2011 we developed the KPN Reduction We are intensively involved with other sectors meter. In 2012 we made this tool available in developing more services and solutions on the internet (www.kpnbespaarmeter.nl). that will help to save energy in the chain. We We drew attention to this savings tool at therefore see plenty of potential for realizing congresses and symposia such as the National PETAJOULES our ambition of saving as much energy in the Sustainability Congress. In 2013 we aim to chain in 2020 as we use ourselves. Demonstrating intensify the use of the KPN Reduction meter 2012 5.4 the actual saving remains tricky, however. and further refine the tool. In addition, we want to examine in conjunction with customers As a huge consumer of electricity – 0.8% how we can measure the actual savings. of the total consumption in the Netherlands – we take responsibility for reducing our Customers need peripherals such as modems PETAJOULES energy consumption and “greening” it. KPN’s and routers for fixed internet, interactive TV goal is to operate climate neutrally in 2020 by and telephony. KPN supplies such devices saving as much energy as possible and using but the customer – the end user in this chain only home-produced green electricity. – pays for the energy they use. Since we signed the EU Code of Conduct for Broadband We are well on schedule to achieve our Equipment in 2010 we have tightened up long-term targets and we realized all the the energy consumption requirements for targets for 2012. The energy consumption of our peripherals every year. We will continue the KPN Group fell still further thanks to our to do this in the years ahead, but we will also 1 Including the reduction resulting from the sale of energy saving projects and programs, while look at new energy-saving solutions. In 2012 Getronics International. the volume of data traffic increased sharply. KPN introduced a technique to extend the life This year we received appreciation once again of smartphone batteries. This technique switches from outside the company for our energy the smartphone off temporarily without program and the results achieved, which serves breaking the data connection. The connection to confirm the good progress we are making. is “remembered” and goes into “sleep” mode, so energy is saved. 2.5.2. ENERGY POLICY WITHIN OUR ORGANIZATION Energy savings in other sectors The Energy project group, in which all the KPN is looking at the possibility of joining segments concerned are represented, monitors forces with other sectors to devise and develop the progress of our efforts in the domain of energy-saving solutions. We are working in energy. The Board of Management discusses partnership with a number of grid managers the subject with respect to the targets of top and energy companies to develop “smart management. Since 2011 the targets for our grids”. We presented the initial results with own energy consumption have helped to Alliander at the Metering, Billing/CRM Europe determine the performance-related component 2012 exhibition. of the long-term remuneration package. Every segment sets its own goals. For the construction sector, in 2011 we implemented BouwConnect, which we In 2012 we expanded the scope of the ISO developed further in 2012. BouwConnect 14001 environmental management system for enables companies in the construction KPN Netherlands. E-Plus was already certified sector to select, order and calculate standard for ISO 14001. Environmental and energy products. The system therefore helps to make management has been implemented at savings on materials and energy consumption. KPN Group Belgium as well. Consequently, New versions of BouwConnect were presented environmental and energy management has at the end of 2012. A new product was been integrated into all the relevant divisions introduced as well: WoonConnect, which and firmly embedded in the KPN organization. allows housing corporations and tenants to communicate online. Several manufacturers are already participating in BouwConnect. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 51 Our social themes continued Energy savings at suppliers the number of savings possibilities is continuing FIGURE 4: ENERGY CONSUMPTION Using a method based on sales and public to decline, we have adjusted our target for OF KPN GROUP AND GROWTH information, we made an estimate in 2011 2013: our savings goal is now at least 25 GWh IN DATA TRAFFIC of the ecological footprint of our suppliers in (0.09 petajoules). the Netherlands. We set ourselves the target 5.7 5.8 249% 5.5 5.6 of further developing the CO2 measurement Networks in Belgium and Germany 5.4 method for suppliers in 2012. We failed to In 2012 we also expanded the Belgian and 4.6 do this. E-Plus made a similar estimate in German networks so as to be able to meet the 174% 2012. Suppliers that provide us with hardware sharp growth in mobile data communications. for customers, our network and our IT We deployed more energy-efficient equipment 133% infrastructure have the biggest footprint. and saved on cooling costs, so the increase in In conjunction with our logistics service energy consumption turned out to be smaller. 87% providers we have started examining how For example, in Germany we installed advanced they can reduce their CO2 emissions. More energy-efficient cooling systems at 120 locations 37% details of our co-operation with our suppliers on the basis of free cooling, making use of 0% are given in chapter 3.2. outside air. We will increase that number 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 between now and 2015. We easily met our 2.5.4. SAVING ENERGY AT KPN targets for 2012: we made our German network Electricity consumption (petajoules) If we do not take additional measures, our 12.8% more energy-efficient than in 2009, well Growth in data trafﬁc since 2007 energy consumption would rise by 11% by in excess of our 9% target. Our goal in Belgium 2015 in comparison with 2010 because of the was a 5% energy-efficiency improvement and The energy consumption for 2010 and 2011 sharp growth in telecommunications and data we achieved that with ease too: we managed is adjusted to the 2011 Sustainability Report communications. Our goal was that our total 12%. The energy-efficiency improvement that because of a correction to the calculation method. energy consumption in 2012 should be no we aim to achieve in Germany in 2013 is 14% more than 3% greater than in 2010. Our total in comparison with 2009, and in Belgium 13%. energy consumption in 2012 was 5.4 petajoules. Energy savings measures enabled us to realize Data centers in the Netherlands a reduction of 3.3% in comparison with 2010. A lot of our customers’ own equipment is set At the same time our consumption fell by up in the data centers. The energy consumption 2.9% in 2012 because of the sale of Getronics is included in our consumption, but we have International. Our total energy consumption no direct influence over it. We do, however, therefore dropped by 6.2% in comparison with give our customers advice on energy savings 2010. As our total energy consumption fell in methods. We examine with our suppliers comparison with 2011, we changed our target innovative ways of saving even more energy. for 2013 and 2015 to a reduction of 6% in An example of this is that we were able to comparison with 2010. We aim to keep reduce the energy consumption of the UPS energy consumption constant, even though (equipment that regulates energy supplies data traffic is growing. at peak times and during power failures). As suppliers have now adapted their products, In the context of our participation in the MJA3 their customers can also reap the benefits. (Multi-year Agreements on Energy Efficiency) we drew up a new four-year energy-efficiency Another way to save energy – one that we had plan for KPN Netherlands in 2012. This includes already started – is to separate cold and hot air. the energy savings measures and programs for Hot and cold corridors have been created in the coming years. almost all the data centers, so these two air flows cannot mix. This makes a higher Network in the Netherlands ambient temperature possible without putting To facilitate the strong growth in fixed and customers’ ICT equipment at risk. In this way mobile internet traffic and interactive television we can continue using free cooling – cooling we are continually expanding and modernizing that makes use of outside air – even if the our network. We succeeded in this in 2012, outside temperature is high. thanks to several savings measures which reduced our consumption by 22 GWh In 2011 we committed ourselves to the (0.08 petajoules) in comparison with 2011. European Code of Conduct on Data Centres Wherever possible we replaced network Energy Efficiency. We have thereby undertaken and cooling equipment with new, more to implement energy savings measures at KPN energy-efficient devices. We disconnected that have not yet been applied, and to issue old systems. These measures saved 32.6 GWh reports on them. In 2012 we went through (0.12 petajoules), equivalent to the energy the intake process and we expect to complete consumption of 10,000 households. This it in early 2013. enabled us to meet our target. The saving results from the effect of our savings measures All the measures that we took in 2012 enabled in the network. This compensates for the us to achieve 30.4% more energy efficiency than growth in the electricity consumption caused in 2005 – well above our target of 28%. In 2013 by the expansion of the network. Although we aim to achieve a 31.8% saving in comparison 52 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 with 2005. Our target for 2020 will then be an energy-efficiency improvement of 38%. Offices and shops Outsourcing and the introduction of The New Way of Living & Working have been instrumental in a 138,000 square meter reduction in our office space since 2010. Consequently, in 2012 the electricity consumption of our offices was 29% lower than in 2010. In addition, we “THERE’S AN ENORMOUS SAVINGS POTENTIAL” optimized our office energy consumption, partly by replacing ordinary lighting with LED How many kWh are required to send a message via Digipoort? And can that energy lamps and adjusting the thermostat settings. consumption be reduced? To answer that question Logius, which manages, promotes In total we saved 7.2 GWh on the energy and develops ICT solutions for the government, carried out a pilot. KPN supplies consumption of our offices in 2012. Digipoort, one of these ICT solutions, and provided Logius with the necessary data. “We had them within a few weeks.” We made a start with converting our Business The pilot is extremely important for Logius, says project leader Joris Gresnigt. “Up to now we Centers into KPN XL shops. In nine Business have made our internal business operations sustainable, but this pilot is about saving energy Centers we installed LED lamps for interior and and costs relating to our primary process. That goes to the heart of our organization.” exterior lighting and more energy-efficient air curtains. We are using energy-efficient pumps Measuring the energy consumption was one of the steps that Logius needed to take to for heating and air conditioning. The other seven fulfill its mission – making the processes sustainable and green. “We know the energy Business Centers will be converted in 2013. consumption of the data centers, but not of the entire ICT service. We really need to know this, because when we issue a tender we can then tell suppliers that we want X% energy Vehicle fleet savings on a product or service. That will enable us to make greater progress in We also made progress in reducing the CO2 sustainability and greening.” emissions of our Dutch vehicle fleet. For the Logius carried out the pilot in conjunction with suppliers and two research agencies. When last couple of years we have gradually been Gresnigt asked KPN for assistance he got an enthusiastic response immediately. “KPN has a replacing our vehicle fleet exclusively with variety of data: software, hardware and technical data. They don’t only take measurements; vehicles that have A, B or C energy labels. they also give up-to-date reports. Everything went smoothly.” Furthermore, we annually limit the maximum CO2 emissions of our vehicles. We also want The pilot gave rise to a number of recommendations. “There’s an enormous savings to reduce the absolute CO2 emissions. Our potential. If you consume less energy, you need less hardware. The real benefit is therefore intention is that in 2016 our vehicle fleet will in the costs and CO2 emissions you can save because you don’t have to buy and maintain as emit 35% less CO2 than in 2010. We aimed to much hardware. We are currently in discussion with suppliers, including KPN, about this.” achieve a 6% reduction by 2012 but in fact we have managed a reduction of 8.2% so far. We tested two electric vehicles in the Netherlands and are now checking whether and how we can widen this test. FIGURE 5: REALIZED AND TARGETED ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION (GWH) 1500 1200 900 600 300 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (base year) Ofﬁces in the Netherlands Network in the Netherlands Data centers in the Netherlands Retail in the Netherlands Ofﬁces outside the Netherlands Network outside the Netherlands Data centers outside the Netherlands Retail outside the Netherlands KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 53 Our social themes continued 93% In Germany E-Plus collaborated in a test with we started the construction of a second, similar a car developed by Opel that uses hydrogen mast and we want to put five such masts into instead of fossil fuel and therefore emits no service in Germany in 2014. Additionally, in the CO2. The advantage over electric cars is the spring of 2012 E-Plus opened an advanced greater range afforded by hydrogen. We expect biogas-fired power plant, which supplies 900 kW green electricity for KPN Group the results of this test in the middle of 2013. of renewable energy and 900 kW of thermal energy to cool our data center in Düsseldorf. Green electricity Since the start of 2011 we have been To encourage our employees in the Netherlands exclusively procuring green electricity to use green energy we have an attractive produced domestically in the Netherlands. special offer for green power. We have also We increased the proportion of green energy made special offers, in conjunction with in 2012. We have fully “greened” our gas Oskomera and Eneco, entailing discounts of consumption in the Netherlands. Of this green up to 20% for the installation of solar collectors gas 1% is biogas. We compensate the rest on employees’ homes. Our employees showed of our gas consumption via Gold Standard great interest in this when it was presented projects, a form of climate compensation at our headquarters in The Hague. recommended by the World Wildlife Fund. In 2013 we plan to double the proportion Reduction of CO2 emissions of biogas to 2%. In 2012 we emitted 42,000 fewer tons of CO2. Energy saving and greening accounted In Belgium, where our electricity procurement for 25,000 tons of this figure. The remaining has been totally green since 2010, no green gas 17,000 tons of the reduction are attributable is yet available. In Germany we procured 19.5% to the sale of Getronics International. Our green electricity in 2012 and “greened” 56.5% CO2 emissions were 103,000 tons at the time. by purchasing green certificates, so our total Through savings and Gold Standard climate green electricity procurement was 76%. We compensation we aim to reduce emissions therefore realized our target of 75% for 2012. further in the years ahead and ultimately to In 2013 our target for Germany is 85% green operate climate neutrally in 2020. electricity. In 2014 the electricity consumed by the KPN Group will be totally green. The appendix on the website www.kpn.com/ csrreport contains full details of our energy The first mobile telecommunication mast in consumption, CO2 emissions, waste, water Europe that is not connected to the grid and and paper consumption and the way in which consumes only solar and wind energy was put we calculate and determine this data. into use by E-Plus in 2011. In November 2012 FIGURE 6: GREEN ELECTRICITY 100% 100% 100% 100% 93% 88% 77% 76% 3,435 63% 60% 5,022 34% 18,73 29% 2010 2011 2012 The Netherlands Germany Belgium KPN Group 54 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 2.5.5. RECYCLING, REUSE AND E-Plus encouraged people to return their used SUSTAINABLE CELL PHONES cell phones by donating three euros to its Recycling and reuse partner Naturschutzbund Deutschland (NABU) One of the challenges that faced us in 2011 for each returned cell phone. As a result, was collecting cell phones, of which we sell 11,800 cell phones were returned in 2012. a few million annually. We introduced ToestelLease at Hi, Telfort and KPN in the first In Belgium cell phones are not offered at a half of 2012. Consumers either purchase their discount along with the subscriptions. For this device at the end of their lease contract or they reason a special discount in Belgium for the return it. We work with the Sims Group, one return of cell phones worked proportionally of the world’s largest recycling companies, a lot better. Customers in Belgium returned to process the returned devices. The returned 10,500 devices. cell phones that can be reused are put into our service pool as “alternate device” or sold on the In 2014 we expect to recycle and reuse 400,000 second-hand market. Sims uses the software cell phones in the Netherlands, Belgium and program Blancco to wipe the data on a device. Germany combined. If it is not possible to wipe the data, the device is regarded as unserviceable. Eco rating To make it easier for customers to make an Usable parts of the unserviceable phones, such environmentally aware choice when buying as the LCD screen or the casing, are reused to a cell phone, we have long been searching for repair other devices. Some parts are sold to a reliable, credible and independent eco rating. repair companies. Valuable metals and other Such a rating gives the consumer objective raw materials are recycled; the rest is destroyed information about the energy consumption in an environmentally friendly manner. As most and sustainable production of a device, the lease contracts have a term of at least one year, repair possibilities and the processing and we will notice the effects of this measure only destruction of parts. in 2013. In 2012 the GSMA, the international association In 2012 we collected around 50,000 cell phones that represents the interests of mobile operators in the Netherlands, thereby surpassing our worldwide, decided to develop an eco rating. target of 40,000. Our target for 2013 is 110,000. KPN Netherlands and E-Plus are members of Thanks to ToelstelLease we (KPN, Hi and Telfort) the task force. E-Plus has pressed for co-operation won the Rank a Brand Award 2012 for the most with non-government organizations such as sustainable brand. We achieved the highest NABU. As soon as the rating is available, score for sustainability in a survey of the 13 probably in 2013, KPN will apply it in the biggest internet and telephony providers. Netherlands, Belgium and Germany. FIGURE 7: REALIZED AND TARGETED CO2 EMISSIONS (KTONS) 750 600 450 300 150 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 (base year) In the Netherlands scope 1 In the Netherlands scope 2 In the Netherlands scope 3 Outside the Netherlands scope 1 Outside the Netherlands scope 2 Outside the Netherlands scope 3 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 55 Our social themes continued 2.5.6. RECOGNITION, TRANSPARENCY AND COLLABORATION In common with other telecom providers, in We continued our participation in the Climate 2012 E-Plus took part in Zukunftsprojekt Erde, Savers Program of the World Wildlife Fund an initiative of the federal government in the (www.wnf.nl/climatesavers) in 2012. This context of Science Year 2012, Project Earth: Our international leadership program for companies Future. The project aims to promote sustainable shows that economic growth and a significant development, including by organizing reduction in CO2 emissions can go hand in competitions in schools and generating publicity. hand. According to the WWF annual report 2011 KPN made the biggest advances of all 2.5.7. STAKEHOLDER DIALOG the Dutch participants in the program in terms At the beginning of 2013 we started discussions of all the defined result areas (energy saving with stakeholders about the need for a standard in the company’s operations, green power, for energy saving, the creation of awareness of energy-efficient equipment at the consumer energy consumption among consumers and and CO2 reductions at customers). giving information to consumers about our energy policy and our energy performance. As a corollary to the Climate Savers Program we and the WWF conducted a special offer The problem issue of finding a suitable unit for campaign to persuade business customers to reporting energy savings is widely acknowledged switching to digital invoicing. This saves paper and although the current reports are credible and fuel (for delivery) and therefore CO2 to the industry, investors have the need for a emissions. For every business customer that single standard. Stakeholders consider energy took advantage of the offer KPN donated consumption and saving and the associated one Euro to the WWF. Over 45,000 customers CO2 emissions per MB to be the most suitable switched in 2012. We will pursue this in 2013. for KPN, in the light of the relationship with the Most of the invoicing in the consumer market core activities and the explosive increase in has already been digitized. data traffic. In addition to that reporting, it befits KPN to report developments in absolute Our efforts in terms of energy were recognized energy consumption. in 2012 by listings in several leading standards and rankings. For example, KPN and Unilever For consumers the potential energy saving on, were the only Dutch companies with an for example, a router or phone has very little A-performance that were ranked in the top 50 effect on their budget. KPN will therefore have of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). This to respond to the behavior of customers. KPN joint initiative of global investors questions can play a new and facilitating role in this by market-listed companies about how they deal helping consumers to structure their energy with climate change. KPN was awarded 94 of consumption with ICT. For instance, KPN the maximum 100 points available, 15 more could develop systems enabling devices to than in 2011. communicate at a distance with each other and with the consumer. KPN could also recommend KPN was the only Dutch company to be ranked sustainable products from its portfolio. An in the top 15 of the World’s Greenest Companies independent organization can confirm the of the American magazine Newsweek. Of the proposition so as to strengthen its credibility. other three telecom providers in the top 15 Another possible way of helping consumers to only British Telecom (sixth place) beat KPN’s use energy more efficiently is to make it easy position of ninth. Bell Canada and Telefónica to assess personal energy consumption on the were 13th and 15th respectively. basis of data traffic in combination with elements of a competitive game. E-Plus was the highest placed of all the telecom companies in a sustainability survey conducted KPN can show what it can provide in the domain by advertising agency Serviceplan and the of energy but must also be aware that everything German weekly magazine WirtschaftsWoche needs to be properly organized. A small among 7,700 consumers. mistake may have an immediate effect on the desired sustainable image. In the end, KPN We took part in various organizations and will have to do things so well that others put platforms and gave presentations so as to forward the message, while KPN focusses on share our experiences in the domain of energy continuing to improve its performance. saving with others and to learn from them. These organizations include GeSI (Global e-Sustainability Initiative), ITU (International Telecommunication Union) and the CIO Platform (the independent association of chief information officers and IT directors). We also took part in Innovative Truth (a congress about sustainable ICT and energy). 56 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 2.5.8. CHALLENGES AND DILEMMAS Measuring the effects of savings Data growth and electricity consumption at our customers As in 2011, data traffic grew explosively in Although KPN, by such means as the KPN 2012. We expect this development to continue Reduction meter and the new consultancy in the next few years. The growth in data traffic service associated with it, publishes the results in rising energy consumption, so in potential saving of The New Way of Living & 2013 it will once again be a challenge for us Working and some of the data center services, to reach our energy savings targets. This existing and potential customers decide growth is caused partly by consumers whether or not to take measures. We maintain uploading and downloading large files such our objective of ensuring that through the use as films with increasing frequency. Although of our products and services our customers we have developed apps for KPN and Hi that save as much energy in 2020 as we consume, tell users the number of MBs they upload but we are struggling to demonstrate these and download on their cell phones, KPN savings. In 2013 we will continue to develop has little influence on this practice. the tool that we use to measure our business customers’ savings. We reduce the energy consumption by carrying out savings measures and modernization and improvement programs in the network and data centers. Measuring data center energy efficiency There are various indicators that allow us to determine the energy efficiency of a data center. PUE, Power Usage Effectiveness, is frequently used. KPN uses this indicator to follow continuously the development and improvement of the energy efficiency of each data center and to adjust it where necessary. Because of the differences between data centers and the various measuring and reporting methods comparing the PUE values of the data centers is, however, less meaningful. This is generally acknowledged. Green Grid, an international consortium that aspires to more efficient power consumption in data centers, has taken the initiative to standardize the measuring and reporting methods. Green Grid is in contact with NEN, the Netherlands Standardization Institute, to formalize this standard. For PUE measurements KPN uses the highest and most detailed level of the Green Grid method. “ICT applications are indispensable and essential for an energyefficient future.” Godert Vinkesteijn, KPN Netherlands Chief Financial Officer KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 57 Our social themes continued 2.6. Security & Privacy OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS Indicator Result Target Result Target Target 2014 20111 20121 2012 2013 and beyond Security Number of customers that – – – 5 – take services from KPN’s Security Operations Center Privacy Percentage of Dutch people – – 67% 70% – who feel that their data is safe with KPN 1 We adopted this new social theme in 2012. The theme’s targets were set in 2012. 2.6.1. OUR VISION: OUR CUSTOMERS We drew up a communication plan relating MUST BE ABLE TO TRUST US to compliance, with which we encourage When we decided in 2011 to make “Security employees to stick to the rules. We integrated & Privacy” a new social theme we could not the compliance aspect into some of the HR have imagined that a drastic event would activities as well. For instance, it is now part confirm within a few months that we had of the introduction training of new employees made the right choice. The hack in January and the Management Academy. The annual 2012, when a hacker gained access to our internal Compliance and Integrity survey was IT network, gave us extra motivation to replaced by a broader behavioral survey in intensify our efforts in the field of security which more employees take part and which and privacy. The incident showed that extra deals with more compliance and integrity measures were needed. After all, we regard aspects. The results will be known in 2013. security and privacy as our core business and believe that customers must be able to have Just as in 2011, we offered a selection of confidence in us. Indeed, now that more and e-learning modules and provided a lot of more information is being stored in the cloud, training classes, which are ideally suited to people must be able to rely on their data and specific groups of employees and provide the internet activities remaining secure, any time, specialist information they need in their work. any place. It therefore goes without saying that In 2012 we trained several thousand employees we want to play a leading role in the domain in this way. We are developing new e-learning of security and privacy. modules for a variety of jobs, ranging from call center agent to manager, with substantive 2.6.2. CULTURE AND ORGANIZATION training courses and information on privacy, Culture compliance, integrity and continuity. We will To embed security, privacy, compliance and launch them in 2013. integrity better in our organization and to make them an integral part of our commercial With specific reference to the security aspect, goals, in 2012 we carried out a targeted and employees learned about the security policy extensive program to bring about a gradual and the supporting codes, using the nine change of culture. We aim in this way to Golden Security rules. This ensures that they increase employee awareness of these aspects gain additional knowledge of those security and to stimulate the required behavior; our issues that are of importance for their division. managers have a leading role to play in this. By discussing this together they learn where They have to inspire employees with their the risks lie and how to deal with them. The risks commitment and by acting as a role model. were minimized by means of an action plan. 58 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 We communicated internally about these topics in other ways too. Compliance “Our customers must be able to department employees and our senior management visited management teams, take it for granted that we respect gave presentations for employees and wrote blogs on our internal communication platform their privacy and that their data is TEAMKPN Online. We enhanced the internal secure with us.” awareness of security in unexpected ways and got discussions going about security issues. Jasper Spanbroek, Chief Legal Officer We want to create a culture in which value is placed on employees talking to each other about their behavior. We held workshops to discuss security, privacy, compliance and integrity issues openly with various teams. With a view to drawing even more attention In 2012 over 11,000 incidents were reported to the theme and to enhance awareness even via the central hotline for security incidents, more, in the fall of 2012 we organized the emergencies and accidents, the KPN Security, Integrity & Security Week. The theme week Compliance & Integrity Helpdesk. These ranged featured a lot of excellent debates and from mobile subscription fraud by customers, prominent internal and external speakers who cyber crime and internal fraud to labor accidents elucidated security, privacy, compliance and and requests for company emergency assistance. integrity issues from a variety of viewpoints. After a report is made an investigation is carried More than 700 employees from 10 KPN out and measures taken whenever necessary. locations attended the meetings. The week closed with the annual Integrity workshop 2.6.3. SECURITY for the top 80 managers of KPN. The results Consumers and businesses send and retain of the behavioral survey among employees increasingly large volumes of sometimes were discussed then as well. This workshop confidential data via and on the internet. Their is on the agenda again in 2013. dependence on this has grown accordingly. This makes extra demands on security. Organization With a view to achieving our objectives we The hack in early 2012 was a wake-up call implemented a number of changes in our especially for our customers, but also for us. organizational structure. At the beginning At the beginning of February we announced of 2012 information security was still part of that a hacker had gained entry to a server the Compliance department but has now been domain on our IT network at the end of reorganized: alongside the Corporate Privacy January. In consultation with the authorities Officer for the whole of the KPN Group, who we had decided not to make the hack known was appointed in 2011, a Chief Information to the public straight away. We closed the Officer and a Chief Information Security Officer “loophole”, thereby depriving the hacker of for KPN Netherlands were appointed in 2012. access to servers that contain customer data. In addition, we set up a CIO Office, whose tasks Despite these measures, data pertaining to KPN include responsibility for the security of our IT customers appeared on a website, following and our IT architecture. A team of ethical hackers which we decided to block two million e-mail is being created in the CIO Office as well. addresses as a precaution. Later it turned out that the published data had not been stolen A temporary broad-based project organization from KPN but from another party. –the Security steering committee – was set up in 2012 and is responsible for improving the A team of a hundred staff threw themselves security of our ICT infrastructure and our full-time into limiting the consequences of the services. We developed a new method of hack. We opened a hotline for customers who applying more integral risk management had been badly affected by the temporary in the existing business control framework, shutdown. Over 1,300 reports were received. of which security, privacy and compliance In around 800 cases KPN paid compensation, form part. which totaled almost 100,000 euro. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 59 Our social themes continued In October a problem arose with the app and governance is to ensure that our security “MijnKPN” for smartphones and tablets. professionals act as a team to make KPN even An incorrect coupling was made because more secure. Finally, the Security Operations 8 of a fault in the application, enabling some Center (SOC) is an organization that checks customers to view the data of others. After the security of our networks 24/7 and can react two reports from customers the conclusion quickly to threats and incidents. We installed TOP PRIORITIES was reached that an incorrect coupling had the SOC at our Network Operations Center in indeed been made in some cases, so the app Hilversum. Automated security alert devices TO ACHIEVE was disabled as a precaution. The app was are used for this purpose. The devices give a enabled again when it became clear that “warning” if a potential hack or attack is IMPROVEMENT the problems had been solved. signaled. The SOC interprets the signals and IN INFORMATION SECURITY acts accordingly. We plan to set up similar 1 8 We do our utmost to prevent incidents and teams at other key points in our network. 7 are aware that every incident is one too many, We also offer this as a service to our customers: 2 with potentially unpleasant and sometimes we monitor our customers’ networks for 6 far-reaching consequences. We can see that unusual activity so that we can identify our improved efforts are beginning to bear threats and incidents quickly. Our target 3 5 fruit: we are better prepared, take action is for five customers to take this service from 4 more swiftly and inform our customers better. KPN in 2013. THE IT SECURITY TOP As we took the necessary measures on time, In 2012 we took the first few measures under PRIORITY PROGRAM, DRAWN we were well prepared for an amendment to the IT Security Top Priority Program. Supervised UP IN 2012, HAS LED the Telecom Act that took effect in mid-2012. by KPN Audit and Group Compliance & Risk TO VARIOUS MEASURES The Act now includes a duty to maintain Management, we had a survey carried out of FOR IMPROVING THE continuity and report incidents, which compels the security of our high risk profile websites INFORMATION SECURITY. providers of public networks to guarantee such as those containing customer data. the availability of their services. The Act also These websites included kpn.com and telfort.nl prescribes that telecom providers must make as well as special service websites for big a report if the protection of personal data is customers. A total of over 700 websites were at issue, in the event of a data leak or a hack identified, 220 of which had a high risk profile. for example, or if a USB stick or laptop with The websites with a high risk were analyzed customer data goes missing. In accordance and the vulnerabilities addressed straight away. with the new legislation we report any actual or potential data leak to OPTA and we inform To minimize this kind of risk in the future we the affected customers. set up an internal Portal Authority. This team checks the security aspects of every new KPN IT Security Top Priority Program website or app before it is launched. This is a To improve security and information security mandatory audit. If the website or app does as a whole we set up an IT Security Top Priority not meet the demands, the Portal Authority Program in 2012. This program covers eight top blocks the launch. priorities, which we intend to use to achieve a substantial improvement in information We reinforce the security of our network by security within a short period of time. With keeping the “patch levels” of the operating ICT infrastructure security we aspire to secure systems on our hardware strictly up to date. systems and controllable management A patch level indicates what software version processes. The activities of Web portal security a computer or operating system is using. focus on making and keeping our websites The hack in January was caused by a patch more secure. The purpose of Be Alert is to level that was not up to date. Furthermore, safeguard the crisis management process for we are strengthening the security by keeping security and/or continuity incidents. Neon our firewall rules and software up to date access control is to ensure better internal wherever necessary. We started the updating security for our office network. With Information process in 2012. Risk Management we focus on risks and an easily applicable information security policy. Thanks to the aforementioned measures we Identity and Access Management is used to have now raised security levels considerably embed authorizations management firmly and we will continue to do so in 2013. within KPN. The goal of Security organization 60 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 Transparency and collaboration To improve security in the virtual world we took part once again in various external initiatives and consultative bodies in 2012. Our commitment to combat cyber crime is reflected in the fact that CEO Eelco Blok is co-chairman of the Cyber Security Board. In the fall we founded the European Network Cyber Security (ENCS), a new “OUR SERVICE IS BASED ON TRUST” European knowledge center for cyber security, in conjunction with grid operator “The service of UWV is based entirely on trust; trust on the part of the consumer Alliander, testing institute DNV KEMA, that his data is in secure hands, trust on the part of the employee that the resources TNO and Radboud University. The objective he needs for his job are in good working order”, says Chief Information Officer Frans of this consultative body is to defend vital Haverkamp, who led the European tender to revamp the office automation of UWV. European infrastructures from outside attack, KPN was awarded the contract. by terrorists or blackmailers for example. The selection process lasted a full eighteen months. KPN was on the final shortlist of three. We try to make IT and telecom apparatus UWV conducted a “competition-oriented dialog” with KPN – an intensive discussion secure for the future developments with between principal and bidders. “We wanted the bid to respond totally to our demands respect to the management of the and to what is suitable for our organization. It resulted in three good bids.” electricity grid. There is just one reason why UWV ultimately chose KPN, says Haverkamp. “KPN was simply We signed, along with TNO and Alliander, the best.” The scope of the contract, which was signed in mid-2012, is that for a period the Cyber Resilience Principles. The goal of of at least five years KPN will manage for UWV 20,000 workstations, the WAN and LAN these global principles of the World Economic infrastructure and the technical areas of 150 locations. Forum is to enhance the digital defenses of Good office automation is a prerequisite for the e-service that UWV offers to an increasing the members and other organizations. We also degree. “We want to attain the level of the banking sector,” says Haverkamp. One of UWV’s support and participate in the National Cyber requirements was a high level of security. “We work with the private data, a lot of it Security Center, other members of which are socio-medical, of a couple of million Dutch residents and we have to retain it for seven the national government and TenneT. years. It is unthinkable that someone could make off with it, so security and privacy and an extremely robust infrastructure are of vital importance to us.” Although under normal circumstances we are not responsible for the content of websites, To acquire and share knowledge and experience of digital security UWV took the initiative we are keen to make our knowledge and to found a center for information security. Independent authorities, government and experience available for measures to track suppliers, including KPN, take part in it; “Free of charge,” adds Haverkamp. The publicunlawful or malicious content on the internet. private initiative is in keeping with the government’s wish for a “compact government”, KPN takes part in a coalition started by the a program to make substantial annual savings on government services. “UWV wants to European Commission to “make the internet be the ‘landing strip’ for possible clustering of tasks, for shared services. That’s why we safer for children”. The coalition comprises have to put our own house in order first. Our infrastructure plays a crucial role in this.” 31 companies that between them serve a broad spectrum: content industry, social media, internet access and hardware suppliers. Research is carried out into five topics, on which the participants take appropriate measures: a simple and robust reporting tool, privacy arrangements and settings for children, content classification, tools that allow parents to protect their children, and removing child abuse material more quickly from the internet. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 61 Our social themes continued KPN takes a variety of measures on these five In late 2011 and early 2012 we did a baseline topics. As in previous years, we sponsored the survey in which we asked respondents among Mijn Kind Online foundation, a knowledge and other things whether they consider that their advice center for youngsters and digital media. data is in safe hands with KPN. Although 67% MyBee, the free browser of Mijn Kind Online of the 500 respondents regard us as a reliable that checks whether websites are suitable for telecom provider as far as privacy protection children, is already very popular among families is concerned, more than three out of ten with young children. With our help, in 2012 customers answered “no”. We see this as a sign Mijn Kind Online published the book “Social that we still need to improve. We will carry out Media at Primary School”, which is distributed a similar survey in 2013 and aim to achieve a on a large scale as a free download. A simple “yes” from 70% of respondents. and robust reporting tool has been provided in the form of Meldknop.nl (www.meldknop.nl). To clarify in our own mind what we mean by Meldknop.nl is an initiative of organizations privacy and to make it clear to customers what such as Digivaardig & Digiveilig, Meldpunt they can expect from us, we instituted a privacy Kinderporno op Internet (which combats mission (www.kpn.com/privacy). The mission child pornography on the internet) and is the basis for all privacy and security matters the Kindertelefoon. and incorporates several promises: privacy and security have priority, we enter into dialog Youngsters can use the website for information with our customers if problems arise, we are and tips that enable them to solve their internet transparent about what we do with customer problems, such as bullying, discrimination, data, we never listen in to calls and never read harassment and identity fraud. It gives messages, and in the event of a hack we do information on how and when a complaint everything possible to protect customer data. can be made. Youngsters can also find contact Joost Farwerck, Managing Director Netherlands, details of organizations that can help them presented the privacy mission at the National solve their problem. The program Digivaardig Privacy Debate in The Hague in June. & Digiveilig is a collaboration between industry, government and social organizations to reduce We offer customers ToestelVeilig and PC Veilig the number of people with little or no digital to give better protection to smartphones and skill and to promote the responsible and secure computers. ToestelVeilig is an app that helps use of digital media. KPN is a partner of protect personal and confidential data on a Digivaardig & Digiveilig. smartphone. A stolen or lost device can be traced via a special website (toestelveilig.kpn.com). We also take part in the Internet Security The app also enables a device to be locked Platform, other participants in which are the and personal data to be erased remotely. Ministry of Security and Justice and the Ministry With PC Veilig we offer customers a complete of Economic Affairs, Agriculture and Innovation. security package that gives the computer Within this platform we take part in groups optimal protection against viruses, spyware, such as the Task Force to Block Child pop-ups, spam and other internet hazards. Pornography and the Task Force Notice and Take Down. We are also working on a blocking system to enable access to the network to be barred via a 2.6.4. PRIVACY unique IMEI code. This can be used for example More and more data of a sensitive and personal to render a stolen cell phone unusable. Talks are nature is exchanged via internet. In a comparative on-going between the government and the survey among telecom providers about privacy, various providers to agree on a standard for this. carried out by Capgemini Consulting in the We hope to have a suitable solution in 2013. spring of 2012, we ended as best in class. We still see challenges ahead, such as continuing to improve information security, more attention for internal awareness, taking account of the data protection and privacy of the user in innovation processes, communicating more clearly and transparently, and performing a greater opinion-forming role. 62 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 We look not only at the privacy aspect in our own company, but also at that of subcontractors at home and abroad to whom we outsource work. We include explicit privacy requirements in new outsourcing and offshoring contracts for work in which they come into contact with personal data. A temporary team checked whether our current outsourcing and offshoring contracts comply with these requirements and we revised them where necessary. We are also aware that customers have different perceptions of privacy and privacy protection. The rise of social media like Facebook and Twitter shows that opinions on this are still in development. Young people in particular share personal data with one another more than before. KPN regards the legal requirements for privacy as a minimum, but we are looking for ways to offer customers more choice in terms of data sharing. Developing such a policy and implementing it and embedding it in our systems require a lot of effort. We will make a start on this in 2013 and will then be able to give more information about online security. 2.6.5. DILEMMAS AND CHALLENGES Developments in the ICT and telecom sector follow one another in rapid succession. From a commercial viewpoint it is of vital importance for KPN to put new or adapted products and services onto the market as soon as possible. In their turn, security and privacy procedures and specific provisions in the Telecommunications Act require care and time and can therefore delay the launch of a product. It is a challenge for us to continually find and maintain the balance between these two vital, but sometimes conflicting interests. But in the end we will launch a product or service only if it is fully in compliance with the requirements of privacy and security. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 63 SOCIALLY INVOLVED IN ALL THE CHAINS OUR EMPLOYEES AND SUPPLIERS KPN expects a great deal of flexibility from its employees and suppliers, particularly now that the organization is undergoing changes. It is of the essence that we maintain positive, open and lasting relationships with these two crucial groups of stakeholders if our social policy is to be successful. 3. OUR EMPLOYEES AND SUPPLIERS 3.1. Our employees OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS Indicator Result Target Result Target Target 2014 2011 2012 2012 2013 and beyond Diversity Percentage of women in 17.2% 18.8% 18.9%1 21% 23% in 2014 top management at KPN 25% in 2015 Netherlands Percentage of women in 16.5% 17.4% 16.3%1 17% 18% in 2014 middle management at 20% in 2015 KPN Netherlands Overall percentage of 23.4% 24.5% 23.4%1 24% 25% in 2014 women at KPN 26% in 2015 Netherlands Vitality Percentage of employees – – 18% 25% 30% in 2014 that have signed up for 35% in 2015 i change at KPN Netherlands Social Percentage of employees 69% 69% unknown2 70% – engagement that agree that KPN Netherlands follows CSR principles in its business 1 Results are based on the employee population of KPN Netherlands in line with the population for the public commitment “Talent to the Top” (over 95% of the KPN Netherlands population). Figures for the whole of KPN Netherlands are shown in the appendix. 2 The survey will be carried out in the first quarter of 2013. 3.1.1. OUR VISION: MOTIVATED functions and the Business Market segment EMPLOYEES CONTRIBUTE TO will be integrated into a new organization KPN’S SUCCESS called Business Market. Our employees and our ambition to be the best service provider are inextricably linked to The NetCo division, created at the beginning one another. Only with the efforts, enthusiasm of 2012, is an amalgamation of ITNL and and loyalty of our employees can we bring Wholesale & Operations and is responsible about our strategic plans. An appropriate for fixed and mobile networks. In the course personnel policy that fits in with a changing of the year we set up NetCo's new structure organization is therefore essential. step by step. At Consumer Residential, which includes our contact centers, the reduction 3.1.2. THE REORGANIZATION in jobs is accomplished mainly through In order to solidify our market position in offshoring and efficiency improvements. the Netherlands, we decided to speed up the personnel reduction program we started At the start of 2011 we announced our in 2011. The measures we have adopted intention to effect a workforce reduction of include outsourcing more work and optimizing 4,000 to 5,000 by the end of 2013. We realized our business operations, which results in around 1,100 of these in 2012. This number is a substantial staff reduction. lower than planned, which is mostly due to a staff increase at Consumer Residential and Although the reorganization impacts all Consumer Mobile, which is mostly attributable segments to some extent, the ones most to new hires for the 24/7 helpdesk designed affected are KPN Corporate Market, Business to improve quality of service, the acquisition Market, NetCo and Consumer Residential. The of former subsidiary Sonic and a staff increase biggest personnel reduction will take place at at XS4ALL. The reduction program at KPN KPN Corporate Market. We want to transform Corporate Market is right on schedule. The KPN Corporate Market into a new organization substantial reduction of 2012 forced us to called IT Solutions in order to serve our ask a great deal of the Works Councils, which customers uniformly and comprehensively. handled 104 proposed measures – significantly Parts of KPN Corporate Market, support more than in previous years. 66 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 3.1.3. NEW HR ORGANIZATION rediscover their talents and potential and Because of the new corporate strategy and the to get reacquainted with the labor market transformation of Getronics into KPN Corporate or to prepare for a career as an entrepreneur. Market, in 2011 we decided to adjust our HR organization as well, which we put into practice KPN Corporate Market employees who are in 2012. Our new HR organization consists of or may become redundant are assisted by so-called centers of expertise for the domains the KCM Flexforce team. Consultants join Compensation & Benefits, Talent Development employees in their search for work, inside & Learning, Recruiting, and HR Shared services. or outside KPN. Flexforce's services for KPN The centers of expertise contribute specialist and KPN Corporate Market include additional knowledge on specific themes and advise the mediation for individual employees to whom HR teams that support the segments. the social plans do not apply, but who want to revitalize their careers. KPN Perspectief assisted The new HR organization is designed to serve 214 employees in 2012, 141 of whom managed the segments and to accommodate their to find new jobs (22 inside and 119 outside our needs and wishes as well as possible. Five key organization). The KCM Flexforce team was focus areas were selected in 2012: supporting able to find new positions for 90 employees. the reorganization, developing leadership, implementing Way of Working (WoW), Although we created one single HR organization redesigning performance management for both KPN and KPN Corporate Market, which and setting up the KPN Academy. is already partially operational, both divisions retained their own collective bargaining Supporting the reorganization agreements. Harmonization of the collective KPN's new strategy includes outsourcing more bargaining agreements was not a priority tasks, offshoring, and making the organization because of the economic situation and KPN’s run more efficiently. This is in keeping with our market position. In spite of talks with the ambition to improve our service and to make Works Councils, four labor unions presented our workforce more flexible. We continued our a petition to the management on behalf of outsourcing policy in 2012, assisting redundant 3,600 KPN people. They sought to improve employees in finding new jobs through the the balance between the interests of KPN and KPN Corporate Market social plans, employees, customers and shareholders. which include support measures such as They also demanded a better social plan and a prioritizing internal applications. KPN structural pay raise in 2012. KPN and the unions Perspectief has a key role in implementing reached a provisional agreement in November, the social plan. This partnership of Randstad which was submitted to the unions’ members. HR Solutions and the Smart Group helps It is expected this agreement will be signed redundant employees to discover or even at a regular meeting in early 2013. FIGURE 8: NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AND FTE 4,607 3,141 3,435 KPN Netherlands* 4,238 2,909 3,144 KPN Corporate Market* 4,003 5,022 KPN Group Belgium 3,958 3,961 3,843 4,661 E-Plus 5,065 Getronics International (sold in 2012) 2,782 4,690 907 Other participations 2,577 795 881 18,730 828 773 8,360 17,470 810 19,875 8,087 18,571 12,177 11,080 * Since 2011 KPN Corporate Market is reported as part of KPN Netherlands FTE Number FTE Number FTE Number 2010 2011 2012 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 67 Our employees and suppliers continued Leadership development full-fledged performance management system In early 2012 we re-evaluated the demands in which employees' personal growth and their our strategy, our position and the market place contribution to the bottom line take center stage. on our leadership in terms of competencies. We consulted the Central Works Council on this This led to a new, group-wide Leadership in 2012. At the end of the year we submitted Competence Framework, which details nine a request for approval to the Central Works key leadership competencies. Council; a decision is expected at the beginning of 2013. We plan to start implementing Our new Management Academy, part of the performance management in 2013. KPN Academy, uses the Leadership Competence Framework as a frame of reference. In 2012 we KPN Academy also used the framework as a reference when In 2012 we formed the KPN Academy, designing three international management amalgamating all our education activities development programs for high potentials. We within KPN and KPN Corporate Market. The will continue to use the Leadership Competence number of training vendors was reduced from Framework in 2013, translating the leadership 850 to 100. We now carry out some of the competencies into assessment criteria to be education activities with our own employees. used when hiring or promoting personnel. We make all the education and training activities available to the organization on Way of Working a single portal, so we can administer them In the domain of leadership development and efficiently and simply. performance management we introduced Way of Working (WoW) in 2012. We use this quality Within the KPN Academy we have designed improvement program to train managers to learning streets for various disciplines. focus on the customer, but even more so to A learning street is a process in which a new help our employees to do their jobs as well employee can be groomed to become an as possible. advanced professional. A learning street consists of modules and teaching takes place In the process the manager is assisted by a in classes, via e-learning, on the job and navigator. The manager is given ten basic tools sometimes partially during an internship. and learns to use them effectively. Over one In 2012 learning streets went into operation hundred and fifty managers at KPN Consumer for Procurement, HR, Finance, Management, Residential, Consumer Mobile and NetCo have Project Management and Sales & Service. already completed the WoW program. The results from KPN Consumer Residential show 3.1.4. DIVERSITY that WoW leads to increased productivity and We consider it important for our workforce to more employee involvement. Another be a reflection of society. In 2012 the number achievement is that WoW has fostered a of women at KPN Netherlands was 23.4%, learning culture in which high-performing the same as in the previous year. Consequently, employees help their colleagues to catch up. we failed to achieve our growth target of 1%. This was because of the personnel reduction We intend to continue WoW in the segments in all parts of the company. The percentage of mentioned and to expand it to other parts women in top management was 18.9% (our of the organization in 2013. Our goal is to target was 18.8%) and in middle management embed WoW in our daily work routine and 16.3% (target was 17.4%). to integrate it within our performance management system. In 2012 we made diversity the task of the whole of HR; it is no longer the exclusive Performance management responsibility of a program leader. The issue According to the Works Councils and labor has been embedded at the top level of the unions, our current performance management company by appointing Chief HR Officer system is more about judging employees than Lia Belilos as the “sponsor” on the managing their performance and growing their Executive Committee. skills. This is why we want to reform it into a 68 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 A new network for women in the top 50 requirement to be imposed more and more was set up, which met three times in 2012. frequently, because at the end of October 2012 Furthermore, Recruitment was given the task the Upper House of Parliament adopted a of monitoring top women at other companies motion to encourage government bodies to and, if appropriate, to interest them in suitable include the requirement in their policy. A vacancies at KPN. We also continued our growing number of municipalities impose very mentoring program oriented to women. specific requirements on how social return is put into practice, for instance with respect to We aim to offer opportunities to other groups the period within which people have to be as well, particularly people with a labor market deployed, the number of people to be disadvantage and people with a non-Dutch deployed for the specific project or the origin cultural background. of the people. KPN is already dedicated to giving a place to people with a labor market The first group consists of people with an disadvantage, but these specific requirements emotional, psychological and/or physical cannot always be satisfied by regular initiatives impairment: these include youngsters in the and processes. It is therefore sometimes Wajong scheme and people on WIA benefit. difficult to meet these specific requirements. We recruit candidates in collaboration with UWV and CAP100, an initiative of the Lucille In mid-2011 KPN decided to launch the Social Werner Foundation, which assists in the Return project, to implement it in our policy integration of people with a disability. Under and to roll it out in the organization. To satisfy this arrangement we hired nine people from the social return requirement we sought to that group in 2012. We have agreed that in cooperate with other organizations and 2013 0.25% of the KPN Netherlands workforce government bodies. This co-operation enables will come from this target group. knowledge to be bundled, it saves operating costs and leads to a better chance Local and national government bodies are of a lasting placement. increasingly imposing requirements in tendering procedures with respect to employing people To interest people with a non-Dutch cultural with a labor market disadvantage, such as background in working for KPN, in 2012 twelve disabled persons and the long-term unemployed. KPN employees acted as mentors for talented They want to reduce unemployment in this students from this target group who were in their way and help people with a labor market final stages of higher education or university. disadvantage to gain experience. Social return We collaborated with ECHO, a national center on investment usually means a few per cent of of expertise for diversity policy. Through the contract price or wage bill involved in such personal meetings and learning from one a transaction. The number of transactions in another KPN wants to promote itself as an which such requirements play a part represents employer among this target group. millions of euros in sales for KPN, so it is important for KPN to be able to satisfy this requirement. We expect the social return FIGURE 9: GENDER OF KPN GROUP EMPLOYEES (in per cent) 2012 Top management 83 17 69 Middle management 83 17 Employees 69 31 2011 Top management 82 18 Middle management 83 17 Employees 71 29 2010 Top management 84 16 Middle management 83 17 Employees 71 29 Male Female KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 69 Our employees and suppliers continued For a third target group – homosexual (gay), Various activities were launched within the lesbian, bisexual and transgender employees framework of the program. To make our (LGBT) – we do not have a policy, although we absenteeism recording and coaching more empathize with them. Under the colors of and effective we tightened our processes. One in co-operation with HR Diversity, KPN Pride of the results of this was a protocol that (the LGBT network on our social media describes the role of managers and HR, platform TEAMKPN Online) organized a and the procedure if one of them fails to take themed meeting for HR managers and advisers. action on time or is not sufficiently effective. The topic under discussion was the importance Under the protocol the absenteeism coach of a work climate that includes people rather got a more significant role and HR advisers than excludes them. were trained in the field of absenteeism. A total of 55 HR employees took part in At the end of 2012 we drew up the policy plan these training courses. In 2012, 18% of Diversity 2013-2015. The current organization our managers took the e-learning course is in need of changes, including a review of the “Absenteeism and reintegration”. diversity objectives. Our target for 2015 is for 26% of KPN Netherlands employees to be women. Together with our HSE department, our The focus remains on gender diversity, but we reintegration service and our healthcare also aim to achieve diversity in leadership and insurance providers, we looked in 2012 at the to create a culture that includes people rather quality, effectiveness and cost of all the services than excludes them. In 2015 we want diversity that could potentially assist the recovery and to be a given within KPN. reintegration of a sick employee, including physiotherapists, psychologists and assessors. 3.1.5. HEALTH AND EMPLOYEE VITALITY To enhance the effectiveness of such We invest in the mental and physical health interventions we changed the selection of and vitality of our employees, because this has suppliers with whom we work. Additionally, beneficial effects both at home and at work. in cases of long health-related absenteeism we ensure a better coordination between Health-related absenteeism, support our HSE department, our reintegration service and prevention and ourselves. That ensures a more consistent The percentage of health-related absenteeism policy and prevents unnecessary sanctions at KPN Netherlands (excluding KPN Corporate by the UWV. Market) was 4.0% in 2012. It was calculated in 2011, using the Verbaan standard, the In November 2012 the steering committee benchmark operated by KPN, that the evaluated the progress of the program. health-related absenteeism at KPN Netherlands Overall, health-related absenteeism has ought to be 3.4%. This was our target for 2012. declined, but as in 2011 the highest rate We abandoned this target at the beginning of of absenteeism was in departments of KPN 2012 and developed an approach that focused Contact and among engineers. In fact, on specific parts of the company where health-related absenteeism in the latter group absenteeism is high. We determined the rose in 2012. The same issues keep recurring: Verbaan standard for each of those parts for example, a relatively high proportion of and formulated appropriate targets. long-term absenteeism and, in some parts of the company, a lack of interpersonal skills Consequently, we pursued the long-term among managers. Consequently, one of the program that we set up in 2010 to control and recommendations of the steering committee is prevent absenteeism. The steering committee, to train management to find out the problems composed of three KPN representatives and that are causing absenteeism. We will offer these three representatives of the Arbo-Unie, took training courses in 2013. We also want to initiatives in the context of this program. The reduce long-term absenteeism by introducing line management is responsible for reducing an absenteeism assessor who will give health-related absenteeism. managers unsolicited advice on reintegration. Health-related absenteeism 2010 2011 2012 KPN Netherlands 4.4 4.2 4.0 KPN Corporate Market* 4.0 4.0 3.9 KPN Group Belgium 4.7 3.5 3.6 E-Plus 4.9 6.2 6.4 * Formerly Getronics Nederland 70 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 31% Vitality 3.1.7. CHALLENGES AND DILEMMAS In 2012 we made i change available to all Swift and timely changes KPN employees in the Netherlands; this is an The reorganization is sizable because we are interactive coaching program for companies tackling a lot of things simultaneously: another and their employees. It allows people to get a way of working and managing, outsourcing picture of their vitality and, if necessary, helps work, optimizing the business operations and of employees at the KPN them to change their behavior, for example by improving efficiency. We have to react rapidly Group are women stopping smoking, drinking less, taking more to changes in the market, not only in 2012 but 3,292 exercise or losing weight. After the employee also in the years ahead. It is a challenge for all has anonymously answered a questionnaire, those involved in our organization to realize i change proposes one or more coaching these changes in a timely manner. programs tailor-made for that employee. By the end of the year 3,292 employees Maintaining a positive atmosphere at work had made use of i change – 18% of the We regard it as our task to keep our employees KPN Netherlands workforce. We want enthusiastic while at the same time cutting employees took part in the 25% of the workforce to have registered in 4,000 to 5,000 jobs and outsourcing work to i change program 2013 and 35% in 2015. To bring i change to make our company more efficient and allow us the attention of employees on a permanent to concentrate fully on our core activities. Good basis, in 2013 we are going to set up monthly communication with our employees is essential events in the form of campaigns and activities in this, for example by showing in the form of on the work floor. We also want to make it real-life cases that outsourcing work is a way possible for participants to share tips and of improving quality for customers and saving experience with others via TEAMKPN Online, costs and is not an end in itself. our internal communication platform. Details about our employees, health-related absenteeism, accidents, training and education can be found in the appendix on the website (www.kpn.com/csrreport). 3.1.6. E-PLUS In 2012 the German CRF Institute proclaimed E-Plus Top Arbeitgeber (top employer) for the sixth consecutive year, praising it for its challenging working environment, the opportunities for flexible working and the development opportunities for E-Plus personnel. The employee satisfaction survey that was carried out in the third quarter confirmed this picture. The vast majority of participants was very satisfied with their employer and would recommend E-Plus to others as an employer. “A rapidly changing organization requires great resilience, adaptability and a huge effort by all KPN employees.” Lia Belilos, Chief Human Resources Officer KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 71 Our employees and suppliers continued 3.2. Our suppliers OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS Indicator Result Target Result Target Target 2011 2012 2012 2013 2014 and beyond Code of conduct Percentage of high-risk 90% of high-risk 90% of high-risk 94% of high-risk 95% of high-risk – suppliers that has signed and 73% of and medium-risk and medium-risk and medium-risk the Supplier Code medium-risk suppliers suppliers suppliers of Conduct suppliers Audits Percentage of high-risk 50% of high-risk 80% of high-risk 78% of high-risk 80% of high-risk – suppliers that takes part and medium-risk suppliers suppliers suppliers in the self-auditing system suppliers Percentage of high-risk 15 on-site audits 35% 26% 35% 35% suppliers audited on site annually Sustainable Number of substantial – – – 5 – solutions at sustainable solutions our suppliers implemented at suppliers resulting in cost savings at KPN 3.2.1. OUR VISION: SUSTAINABLE 3.2.2. NEW PROCUREMENT CHAIN MANAGEMENT THROUGH ORGANIZATION DIALOG WITH SUPPLIERS With the arrival of a new Chief Procurement We aspire to sustainability not only in our Officer (CPO) for the KPN Group we drew up processes and products, but also in the rest a new procurement organization plan and set of the value chain . KPN is at the end of that corresponding goals in 2012. The business chain, so consumers and businesses hold us units are no longer responsible for their own directly accountable for the origin of our procurement policy; that responsibility is now products and services. We therefore aim to borne centrally. The purpose of this measure play an active role in making the chain more is to strengthen the importance of the group sustainable and we want to help consumers as a party that suppliers can talk to, and to and business customers make sustainable carry more weight in negotiations, including choices. We encourage our suppliers to those with sustainability aspects. The CPO produce in a socially responsible manner reports directly to the Board of Management. and we make use of codes of conduct, audits The Corporate Procurement department and self-assessments. We enter into dialog co-ordinates sustainable procurement for with them more than ever before. the KPN Group. A sustainable procurement co-ordinator has been appointed at Corporate Procurement; his responsibilities include making people inside and outside the organization aware of our ambitions in the domain of sustainable procurement. 72 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 3.2.3. CODE OF CONDUCT, E-TASC In 2012 on-site audits were carried out at AND AUDITS 13 hardware suppliers. That represents 26% KPN HAS AROUND 10,000 KPN has around ten thousand suppliers. The of our high-risk suppliers. We perform these focus of our sustainable procurement activities prearranged audits under a JAC audit protocol, lies on the high-risk and medium-risk suppliers, which is based on international standards such who represent a procurement volume of as ISO14001, SA8000 and OHS18001. The around 50%. These are mostly producers in principal shortcomings highlighted by the Asia, Africa, Eastern Europe and Central and auditors are violations relating to working SUPPLIERS South America. These companies mainly supply hours, health, safety, and salary levels. We network equipment, computers and software plan to audit all the high-risk suppliers in PROCUREMENT VOLUME and are developing to be global players. Key the next three years – 35% per year. +/50% areas of attention for KPN are labor conditions, the environment and human rights. We consider Shortcomings that come to light via E-TASC HIGH-RISK SUPPLIERS 50 it our responsibility to maintain a dialog with or audits are not a reason to terminate the these parties and to audit them. We also involve co-operation but to enter into talks with the our outsourcing partners in this process. suppliers about their production method and process. Subject to the outcome of the We have set out in our supplier code of conduct discussions we draw up an improvement (see www.kpn.com/corporate/aboutkpn/ program, the progress of which we monitor. Company-profile/Procurement.htm) what we Such a discussion and questions from the JAC OF THESE 50 SUPPLIERS expect of our suppliers. The code is an integral resulted in a major provider of hand-held part of both the standard contracts and the devices promising us that in the future it would general conditions of purchase. In 2012, 94% of the high-risk and medium-risk suppliers be more transparent about the origin of the materials it uses. We also had a similar dialog 13 78% 94% WERE AUDITED DID A HAVE SIGNED THE conformed to the code of conduct. Signing about improvements with two suppliers and ON SITE SELF-ASSESSMENT SUPPLIER CODE the code of conduct is an important statement we can see that this approach is now beginning (26%) VIA E-TASC OF CONDUCT and a meaningful obligation, but we regard to bear fruit. the code predominantly as the start of a dialog. We aim to get 95% of the high-risk and The JAC provides a platform for sharing ideas medium-risk suppliers to sign the code and experiences. In January 2012 a JAC CSR of conduct in 2013. Forum was held in Shenzhen, China, at which the member telecom providers, NGOs, CSR We have asked the companies that we regard organizations, the press and suppliers were as high-risk suppliers to do a self-assessment via represented. The findings of the audits were E-TASC. E-TASC is an online tool that we use to discussed in general terms at that meeting. ask the supplier how he deals with social and Later the forum’s experiences were also environmental aspects. In 2012, 78% of the shared with the relevant procurement teams high-risk suppliers completed this assessment. within KPN. In turn, they included this in their However, if a supplier is audited, he does not regular discussions with the high-risk and have to do a self-assessment. The overall findings medium-risk suppliers. about the way in which the suppliers integrate sustainability into their organization are satisfactory. We want 80% of the high-risk suppliers to do an assessment via E-TASC in 2013. Co-operation with other operators enables us to expand our influence while enhancing the efficiency and clarity of our procurement conditions. We therefore carry out on-site audits under the auspices of the Joint Audit Co-operation (JAC), an association of telecom operators that includes Belgacom, Deutsche Telekom, France Telecom, Telecom Italia, Swisscom, Telenor and Vodafone. We maintain contact with our JAC colleagues in weekly conference calls and bi-annual steering committee meetings. The sustainable procurement co-ordinator is a member of this consultative body. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 73 Our employees and suppliers continued In 2013 we aim to combine our sustainability Since 2011 we have made use of the aspirations more explicitly with our costSustainability Tool with our hardware suppliers; reduction aspirations. By optimizing the shop this enables us to question them about their inventory planning system we aim to reduce energy consumption, recycling of packaging the amount of air freight and the associated and the raw materials used for their products. costs. On the one hand this makes a positive Suppliers are obliged to respond to the tool, contribution to the environment by reducing which we use routinely when purchasing energy consumption and CO2 emissions, and products. The tool is a means of conducting on the other hand we achieve structural cost a dialog with the supplier about sustainability savings. We believe that this combination is aspects on which the supplier’s performance essential for a durable sustainability policy. is substandard. In 2012 we also looked more Consequently, in 2013 we are introducing closely at the possibility of also applying the a new objective: with our suppliers we want tool when procuring services. We came to the to implement five substantial, sustainable conclusion that this instrument is beneficial, solutions that also contribute to lower costs but only if it is introduced across the whole for KPN. industry. For the time being we are concentrating on our hardware suppliers. 3.2.4. RAW MATERIALS In 2013 we will examine how we can apply AND CONFLICT MINERALS the Sustainability Tool even better. The rapid growth of data traffic demands a greater production of equipment, such as Developments in mineral mapping are being transmission masts, data centers and fiber. followed closely by the JAC. Partly as a result of This requires the use of scarce raw materials recent legislation in the United States, suppliers like iron, copper, steel and silicon. Scarce and now have to report the geographical source rare raw materials like tin, wolfram, coltan of the raw materials they use. The OECD and gold are also used in cell phones. Some (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and of these minerals are mined in war zones, Development) has developed an international whereby some or all of the revenue goes to standard for this. The JAC aims to introduce this the warring parties. That is why they are also standard among its member telecom operators. called conflict minerals. Although only small KPN also intends introducing the standard as quantities are needed, the dependence on soon as it becomes available. these conflict minerals, their scarcity and the social disquiet they provoke are considerable, In 2012 we signed a letter of intent with so growing scarcity could lead to higher prices. FairPhone. This non-profit cell phone developer Most of the raw materials, such as gold, copper wants to prove that it is possible to produce and iron, are expected to become scarcer in phones in a fully sustainable manner. We are the future. To be well prepared for such an making our value chain know-how available eventuality, we have incorporated our and committed to introduce the FairPhone requirements and wishes with regard to on the Dutch market and purchase 1,000 environmentally-aware hardware design hand-held devices. We plan to add the into our procurement criteria. FairPhone to our range in the second quarter of 2013, with the intention of including it permanently in the years ahead. We hope that this will encourage suppliers to produce hand-held devices in the same way. Proof that the FairPhone is a hot topic among environmental groups was given at the end of November when members of the young people’s environmental organization Jongeren Milieu Actief, together with Make IT Fair, campaigned to draw attention to the FairPhone, visiting among others a KPN shop in Amsterdam for that purpose. 74 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 3.2.5. CHALLENGES AND DILEMMAS Security and data integrity In the fall of 2012 the American House of Representative accused two Chinese companies, Huawei and ZTE, of espionage. They were allegedly spying for the Chinese government, using telecom equipment. As Huawei and ZTE supply network equipment and modems to KPN, questions were asked in the Dutch Parliament. KPN has strict contractual agreements on security and data integrity with all its suppliers, including these two. Transparency of the electronics value chain KPN is a relatively small player in the international ICT and electronics world, so our influence on suppliers is too small to enforce our wishes regarding sustainability aspects. We have therefore joined forces with other telecom operators in the GeSi (Global e-Sustainability Initiative). However, we and our partners in the chain have not yet been able to make major structural social and environmental changes. In 2012 KPN took part in a round table conference about temporary labor and wage issues in the global electronics industry. The meeting with various stakeholders was organized by GoodElectronics, the international network for human rights and sustainable electronics, and makeITfair, the European project that endeavors to make the consumer electronics production chain more sustainable. The conference gave us a better insight into work-related topics in the electronics chain and the way in which companies try to enhance transparency and sustainability in their production chain. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 75 IT’S ALL ABOUT CONTACT PEOPLE CONNECTED Our ambitions and responsibilities extend a lot further than merely supplying services and products. We want to be a unifying factor, facilitate contacts and keep or get people out of isolation. With the KPN Finest Contact Foundation and our sponsorship activities we show day in, day out how we achieve this. This is a matter of course for us and we do it willingly. 4. PEOPLE CONNECTED OBJECTIVES AND RESULTS Indicator Result Target Result Target Target 2014 2011 2012 2012 2013 and beyond Activating Number of KPN 1,528 2,000 1,272 – – employees in volunteers for the Netherlands the KPN Finest Contact Foundation Target group Number of children 441 400 460 – – coverage in with autistic traits the Netherlands provided with smartphone with application Number of chronically 282 – 216 500 800 in 2014 ill children provided 1,250 in 2015 with a webchair 4.1. OUR VISION: OUR STRENGTH We make a connection between employees LIES IN CONNECTING PEOPLE and society as well: in 2012, 1,272 KPN The guiding principles of our sponsorship employees volunteered to work on the projects policy are, as in our core activities, connecting of the KPN Finest Contact Foundation. That people, reaching a wide audience and number was 728 fewer than we had planned. enhancing the good will towards the KPN brand. With the KPN Finest Contact Foundation 4.2. KPN FINEST CONTACT FOUNDATION we offer, among other things, ICT solutions Via the KPN Finest Contact Foundation we that allow us to help people who, through provide projects with long-term support and no fault of their own, lose contact with others we give new initiatives a helping hand. Once or who have difficulty making contact. With an initiative, SociaalOpStap for example, has a our sports sponsorship we connect skating solid foundation we shift our focus to another enthusiasts in the Netherlands and we also project. We always look at how people and target a wide public in the field of culture: since resources can be combined to best advantage. January 1, 2013 we are the lead sponsor of the We have therefore intensified our activities for totally renovated Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam. KlasseContact, our most distinguishing project. In 2012 we stopped the pilot for “Generatie TV”, a simple television application with extra channels that allows the elderly to stay in touch with their loved ones. We were not able to reach enough elderly people, especially the over-80s, because they had more difficulty than expected with the application and because the demand for the product was lower than we had anticipated. KlasseContact With KlasseContact we give chronically ill children “a virtual place in the classroom” and put them in contact with their classmates, using the “webchair”. The webchair, a chair onto which a camera and screen are mounted, is placed in the classroom. The sick child at home can communicate with the class, and vice versa, via a laptop with a swiveling webcam. In this way we were able to bring a smile to the faces of over 200 children in 2012. Our goal is to provide a webchair to 1,250 chronically ill children in the Netherlands by the end of 2015. The target for 2013 is 500. Volunteers of the KPN Finest Contact Foundation went on outings with elderly people during the XL Days. One of the excursions was to a theater performance. 78 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 SociaalOpStap E-Plus and KPN Group Belgium SociaalOpStap is an initiative geared to children Since 2011 E-Plus has been a partner of the NUMBER OF VOLUNTEERS KPN FINEST with autistic traits. In 2010, together with the Digitale Chancen foundation, an initiative National Autism Network and the CED Group of the German Ministry of Economic Affairs. (which supports education professionals), we The foundation is developing a program to developed a special smartphone app. The app gives tips for dealing with unexpected everyday help people who have difficulty in adjusting to the digital society. The foundation is CONTACT situations in which these children are often at a complete loss. In 2012 we made a financial contribution to SociaalOpStap and made oriented mainly to the young, the elderly and immigrants. E-Plus has a seat on the board. In 2012 Digitale Chancen organized three round FOUNDATION smartphones available. KPN volunteers helped table meetings. One of the topics focused on IN 2012 the children to use the app. helping the elderly to use a smartphone and tablet. We visited old people’s homes in four Since 2010 we have been of service to cities and gave away over 100 tablets. 30 educational establishments that specialize in children with autism, offering them the In 2013 E-Plus plans to support these initiatives SociaalOpStap teaching package, which we not only with money, but also with volunteers ourselves developed. By the end of 2012 from among its staff. around 1,000 autistic children were able to use the SociaalOpStap app. Consequently, KPN Group Belgium took part in 2012, as in this initiative is well enough established that the previous year, in a campaign on Belgian it can continue without our support. beaches involving special armbands and orientation posts displaying a figure XL Days and winter event recognizable to children. Parents can write Every year the KPN Finest Contact Foundation their child’s name and their mobile number organizes two big events in which the central on the armbands in case a child gets lost. In theme is contact and combating solitude. that way KPN Group Belgium contributed We held five XL Days at five locations. Over towards the safety of children by means of 500 KPN employees accompanied around mobile telephony. The 360,000 armbands 550 elderly people to a special theatre show. were available free of charge from around We organized the XL Days in conjunction with 350 distribution points along the coast. Stichting Vier Het Leven, an association that arranges cultural events for the elderly. The In 2012 KPN Group Belgium also supported winter event in 2012 was a big Christmas CAP48, an initiative that promotes solidarity dinner for 650 elderly people. The guests with people with a physical, mental or social were received by 400 KPN volunteers in the handicap and improvement of their situation. staff restaurant of our offices in The Hague, Groningen and Houten, where they enjoyed dinner and musical acts. In Contact met Alzheimer In 2012 we launched a new project: In Contact met Alzheimer. This relates to the development and application of Tréés, the successor to the Lokafoon. Alzheimer’s patients can become disoriented and run away. Tréés is equipped with GPS and helps family carers or nursing staff to trace the patient quickly and simply. We developed Tréés in conjunction with KPN Zorg, the Amsterdam VUmc, the Erasmusbrug Emergency Center and health insurance providers. In 2013 we plan to test Tréés with 100 Alzheimer’s patients. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 79 People connected continued 4.3. SPORTS SPONSORSHIP Also in collaboration with the KNSB and Ice skating, a typically Dutch sport that suits other sponsors we facilitated “skating in us well, is the second pillar of our sponsorship your neighborhood” for young skaters, under policy. Since the summer of 2010, KPN has the name IJSTIJD!. In town centers and villages been lead sponsor of the Royal Dutch Skating we used the facilities of 18 small local ice rinks Association (KNSB). The goal of our sponsorship for this. We brought the KPN Junior Skating and the associated activities that we carry out Club to these ice rinks as well. In partnership is to gain the loyalty, good will and preference with schools and associations we organized of the Dutch skating public for our brand. skating lessons for children aged 6 to 13. Monthly surveys made by KPN in conjunction We rounded off the lessons with clinics by with Sponsorbrein and market research agency former world champions Barbara de Loor Blauw Research show that this works: the and Annamarie Thomas. brand preference for KPN among skating enthusiasts is structurally higher than among The KPN Junior Skating Club made non-skating enthusiasts. Skating enthusiasts are 30 appearances and made it possible for also more likely to recommend the KPN brand over 8,000 children to take their first steps on to friends and family. the ice. The reach of this sponsorship activity was many times greater because parents and We used the skating sponsorship in the business family members were often there to watch and consumer market more than in previous them. Additionally, KPN shops in the places years, so even more customers come into contact in question joined in with IJSTIJD! by making with the world of skating. Our business segment special offers. Customers were given free made more than 25,000 tickets for skating tickets for the ice rink or received a gadget events available in 2012 via campaigns, mailings, such as the popular KPN winter cap or the KPN acquisition or as payment or compensation. “smart glove”, which enables you to operate your smartphone even in freezing weather. In collaboration with the KNSB we want to make skating in the Netherlands more popular We were also the lead sponsor of marathon both for active sportsmen and for spectators. skating, short-track speed skating, inline In that context, every year at the KPN National skating and natural ice skating. We offered Championships in the Thialf stadium we set more than 100 natural ice clubs free skating up the KPN Clubhouse, the meeting place for accessories such as barrier tape, vests and skating fans that is accessible free of charge. “danger: thin ice” signs. This enabled us to Medal celebrations, signing sessions and reach over half a million fun skaters who children’s press conferences take place there skated on natural ice at or via the clubs. and entertainment is provided. Over 15,000 skating fans visited the KPN Clubhouse in 2012. Skating enthusiasts find information about their sport on the portal www.schaatsen.nl. A mobile app was added to the portal in 2012. Schaatsen.nl was nominated as sport website of the year, but missed out on a prize. In line with the “1% Fair Share” concept we donated 1% of our skating sponsorship budget to disability sport. Together with the Fonds Gehandicaptensport we organized the KPN Skating Friends Day for the disabled, on the FlevOnice ice rink in Biddinghuizen. In January 2012 more than 3,300 people took part, including almost 1,000 children with a physical or mental impairment. There were 1,300 more participants than in 2011. The KPN Skating Friends Day will be held once again at the end of March 2013. In 2013 we will reinforce our position as the lead sponsor of skating in the Netherlands. In partnership with the KNSB we are active in various areas under the name of KPN Verbindt Schaatsend Nederland, the aim of which is to get even more people involved in skating. We also use our products and services to raise the KPN is the lead sponsor of the KNSB. Together we want to make skating in the Netherlands more popular for active sportsmen and for spectators. 80 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 profile of skating. For instance, we are investing in the platform schaatsen.nl, the KPN Clubhouse at the National Championships, the IJSTIJD! project and the KPN Junior Skating Club. As in previous years, KPN Group Belgium (BASE) sponsored the Belgian football clubs Standard Liège and Zulte Waregem and the basketball clubs Okapi Aalstar (Aalst) and Leuven Bears. KPN Group Belgium renewed the partnership with the Amaury Sport Organisation to sponsor the bicycle road races known as the Ardense wielerklassiekers and added Paris-Roubaix to the contract. BASE was already a partner of the Flanders Classics (including the Tour of Flanders) and continued this in 2012. The company introduced the new BASE cycling app, enabling fans to follow those races live. KPN Group Belgium is investigating whether in 2013 such an app can be developed Writer and philosopher Alain de Botton during the debate “The New Holland” at the Rijksmuseum: a debate to include other races sponsored by BASE. about The New Way of Living & Working. 4.4. CULTURAL SPONSORSHIP On January 1, 2013 KPN became the lead sponsor of the totally renovated and revamped Rijksmuseum in Amsterdam. We are proud to be able to make a contribution to this national treasure. The Rijksmuseum, like KPN, has a long and rich history and, also like KPN, the Rijksmuseum “belongs a little bit to all of us”. The museum offers us relationship marketing potential not only for our business partners, but also for our customers and employees. As an example, in December all KPN employees and pensioners received two free entrance tickets for the museum. In 2013 we will organize a number of events in the Rijksmuseum for our top business partners and also for museum visitors. 4.5. CHALLENGES AND DILEMMAS We fulfill our role as the lead sponsor of the KNSB with great conviction and involvement. At the same time we want to ensure that the skating association does not therefore become financially dependent on us, in terms of continuity and activities. Our current commitment to the association runs until after the Winter Olympics in 2014. To secure the continuity of the association’s activities, regardless of our involvement, at the end of 2012 we started talks with the KNSB about a possible extension and the conditions of our partnership, so as to allow the association to approach other potential partners in good time. KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 81 SCOPE, REPORTING PROCESS AND MATERIALITY DETERMINATION Scope been assessed as not material. In the interest Scope 2 – Indirect emissions due to: The purpose of this Sustainability Report, of brevity, this report confines itself to a ýý Electricity consumption of sites of the fixed which covers the calendar year 2012, is to reference to the Annual Report for those and mobile networks, data centers, offices inform our stakeholders about KPN’s role in material indicators set out in that report. In and shops society. We regard as stakeholders all those this Sustainability Report there are no departures persons and organizations affected by our of any significance from the GRI indicator Scope 3 – Other indirect emissions due to: operations or with whom we maintain a protocols. This report shows the performance ýý Electricity consumption of third-party relationship, namely customers, employees, indicators applicable to the KPN Group. Where equipment at KPN locations (customer shareholders, banks, suppliers, journalists, relevant, the appendices contain specified data devices in data centers – housing – and partners and social organizations. per KPN business unit: KPN Netherlands, KPN equipment of other telecom operators Group Belgium, E-Plus Gruppe, and other – co-location) The scope of this report covers the KPN Group subsidiaries of the KPN Group. Where available, ýý Air travel (business flights) including its subsidiaries in which it has a the report includes data for 2010 and 2011 as majority shareholding. Unless otherwise stated, well. Unless specified separately in the text, For details of the individual headings we refer references in this report to KPN should be read no adjustments to the data have been made you to the environmental indicators (EN3 to as referring to the KPN Group. References to relative to the data set out in the 2011 social EN7, E16 and E17) in the 2012 GRI index on E-Plus are to be read as references to E-Plus report. Quantitative data concerning the www.kpn.com/csrreport. Gruppe. In this report, KPN Netherlands refers workforce and financial results set out in this to all the activities of the KPN Group in the report has been collected using our financial Methodology Netherlands, including KPN Corporate Market. data management system. The remaining data 1. Activities Outside the Netherlands the principal divisions set out in this report has been collected using a Emissions (CO2 and HFCs) are calculated on are KPN Group Belgium, E-Plus Gruppe, iBasis, standardized questionnaire that was completed the basis of all the activities of the KPN Group. Ortel Mobile and SNT. KPN sold its division by the KPN business units in question. Most of the emissions relate to activities that Getronics International in 2012. Accordingly, The Internal Audit and Corporate Control use energy, such as the electricity consumption no Getronics International data from 2012 is departments used the criteria of consistency of the networks, transport, and heating and/or included in this report. Wherever sales have and availability of supporting evidence as the cooling buildings. As virtually all the emissions an effect on our targets and results this is basis for its assessment of the data reported are of CO2, details of this are given below. mentioned in the relevant chapters and at group level. Validation criteria set out in appendices. The data in this report refers advance were also used to assess the data. 2. Emission factors to KPN’s performance and not to that of The CO2 emissions are calculated by our subcontractors, unless stated otherwise. This report has been checked by KPMG multiplying the consumption data for Sustainability, which has issued certification. each activity by the CO2 emission factors for This report specifically reviews developments The key social and environmental figures, each unit of consumption. These emission and performance in 2012. Aspects of a more which are available in the appendices on factors are updated annually. static nature such as the list of external www.kpn.com/csrreport, are also part of memberships, our stakeholders and this report. 3. Accuracy suchlike are included in the GRI index on The accuracy of the consumption data is a key www.kpn.com/csrreport or reported on Calculation and determination of factor in the reliability of the CO2 emissions http://www.kpn.com/corporate/aboutkpn/ reported emissions calculations. In the data collection process a corporate-responsibility.htm. In the Sustainability Report KPN reports number of factors affect the accuracy of the the CO2 emissions in accordance with the collected data. In general, the data originating Reporting process method of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol from direct measurements and recordings, such The Sustainability Report appears annually at and the ISO 14064-1 standard. as summaries from energy and other suppliers the same time as our Annual Report (the 2012 and direct invoices, is the most accurate. Data report appeared on February 27, 2013). This KPN uses the operational control approach may also be estimated or calculated, using report is based on the third generation when reporting the CO2 emissions. Two of the assumptions and expert opinions. The materiality guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative six greenhouses gases are relevant to KPN: of all KPN units and subsidiaries is determined (G3.1) and has a GRI application level of A+. carbon dioxide (CO2) and hydrofluorocarbons every year on the basis of sales and number of The GRI Application Level Grid on www.kpn. (HFCs). KPN has no industrial or agricultural FTEs (>=1% of the total). com/csrreport specifies which GRI indicators processes, therefore no CH4, N2O, SF6 or are set out in the Sustainability Report or the PFC emissions. For the data collection and auditing KPN Annual Report and which indicators are featured employees use several internal audit measures only on our web site. In addition to these The KPN emissions report is subdivided to minimize the risk of incomplete and G3.1 guidelines, KPN has taken as its point as follows: incorrect reporting of consumption data. of orientation the draft Telecommunications Scope 1 – Direct emissions due to: Sector Supplement. The GRI Application Level ýý Fuel consumption of the lease vehicle Grid sets out where indicators from the sector fleet (employees’ passenger vehicles supplement have been included. Indicators that and commercial vehicles) only require the statement of a position are to ýý Heating of buildings (gas) be found only in the GRI Application Level Grid. ýý Consumption of hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) The GRI Application Level Grid specifies where for air conditioning and/or cooling G3.1 core indicators have been omitted from ýý Fuel consumption of emergency the report as a consequence of these having power generators 82 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 Materiality determination This classification also determines the reporting ýý Our people Materiality is determined annually before priority. KPN regards the themes on which we –– Employee satisfaction the Sustainability Report is compiled. Various want to play a leading role as the most material –– Diversity sources are consulted for this purpose, the and has translated them into five social themes –– Health, safety and vitality basis always being a media scan and the and two additional themes. For ease of reading, ýý Sustainable procurement program outcome of the external and internal these themes are shown as such in the / chain management stakeholder dialogs. The expectations and materiality chart on the next page. However, –– Energy the customer saves interests of stakeholders regarding the social each of the themes comprises several material –– Supplier social issues themes of KPN are paramount in this. Periodic subjects, which are dealt with in the –– Supplier environmental issues consumer surveys are carried out on behalf corresponding section of the report. –– Conflict minerals of KPN to take stock of the expectations and interests of consumers. The results are used In 2012 the following subjects are material The 2012 materiality determination did as input for the materiality determination to each of the themes on which we want not result in any changes to our social and consequently for deciding the strategy to play a leading role. policy and reporting on social themes, and putting the themes into practice. ýý Best ICT infrastructure as we stipulated in 2011. The last comprehensive consumer survey –– Quality of telephony, internet on CSR themes dates from December 2011. and television infrastructure ýý Healthcare of the future Two questions are at the heart of the materiality –– Affordability of care determination, the results of which are shown –– Availability of care on the horizontal and vertical axis respectively ýý The New Way of Living & Working of the materiality chart: –– Virtual mobility 1. What are the themes on which KPN has –– Work-life balance such an influence that we can make the –– Sustainable products and services difference or that can make a difference ýý Quality of service for KPN (e.g. for reputation, costs or sales)? –– Transparent reliable service provider 2. What are the expectations of our stakeholders? –– Customer relations –– Service culture The materiality chart below combines the two –– Marketing and communication aspects schematically. The combination of the ýý Security & privacy horizontal axis (influence of or on KPN) and –– Secure internet the vertical axis (stakeholders’ expectations) –– User privacy determines the degree of influence that the –– Compliance subject has on our reputation and therefore ýý Energy-efficient the reporting priority. KPN divides these into –– Energy savings / climate change monitored themes (dark green), themes where –– Sustainable products and services we want to demonstrate our social responsibility –– Responsible use of materials and (mid green) and themes on which we want recycling to play a leading role (light green). Prioritization of our social themes Monitor: Demonstrable corporate Leadership: High – Biodiversity responsibility: – Quality of Service – Hunger – Competition – Security and Privacy – Shortage of clean – Electromagnetic ﬁelds – The New Way of Living Inﬂuence of drinking water – Pricing and Working KPN on theme – Corruption – Social media and – Best ICT infrastructure Social participation – Healthcare of the future – Partnerships – Our people Expectations of – Young people and debt – Energy-efﬁcient stakeholders for KPN – Sustainable procurement and supply chain management Low High Possibilities for KPN KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 83 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT To the readers of the “KPN Which assurance standards did we use? Our additional procedures for reasonable Sustainability Report 2012” We conducted our engagement in accordance assurance on the energy consumption and of Royal KPN N.V. with Standard 3410N: Assurance engagements CO2 emissions 2012 for The Netherlands We were engaged by the Board of Directors relating to sustainability reports, issued by (including accompanying notes) included: of Royal KPN N.V. (further: KPN) to provide the Royal Netherlands Institute of Register ýý Testing the application of the internal assurance on the KPN Sustainability Report Accountants. This standard requires, among reporting criteria including conversion 2012 (further: The Report). The Board of others, that the assurance team possesses factors used in the preparation of the Directors is responsible for the preparation the specific knowledge, skills and professional reported data and accompanying notes of The Report, including the identification competencies needed to provide assurance in relation to energy consumption and of material issues. Our responsibility is to issue on sustainability information, and that they CO2 emissions in The Netherlands; an assurance report based on the engagement comply with the requirements of the Code ýý Evaluating the design and existence, outlined below. of Ethics for Professional Accountants of the and testing the operating effectiveness, International Federation of Accountants to of the systems and processes for collecting What was included in the scope ensure their independence. and processing the data in relation to of our assurance engagement? energy consumption and CO2 emissions Our engagement was designed to provide: What did we do to reach our in The Netherlands; ýý limited assurance on whether The Report conclusions? ýý Substantive audit procedures on the reported is presented fairly, in all material respects, Our procedures for providing limited assurance data in relation to energy consumption and in accordance with the G3.1 Guidelines on The Report included: CO2 emissions of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI); ýý A media and internet search, to identify ýý Analytical review and substantive testing of ýý reasonable assurance on whether the relevant sustainability, environmental, the reported data and accompanying notes information on energy consumption and safety and social issues for KPN in the in relation to energy consumption and CO2 CO2 emissions in The Netherlands for the reporting period; emissions in The Netherlands. year 2012, as stated in Appendix 2 of The ýý Interviews with members of the CSR Report, is presented, in all material respects, Steering Committee responsible for During the assurance process we discussed the in accordance with the reporting criteria implementing the CSR strategy and other necessary changes to The Report with KPN and determined by KPN. relevant staff at corporate level, responsible we determined that these changes have been for providing the information in The Report; included in the final version. Procedures performed to obtain a limited ýý Evaluating the design and implementation level of assurance are aimed at determining of the systems and processes for the What is our conclusion and opinion? the plausibility of information and are less collection, processing and control of Based on our procedures for limited assurance, extensive than those for a reasonable level of the information in The Report (including nothing has come to our attention to indicate assurance. To obtain a thorough understanding the consolidation of the data); that The Report is not fairly presented, in all of the financial results and financial position ýý Evaluating internal and external material respects, in accordance with the G3.1 of KPN, the reader should consult the ‘KPN documentation, based on sampling, to Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. Annual Report 2012’. We do not provide any determine whether the information in The assurance on the achievability of the objectives, Report is supported by sufficient evidence; In our opinion the information on the energy targets and expectations of KPN. ýý Determining whether the information in consumption and CO2 emissions in The The Report is consistent with the information Netherlands for the year 2012 is presented, Which reporting criteria did KPN use? published in the KPN Annual Report 2012. in all material respects, in accordance with KPN applies the ‘Sustainability Reporting the reporting criteria determined by KPN. Guidelines’ (3.1) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), combined with internal reporting criteria, as described in the chapter Amstelveen, 26 March 2013 “Scope, reporting process and materiality KPMG Sustainability, Part of KPMG Advisory N.V. determination”. It is important to view The Report in the context of these criteria. W.J. Bartels, Partner 84 KPN | Sustainability Report 2012 This is a translation of the ‘KPN Maatschappelijk Verslag 2012’ in the Dutch language. In case of discrepancies the Dutch version prevails. Contents and organization KPN N.V. Corporate Communication www.kpn.com Royal HaskoningDHV Adviesgroep Duurzaam Ondernemen www.royalhaskoningdhv.com RRED Communications www.rred.nl Helder! tekstwerk www.helder-tekstwerk.nl Els Wiegant Tekst! www.elswieganttekst.nl Design Addison www.addison.co.uk Photography Frank van Delft Jeroen Oerlemans Michel Porro Reactions Would you like to give your opinion about this report and our social performance, or do you have any questions or complaints? We will be happy to receive your reaction on mvo@kpn.com. Koninklijke KPN N.V. Maanplein 55 2516 BJ The Hague The Netherlands Postbus 30000 2500 GA The Hague The Netherlands T: +31 (0)70 343 43 43 www.kpn.com
