Table of Contents 2012 Sustainability Report CONTENT PAGE Chairman’s Letter 5 Value Lies Within Our DNA 8 Mission 8 Vision 8 Values 8 The Year’s Major Achievements 10 The Company’s Profile 12 Who We Are 12 International Presence 12 Main Brands 14 Genomma Lab in Figures 15 Awards, Recognitions and Certifications 16 Membership in Associations 16 Sustainability 18 Sustainability Strategy 18 Sustainability Model 19 Stakeholders 20 Communication with our Stakeholders 20 Collaborators 23 Clients and Consumers 29 Suppliers and Manufacturers 33 Community 36 The Environment 39 Shareholders 45 Corporate Governance 47 Business Ethics 48 On this Report 50 GRI Index 51 Content Global Compact 60 Glossary 61 Final Message 62 Contact Information 63 3 Chairman’s Letter 2012 Sustainability Report Chairman’s Letter For Genomma Lab, our stakeholders are the engine driving our value generation from a co-responsibility and mutual benefit perspective. Our purpose is to maintain balance among economic development, social well-being and environmental care. For second consecutive year, we submit a sustainability report —an exercise of account rendering and transparency, a space for contemplating our goals, actions and challenges in terms of sustainable development, and a way to ratify our commitment to the World Compact. The essence of our activities is the people’s well-being; therefore, our first responsibility is to supply top-quality products at competitive prices in order to meet our clients’ and consumers’ needs. Our broad product portfolio and our well-planned promotion and marketing strategies have enabled us to grow as a profitable company for investors; in addition, we are rather satisfied because we have sound Corporate Governance practices which allow us to guarantee our business’s transparency and sustainability. During 2012, we promoted the development of our value chain through fair commerce practices, and a consistent and professional communication plan. Such actions enable us to boost the manufacturing of products and to obtain inputs under sustainable criteria, in line with the principles contained in our Ethics Code. With the Responsible Value Chain program, we promote the generation of inputs to produce our QG5 phytomedicament. We work with indigenous communities that provide over three tons of guava leaves from which quercetin, the active ingredient of the drug, is obtained. Producing such organic substance renders revenues impacting over 1,500 families, with an environmental benefit resulting from production by means of ecotechniques that guarantee clean, economic and ecological operation without the use of insecticides. We invested in our staff’s integral development through constant training, and aperture for promoting ideas, thus favoring an excellent work environment. Regarding our community relations, we donated more than two million pesos to 8 Civil Society Organizations (CSO) mainly focused on health, culture and rehabilitation issues. We provided 17 organizations with over 2.5 million items, including drugs and personal care products. Through the Genomma Lab Foundation, we sponsored the production of a video for the National Health Voluntary Service of the Ministry of Health in order to communicate the voluntary service’s activities and to encourage participation in this task. In 2012, Genomma Lab received the 2012 Award to Altruism granted by the Private Assistance Board of the State of Mexico for its altruistic work; the company also received the Dar es Dar Award (Giving is Giving) for its significant work for the underprivileged. In our path to sustainability, we have investigated trends and estimated risks; we are always looking for innovation to improve people’s health and well-being. 5 2012 Sustainability Report We have also communicated our environmental policy intended to have a positive contribution against the climate change by reducing the environmental impact of our operations with an appropriate management of our internal activities. We have addressed our efforts to exceed the standards set forth by environmental regulations. For the second year, we renewed the collaboration agreement with the St. Ignacio de Loyola Foundation (FSIL) for the comprehensive waste management. Routinely, the foundation collects all the residues produced by our company and sells them to authorized recyclers. The economic resources gained by the FSIL were fully allocated to support its operation and to collaborate, with the Santa Teresita Hospital in the malnutrition issues among children in the Tarahumara Mountain Range. These environmental donations totaled over MX$290,000 to benefit of that institution. As of March 2013, our stocks belong to the Mexican Stock Exchange’s Sustainability Index, which is a further encouragement to work in favor of sustainable development. In this regard, our sustainability strategy is part of the Company’s general platform; it is based on our principles, values and business vision. In addition, it has a management model leaded by our governance organs. This is the pathway we have chosen to prevail in time and render value for our stakeholders. Lic. Rodrigo Herrera Aspra Chairman of the Board of Directors and General Director of Genomma Lab Internacional S.A.B. C.V. 6 Value Lies Within Our DNA 2012 Sustainability Report Value Lies Within Our DNA MISSION Improving and preserving people’s health and wellbeing with innovative, safe and effective products, by giving development opportunities to our collaborators and profitability to our shareholders, with a positive impact on both the community and the environment. VISION Becoming leading company in our drugs and personal care products categories, recognized by our positive impact on the health and well-being of people, communities, and the environment. VALUES Integrity Behaving honestly in all the areas of our business; acting in ethical manner; being responsible and professional in our work; being straightforward and direct in our communication. Innovation and Creativity Generating new ideas, challenging the established criteria, taking on risks, backing up changes, stimulating innovation, and solving problems in a creative way. Sustainability Acting based on a long-term vision with an ethical and transparent management that considers social and environmental criteria, and also the stakeholders’ expectations. Teamwork Collaborating with our workmates on a coordinated and harmonic basis. Assisting the team leader to meet the goals by taking advantage of the strengths and cooperating towards successful work. Efficiency and Effectiveness Timely responding to the achievement of assigned goals and tasks, by using the best means available for the proper performance of our work. 8 The Main Achievements of the Year 2012 Sustainability Report The Year’s Major Achievements Collaborators: • Over 1,200 direct job positions were created. • 190 training courses were provided for developing new labor skills, with the participation of 100% of collaborators in Mexico. Clients: • 43,000 points of sale in Mexico and 104,000 in international operations. • 98% satisfaction degree in customer service. Suppliers and • 95% are domestic suppliers and manufacturers. manufacturers: • Over 300 ongoing improvement projects. Community: • Over 2 million pesos donated to 8 Civil Society Organizations oriented towards health, culture, and rehab issues. • We provided 17 organizations with over 2.5 million items, including drugs and personal care products. Environment: • We recycled 130 tons of residues from our Headquarters and the Distribution Center. • The carbon footprint generated by Genomma Lab is equivalent to 4,783 tons of CO2, similar to the electric consumption of 8,791 low-cost housing in the State of Mexico. Shareholders: • Our net sales increased by 21.6% as compared to 2011. • We started operations in the Dominican Republic and we are stepping firmly onto growth by acquiring 5 brands of products, including Fermodyl and XL-3, the latter a leading brand in flu remedies. 10 The Company’s Profile 2012 Sustainability Report The Company’s Profile Who We Are We render health and well-being by developing, marketing and promoting OTC (over-thecounter) products, personal care products, and a line of generic drugs in Mexico and other 15 international markets. We are the fastest-growing company in the OTC* pharmaceutical products industry, generic drugs, and personal care products in Mexico. Our vision is to continue crossing borders, expanding and growing in new markets in order to be a progress engine in the countries where we operate in. We are positioned as the Mexican pharmaceutical company leading OTC, and one of the major players in the markets of the generic drugs and personal care products. International Presence Genomma Lab is present in 16 countries of the Americas. In 2012, we started operations in the Dominican Republic. Our vision is to continue crossing borders, expanding and growing in new markets in order to be a progress engine in the countries where we operate in. *OTC – Over-the-counter, free sale products which can be obtained without medical prescription. 12 2012 Sustainability Report North America • United States • Mexico* Central America • Guatemala • Dominican Republic • Bolivia • Brazil • Peru • Chile • Argentina * Genomma Lab Internacional’s headquarters are located in Mexico, with a Laboratory of Research and Development and the Distribution Center concentrating all the drugs and health products marketed by the company. 13 2012 Sustainability Report Major Brands Some of Genomma Lab’s best selling brands are ranked among the top brands in terms of market share, within the product category or industry segment they pertain to. We offer over 700 products with high-growth rates in ophthalmic products, lotions, anti-cholesterol different categories: anti-acne, cream for improving products and generic drugs, among others. the scarred skin texture, shampoos, soaps, deodorants, products to prevent hair loss, ointment The five top-selling brands which, in general, for muscle pain, anti-fungal treatments, colitis account for 33.3% of the company’s net sales are: relief treatments, anti-stress treatments, anti-aging products, antacids, anti-ulcer drugs, cold remedies, sexual protection and improvement products, wart removal products, anti-hemorrhoid products, varicose veins relief, drugs for osteoarthritis, We have full confidence in the future and we will continue to grow. 14 2012 Sustainability Report Position in Percentage Share in the Category Brand Product Category the Category in total sales (1) (2) (3) Asepxia Antiacné (4) 65% 1 12.2% Cicatricure Scar fading 75% 1 10% Goicoechea Varicose veins treatment 49% 1 4.6% Tío Nacho Hair care N/A N/A 3.5% Vanart Hair care N/A N/A 3.4% N/A A in this table means that the market information is not available in IMS Health. (1) Share in the category in Mexico, in terms of sales for 2012. Source: IMS Health. (2) The brand’s position within the product category in Mexico as of December 31, 2012. Source: IMS Health. (3) Percentage resulting from dividing the sales per brand by total sales in 2012. (4) The anti-acne category with which the Asepxia’s market share was calculated, is the sum of all the markets of oral and topical products, as reported by IMS Health. The determination of Asepxia’s market share results from adding the sales per category, as reported by IMS Health. If you want to become more familiar with the brands, please visit the following link: http://www.genommalab.com/es/productos.aspx Genomma Lab in Figures • Net sales (million pesos) $9,799.7 • EBITDA (million pesos) $2,607.6 • Mexico represents 77% of total sales; international sales account for 23%. • We have 91 active brands, leaders and with strong shares within their categories. • Our portfolio has 700 products with high-growth rates in different categories. • 43,000 points of sale in Mexico and 104,000 in international operations. • We have 1,268 collaborators. In Mexico, during 2012, we acquired a package of personal care brands including Fermodyl, Altiva, Zan Zusi, Amara, Larisá, Bioskin, and XL-3. Through our subsidiary Genomma Lab Argentina, we acquired, for the first time, brands out of Mexico: Piecidex and Babysan. Also, we signed an agreement to acquire the Tafirol medicaments brand. With our subsidiary Genomma Lab Brazil, we signed a license agreement for eight years with Laboratorios Andromaco for the use of the Dermaglós brand in Brazil. 15 2012 Sustainability Report Awards, Recognitions and Certifications • Dar es Dar Award granted by the Private Assistance Board of the Federal District. • State Altruism Award, granted by the Private Assistance Board of the State of Mexico. Membership in Associations • National Chamber of the Pharmaceutical Industry. • National Association of Pharmaceutical Chemists-Biologists of Mexico. • Chamber of Commerce of Lima. • Association of Cosmetic Producers and Marketing Companies of Ecuador. • Chamber of Commerce of Guayaquil. • Chamber of Commerce of Bogotá. • CEOs’ Forum. 16 Sustainability 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability Sustainability Strategy Our vision and our actions as to sustainability arise from our corporate values and aims, as well as from our responsibility towards all of our stakeholders. We continue to work in sustainability-oriented It is worth mentioning that we started a work process actions, intended to multiply the positive economic, to step further into sustainability with initiatives that social, and environmental impact of Genomma Lab may allow us to redefine the strategic pillars and through transversal strategies which, in addition to set goals and commitments in the short and to involve all the areas of the Company, take into medium term. We know that all of this will result in consideration our stakeholders’ expectations. a greater impact and the increased efficiency of our sustainable investment. In 2012, we continued integrating sustainability aspects to our policies and procedures. This required internal restructuring, by reformulating undertaken actions, and aligning our performance to a series of indicators o several sustainability methodologies, such as the Global Compact, the Global Reporting Initiative, indicators proposed by the Sustainable Prices and Quotations Index, CEMEFI’s indicators, as well as other schemes such as the Gender Equity Model, Inclusive Enterprise, and Family Responsible Company. Our purpose is to maintain the balance among economic development, social well-being and environmental care. 18 2012 Sustainability Report Sustainability Model Values Stakeholders Integrity Collaborators Consumers and clients Innovation Manufacturers and suppliers Creativity Community Teamwork Authorities and Regulatory Entities Sustainability Shareholders and Investors Financial Entities Efficiency and Communicators / Opinion Leaders Effectiveness Civil Society Organizations Chambers Competitors 1 2 3 4 5 Mission Action Vectors SUSTAINABILITY Improving and preserving people’s health and wellbeing with innovative, safe and Economic Performance effective products, by giving development opportunities to our collaborators and profitability to our shareholders with, with a Social Performance positive impact on both the community and the environment. Environmental Performance Vision Becoming leading company in our drugs and personal care products categories, recognized for our positive impact on the health and well-being of people, communities, and the environment. The path we have chosen to prevail in time and render value for all of our stakeholders is based on our principles, values, and business vision. 19 2012 Sustainability Report Stakeholders Our results and achievements are possible thanks to our collaborators’ commitment and the creative and innovative work they provide to Collaborators the company. Therefore, we generate several actions focused on their personal and professional development, in order to guarantee a healthy, safe, and diverse work environment. In Genomma Lab, we always act to meet our consumers’ health and Consumers beauty needs by marketing products that provide well-being, beauty, and happiness. Our manufacturers and suppliers are fundamental allies for our business’s development; we maintain relationships based on trust Suppliers and Manufacturers through different initiatives, and mainly, by promoting the best practices oriented to meeting strict quality control and sustainable performance. Through the Genomma Lab Foundation, we undertake several actions Community to assist the community’s health care and quality of life. Based on our environmental policy, we undertake actions and efforts Environment to preserve and look after the planet. We strive to secure our capacity for continued profitable growth in the Shareholders future, creating value for our shareholders, generating jobs and wealth around us. Communication with our Stakeholders Our company’s reason to exist lies on meeting our stakeholders’ demands and expectations, aspects on which we focus our work with a perspective of efficiency and performance, based on ethical principles and sustainable standards where co-responsibility, constant communication and mutual benefit are the common denominators. The table below shows the communication media that we use to communicate with our stakeholders, as well as the contact frequency and associated expectations. 20 2012 Sustainability Report Ways of Stakeholders Contact Frequency Expectations Communication Assortment Prices Market research Product quality Consumer Satisfaction Surveys Ongoing /yearly Service quality Comments Box Environmental care Training Constant communication Programs and benefits for the collaborators and Collaborators Work climate surveys Ongoing /yearly their families Compensation surveys Recognition systems Environmental care Value chain development Suppliers and Constant communication Ongoing Fair trade manufacturers Long-term relations Compliance with laws and regulations Authorities and Permanent contact Ongoing Active involvement in the industry’s key topics Regulatory Entities Environmental care Transparency Financial entities Permanent contact Ongoing / weekly True and timely information Compliance with laws and regulations Value creation Transparency Investors Permanent contact Quarterly /yearly Constant communication True and timely information Constant communication Communication media Permanent contact Ongoing True and timely information Communicators / Constant communication Permanent contact Ongoing opinión leaders Timely and truthful information Community support Community perception Society Yearly Activity Information surveys Access to drugs Generation of social and economic value Environmental care Meetings Ongoing / monthly / Transparency Shareholders Conferences yearly Fair treatment Internet True and timely information Constant communication Support Civil Society Meetings Six-monthly Synergies Organizations Environmental care Support Chambers Meetings Monthly Sharing good practices and experiences Driving the sector’s agenda 21 Collaborators 2012 Sustainability Report Collaborators Well-being at Work We support actions and projects promoting both human and professional development. Our team of collaborators is integrated by young, educated people who are committed to innovation through work and dedication to the company’s objectives. The individuals working for Genomma Lab are fundamental pillars that contribute value to our business. Therefore, their motivation and sense of belonging are core objectives. We look after their satisfaction by promoting relationships based on trust and with actions that improve their quality of life, professional growth and the creation of an excellent work environment. Number of collaborators: 23 2012 Sustainability Report Health and Safety We have several initiatives oriented towards our collaborators in order to secure their health, safety and the optimal development of their activities. In our work centers we maintain strict standards to This 2012, the most important actions include the preserve our collaborators’ health and safety. These implementation of ergonomic furniture, location are validated by the fact that we do not have mortal variables, natural lighting, and increased ventilation, victims from work accidents. Our Distribution Center which have allowed us to optimize our environment (CEDIS) meets all the safety, health and hygiene and our collaborators’ well-being. Recently, brigades standards set forth by the Civil Protection Law for have been created in order to provide health and the State of Mexico. And for any contingencies safety training in adherence to the civil protection which may occur, there is a head of health and law. safety working in coordination with a medical team throughout the working day. We have health and safety standards and procedures. We promote healthy habits and practices. Development and Training We are convinced that our collaborators are a fundamental piece to maintain the company’s success, so we have the commitment to seek their development and to observe their performance in a work environment promoting their comprehensive well-being. Genomma Lab provides their collaborators with the Because of the requirements resulting from our means and education programs so that they can be incursion into international markets, we had to in continuous learning and achieve professional and provide English language lessons in the mornings personal growth; therefore, we keep on propping and evenings, extending such benefit to the families the individual development program focused on of collaborators for the Headquarters and the potentiating values, abilities and skills. Distribution Center. We started the “Development Circles”, a program Our main objective is to provide our collaborators that provides free workshops and operates through with multiple tools that may help them identify and an information network in order to spread among all develop new skills that can be useful to grow in their the collaborators the new insights obtained by the expectations and work achievements. In 2012, these Company’s coworkers, and to become familiar with commitments meant 190 courses on different topics, each area’s activities. providing training to 100% of the collaborators in Mexico. 24 2012 Sustainability Report Benefit Plan Collaborators’ motivation and sense of belonging are the main purposes which have driven us to offer, in addition to the benefits established by law, multiple social benefits as per our Talent Attraction Policy and other internal Policies, which promote work satisfaction and low voluntary rotation. Our creative and innovative vision enables us to provide activities and benefits that promote an increased well-being for our collaborators and their families, including: • Diner service. • Savings fund. • Acciónate Plan. • Commercial benefits. • Life balance / assistance. • Basket of the company’s products. • Transportation for employees. • Integration events. • Major medical insurance and life insurance. • Paternity leave. • Vacations. Reconciliation of Work and Family Life We seek to provide our collaborators with spaces and activities to enhance family integration and life; we continue promoting in our operation the principles of the “Life Balance / Assistance” policy which define diverse working hours, benefits for time management in and outside of the office, and leave permits for family and personal engagements in areas such as health, maternity/paternity, holidays, death, etc. Equity and Equality of Opportunities We have several policies and actions to ensure Resulting from such actions, in 2012 we obtained equal opportunities in hiring, promotion, transfers, the Gender Equity Model (MEG:2003) reindemnifications, social programs, disciplinary certification granted by the National Women Institute actions, dismissal, and all other labor practices, (INMUJERES), as a recognition for organization applicable to all the employees regardless of their promoting equal opportunities among their gender, age, nationality, religion, sexual orientation, collaborators; this is the outcome of the implemented skin color, ideology, political affiliation, and mental or management model and of the following physical disability. achievements: • Sensitization and training program on equity and diversity. • Performance evaluation system. • Staffing based on knowledge, skills and abilities. • Fostering professional education and development. • Correcting problems of occupational segregation. • Increasing the number or women in higher positions and equal wages. 25 2012 Sustainability Report Participation per Gender. 70% 30% Inclusive Enterprise Throughout the year we have implemented various Resulting from these and other actions, we have been actions associated with the inclusion to work of recognized four times by the Ministry of Labor and disabled individuals. We continue adding to our work Social Welfare with the “Gilberto Rincón Gallardo” force, persons in vulnerable conditions, providing Inclusive Enterprise Award. We also obtained the them with training so that they can acquire new skills Family Responsible Company Award because and become their family’s support. we have several activities to foster work-family reconciliation, equality of opportunities, fighting work We keep our offices furnished with ramps, elevators violence, and sexual harassment. and toilets that facilitate the access and stay of any disabled persons. 26 2012 Sustainability Report Human Rights In Genomma Lab we are committed to secure, honor and support human rights both internally and externally in all of the Company’s influence areas. This topic has become an acquired responsibility at all levels in the Company, from the Senior Management to the organization’s collaborators, including our suppliers. In this sense, the Office of the Business Expansion and Human Capital Vicepresident works together with other Vice-Presidents’ Offices in meeting the guidelines set forth in the conduct code: • Refraining from discriminating based on religion, gender, socioeconomic level, sexual orientation, nationality, ethnic group, age, civil status, or disability. • Refraining from participating in any sort of harassment or hounding, whether psychological, economic, sexual or power. • Understanding and honoring the person’s human rights, as well as avoiding and denouncing any act against human dignity. • Respecting the culture, usages and customs, indigenous languages, and any normal expression of cultural diversity in the countries and regions we operate in. • Rejecting the use of bodily punishments, mental or physical constraint, and verbal abuse between collaborators and managers. In order to make sure that such principles are fulfilled and to penalize any practices contrary to those established, we have accessible and anonymous denunciation means to hear any comments, complaints, or suggestions. Labor DNA Our labor DNA is synthesized as follows: • Values are promoted and experienced. • People are appreciated. • Ideas are valued. • Talents are discovered and potentiated. • Differences are honored. • Human rights are respected and promoted. • Responding to the balance work and family life needs. • Development opportunities are offered. Besides constantly adding benefits, we are convinced that it is important to recognize our collaborators’ efficient work and personal achievements. 27 Clients and Consumers 2012 Sustainability Report Clients and Consumers Satisfaction and Communication We are continuously evaluating the comments and claims we receive, and we implement actions to meet consumers’ and clients’ expectations. Meeting our consumers’ and clients’ needs is essential to achieve long-term success of our business. Keeping their trust and loyalty depends on supplying beauty products, generic drugs and OTCs that meet their needs and fulfill the promise with state in our advertising messages. The foundation of our relationship with consumers and clients is aligned with doing what we know how to do, under the sustainability perspective proposed by the United Nations in the 10 Principles of the World Compact’ and our own sustainability model action core lines. In this sense, besides offering quality products at competitive prices, our bet is that our consumers meet their basic health needs, obtain safe and quality products to enhance their well-being, and have the information required to make an informed decision. Consumer Communication Our consumer communication is oriented towards increasing our brands’ value and our products’ sales with innovative advertising campaigns developed internally by our creative production team. This, we inform consumers clearly about the medical conditions to be treated with the products we promote, highlighting their characteristics and efficacy. Product Labeling Since we are aware of our responsibility, we include in all of our products the information required by the labeling regulations set forth by the laws of the various countries we operate in. Our labels contain all the information needed to properly choose the drugs and how to use them safely. We always make available information about use, handling, and consumption, to our consumers. 29 2012 Sustainability Report Below we include the references we use in our labels: It contains the “active ingredient” ”, which is the drug’s scientific name, and indicates the amount contained. It identifies the “uses”, indicating the symptoms or problems treated by the drug. It shows “warnings and contraindications” which state what persons should not use it; it indicates what to do and what not to do, and also any potential side effects. It makes clear “how to use the drug”, this is, who can use it, age, intake, time, etc. It informs the “contact data”, customer service telephone number for doubts and comments. Innovation and Technological Development Center (CIDET) Another important element for developing sound relationships with our consumers in the Innovation and Technological Development Center (CIDET), an applied research laboratory which gathers a group of renowned scientists and specialists in the fields of natural products, with capacity for conducting studies and developing methods to ensure all of our medications’ safety, efficacy, and high quality levels. Regulatory Compliance Our marketing and communication policies demand compliance with the highest regulatory standards. The Company’s regulatory matters division is responsible for verifying and complying with any applicable regulations regarding the development, sale and promotion of a wide variety of the pharmaceutical products (OTC), generic drugs and personal care products marketed by the Company. We fully adhere to the compliance with the standards and laws set forth by the governments and health authorities of the countries we operate in. 30 2012 Sustainability Report Genomma Lab fully complies with all the different The COFEPRIS is the authority in charge of regulalaws, regulations and standards, such as the Geting the safety, production, labeling, and distribution neral Health Law, the Regulation for Health Inputs, of pharmaceutical products (OTC), generic drugs, the Regulation for the Sanitary Control of Products and personal care products, and it has the authority and Services, the regulation of the General Health to regulate the advertising of any such products, inLaw in Advertising Matters, the Pharmacopoeia for cluding printed materials, television, billboards, etc. the United Mexican States, the Herbalist’s PharmaThe PROFECO is the agency in charge of advising copoeia for the United Mexican States, the Federal and generating equality in the relationship between Law for Consumer Protection and the various Mexiconsumers and suppliers to resolve any differences. can Official Norms. In 2012, we had none significant non-compliances In addition to the norms, we subject our operations, with the COFEPRIS, only observations that were advertising messages, and facilities verification to immediately dealt with. In regarding consumer the varied legal provisions for Health Ministries or claims in the PROFECO, we addressed them all Secretariats in the countries we operate in, and and reached settlements with the parties involved to other decentralized organs, such as the COFEPRIS their full satisfaction and the PROFECO in Mexico. Client and Consumer Service In order for our ongoing improvement and to serve clients and consumers, we make available for them several communications means such as the telephone line 01 800 71 71 305, the inserts in all of our drugs and products, communication through social networks such as Facebook and Twitter, and through our site at: www.genommalab.com and via e-mail at: atencion.clientes@genommalab.com. In 2012, we served 100% of all the complaints, questions and comments we received. 31 Suppliers and Manufacturers 2012 Sustainability Report Suppliers and Manufacturers Quality and Safety Both suppliers and manufacturers are critical for our business’s success. Therefore, we must make sure that they meet all the quality, safety, health, and environmental requirements and that they adhere to the existing regulations in the countries where we market our pharmaceutical products (OTC), generic drugs, and personal care products. Quality and safety are present in selecting raw materials, throughout the production process, and in the postconsumption phase. Our supplier selection, evaluation, and admission policy contains the guidelines and involves the area in charge of obtaining quality inputs, machinery selection and verification criteria, facilities, quality certifications, and staff conditions in topics such as health, safety, human rights, among others. The criteria on which we base our relationship with manufacturers and suppliers include: • Quality in every action • Cost optimization • Joint effort in common challenges • Ongoing innovation • Identifying joint business opportunities • Adhering to legal and regulatory compliance • Honoring human rights • Environmental care in the operations • To share best practice on social responsibility and ethics • Long-term relationships and good service Percentage of suppliers and manufacturers: 95% 5% Domestic International 33 2012 Sustainability Report Regulatory Compliance All of our suppliers and manufacturers adhere to the compliance of laws and regulations in Mexico and the other countries we operate in. We have our guidelines and procedures required for establishments within the chemicalto select and assess the performance of suppliers pharmaceutical industry, dedicated to drug and manufacturers as to quality, health, safety, manufacturing. They also conduct strict testing and environmental matters. All of them must pass to ensure high quality, as well as safety and several strict audits in adherence to the international effectiveness. guidelines of good manufacturing practices, legal compliance, efficient facilities, and trained staff For those drugs which require animal testing prior in order to meet the regulations of the Ministry of to be launched to the market, we make sure that Health and other regulatory aspects required in the such are conducted in certified labs meeting all the countries we operate in. regulations and which have protection programs for such species. Our suppliers and manufacturers network meets the national and international standards of good manufacturing practices Audits Absolutely all of our products are tested with scientific methodologies in order to guarantee their quality. We conduct good practices compliance reviews, including product quality. We also prepare follow-up protocols to guide our suppliers and manufacturers to achieve higher quality standards and ongoing improvement. Shared Value Generation We have established a long-term relationship with two underdeveloped communities which have become our exclusive suppliers of guava leaves, the source of quercetin, the QG5 active ingredient, an antispasmodic (muscle relaxant) regulating the bowel function when it is altered due to the action of several factors on the bowels (stress, food, etc.) and cause excessive bowel movements, cramps and abdominal bloating. This initiative has transcended in time and has brought benefits to patients, the community and our company. Where are we headed to? Genomma Lab considers its product suppliers and spread criteria that add ethical and social topics to manufacturers as partners in creating brand equity. their businesses, as well as to favor energy saving, We share with them the responsibility of all that water saving, emission control and residue disposal we do. The Office of the Business Expansion and to the benefit of all. Human Capital Vicepresident is evaluating how to continue to add value to the chain with them and to 34 Community 2012 Sustainability Report Community Social DNA Our vision and actions as to sustainability stem from our corporate values and objectives, and to this date, they are oriented in three basic performance lines: • Community: contributing to the sustainable development of communities by allocating economic resources to support productive projects and promote food self-sufficiency. • CSOs: supporting the free access to drugs and personal care products of the population in underdeveloped communities served by civil organizations. • Academy: we support the conduction of medical activities in communities in the State of Mexico by students in the final semesters of their medical education. We are actively involved in social programs for community development and participation, as well as in Associations supporting people in underdeveloped locations. CSO’s Support In 2012, we continued with several of previously undertaken projects, with highly positive results. We granted our traditional donations in species: throughout the year, we delivered over 2 million medications and personal care products in collaboration with 17 civil society organizations. Through several civil organizations, we seek to provide low-income people with access to drugs to cure basic diseases or illnesses. 36 2012 Sustainability Report We also donated over 2 million pesos to several organizations, including; Asociación Cultural del Rosedal, Fundación Teletón México, Instituto Mexicano de Enfermedades Respiratorias, Consejo de la Comunicación, Aquí Nadie se Rinde, Copa del Rey, Asociación A Favor de lo Mejor, and Patrimonio de la Beneficencia Pública. The Lotería Nacional para la Asistencia Pública (Lotenal; Mexico’s national lottery) awarded Genomma Lab with its logo printed in 2.4 million lottery tickets for the Major Lottery number 3412 to recognize its efforts in supporting the communities where it is hard to get resources and provide assistance. Community Programs Through the Genomma Lab Foundation, we We conducted an immunization campaign against sponsored a video production for the National Health the influenza for the employees and their relatives at Voluntary Service of the Ministry of Health in order to Genomma Labs facilities. communicate the voluntary service’s activities and to encourage participation in this task. For Christmas, With the “Responsible Value Chain” initiative in 2012, we launched an internal campaign called “Alegra un we continued to support two highly underdeveloped corazón” (enlighten a heart) through which, owing to communities which have become our exclusive our staff’s commitment, we were able to collect over suppliers of guava leaves, the source of quercetin, the 500 new toys to be delivered to impoverished children QG5 active ingredient, and antispasmodic (muscle in the General Hospital of Mexico, the Juguetón of TV relaxant). This initiative has transcended through Azteca, and DIF of State of Hidalgo. time and has rendered benefits for indigenous communities with jobs that impact positively their development and social and economic growth. 37 The Environment 2012 Sustainability Report The Environment Environmental DNA Although our business characteristics and operation rank us a company with low environmental impact, we consider that preserving and caring for our environment are fundamentals for our activities. By launching our environmental policy and creating the team to be in charge of this topic, environmental considerations have become an integral part of our operation. We want to reduce, from our standpoint, the climate change by reducing the environmental impact of Genomma Lab’s operations. We are focused on four broad themes: • Energy and emission reduction • Residues • Water (water footprint) • Environmental practices added to our value chain Our commitments: • To continue measuring our carbon footprint • To establish a plan to control and reduce water and energy consumption • Potentiating our waste management program • To add environmental criteria to the products design, research and development • To establish measurable and achievable environmental criteria for our suppliers’ and manufacturers’ production processes. Carbon Footprint The results of the carbon footprint study will allow us to evaluate and undertake activities to reduce our environmental impact in our Headquarters and the Distribution Center. Supported by the Life Cycle and Sustainable Design Analysis Center, we obtained our carbon footprint report, intended to measure the greenhouse gases emissions produced by our activities in the Headquarters and the Distribution Center. Thus, we were able to quantify our environmental impact and to take any corrective actions required. The study was evaluated through the life cycle assessment (LCA): a methodology that quantifies the environmental impact of products, processes and services in a comprehensive manner. It is the single instrument standardized by the International Standardization Organization (ISO) under the ISO 14040 standard series. Our operation generates 4,783 tons of CO2, similar to the electric power consumption of 8,791 low-cost homes in the State of Mexico. 39 2012 Sustainability Report Tested concepts include: • Transport o From /to the office o Airplane travel • Electric consumption o Computers o Information technologies o Printers / multifunctional devices o Lamps o Screens o Telephone o Air conditioning o Kitchen / office appliances • Fuels • Paper • Water • Consumables • Residues Measurement of our environmental impact based on the tested factors: Genomma Lab’s Carbon Footprint SAMARA CEDIS Units Electricity Energy consumption records to the electric power provider 1,032,264 3,589,300 KWh Calculated total 1,311,427 4,007,970 KWh Computers 130,129 67,941 KWh IT 338,442 21,028 KWh Printers 8,022 47,497 KWh Lamps 142,258 3,651,565 KWh Screens 70,332 0 KWh Telephones 467 211 KWh Air conditioning 440,294 117,822 KWh Elevator 36,307 (-) KWh Kitchen and feed stations appliances 145,175 101,806 KWh Office supplies and devices (-) 100 KWh Fuels Consumption and payment records to the gas provider (-) 22,296 Liters “Diesel (operation of the power plant used for advertising production and 28,913 (-) Liters design)” 40 2012 Sustainability Report Genomma Lab’s Carbon Footprint SAMARA CEDIS Units Water Water consumption (-) 10,660 m3 Consumables Acquisition of letterhead paper and copy/printer paper 3,347 678 Kg Printer cartridges 15 8 Kg Travels Personnel transportation to work (car) 2,947,277 2,875,392 Km Personnel transportation to work (public transport) 575,078 9,105,408 Km Short airplane trips (less than 1600 km) 324,994 17,105 Km Long-haul flights (over 1600km) 917,567 48,293 Km Recovered Residues Cardboard (recycled) 17,064 649,392 Kg PET (recycled) 14,376 (-) Kg Pellets (-) 503,364 Kg Platforms (-) 140,460 Kg Burning wood (-) 98,028 Kg Energy consumption at the CEDIS Energy consumption at corporate offices SAMARA 1% Printers 3% Other Kitchen and feed 3% Elevator 3% stations 5% Screens 3% Air conditioning 10% Computers 11% Lamps Kitchen and feed station 11% appliances 91% Lamps 26% IT 33% Air conditioning 41 2012 Sustainability Report SAMARA CEDIS Units Number of Employees 390 576 Electricity Energy consumption records to the electric power provider 550,506.40 1,914,173.70 kgCO2 Fuels Consumption and payment records to the gas provider 0 8.5 kgCO2 Diesel (operation of the power plant used for advertising production and 94,546 0 kgCO2 design) Water Water consumption 0 3,389.90 kgCO2 Consumables Acquisition of letterhead paper and copy/printer paper 1,161.30 276.1 kgCO2 Printer cartridges 683.6 371 kgCO2 Travels Personnel transportation to work (car) 533,457.10 520,446.00 kgCO2 Personnel transportation to work (public transport) 59,808.20 946,962.40 kgCO2 Short airplane trips (less than 1600 km) 50,049.10 2,634.20 kgCO2 Long-haul flights (over 1600km) 99,097.20 5,215.60 kgCO2 Total 1,389,308.70 3,393,477.30 kgCO2 • Electric power consumption added 51.5% to the carbon footprint. The electricity used at the headquarters and the distribution center equaled the consumption of 3,984 low-cost homes. • 43% of the carbon footprint resulted from the personnel transportation to work by car or public transportation. The largest environmental load was associated with the staff’s bus travel to the distribution center. • The remaining 5.5% resulted from fuels (gas at CEDIS and diesel for the energy plant for advertising production), water consumption, fuels, and airplane travels. The activities with the highest impact are electric power consumption and the personnel transportation to work. Based on the carbon footprint study, we will evaluate and program the activities to be undertaken in order to reduce such consumption in upcoming years. 42 2012 Sustainability Report Residue Management We continue with our “Take Care of Your World 3Rs: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle” program where, in addition to the proper disposal of organic and inorganic waste (PET, batteries, paper and cardboard), we delivered internal guidelines that will assist the proper use of the company’s inputs. We recycled 130 tons of residues, thuds preventing the cutting of 603 trees for cellulose extraction. For second consecutive year, we renewed our collaboration agreement with the San Ignacio de Loyola Foundation (FSIL) for the company’s comprehensive waste management, which are collected every day by the Foundation and sold to authorized recyclers. We collected over 291,000 pesos which were delivered to the Santa Teresita Hospital to support children in malnutrition situation in the Tarahumara Mountain Range. We recycle 130 tons of receipts, preventing the logging of 603 trees. 43 Shareholders 2012 Sustainability Report Shareholders Economic DNA We are economic drivers since we provide 1,200 direct jobs, pay taxes on a timely manner and generate indirect jobs among our manufacturers, suppliers and distributors, thus increasing the quality of life of our collaborators and their families. Below, we show our sustainable development in figures: Sustainable Development Figures (thousands MX pesos) Economic Value Generated 9, 841,482 Economic Value Distributed 8,235,513 Economic Value Retained 1,605,969 45 Corporate Governance 2012 Sustainability Report Corporate Governance Even prior to becoming a public company, we had private investors. Thus, we took the first sound steps to corporate governance, where we learned the importance of transparency, communication, collegiate decision-making, the prevention of conflicts of interest, and well as of reporting and evaluating our performance, among other significant aspects. As a public company, we added the best corporate governance practices in order to strengthen our steps. We are convinced that this is the best way to meet our clients’ expectations and ensure our sustainability. The Company’s management is managed by a Board of Directors integrated by 11 members, who are designated or ratifies every year by Genomma Lab’s Annual General Shareholders’ Meeting. The current members and deputy members of the Board of Directors were selected based on their broad and proven experience, as well as on their outstanding achievements in different professional areas, such as management, business, finance, advertising, logistics, society and economics, etc. Their performance and compensation are assessed on a yearly basis, considering market conditions. 58% of our members are independent, higher than established by the Stock Market Law. The Board of Directors is assisted by the Audit Committee and the Corporate Practices Committee; both presided by independent members and an Executive Committee. Members of the Board Deputy Members Rodrigo Alonso Herrera Aspra ***(1) Renata Virginia Herrera Aspra (1) Sabrina Lucila Herrera Aspra ***(1) Renata Virginia Herrera Aspra (1) Arturo José Saval Pérez ** Alejandro Diazayas Oliver Luis Alberto Harvey MacKissack ** Alejandro Diazayas Oliver Gerardo de Nicolás Gutiérrez* Not appointed Fernando Paiz Andrade* Not appointed Juan Alonso* Not appointed Luis Ernesto Maccise Uribe* Not appointed José Manuel Sainz González* Not appointed José Luis Fernández Fernández* Not appointed Andrés Conesa Labastida* Not appointed Independent members ** Patrimonial members *** Patrimonial members Secretary Mr. Marco Francisco Forastieri Muñoz is the appointed secretary, not a member of the Company’s Board of Directors; and Mrs. Tatiana Suzette Treviño García is the deputy secretary, not a member of the Company’s Board of Directors. 47 2012 Sustainability Report Committees Audit Committee Their main function is to assist the Board of Directors in determining, implementing and evaluating the Company’s internal control system, as well as to verify the business management and implementing the resolutions adopted by the Shareholders’ Meeting. Such committee is presided by Mr. José Luis Fernández Fernández; Messrs. Gerardo de Nicolás Gutiérrez, Fernando Paiz Andrade and Luis Ernesto Maccise Uribe are appointed members of such committee. Corporate Practices Committee The Corporate Practices Committee is in charge of advising the Board of Directors in connection with the performance of the Company’s senior managers, the compensation of the members of the Board of Directors, and the transactions with related parties. Also, the Corporate Practices Committee is responsible for obtaining opinions from experts and independent third parties, and to call the shareholders meetings and assisting the Board of Directors to prepare the annual reports to be submitted to the Company’s shareholders. This committee is presided by Mr. Gerardo de Nicolás Gutiérrez, and the members are Juan Alonso and Arturo Saval Pérez. Executive Committee The Executive Committee is in charge of intervening in finance and general planning matters, including the appointment, removal, and compensation of the Company’s officers and employees; to enter into financing agreements, of calling the general shareholders’ meetings, and any other matters as delegated by the Board of Directors. We conduct our business activities in a responsible and transparent way. Business Ethics Business Integrity and Ethics Genomma Lab’s success, prestige and growth have Our conduct code emphasizes the importance of been constructed on business integrity. We have an always acting in adherence to the law; establishes the ineludible commitment to behave honestly, both with frame for developing and maintain honest, trusting, our collaborators and with the industry we are involved and respectful relationships with all the individuals in, and in our community. This commitment includes we have professional or business relations. It the improvement and preservation of people’s health comprises a set of guidelines to self-regulate our and well-being with innovative, safe and effective corporate behavior, based on the highest personal products, manufactured in environmentally and and professional integrity standards in areas such socially responsible processes. as: Business Practices, Gifts and Extraordinary Payments, Confidentiality and Intellectual Property, In order to achieve this, we back up our actions Legality, and Work Ethics. with programs, procedures, and policies and law compliance that govern us and steer our way of planning and executing the daily business operations. 48 On this Report 2012 Sustainability Report On this Report Genomma Lab submits, for the second time, a Sustainability Report intended to communicate and disclose in a transparent way to the company’s stakeholders the main actions undertaken in the fields of economic, social and environmental performance. This report is published on a yearly basis and includes the programs conducted between January 1st and December 31, 2012. For the second time it is in line with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), version 3.1, achieving a self-stated C application level. The document’s materiality is based on the most important topics for the business’s future and for the stakeholders. Measurement and data collection techniques are subject to internal audit controls by the areas involved in the preparation process. Application Level Memory Application Level C C B B A A Profile Information Reports on: Reports on all the criteria Product 1.1 listed in C Level plus: as per G3 2.1 2.10 1.2 The same requirements as for Level B 3.1 3.8, 3.10 3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1 4.4, 4.14 4.15 4.5 4.13, 4.16 4.17 External memory Verification External Memory Verification External Memory Verification Basic Contents Information on Product Information on Information on the Management Focus Not necessary the Management Focus the Management Focus as per G3 per Indicator Category. per Indicator Category Reports on at least 20 Reports on at least 10 Reports on each main indicator Performance Indicators Performance indicators, Performance Indicators and and on the Indicators if the Sector at leas one of each Product as per G3 and and at least one of dimensions: economic, Supplements* as per the materiality Performance Indicators each dimension: principle, whether a) by informing environmental, human rights, economic, social, on the indicator or b) by explaining for Sector Supplements and environmental. work practices, community, the reasons for its omission. product liability. *Final version Sector Supplement 50 2012 Sustainability Report GRI INDEX Information Page & Direct Answer Profile Disclosure Disclosure 1. Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the 1.1 Fully 5-6 organization. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Not Not disclosed 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully 62 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully 12, 14-15 Operational structure of the organization, including main 2.3 Fully 12-13 divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Fully 62 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are 2.5 Fully 13 specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully 62 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors 2.7 Fully 12-13 served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully 12-15 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, 2.9 Fully 15 structure, or ownership. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully 16 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided. Fully 50 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. Fully 50 3.3 Reporting cycle. Fully 50 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Fully 62 Process for defining report content. • Determinación de la materialidad 3.5 • Prioridad de los aspectos incluidos en la memoria Fully 19 • Identificación de los grupos de interés que la organización prevé que utilicen la memoria 3.6 Boundary of the report. Fully 50 51 2012 Sustainability Report Profile Disclosure Information Page & Direct Answer Disclosure State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the 3.7 Fully 50 report. Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can 3.8 Fully 50 significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations 3.9 applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information Fully 50 in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information 3.10 provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such reFully 50 statement. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, 3.11 Fully 50 boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI CONTENT INDEX Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the 3.12 Fully 51-59 report. VERIFICATION Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 3.13 Not Not disclosed assurance for the report. 4. Governance, commitments, and engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees 4.1 under the highest governance body responsible for specific Fully 47-48 tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is 4.2 Fully 47 also an executive officer. For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the 4.3 number and gender of members of the highest governance Fully 47 body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 4.4 Not Not disclosed recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest 4.5 governance body, senior managers, and executives, and the Not Not disclosed organization’s performance. Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure 4.6 Not Not disclosed conflicts of interest are avoided. Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and 4.7 Fully 47 its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of 4.8 conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, Partially 8 and social performance and the status of their implementation. 52 2012 Sustainability Report Profile Disclosure Information Page & Direct Answer Disclosure Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant 4.9 Not Not disclosed risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s 4.10 own performance, particularly with respect to economic, Not Not disclosed environmental, and social performance. COMMITMENTS WITH EXTERNAL INITIATIVES Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or 4.11 Not Not disclosed principle is addressed by the organization. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social 4.12 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization Not Not disclosed subscribes or endorses. 4.13 Memberships in associations. Fully 16 PARTICIPATION OF STAKEHOLDERS 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Fully 19 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom 4.15 Fully 19-20 to engage. Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 4.16 Fully 21 engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 4.17 Not Not disclosed responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations EC1 Fully 45 and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the EC2 Not Not disclosed organization’s activities due to climate change. EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. Not Not disclosed EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Fully No help from government MARKET PRESENCE Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared EC5 Not Not disclosed to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. 53 2012 Sustainability Report Profile Disclosure Information Page & Direct Answer Disclosure Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based EC6 Fully 33-34 suppliers at significant locations of operation. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management EC7 hired from the local community at significant locations of Not Not disclosed operation. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and EC8 services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, Not Not disclosed in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant indirect economic EC9 Partially 32-34,37 impacts, including the extent of impacts. Environmental MATERIALS EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Not Not disclosed EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Not Not disclosed ENERGY EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Not Not disclosed EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Not Not disclosed EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Not Not disclosed Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based EN6 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements Not Not disclosed as a result of these initiatives. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions EN7 Not Not disclosed achieved. WATER EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Not Not disclosed None water source EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Fully affected EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Not Not disclosed BIODIVERSITY Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or EN11 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value Not Not disclosed outside protected areas. 54 2012 Sustainability Report Profile Disclosure Information Page & Direct Answer Disclosure Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and EN12 services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high Not Not disclosed biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not Not disclosed Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing EN14 Not Not disclosed impacts on biodiversity. Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list EN15 species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of Not Not disclosed extinction risk. EMISSIONS AND WASTE EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Not Not disclosed EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Fully 42 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions EN18 Not Not disclosed achieved. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not Not disclosed EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Not Not disclosed EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Not Not disclosed EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Partially 41 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Not Not applicable Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention EN24 Not Not applicable Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water EN25 bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting Not Not disclosed organization’s discharges of water and runoff. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and EN26 Not Not disclosed services, and extent of impact mitigation. Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that EN27 Not Not disclosed are reclaimed by category. COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonEN28 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental Not Not disclosed laws and regulations. 55 2012 Sustainability Report Profile Disclosure Information Page & Direct Answer Disclosure TRANSPORT Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and EN29 other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, Not Not disclosed and transporting members of the workforce. Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by EN30 Not Not disclosed type. Labor Practices and Decent Work EMPLOYMENT Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and LA1 Partially 23,26 region, broken down by gender. Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee LA2 Not Not disclosed turnover by age group, gender, and region. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to LA3 Fully 25 temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. LABOR / MANAGEMENT RELATIONS Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining LA4 Not Not disclosed agreements. Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational LA5 changes, including whether it is specified in collective Not Not disclosed agreements. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint LA6 management-worker health and safety committees that help Not Not disclosed monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and LA7 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region Not Not disclosed and by gender. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control LA8 programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, Fully 24 or community members regarding serious diseases. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with LA9 Not Not disclosed trade unions. TRAINING AND EDUCATION Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and LA10 Fully 10, 24 by employee category. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that LA11 support the continued employability of employees and assist Fully 24 them in managing career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and LA12 Not Not disclosed career development reviews, by gender. 56 2012 Sustainability Report Profile Disclosure Information Page & Direct Answer Disclosure DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees LA13 per employee category according to gender, age group, minority Parcial 26,47 group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by LA14 Not Not disclosed employee category, by significant locations of operation. Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by LA15 Not Not disclosed gender. Human Rights Performance HUMAN RIGHTS Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating HR1 Not Not disclosed human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other HR2 business partners that have undergone human rights screening, Not Not disclosed and actions taken. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures HR3 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Not Not disclosed operations, including the percentage of employees trained. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Not Not disclosed Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may HR5 Not Not disclosed be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. CHILD LABOR Operations and significant suppliers identified as having HR6 significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken Fully 27 to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and HR7 Not Not disclosed measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. SECURITY PRACTICES Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s HR8 policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that Not Not disclosed are relevant to operations. INDIGENOUS RIGHTS Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of HR9 Not Not disclosed indigenous people and actions taken. 57 2012 Sustainability Report Profile Disclosure Information Page & Direct Answer Disclosure ASSESSMENT Percentage and total number of operations that have been HR10 Not Not disclosed subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. REMEDIATION “Number of grievances related to human rights HR11 filed, addressed and resolved through formal Not Not disclosed grievance mechanisms.” Society LOCAL COMMUNITIES Percentage of operations with implemented local community SO1 Partially 36-37 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. CORRUPTION Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for SO2 Not Not disclosed risks related to corruption. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s antiSO3 Not Not disclosed corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Not Not disclosed PUBLIC POLICY Public policy positions and participation in public policy SO5 Partially 30, 34, 37 development and lobbying. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political SO6 Not Not disclosed parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antiSO7 Not Not disclosed trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines and total number of SO8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and Not Not disclosed regulations. Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts SO9 Not Not disclosed on local communities. Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations SO10 with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local Not Not disclosed communities. Product Responsibility CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage PR1 Not Not disclosed of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. 58 2012 Sustainability Report Profile Disclosure Information Page & Direct Answer Disclosure Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations PR2 and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of Fully 30 products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING Type of product and service information required by procedures, PR3 and percentage of significant products and services subject to Fully 29-30 such information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations PR4 and voluntary codes concerning product and service information Not Not disclosed and labeling, by type of outcomes. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of PR5 Fully 29-31 surveys measuring customer satisfaction. MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes PR6 related to marketing communications, including advertising, Fully 30 promotion, and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, PR7 Not Not disclosed including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of PR8 Not Not disclosed customer privacy and losses of customer data. COMPLIANCE Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws PR9 and regulations concerning the provision and use of products Not Not disclosed and services. 59 2012 Sustainability Report Content Global Compact Principles Page Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 27, 33 proclaimed human rights. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human 27, 33 rights abuses. Labour Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 22 recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and 23-27 compulsory labor. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 27 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect 23-27 of employment and occupation. Enviroment Businesses should support a proactive, preventive approach to 8, 38-43 environmental challenges. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater 8, 33, 38-43 environmental responsibility. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of 8, 33, 37-43 environmentally friendly technologies. Corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 48 extortion and bribery. 60 2012 Sustainability Report Glossary CEMEFI: Mexican Philanthropy Center (Centro Mexicano para la Filantropía) COFECO: Federal Competition Commission (Comisión Federal de Competencia) COFEPRIS: Federal Commission for Sanitary Risk Protection (Comisión Federal para la Protección contra Riesgos Sanitarios) EBITDA: Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Generic drugs: Pharmaceutical products with expired patents. GRI: Global Reporting Initiative. IMS Health: IMS Health Incorporated, a major pharmaceutical and health care market information provider. CSOs: Civil Society Organizations. OTC: For pharmaceutical products, over-the counter, free sale products which can be acquired without medical prescription. PROFECO: Federal Consumer Attorney General’s Office (Procuraduría Federal del Consumidor) 61 2012 Sustainability Report Closing Message Genomma Lab is committed to improve social well-being by increasing its consumers’ quality of life, by researching and analyzing of the best ingredients for the development and marketing of personal care products and OTC drugs, thus seeking to render the highest possible yield to its investors. 62 2012 Sustainability Report Contact Details For further information or any comments or suggestions related to the report contents, please contact us mail: sustentabilidad@genommalab.com telephone number (5255) 50810000 Ext. 4411 Genomma Lab Internacional S.A.B. de C.V. Samara Building. Antonio Dovalí Jaime # 70 2nd Floor. Colonia Santa Fe. Delegación Álvaro Obregón. CP. 01210. México, D.F. 63
