SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 CONTENTS Highlights 2 Message from our Chairman and CEO 3 Introducing Fernando Chamarelli 4 Sustainability Vision, Strategy and Goals 5 Our Business and Sustainability 6 Reviewing Our Progress 8 RIO+20: A Time for Reﬂection 9 Governance 10 Our Fundamentals 13 Our Governance 14 Our People: Health and Safety 15 Our Stakeholders 17 Our Sustainability Council 18 Our Partnerships 20 Green 22 Respecting Our Environment 25 Highlights from around the World 28 Creating a Product Sustainability Index 30 Our Focus on Green 32 Green IT 33 Growth 34 New Consumers 37 Ensuring Sustainable Supply Chains 39 Cover Artwork: “The Pyramid of Sustainability” Sustainable Sourcing Partnerships 40 Inspired by my interaction with the creators of ﬂavors and fragrances at Firmenich, I captured the Firmenich A Case Study: Copaíba Oil from Brazil 42 vision of sustainability through their three sustainability Leadership in Research and Innovation 43 pillars: governance, green and growth. These pillars represent thought leadership at all levels of their business. RIO+40: Charting a Course 45 The foundation of the drawing is water, the basis of life. Water leads to ﬂora and fauna, society and people. We depend on each other. The three animals (monkey, lion About This Report 46 and horse) in the artwork support all the other elements External Veriﬁcation 47 representing the Firmenich sustainability pillars. I include windmills at the top of the pyramid, as renewable energy Our Performance in Numbers 48 is extensively used at Firmenich. Balance can be felt GRI Index Table 50 throughout the piece, to promote union, as the planet and her people, are interconnected. Validations 51 Our Sustainability Team 52 Cover: The Pyramid of Sustainability Work of Art created by Fernando Chamarelli for Firmenich © 2012 Firmenich | 1 HIGHLIGHTS Improved Partnered our Total Recordable Case (TRC) with the Swiss Agency for Development rate for safety by 17.1%. and Cooperation in Haiti to improve lives and the environment. Signed Certiﬁed the CEO Statement of Support vanilla, from the Savanille cooperative for the UN Women’s Empowerment in Madagascar, by the Rainforest Principles. Alliance. Launched Achieved a Supplier Environmental a record 14 new third-party Sustainability Scorecard. management systems certiﬁcations. Created Awarded the IMD-Lombard Odier Global a Product Sustainability Index. Family Business Award. Improved Participated performance in eight of our and presented at the Rio+20 environmental indicators. Corporate Sustainability Forum. 2 | Firmenich Moreover, Firmenich has made clear commitments to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and the UN’s CEO Water Mandate. This year, we additionally signed the CEO Statement of Support for the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. We try to faithfully execute all of these principles in our day-to-day business activities. We are dedicated to balanced and transparent reporting, highlighting not only our successes, but also the challenges that we face and areas where we can continue to improve. Message from our Chairman and CEO While we have made solid progress, much remains to be done. The problems we seek to help solve are complex. While the global economy continued to face unprecedented Welcome to the seventh edition of our annual Sustainability challenges, we remained steadfast in our efforts to fully Report. We believe that sustainable business success is integrate sustainability into all aspects of our business and anchored in the long-term interest of our customers, emwould like to express our appreciation to the thought leaders ployees and our environment. Throughout this report, we who serve on our independent Sustainability Council for include thoughts and insights on sustainability from their invaluable feedback. around the world of Firmenich in the areas of “Governance, Green and Growth.” Our report is published under the Global We additionally thank you for your interest in our journey of Reporting Initiative Guidelines. sustainability. We hope that you ﬁnd this report engaging and informative, and that you will gain a real sense of the The concept of sustainability was championed in 1992, at progress we are making. We are sincerely interested in the “Earth Summit” in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. In 2012, the your comments and suggestions and welcome your feedsustainability community met once again in Brazil to reﬂect, back. You can contact us at: review and refocus sustainability efforts at the UN Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20). A speciﬁc area global.sustainability@ﬁrmenich.com of focus was the role of the private sector through the Corporate Sustainability Forum organized by the UN Global Most important, we have an organization of 6,500 talented Compact. Firmenich was pleased to participate in the 2012 and engaged colleagues around the world. Their creativity, Summit in Brazil. passion and commitment drives the sustainable future we want, built upon the foundation of core values we share. As the largest privately owned company in the ﬂ avor and We could not be more proud of our employees, and we fragrance industry, our products create moments of haprecognize that they are at the heart of our company. We piness in the daily lives of billions of people around the thank genuinely each of them for making sustainability a world. Our ability to deliver sustainable solutions to our reality at Firmenich. clients is critical to the success of our company. We are pleased to highlight in this year’s report the progress we The Firmenich Fundamentals guide our every action, enahave made with our development of a product-level bling us to remain true to ourselves and make a difference Sustainability Index for our key ingredients. in an ever-changing world. In each of the past seven years we have continuously improved our safety performance. In FY12, we improved Vernon Sankey Patrick Firmenich our employee safety rate by 17.1% over the prior year. We Chairman CEO have also made good progress this year on most of our environmental indicators. Firmenich | 3 GUEST ARTIST FERNANDO CHAMARELLI Each year our sustainability report features work from an artist that captures the spirit of our sustainability program. As a creative company, inspiring and communicating our sustainability journey through art is an important aspect of our work. This year we are featuring the Brazilian artist Fernando Chamarelli. We are thrilled to work with Fernando and to introduce him to the world of ﬂ avor and fragrance creation. Brazil has been central to our sustainability efforts this year. We presented our experience of corporate sustainability at the RIO+20 conference and have scaled up our sustainable sourcing initiative with copaíba oil in Amazonia. Finally, our focus on Brazil highlights the commitment of our Brazilian team to sustainability, a passion that is representative of all our colleagues. Fernando Chamarelli studied graphic design and is a self-taught artist. He began by drawing comics, caricatures and realistic portraits. Chamarelli uses multiple media and various techniques to create his distinct style. His paintings are like geometric mosaics, combining organic forms of intriguing colors through harmonic lines. Also present in his art are the symbols, legends, religious imagery and customs of ancient civilizations. Chamarelli’s pictorial universe is populated with a mixture of images from pre-Columbian civilizations and Brazilian popular culture. His characters appear in surreal situations, in the midst of nature, with exotic plants and animals. Outside of Brazil, Chamarelli has participated in group exhibitions and solo shows in the United States, Canada, England, Mexico, Spain, Germany and other countries. In his own words… My life has always been linked to nature; and painting elements of ﬂora and fauna enriches my spirit with every stroke of the brush. My art seeks to associate my knowledge, thoughts and feelings with colors and lines that, in turn, give life to my work. My artistic actions are in accord with my personal actions. The Brazilian people are very concerned about the world we live in, and our multicultural population directly inﬂuences many of my creations. In my work, everything is connected. Small parts come together to form the whole, as with our planet. My partnership with Firmenich is a special moment for me and marks the year during which my art has gained international recognition. I hope that my work with Firmenich inspires each reader of this report to take even a small step to making our world a better place. 4 | Firmenich SUSTAINABILITY VISION, STRATEGY AND GOALS About Firmenich 2015 — Strategic Sustainability Firmenich is the world’s largest privately owned company Goals (from 2010 Baseline) in the fragrance and ﬂ avor business. Founded and head50% quartered in Geneva, Switzerland, in 1895, Firmenich has created many of the world’s best-known perfumes and ﬂ avors enjoyed around the world, every day. Our passion for smell and taste and a commitment to our clients Further improve our industry-leading safety performance lies at the heart of our success. More information about Firmenich is available at www.ﬁrmenich.com Embracing Sustainability -15% Reduce CO2 emissions in absolute terms Our vision is to remain an industry leader in sustainability, creating and capturing value with our clients and their consumers worldwide. We are committed to remaining a leader in solving global challenges, such as climate change, -15% Reduce water usage rate inequality in access to health and education services and 90% inclusive economic growth. We will continue to: Create products that make Partially power 90% of our manufacturing facilities with renewable energy a difference Contribute to our clients’ sustainability strategies 400 Key Create a “Sustainability Index” for 400 key ingredients Understand consumer needs in emerging economies Anticipate global 8 Countries Complete Sustainable Natural Ingredient Sourcing Projects in eight countries environmental trends 1 Million Impact the lives of 1 million children through improved nutrition and hygiene Firmenich | 5 OUR BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability in the Fragrance Message from Aldo Uva, President, Flavor Division and Flavor Industry: We have an important role to play in helping Reﬂections from Members our customers create tastier, more nutriof Our Leadership Team tious products. We often work “behind the scenes,” but our role puts us centrally within the food industry value chain: from purchasing raw materials in order to make Message from Armand de Villoutreys, our products, to working with our cusPresident, Perfumery Division tomers to understand consumer preferences to delivering to them the great products they desire. We strive to The question at the center of my reﬂection contribute to the sustainability efforts of our industry by is: “How does the fragrance value chain making healthier food taste better. improve lives?” This question might seem very ambitious or totally frivolous, but it is As a purchaser of raw materials, we work and innovate neither. Fragrance improves lives this is with those in agriculture to create sustainable solutions. the sustainability vision our Perfumery This year we participated in “Chocovision,” an event dediDivision is inspired by. More concretely, cated to addressing the future of the cocoa industry. Our how does perfume improve the world? taste modulation technologies allow us to work with our customers to reformulate products so they have the same Making our products greener is essential and corresponds sweetness with less sugar. to an increasing demand by consumers. In that context, “performing” home and body care products using less We also work to improve the food that is produced spewater is part of our future. In addition, sustainable sourcing ciﬁcally to help in the ﬁght against undernutrition, in parprograms that equitably engage communities in our supply ticular in vitamin and mineral deﬁciencies. Our partners chain improve lives. When a consumer buys a ﬁne fragrance at the Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN) have in a city like Paris or New York, they help improve the lives been doing great work over the past decade to help popuof families from small farming communities in Uganda lations around the world get access to food fortiﬁed with and Haiti. vitamins and minerals. Firmenich technologies help make sure fortiﬁed food tastes good. Finally, we need to rethink the importance of perfume in a global, urbanized world where large parts of the popuAnother global health challenge facing the food industry lation are living with less than $10 per day. Low income is obesity and overnutrition. In developed markets, our consumers in India reminded us that bad smell can be a customers are creating healthier food by cutting calories stigma of poverty. It is easier to ﬁnd a job when you are via sugar, salt and fat reduction. Through our research and wearing a clean shirt and smell good; it increases respect new taste modulation technologies, we can help maintain and self-conﬁdence. We heard this many times in our great taste while also improving the nutrition proﬁle. work with consumers in the developing world. Fragrance has a key role to play in improving lives and creating moments of happiness from the top to the base of the economic pyramid. 6 | Firmenich Message from Boet Brinkgreve, Group Vice President, Ingredients Division Today, any company sourcing, developing and manufacturing ﬂ avor and fragrance ingredients, has to integrate sustainability across its business. Sustainability of our ingredients has become a key factor in serving our clients. Product-level sustainability is demonstrated in our business via a focus on innovation, sourcing and manufacturing: • Innovation: developing new ingredients that provide a sustainability beneﬁt in our client products. Techniques in synthetic biology, green chemistry and biotechnology have enabled us to develop ingredients of a similar or improved quality while reducing our environmental footprint and natural resource use. • Sourcing: securing our supply of raw materials. For both naturals and synthetics, we strive to ensure our suppliers meet our sustainability standards. Managing these supply chains in a sustainable way enables security and continuity of supply. In the case of our natural ingredients, we also secure support for the communities at the source. Limiting transport between suppliers, factories and clients can also reduce cost while at the same time improving our environmental footprint. • Manufacturing: reducing the environmental impact of our operations and ensuring we continue to operate safely. All of our ingredient factories have third-party certiﬁed safety and environmental management systems. We are proud that the level of health, safety and environment (HS&E) in our factories is “best in class” with a TRC rate at 0.24. This standard enables our people, our most important asset, to be safe in our factories. These three focal points underpin our product-level Ingredient Environmental Sustainability Index, allowing us to manage and track our performance improvements. We strive to be the reference and preference in ﬂ avor and fragrance ingredients, not only because we have a passion for our people and products but especially because we operate in a sustainable way. Firmenich | 7 REVIEWING OUR PROGRESS Sustainability Completeness Are all the relevant sustainability issues covered? Materiality Are sustainability issues covered in proportion to their signiﬁcance? In 2012, as the world met in Rio de Janeiro on the 20th anniBusiness ASSESSMENT CRITERIA versary of the “Earth Summit,” we took the opportunity to Integration Does reporting reﬂ ect the extent to which reﬂect and review the progress of our sustainable develsustainability has been integrated into core business? opment journey. Our vision is to remain an industry leader in sustainability, creating and capturing value with our clients Vision Is the long-term vision for sustainability clearly set out and is pro gress toward the and their consumers worldwide. In order to realize this vision reported? vision, it is imperative that we reﬂect on our progress – our successes, our challenges and our learning. Communication Clarity and Is information comprehensible and To ensure an objective opinion, we asked Forum for the Presentation accessible? Is creativity used to help reader Future, a leading sustainability think tank and long-term comprehension? Are claims supported with examples? Firmenich partner, to review our sustainability reporting. Based largely on our 2011 report, we asked Forum to highCredibility Are there internal and external processes to provide assurance? light our strengths and weaknesses. Speciﬁcally, we asked them to challenge us and make recommendations to enTransparency Is all relevant information – good, bad hance and improve the information we communicate. Our and indifferent – clearly disclosed? intention is to reﬂect, learn and improve. Forum for the Future judged our sustainability reporting against seven criteria in three themes: sustainability, business relevance Areas to Keep/Develop Further and communication. Attractive report (reﬂ ecting the customer proposition). Overall, Forum for the Future concluded that Firmenich Clear commitment from the CEO and the Chairman of the Board. already performs at a high level, but they highlighted a Strong overarching vision and commitments. number of areas for improvement. We are focused on ensuring that we continue to excel in our sustainability perProgress on environmental goals clearly communicated. RECOMMENDATIONS formance and that we use the feedback from Forum to Strong stories from naturals work, aligning with strategic provide the most credible, material and transparent inforopportunities. mation to all of our stakeholders. We have studied the Areas for Improvement Forum feedback very carefully in our organization and writing of this report. Clearer narrative for the report with sign posting to delivery against the vision. Explicitly demonstrate how material issues are determined and addressed. Further explore the challenges faced. Better showcasing of areas of leadership to add value (e.g. the Sustainability Index). Need to more strongly reﬂ ect sustainability alongside the core business strategy. 8 | Firmenich RIO+20: A TIME FOR REFLECTION private sector innovation to scale-up and sustain progress. Business pledges and policy recommendations were handed over to UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and heads of state on 21 June at the UN Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20). Our main take-away message from Rio was that business The concept of sustainability was ﬁrst championed in 1992 at needs to drive sustainable growth through sustainable innothe “Earth Summit” in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. In 2012, the vation at the scientiﬁc, social and organizational levels. In that sustainability community again traveled to Brazil to reﬂect, context, new partnerships are necessary to foster innovation. review and refocus sustainability efforts at the UN ConferSustainability is no longer only a cost to companies, it is an ence on Sustainable Development (Rio+20). A speciﬁc area important driver for growth. Discussions highlighted that of focus was the role of the private sector through the the way companies manage risk, opportunity, and scarcity Corporate Sustainability Forum organized by the UN Global will determine the long-term value they create for stakeCompact. holders and society. The only fragrance and ﬂ avor company invited to present at the Rio+20 Corporate Sustainability Forum, Firmenich shared its expertise and experience in partnership models for sustainability. We focused on our work with small farmers, highlighting our activities in Haiti with vetiver farmers. This initiative is part of our “sustainable sourcing program” that focuses on sourcing our natural ingredients in a sustainable way – economically, environmentally and socially. Our sustainable vetiver initiative is being delivered in Reuters © Ueslei Marcelino partnership with the Swiss Development Corporation and follows our Clinton Global Initiative commitment announced in 2010. In addition, Firmenich, as the chair of the Swiss UN Global Compact Network, represented Switzerland at the Global Networks Meeting and attended the steering committee Giant ﬁsh made with plastic bottles were exhibited on 19 June 2012 at meeting of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Botafogo beach in Rio de Janeiro for the UN Conference on Sustainable Development (BIOTRADE) dedicated to biodiversity for the Development. cosmetics and fashion industry. With 1,400 private sector representatives, the Rio+20 Corporate Sustainability Forum drew the highest level of business participation of any UN conference to date. As a showcase for innovation and collaboration, the forum featured over 100 sessions focused on six themes central to the Rio+20 agenda: Energy & Climate, Water & Ecosystems, Agriculture & Food, Social Development, Urbanization & Cities, and Economics & Finance. A wrap-up statement from the Rio+20 Corporate Sustainability Forum endorsed the potential of multistakeholder collaboration to effect transformational change on energy, water, food, women’s empowerment and other global issues, and the power of Firmenich | 9 MANAGING OUR BUSINESS WITH AN UNWAVERING COMMITMENT TO PERFORMANCE WITH INTEGRITY. “The Journey” In this depiction, people from different parts of the world live in harmony with nature. They are free yet meaningful as they are guided by the “ﬁsh-bird” which brings direction and unity. The work includes someone who is carrying a fragrance bottle in the form of a “drop” which connects this painting with the others. Wind, a natural force, is utilized to create energy and direction. I am reminded of what a Perfumer described to me when explaining the use of natural materials as well as compositions of fragrance molecules to replicate nature in the laboratory producing an identical scent without removing the ﬂowers from their habitat. Fernando Chamarelli Brazilian Artist 10 | Firmenich The Journey Work of Art created by Fernando Chamarelli for Firmenich © 2012 OUR FUNDAMENTALS “Our Fundamentals guide our every action, enabling us to remain true to ourselves and make a difference in an ever-changing world. Patrick Firmenich CEO · We listen to our clients and transform their ambitions CLIENTS into reality. We fragrance and ﬂavor our clients’ · We anticipate consumer desires, continually products for our mutual success. reinventing the world of smell and taste. · We deliver the winning combination of products, service and value for money, placing authority and accountability close to our clients. · We create an environment in which each employee is PEOPLE valued, empowered and encouraged to grow. People are the heart of our Company. · We value the diversity and commitment of our people, They are recognized for their passion, enabling us to shape our future with conﬁdence and imagination. talent and integrity. · We unite the ﬁnest talents and encourage an entrepreneurial team spirit to attain our strategic goals. · We create fragrances and ﬂavors that inspire CREATIVITY our clients and consumers worldwide. Creativity is our essence. · We lead our industry in research & innovation, capturing breakthrough ideas around the world. · We constantly strive to discover new ways to improve all that we do. · We strictly maintain the highest level of personal SUSTAINABILITY integrity and ethical values. Our sense of individual and collective · We practice a sustainable business model for the wellresponsibility ensures our long-term being of present and future generations. · We adopt the strictest international standards on success. quality, safety and the environment. · We are a family-owned company, committed to our INDEPENDENCE independence. Our independence gives us the freedom · We take a long-term view of our business. to control our destiny. · We pursue a policy of ﬁnancial strength, proﬁtable growth and return on assets. Firmenich | 13 OUR GOVERNANCE Living the Firmenich Fundamentals… I am passionate about workplace diversity, and I am proud that Firmenich has signed the CEO Statement of Support Each and Every Day for the United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles, which will help advance the rights of women in our company and in our overall value chain. Since joining Firmenich in May 2012, I have been inspired by the company’s I am personally committed to engaging in many aspects of deep commitment to sustainability. sustainability as I begin my journey leading the HR and Sustainability has been progressively Communication function within Firmenich. integrated throughout the “world of Firmenich.” In this context, I believe that the Human Resources DepartHelen Wyatt ment has an important role to play Corporate Vice President, and will become an even stronger partner at many levels Human Resources and Communication within the company’s various sustainability initiatives. Our HR and Communications Group works hard to ensure that each employee of Firmenich worldwide lives the Firmenich Fundamentals every day. For more than a century, Firmenich has demonstrated an unwavering commitment to performance with integrity. Our Code of Conduct clearly delineates what is expected of all of us at Firmenich. In FY12, the company issued new policies on diversity, inclusion and safe disclosure (“whistle-blowing”). The HR Department of Firmenich has done remarkable work engaging employees through our Global Community Day, which now focuses on the company’s sustainability goals. We put our people at the center of all we do, and the health and safety of our people is non negotiable everywhere we operate. I believe that our Sustainability Team and HR have even greater opportunities to reinforce each other at many levels, and I am looking forward to exploring these synergies in the coming months. For instance, we know clearly that a strong sustainability program helps us recruit and maintain the best talent. Employees are motivated when they are proud of their company’s engagement in true sustainability work. Furthermore, sustainability projects can be used for leadership development, offering short-term opportunities for high-potential employees to share their skills and competencies. 14 | Firmenich OUR PEOPLE: HEALTH AND SAFETY Protecting Everyone: Recognizing HS&E Success Health, Safety and Environment In 2008, Firmenich created the Jean-Marc Bruel Award for (HS&E) Health, Safety and Environmental Excellence in honor of our retired chairman, Jean-Marc Bruel. It recognizes teams Ensuring that our employees and contractors are healthy that integrate innovative health, safety and environmental and safe is of utmost importance to Firmenich. For the management practices into their business excellence goals. seventh consecutive year, we have improved our headline safety performance, achieving a Total Recordable Case This past year, Firmenich’s ingredients site in La Plaine, (TRC) rate of 0.63, which represents a 17.1% improvement Switzerland, received the award based on its continuous over the preceding year (FY11 = 0.76) and an overall 74.1% improvement during the past ﬁ ve years in areas of line improvement over five years from F Y07 (full-time management safety leadership, behavioral safety programs permanent and temporary employees). and environmental enhancements in noise and water management, as well as odor control. Had we not made any improvement in our overall health and safety performance in the ﬁve-year period, at least 381 people In 2010, the site achieved both ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 would have been injured, with that injury resulting in either certiﬁcation and set a new site safety performance record. time away from work, inability to perform some work duties From June 2007 to October 2011, its TRC and LTC rates and/or receiving professional medical treatment. Instead, improved by 82% and 92%, respectively. our people were able to go home safely. Eight of our 26 manufacturing sites achieved zero TRC, with 17 achieving zero Lost Time Cases (LTC). Eight of our sites have gone more than three years without an LTC. As part of our ongoing commitment to have all of our manufacturing sites third-party certiﬁ ed to both the OHSAS 18001 (occupational health and safety standard) as well as ISO 14001 (environmental standard) by the end of FY14, we achieved an additional nine certiﬁcations during this ﬁscal year. TRC Rate LTC Rate 1.06 2.43 Rates per 200,000 exposure hours Rates per 200,000 exposure hours * TRC Rate = Total Recordable Cases per 200,000 * LTC Rate = Lost Time Cases per 200,000 exposure exposure hours. (This is the sum of Lost Time hours (a recordable work-related injury or illness that results in time away from work of greater 0.63 Cases + Restricted Work Cases + Medical Treatment Cases, which are either work related than one day or one shift following the day of the injuries or illnesses). Data are for full time per0.15 incident). Data are for full-time permanent and manent and temporary employees (supervised temporary employees (supervised contractors). contractors). Each year, we revalidate our data, Each year, we revalidate our data, making any making any necessary corrections retrospecnecessary corrections retrospectively and reFY07 FY12 tively and reporting the corrections. FY07 FY12 porting the corrections. Firmenich | 15 92% improvement in LTC over the past ﬁve years Investing in Health, Safety will be implemented to help us better understand the effectiveness of existing controls and, if necessary, to improve and Environmental Sustainability the way that these materials are handled and used. We continued to invest in health, safety and environment This monitoring program will measure potential exposures and sustainability projects at our manufacturing plants to more than 35 different substances through personal and ofﬁces. Capital spending on projects and equipment dose monitoring. The program will cover 12 representative related* to HS&E and sustainability was up 22%, to CHF manufacturing sites, and the results will be communi21.6 million in FY12, from 17.7 million in FY11. Over the past cated to all sites. An external agency will conduct testing, ﬁve years, annual capital spending on HS&E and sustainand analyses will be performed in accredited laboratories. ability projects has increased by 18%. Safer Olfactory Testing Some of the major HS&E and sustainability projects undertaken in FY12 included: In FY12, we launched a global study to assess respiratory exposure during olfactive testing of our raw materials. • Solar panel installations in Port Newark, USA, and With the help of an external hygienist and in-house toxisolar lighting in Shanghai, China cologists, we assessed 1,616 different ingredients using a chemical risk-assessment process. This is an important • Wastewater treatment upgrades in Shanghai, China step toward better protecting employees in an industry • On-site waste incineration in Gujarat, India where olfactive analysis of ingredients and products is a natural part of the development process. • High pressure cleaning system in Shanghai, China • Ventilation upgrades to reduce workplace exposure in Hazardous Area Audits Geneva, Switzerland; New Jersey and Minnesota, USA Firmenich’s production activities frequently involve the • Ergonomics improvement in Mexico handling of ﬂammable liquids and combustible powders in • Electrical safety upgrades in Switzerland and a variety of different work areas. A critical factor in the California, USA safe handling of these materials is ensuring that they are • Process equipment safety upgrades in Geneva, properly stored and used in facilities constructed and Switzerland, and New Jersey, USA operated to avoid ignition sources, which could lead to ﬁres or explosions. • Fire prevention and protection improvements in Belgium and Geneva, Switzerland During FY12, a global program of detailed third-party hazardous area audits was developed to ensure that *This includes projects speciﬁcally related to HS&E and sustainability plus facilities effectively control ignition sources in full acan allocated percentage of all other project investments, according to our cordance with corporate standards and local regulations. internal asset investment rules. The audits will be conducted by a recognized independent global expert in process and electrical safety and will cover more than 20 manufacturing sites over a 24-month Projects to Improve Health and Safety period starting in July 2012. Chemical Exposure Monitoring Firmenich has stringent controls in place regarding the handling and use of hazardous materials. We also have a program of mandatory chemical monitoring to ensure that chemical exposure limits are not exceeded. In FY13, a new program on air quality and personal-exposure monitoring 16 | Firmenich OUR STAKEHOLDERS We have continued our series of learning events on sustainClearly deﬁning and understanding our stakeability, hosting a number of sustainability thought leaders holders has been central to our sustainability to educate and inspire employees. Engaging internal program since its inception. Our sustainability stakeholders through learning opportunities is just one report provides our stakeholders with an annual aspect of our approach. We believe that when people “expeupdate on our progress. In FY13, as we reach the rience” sustainability in concrete projects they start to halfway point of our Embrace 2015 strategy, we discover the multifold opportunities it brings. Whether will review our materiality matrix to ensure that they are focusing on nutrition in Africa or hygiene in Asia, the we continue to focus on the issues central to our base of the economic pyramid in India or sourcing prodbusiness and our stakeholders. In executing our ucts in the Amazon, our sustainability champions are not sustainability program, we focus on a number only learning, they are acting and advancing Firmenich’s of stakeholder groups, including our clients, positive impact on society. suppliers, employees, sustainability partners and shareholders. In FY12, we had 20 key strategic sustainability partnerships. Each partnership is active, with ongoing projects and partnership review meetings taking place. In addition, we have forged two new partnerships: one with the Rainforest Our clients are integral to our sustainability efforts. Many Fund, which advises us on human rights and issues relating of our clients have developed sophisticated sustainability to the Amazon; and one with the Swiss Development Coopapproaches and are leaders in sustainability in their eration, the development agency of the Swiss government, markets. We are inspired by their achievements and the with which we have signed a public-private partnership to standards they expect of us. We are enabling their sustainasupport inclusive sourcing in Haiti. bility strategies and regularly interact with them to create sustainable solutions together. The shareholders of Firmenich take an active interest in sustainability and support our programs. We have scaled-up activities with suppliers during FY12. We fast-tracked our supplier engagement strategy by hosting a Supplier Sustainability Summit and implementing a supplier environmental scorecard – more information on this initiative is included on page 40. Through an inclusive supply-chain approach to natural sourcing, we give special attention to suppliers involved in sustainable farming. Firmenich has approximately 6,500 employees in 64 countries. In the past two years, our internal network of sustainability “champions” has been growing and consolidating. This is the mechanism we have created to engage and educate employees to drive sustainability at Firmenich. Grassroots Green Teams have emerged at a number of our sites. Firmenich | 17 OUR SUSTAINABILITY COUNCIL Firmenich created an independent Sustainability Council in 2007 to help guide our sustainability program. This “sounding board” includes thought leaders from various disciplines covering the economic, environmental and social aspects of sustainability. In a true spirit of transparency, we asked each of the six council members to critically challenge us on our work. This is what they had to say. FSG is a nonproﬁt consulting ﬁrm speI expect Firmenich to more ﬁrmly anchor suscializing in strategy, evaluation and retainability into its core purpose and strategy. In search to better tackle social problems. ﬁve years, the company will have reafﬁrmed the Today, FSG works across sectors in every value of ﬂavors and fragrances to society and region of the world, partnering with corshown how they help address social problems, porations, foundations, nonproﬁts and and Firmenich will be investing systematically governments to develop more effective to seize those opportunities. In the meantime, Marc Pﬁtzer, solutions to the world’s most challenging it will continue to advance toward the basic Managing Director, issues. FSG and its cofounder Michael goal of sustainability (zero footprint) and have FSG Porter are the originators of the creata clear list of priorities to change key proing shared value concept, which helps cesses and substitute key ingredients. I love companies see social problems not just your chemistry work relating to the ratio of as costs but as opportunities for growth input to outputs and trying to bring that ratio and productivity gains. ever closer to 1:1, fascinating. Forum for the Future is an independent Firmenich needs to take the excellent work on nonproﬁt that works globally with busisourcing natural ingredients sustainably and ness and government to inspire new ﬁnd a way to make it mainstream in the busithinking, build creative partnerships ness and supply chain. This will mean using and develop practical solutions. Teaming the ingredients index to drive innovation in up with pioneering partners, we strive sourcing and manufacturing. And it will also to transform the essential systems of mean going beyond these immediate activities Stephanie Draper, food, energy and ﬁ nance to secure a to help shape and collaborate in the debates Director of System more fulﬁlling life for this and future on the future of land use and the role that Innovation, generations. synthetics versus naturals will play in a more Forum for the Future resource-constrained future. Quadia is an investment management I expect that Firmenich will remain a frontcompany specialized in impact ﬁnance. runner in the sustainable growth models Quadia invests in companies and projects placing sustainability at the core of its business active in the areas of smart water use, model. Sustainable growth will be achieved nutrition, healthcare access, biodiverthanks to collaborative action. Firmenich can sity, social housing, education, inequallead in this trend and leverage its impact ity, clean energy supply and responsible through an increase in joint measures. This Guillaume Taylor, consumer goods. year I felt that Firmenich was ready to “think Founder and Managing outside of the box” to deﬁne its own sustainDirector, ability opportunities. Quadia 18 | Firmenich The Corporate Sustainability ManageFirmenich could focus on deﬁning more prement platform (CSM) at IMD is an incisely its existing and potential contribution tegral part of IMD’s Global Center for to a “brave new sustainable world” and the Sustainability Leadership. CSM is a important related role that it holds within its learning platform with a corporate value chains. Firmenich should focus on the membership of some 25 companies. various levels of product, process and systemic CSM provides a forward vision and strategic innovation for sustainability. The Aileen Ionescu-Somers perspective to companies and supports leaders on this issue will be those who recognize PhD, Director CSM them in the strategic management of the need for change and act upon it early, Platform, Global Center social and environmental issues. closing existing gaps between attitudes and for Sustainability positive actions. Firmenich has recognized Leadership this fact as a reality of its business context. The Naandi Foundation is the fastest Firmenich will deﬁnitely reach the goals it sets growing and likely the largest social for itself in this space, so it is important to set enterprise in India doing large-scale ambitious targets. Firmenich should now ensustainable programs across the subsure that sustainability is never a negotiable continent. These initiatives include feedbudget item. The framework for sustainability ing nutritious meals to 1 million school must therefore become even more integral in children daily, providing safe drinking the business strategy itself. I think the chalManoj Kumar, water to over 2 million people, supporting lenge is to inspire all employees with the susCEO, the teaching of children in more than tainability ethos in their business. We will Naandi Foundation 1,900 schools and creating more than need a mechanism to engage employees and 100,000 sustainable livelihoods through dovetail the sustainability portfolio to busiecological farming in the Araku region. ness as usual. The International Business Leaders Over the next ﬁ ve years, Firmenich will no Forum (IBLF) is an independent, global doubt continue its drive to reducing its, and membership organization of more than the industry’s, environmental footprint. The 150 leading multinational companies. It leadership opportunity for Firmenich now is works across business, government to deﬁne, conﬁdently communicate and begin and civil society sectors focusing on to realize fully its “planetary value proposicritical sustainability, growth and leadtion” – the full range of current and potential Darian Stibbe, ership issues. beneﬁts its products bring to the world. By Director, capitalizing on the company’s progressive International Business leadership and the freedom offered by its priLeaders Forum vate ownership, Firmenich should invest in innovative products that make business sense while contributing extensively to the health, well-being and happiness of the planet. Firmenich | 19 OUR PARTNERSHIPS Our Sustainability Partners External Public Commitments Validation and Reporting Partners Knowledge and Learning Partners Development Partners Environment Partners 20 | Firmenich At Firmenich, we believe that the complexities and opportunities of sustainability are best tackled through a partnership approach. Partnerships are central to the implementation Firmenich Charitable and success of our sustainability strategy. In our approach, Foundation partnering with stakeholders affords a deeper level of engagement, one that requires an innovative business model Charitable giving is imbedded in our 117-year hisand project management structure. tory. We believe that proﬁtable companies have a social obligation to invest in their local communities Our newest public-private partnership with the Swiss and champion causes. In an effort to optimize the government is an illustration of our methodology. We impact of our charitable giving, we created the spent more than a year deﬁning together the partnership Firmenich Charitable Foundation to formalize and governance and architecture before moving on to project focus efforts across our worldwide operations. implementation. The design phase helped us discover the Firmenich’s long history of philanthropy reﬂects the values we share and build the necessary trust to commit to ethos of the company and highlights our commitsuch an innovative collaboration. A public-private partnerment to contribute to challenges in our industry ship of this size and importance requires a clear deﬁnition and our communities. In 2012, Firmenich, together of the common goal as well as an acceptance that partners with the Firmenich Charitable Foundation, supmight have different expectations and objectives. This ported over 150 charities. requires a clear understanding of how to share the risks and beneﬁts of the partnership. Primary areas of emphasis are: Working closely with a government agency brings more • Breast cancer research transparency and more legitimacy into any sustainability • Relieving hunger and improving nutrition project through the reporting and third-party auditing that • Supporting communities in which is required when receiving funds. Building institutional Firmenich operates partnerships was one of the main themes of the Rio Summit. • Renewable energy Firmenich was invited to present its work with the Swiss • Sustainable agriculture government, which demonstrates our thought leadership in sustainability through social innovation. In addition, we funded the constructions of two schools that will provide education to more than 1,000 children who would otherwise not have access to schooling. The schools are in the communities of Debouchette, Haiti; and Na Meung, Laos. Firmenich | 21 MINIMIZING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT BY EFFICIENTLY UTILIZING RESOURCES TO MAXIMIZE VALUE AND PERFORMANCE. “The Face of Inspiration” An innovator, who is responsible for creating the world’s leading fragrances and ﬂavors. A combination of art and science. One side is scientiﬁc, molecular and geometric and the other is natural, alive and organic. In the center of their mind is a drop which artistically draws inspiration from the best that nature and science have to offer. Fernando Chamarelli Brazilian Artist 22 | Firmenich The Face of Inspiration Work of Art created by Fernando Chamarelli for Firmenich © 2012 RESPECTING OUR ENVIRONMENT Our Performance With the installation of an additional solar power project at our Port Newark, USA, Flavor site, we now have 28% of We continued to make steady progress in FY12 on many of our sites generating renewable energy. our environmental key performance indicators (KPIs), with solid improvement over the prior year (FY11), as well as the rolling ﬁve-year baseline (FY07-FY12). See table below. New Environmental Reporting Module Our Embrace 2015 strategic sustainability goals include a In FY12, Firmenich upgraded its environmental managecommitment to reduce our CO 2 emissions in absolute ment system software by adding new features and functerms by 15%, to reduce our water use rate by 15% and to tionality to better support the accuracy and transparency partially power 90% of our manufacturing facilities with of environmental reporting relating to our sustainability renewable energy. goals, client reporting needs and external audits. The We realize the ambitious nature of our goal to reduce abupgraded system includes: solute carbon emissions by 15%. While we achieved a 2.6% • Extensive customized reporting capabilities reduction in energy use compared to the prior year, we have added cumulatively approximately 42,000 tonnes of CO2 • Environmental sustainability project tracking emissions over our FY10 baseline (Scope 1 & 2 emissions). • Compatibility with global reporting initiatives such as the We have made good progress on process water rate Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the Carbon Discloreduction, with a 4.8% reduction over the preceding year. sure Project (CDP). FY11 FY12 Annual FY07 vs. FY12 Change (%) Change (%) Total Energy Use (GJ/t)+ 11.4 11.1 -2.6 -13.3 Scope 1 and 2 CO2 Emissions (kg/t)+ 837 835 -0.2 -7.1 VOC (kg/t)+ 1.4 1.2 -14.3 -29.4 Total Water Use (m3/t)+ 26.9 23.1 -14.1 -39.8 Process Water Use (m3/t)+ 8.4 8.0 -4.8 -14.9 Hazardous Waste (kg/t)+ 83 79 -4.8 -35.2 Waste to Energy (%)• 19.5 30.1 +54.4 NA Waste to Landﬁll (%)• 10.9 9.1 -16.5 +4.6 * Each year, we revalidate our data, making any necessary corrections retrospectively and reporting the corrections. + Data normalized and stated as per tonne of production • Data stated as a % of total waste generated Firmenich | 25 -7.1% reduction of our CO2 emissions rate -39.8% total water use reduction per tonne in the past ﬁve years of production in the last 5 years Energy CO2 Emissions VOC Emissions 899 12.8 1.7 11.1 835 1.2 electricity GJ/t of production kg/t of production kg/t of production natural gas oil coal purchased steam lpg renewable CO Scope1 2 generated onsite CO Scope2 2 FY07 FY12 FY07 FY12 FY07 FY12 * Each year, we revalidate our data, making any necessary corrections retrospectively and reporting the corrections. Energy Use and Carbon Dioxide (CO2) project also supports the Embrace 2015 sustainability goals: Emissions • CO 2 emission (absolute) reduction of 15% Our commitment to manage and reduce our CO 2 emissions • 90% of facilities partially powered by renewable energy continues. This was our fourth consecutive year of reporting via the Carbon Disclosure Project, and we achieved a Cross-functional Site Energy Teams were established at Disclosure Score of 72 out of 100, well above the CDP 2011 the 15 largest operational sites to identify and develop site Supply Chain average score of 51. energy efﬁciency opportunities and projects. By the end of FY12, the teams had identiﬁed a total of 23 projects, with a During FY12, our total energy use was reduced by 2.6% potential reduction of 2,600 tonnes of CO 2 per year. and by 13.3% over the rolling ﬁve-year period (FY07-FY12). At the same time, our CO 2 emissions (Scope 1 and 2) in kg per tonne of production were essentially ﬂat, at -0.2% from The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) works to the preceding year. On the rolling ﬁve-year period, we show transform the way the world does business. For a 7.1% decrease per tonne of production. The initiatives over a decade CDP has worked to tackle climate and projects highlighted below, as well as those planned change, and its system has helped put climate for the future, will support our energy and carbon emischange and energy efﬁciency on the business radar sion reduction goals. and in mainstream business thinking. The CDP holds the largest collection globally of self-reported Energy Efﬁciencies Driven by Site Energy Teams climate change data. It extends awareness of an In recent years Firmenich has invested in alternative energies organization’s carbon footprint, moving beyond the (e.g., solar, biomass) and has recently launched a promeasurement of direct greenhouse gas emissions gram focusing on energy sourcing and efﬁciency. to include climate change risks and opportunities across the supply chain. Firmenich has ﬁled its carDuring FY12, Firmenich launched a coordinated global energy bon emissions results with the CDP for the past four efﬁciency initiative. One of the stated goals is to reduce years and worked toward continuously improving total energy cost by 6% (from a FY11 baseline) and reduce both its disclosure and its performance score. the associated environmental impact (CO 2 emissions). The 26 | Firmenich -35.2% reduction in hazardous waste rate 12,000 tonnes of waste used for energy recovery Total Water Usage Hazardous Waste Recycled Waste 38.4 122 12657 12005 23.1 79 m3/t of production cooling kg/t of production process tonnes domestic FY07 FY12 FY07 FY12 FY07 FY12 domestic = sanitary + gardening cooling = non-contact cooling water * The global energy efﬁciency program has three pillars: Managing Waste Energy Efﬁcient Assets, Energy Sourcing and Operational Excellence. We have made good progress in waste management. Performance indicators relating to waste show annual imWater Use provement. Our hazardous waste reduced by 4.8% over the preceding year and 35.2% over the rolling ﬁ ve-year period As signatories to the UN Global Compact’s CEO Water (FY07–FY12). Mandate, we are committed to addressing the ways we use water. Given the nature of our business and products and the Last year we introduced a new metric in the waste category strict requirements for hygiene and cleanliness, process by starting to track waste used to generate on or off-site water use is a key environmental indicator to be managed. energy (e.g., waste burned in cogeneration plants or incinerators, or waste used to generate biogas). In FY12 the In FY12, we delivered a one-year reduction of 14.1% in our portion of total waste used to generate energy increased total water use per tonne of production, and a 4.8% decrease by 54.4%. Approximately 12,000 tonnes of waste were used in process water use per tonne of production. We track water for energy recovery in FY12. use in three categories, process water, domestic water and non-contact cooling water. We set a 2015 sustainability As we continue to improve on how our waste streams are goal to reduce the use of process water by 15% as a rate per managed, we have focused on reducing the waste sent to tonne of production. Over the rolling ﬁ ve-year period landﬁll. Reducing waste at the source, ﬁnding ways in (FY07–FY12) we have now achieved a 14.9% reduction. which waste could be recycled as well as opportunities to generate energy from waste all contribute to reducing waste to landﬁll. We achieved an annual reduction of 16.5% for waste to landﬁll. This category represents approximately 9.1% of total waste streams compared with 10.9% in the preceding year. * Non-contact cooling water is water that is used in heat exchangers and does not contact materials from the process that it is used to cool. Since Examples of energy, water efﬁciency and waste management it does not contact process materials, the cooling water does not become contaminated during use. After use, the water is returned to the sources projects from around the world are provided on pages 28 (e.g., lake, river) from which it is obtained. and 29. Firmenich | 27 Highlights of Our Global Environmental Sustainability Efforts U.S. China Solar Power Installation, Port Newark, USA. During Green construction of new R&D building, Shanghai, FY12 a new photovoltaic array was installed at our Port China. Our newly opened research and development Newark site, this being in addition to an existing unit building in Shanghai has been constructed using the installed the preceding year. The two units have a latest environmental principles and has recently been rated power of 719 kWatts. The new unit was conawarded a Leadership in Energy and Environmental structed over the parking lot of the Flavor production Design (LEED) Silver medal. The building was inaugufacility. Energy generated during FY12 was 598 MWh, rated in May 2012. equating to an anticipated Scope 2 carbon emissions reduction of over 461 tonnes per year. Boiler Efﬁciency Upgrade, Port Newark, USA. Our Ingredients production facility at Port Newark has installed an improved set of boiler controls to optimize burner performance. It is expected to reduce energy consumption of the boiler house by 5% annually. Cleaning Efﬁciencies, New Ulm, USA. The new Cleaning in Place system improves cleaning efﬁciency with anticipated savings of approximately 660 GJ energy per year, the equivalent of 60 tonnes per year of CO2 and reduced water consumption of 2,800 m3 per year. Brazil Reduced Energy Consumption, São Paulo, Brazil. Our These changes in the operation of the incinerator have São Paulo site has implemented an energy efﬁciency reduced fuel oil consumption to an estimated 750 tonnes project to match the use of the on-site incinerator (used per year and reduced incinerator operating costs by to treat strong odors) with the activities within the ﬂavor approximately US$ 500,000 per year. manufacturing facility. The project is also predicted to reduce CO2 emissions by The odor characteristics of the different ﬂavor products approximately 2,400 tonnes per year. have been determined, and this information, with data on production volumes, is used by the Utilities Department to adjust the operating parameters of the incinerator to ensure efﬁcient odor control while optimizing the consumption of heavy fuel oil. 28 | Firmenich Europe Water Management, Geneva, Switzerland. A water Biogas Waste to Energy, Geneva, Switzerland. At our management project was initiated by installing seven Flavors plant in Geneva, organic powder wastes were water meters to measure water consumption proﬁles in historically sent off-site for incineration. During the critical areas. Once data had been collected and analyzed, ﬁscal year this waste stream has been diverted to genwater conservation initiatives were implemented. erate biogas at a specialized facility. Powder waste is mixed with other organic material (such as garden and Compared to the preceding year, water consumption agricultural waste) and injected into a digester to prowas reduced by approximately 46% (31,853 m3). duce biogas. The gas is collected, treated and injected directly into the municipal domestic gas supply for domestic consumption (the domestic supply can include up to 15% biogas). Further environmental savings have been made by transporting approximately 10% of the waste stream in reuseable containers. Additional savings are now being considered through the use of biodegradable plastic bags, which can be placed directly into the digester. In a six-month period 131 tonnes of waste was used by the biogas generator. Approximately 15,270 m3 of biogas was generated from this waste. Waste disposal costs (including transport) using the biogas plant are almost 52% lower than those for incineration disposal. Optimized Cleaning, Alesund, Norway. At our seafood ﬂ avor production facility in Alesund, energy and water are required as part of production equipment and pipe work cleaning procedures to maintain food hygiene standards. The Cleaning in Place system was therefore made a focus for a recent efﬁciency project. India The project team undertook a detailed review of all stages of the cleaning process and tested several Drip irrigation, Gujarat, India. An investment in drip potential improvements to ensure that they achieved irrigation for landscaping at our Ingredients plant in savings while still meeting the rigorous quality and Gujarat is anticipated to reduce water consumption by hygiene requirements needed to deliver the product. 50%. Other anticipated beneﬁ ts also include faster Three main improvements were made: tree growth, higher tree survival rates and signiﬁcant savings in fresh water usage. • Changing CIP cleaning agents from acid and sodium hydroxide-based agents to detergent and disinfectantbased agents On-Site Waste Incinerator, Gujarat, India. Our Ingredients • Reducing the CIP time and temperature site in Gujarat completed construction of an on-site waste incinerator to handle both liquid and solid wastes, reduc• Simplifying the cleaning procedure for production ing the need to transport waste for off-site disposal. start after shutdown The new incinerator plant meets stringent environmental and safety requirements and is capable of burning the waste at 950-1100 oC and can potentially generate between 1.0 and 1.3 tonnes of steam per hour from the hot ﬂue gases. The steam will be used as a source of energy for the plant. The Waste Heat Recovery Boiler (for steam generation) is expected to save approximately 230 kg of CO2 emissions per tonne of steam produced. Firmenich | 29 CREATING A PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY INDEX Creating an Environmental Sustainability By the end of FY11 the team had developed a practical and Index for Synthetic Ingredients working index, which was tested on an initial ﬁve ingredients. The index was reviewed internally by our production and A signiﬁcant challenge for any company is understanding the sustainability teams and externaly by Forum for the Future environmental impact of the products or services it offers. (Firmenich Sustainability Council members). The reviewers identiﬁed areas to further develop, test and reﬁne the index Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) has long been the tool of choice to (as reported in our 2011 Sustainability Report). model such impacts. However, full LCA involves resource intensive analyses and may not be practical where there is During FY12 the team worked with Quantis to expand the a need to compare large numbers of products and their system boundaries to include impacts arising at each life associated process steps. cycle stage; manufacture and transport of raw materials, Firmenich production activities and “product use and Since early 2011 Firmenich has been working with an exterdisposal” aspects (see system boundaries in ﬁgure 3 on nal partner, Quantis, to develop an Ingredient Environmental next page). Sustainability Index a pragmatic way of better modeling, measuring and reporting our ingredient life cycle environWe also reﬁned the normalization factor used to express mental impacts (see ﬁgure 1 below). the ﬁnal index score in terms of the impact of an average global citizen over one year. This was considered more relevant than the European citizen impact units used previously (see ﬁgure 2 below). How to Build the Environmental An index score of 1 means that the production Sustainability Index? of one tonne of this ingredient has the same impact on the environment as an average global citizen in one year. Inputs Methodology Index 25 1 Tonne Product = 1 Global Citizen Carbon footprint 20 Index score 15 Water 10 Environmental 5 toxicity 0 Carbon Water Ecosystems Natural Human Ingredient footprint footprint quality resources health Figure 1-The Model Figure 2-Index units 30 | Firmenich What Are the Life Cycle Stage Contributions? 25 INDICATORS Environmental Climate change Water toxicity Sourcing Raw material LIFE CYCLE STAGE Transport 20 Onsite Production Energy Consumption Water Consumption N/A N/A Waste Production Product Use & Disposal Index score (person-year/tonne) 15 Product properties N/A N/A Figure 3-Impact of different life cycle stages on the index score 10 5 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 49 50 Product Sustainability Index Ingredients ranked 1 to 50 (real data) At the end of FY12, the Index was again reviewed internally The ﬁrst real use of the Index will be internal to the business, by the production and sustainability teams, and externally where it will be used to distinguish which ingredients should by Forum for the Future. The feedback from all parties be targeted for further investigation and potential projects was encouraging overall and Forum gave us speciﬁ c to improve sustainability performance. It will also be used recommendations on how to apply the Index in the busiexternally, as a communication tool and to respond to and ness and urged us to focus on, and further evaluate, the engage with customers regarding ingredient carbon footimpacts and changes that it could create for us and our print and other potential life cycle impacts. The provision of customers. Several inconsistencies were also identiﬁed ingredientand supplier-speciﬁc data is a key requirement where Index scores were higher than anticipated. Prelimof LCA and carbon footprinting activities and will help inary analysis was performed using data sets provided by demonstrate our genuine commitment to engage on susthe different Firmenich manufacturing sites, and using tainability improvement measures. assumptions where no data were available. The team also agreed to change the Index name from the As a next step, it is planned to address the inconsistencies by Synthetic Ingredients Sustainability Index to the Environboth verifying the data provided and modifying the assumpmental Sustainability Index for Synthetic Materials, as only tions where possible, to review possible limitations and to environmental footprint data (and not social or economic “calibrate” the Index with a variety of well-known materials, data) are used in the analysis. so the Index scores can be put into context. Afterwards, it is planned to scale up the data analysis to the full 400 materials identiﬁed in the original Embrace 2015 sustainability goal. Firmenich | 31 OUR FOCUS ON GREEN The Global Green Team Network The Singapore Green Team launched the “Scream Green” campaign to focus efforts on one sustainability theme per quarter. The elements of earth, air, ﬁre and water raised Our “Green Team Initiative” engages employees to work toawareness of consumption, social responsibility, energy gether to ﬁnd innovative ways to reduce the environmental efﬁciency and water use. The initiative was an important impact of our operations. We have Green Teams in a number step to create awareness of sustainability issues and build of our sites around the world, with our newest team networks, knowledge and initiatives to mobilize action. In formed in our New York City ofﬁce. Examples of efforts FY13, the team will deepen its “Scream Green” activities from three of our Green Teams are provided below. by hosting a Singapore Sustainability Symposium to raise client awareness of sustainability and through the instalThe “Just One” Campaign guided Green Team activities in lation of solar panels at our facility. Princeton, New Jersey. Each month employees were reminded that simple choices and actions could collectively make big differences to the environment – focusing on the mantra of reduce, reuse and recycle. We measure the impact of activities in Princeton on an annual basis, and clear progress is being made to raise awareness of environmental sustainability. Our FY12 survey indicated that 97% of staff are familiar with Green Team activities. In Paris, efforts focused around three key initiatives: • Reducing energy consumption through timing control of lighting, replacement of halogen bulbs with LEDs and the implementation of motion sensors in facilities occupied intermittently • Reducing waste through better segmentation methods, recycling and the creation of a task force decreasing chemical waste • Creating a sustainable purchasing policy developed and implemented by Facilities Management ‘‘Just One’’ campaign poster – small changes can make a big difference. to add a “green” component as a consideration in the purchase of all ofﬁce equipment and supplies In FY13, the Paris Green Team will focus on further reducing energy consumption, reducing water use and the creation of an “eco-mobility” project to promote car sharing and sustainable travel solutions. The four elements of Singapore’s ‘‘Scream Green’’ campaign. 32 | Firmenich GREEN IT: CASE STUDY The center is powered by hydroSince managing the environmental impacts and beneﬁts of Information Services (IS) is a strategic electricity, a sustainable source imperative for every organization in the 21st century, of energy the IS division of Firmenich has recently put in place a “Green IT Policy.” This policy will ensure that we drive sustainable IT solutions throughout The data center surface area has our company. A concrete example of this is the been reduced by approximately criteria we used in choosing a site for our data center in Geneva. 33% in the past three years A “closed alley” has been designed whereby warm air is captured When we selected our partners to host our data center, one of the criteria was the importance placed on environrather than circulated in the system mental care by our service provider. Firmenich manages terabytes of information and data every day and we wanted The concept of “virtualization” has to have a sustainable approach for our data centers. been applied, which means there A green data center is a repository for the storage, manageis much “more system” working in ment and dissemination of data in which the mechanical, lighting, electrical and computer systems are designed for only one machine maximum energy efﬁciency and minimum environmental impact. The construction and operation of a green data Machines have a better endurance center includes advanced technologies and strategies. to heat, which requires less air Although the use of this green data center involves additional conditioning to cool down the upfront costs, it is anticipated that long-term savings can be realized on operations and maintenance. machines, and therefore less power Firmenich | 33 CREATING SMART AND INCLUSIVE GROWTH FOR OUR COMPANY AND THE COMMUNITIES WITHIN OUR VALUE CHAIN. “The Copaíba Tree” This picture tells the story of the extraction of copaíba oil in my native country of Brazil. Two people are extracting copaíba oil from the tree. Their faces are tilted down as a reminder of an old superstition the indigenous people have. In Amazonia people do not look at the tree when they extract oil as they believe this will reduce the yield. The canopy of the tree is made of organic shapes of animals and ﬂowers. The trunk is a large drop with a couple representing the essence of life and love. Overall, the entire image manifests the symbol of inﬁnity. Everything is renewed and never ends, serving future generations. For me, this is sustainability. Fernando Chamarelli Brazilian Artist 34 | Firmenich The Copaíba Tree Work of Art created by Fernando Chamarelli for Firmenich © 2012 NEW CONSUMERS: REACHING AND UNDERSTANDING “Disruptive business models arise when technology combines with extreme market conditions, such as customer demand for very low price points, poor infrastructure, hard-to-access suppliers and low cost curves for talents.” (McKinsey and Company , 2010). Pilot project in Pune Since the concept of doing business with the base of the Firmenich has been implementing its own base of pyramid economic pyramid (also known as BoP) was ﬁrst introprogram involving our perfumery and ﬂ avor divisions duced by C.K. Prahalad and Stuart Hart in their 2001 book with the support of the sustainability team. Our goal was to The Fortune at the Bottom of the Pyramid: Eradicating Poverty develop the ﬁrst inclusive business model in the fragrance Through Proﬁts, the list of large corporations transforming and ﬂ avor industry, with low-income consumers included their business models to achieve the price points and cost in the development of products. positions required to reach underserved markets has increased. First attempts were referred to as “BoP 1.0” and Our ﬁrst focus market was India. Our Indian colleagues focused on the poor people as consumers. “BoP 2.0” focuses and our NGO partner, the Naandi Foundation, gave us the on poor people as partners. potential to build a highly successful team structure. The key objectives of the project were to: BoP 1.0 “Selling BoP 2.0 “Business to the Poor” Coventuring” Make BoP products more adapted • BoP as • BoP as business partner consumer/producer to the sensorial preferences of • Deep dialogue • Deep listening consumers • Expand imagination • Reduce price points • Marry capabilities, build Treat BoP consumers as partners • Redesign packaging, shared commitment extend distribution • Direct, personal relationin product development • Arm’s-length relationships facilitated by NGOs ships mediated by NGOs Cocreate methodologies and surveys with BoP communities Erik Simanis and Stuart Hart, Cornell University, 2008 Fully integrate cultural and socioeconomic diversity into Firmenich understanding of consumers Firmenich | 37 “shared senses and sensibilities” Create opportunities for Firmenich In FY12, we conducted two successful pilots and launched a unique consumer-insight initiative focusing on four regions employees and clients to immerse in India. The aim was to gain deeper understanding of lowthemselves in BoP communities income consumers earning between $3 and $10 per day. The project, called “Shared Senses and Sensibilities,” is a and bridge the cultural gap, creating partnership with the Naandi Foundation. It brings together the knowledge of Firmenich’s consumer insight experts opportunities for cocreation and and that of Naandi’s social survey experts, and it has led business innovation to a very innovative approach. Our team in India, with the help of Naandi professionals, Make affordable health products trained young adults from base of pyramid families to inter(hygiene and nutrition) that taste view low-income consumers. Most of them had dropped out of school and were unemployed. Naandi routinely and smell good in order to ensure trains these young people over a six-month period and consumer usage places them in call centers, hospitality settings and other services. With Firmenich’s help, they received their ﬁrst work experience conducting our consumer surveys. This nonintrusive approach allowed us to run quantitative surveys, usages and attitudes of a category as well as product testing. What have we achieved this year? We have conducted two successful pilots. We have a network in place and a methodology that is working and delivering the knowledge we were expecting. Ninety percent of the young people involved in the project found a job after their experience with us. The ﬁrst dialogues with consumers have been extremely rewarding. Some of these consumers said that it was the ﬁrst time someone had asked them their opinions on what they liked or did not like. We are now ready to roll out the ﬁrst Firmenich business teams using Shared BoP consumer receiving a product sample for testing Senses and Sensibilities with their clients. Interviewers from the Naandi school explaining the questionnaire 38 | Firmenich ENSURING SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAINS To be successful in our sustainability efforts we must inReduced Environmental clude all actors in our value chain. Only by approaching the Impact whole life cycle can we fully understand the environmental, social and economic impact of our business. A stated aim of our sustainability vision is that our activities inspire our Inclusiveness & stakeholders to focus on sustainability. This requires a focus Engagement Mitigating Risks not only on our efforts but also on working with partners Governance, Transparency, within our sphere of inﬂuence. Standards & Metrics Our purchasing decisions offer the opportunity to reinforce our commitment to sustainability. In 2011 we explored our Scope 3 CO2 emissions and established that 75% of our Innovation & Social Impact and footprint was a result of the goods and services we purchase. Creation Ethical Standards This highlights the opportunity and importance of working closely with our suppliers, not only to lower their environmental footprint but also in all areas of sustainability. For Firmenich, a sustainable supply chain is one that conchain, the impact of environmental volatility and the ecosiders economic, environmental and social impacts. The nomic vulnerability of small farmers. complexities of a globalized economy provide risks and opportunities, linking producers and consumers around In FY12, we continued our focus on these very different but the globe. Consumers demand traceability while scarcity important segments of our supply chain. of resources, increasing demand from emerging economies and environmental and political instability contribute to market volatility. We believe that by focusing on sustainEmpowering Sustainable ability in our supply chain we can mitigate risks and utilize and Ethical Supply Chains opportunities. For example, we partner with our suppliers for innovation through our “open innovation” philosophy SEDEX, the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange, is a (see page 43) and enable suppliers to focus on sustainabilnot-for-proﬁt membership organization dedicated ity through building networks and sharing expertise at our to driving improvements in responsible and ethical supplier summit. Governance within our supply chain is business practices in global supply chains. fundamental, providing the transparency, standards and Firmenich has been an active member of SEDEX metrics to support our work. The Supplier Ethical Data since 2008 and 100% of our manufacturing plants Exchange (SEDEX) is central to these efforts – we report are registered. on labor standards, health and safety, environment impact and business practices and through the SEDEX platform SEDEX audits and the Self Assessment Questionnaires our customers have visibility on our activities. (SAQ) have allowed us to validate that 100% of our production sites are fully vetted for risks in the major To implement our sustainability strategy with suppliers we ethical criteria such as the freedom of association, have divided our focus into two core areas: our largest collective bargaining, child labor, forced and suppliers, in terms of goods and services purchased, and compulsory labor. our suppliers of natural ingredients, especially small In FY13 we will be expanding our relationship with farmers. The rationale for this segmentation is twofold. SEDEX to the next level. As an AB member, the system First, through focusing on our largest suppliers, we can will allow us to not only monitor our own operations but have the most signiﬁcant impact on the sustainability of that of our main suppliers. This will be in addition to our supply chain. Second, natural ingredients deserve the supplier scorecard program put in place this year. special attention because of the uniqueness of the supply Firmenich | 39 SUSTAINABLE SOURCING PARTNERSHIPS Supplier Summit on Sustainability chain in 2010. Core ingredients sourced under this program include copaíba oil, tonka beans, vanilla and vetiver. In FY13 and Launch of the Environmental this is expanding to include citrus, ﬂorals, patchouli and mint. Sustainability Scorecard Since its inception in 2007 our program has become a pillar In our 2011 report we featured work on understanding our of our sustainability work. The sourcing of our natural ingreScope 3 greenhouse gas emissions. We identiﬁed the need dients deserves special attention because of the uniqueness to work closely with our suppliers as part of our goal to of the supply chain, the impact of environmental volatility reduce carbon dioxide emissions in absolute terms. and the economic vulnerability of small farmers. The growing demand by consumers for natural ingredients with During the year we held a Supplier Sustainability Event in full traceability directly connects farmers with consumers. Geneva, inviting representatives from more than 30 of our The core elements of our work with farming communities top ingredient raw material suppliers. This event offered include: the opportunity to share sustainability experiences and expertise with our core suppliers. We educated our suppliImproving economic terms for farming ers on our sustainability program and outlined our focus and communities through increased incomes as expectations. The summit offered an opportunity to gather a result of better pricing, simpliﬁed value intelligence on supplier sustainability efforts and provided a forum for networking and collaboration. chains and a focus on buying from the source During this event we launched our Supplier Environmental Enhancing social conditions in farming Sustainability Scorecard initiative. The scorecard is designed communities through access to health and to track supplier-related environmental sustainability performance within the supply chain. education services and building community inclusion and participation We asked key ingredient suppliers to use the scorecard and report their environmental sustainability results relatReducing environmental impacts through ing directly to the manufacture of ingredients supplied to enhanced farming practices, better land Firmenich. If suppliers have not yet developed that capability, they may report the overall sustainability results for all management and diversiﬁcation of crops of their ingredient manufacturing or their total corporate sustainability results. The data collected will be used to determine Firmenich product-level environmental impacts, thereby having direct application within our Ingredients Environmental Sustainability Index. It will also complement our Scope 3 carbon emissions reporting initiative, which we highlighted last year. Sustainable Sourcing of Natural Ingredients We continued to focus on the sustainable sourcing of natural ingredients in FY12. This program focuses on natural ingreA farmer harvests vetiver grass dients that are of strategic importance for our business, selected following a benchmarking of our naturals supply 40 | Firmenich improving the lives of 30,000 vetiver farmers We have had a number of achievements in FY12: and governments that focus on agricultural supply chains. Our work is differentiated by our focus on partnerships. Our In Brazil, we expanded our work with copaíba collaboration enables greater impact by linking our activities to broader agricultural and developmental initiatives. producing communities in Amazonia. See Approaching our work in this way requires a signiﬁcant page 42 for greater detail on this initiative commitment of technical and ﬁnancial resources but adds transparency and accountability to our actions. In Haiti, we launched a joint development partnership with the Swiss Development Our experience in sustainable sourcing resulted in invitations Corporation focused on working with vetiver to speak at two international sustainability conferences in FY12. At the Rio+20 Corporate Sustainability Forum, organfarming communities in the southwest of the ized by the UN Global Compact, we outlined our experience country. The partnership will improve the of building public-private partnerships in Haiti. At the CSR environmental, economic and social condiAmericas 2012 Forum, organized by the Inter-American tions of 30,000 vetiver farmers Development Bank, we outlined strategies for scaling up sourcing initiatives for increased impact. In Madagascar, we sourced the world’s ﬁrst “Rainforest Alliance” certiﬁed vanilla from the Savanille co-operative. Rainforest Alliance certiﬁcation is a well-respected third-party veriﬁed certiﬁcation that ensures sustainability standards are enforced in the sourcing of our vanilla In Uganda, we launched the second phase of our partnership with the Danish government and will expand our impact to vanilla farmers in the central and western regions of Uganda Vanilla drying in the morning sun in Madagascar Our work with farming communities is deeply rooted in the needs and aspirations expressed by the communities themselves. Our work starts with a baseline diagnostic in the farming communities, conducted by an independent third-party expert; this analysis guides our focus and provides a framework for measuring our impact and progress. Only by fully understanding the local conditions and environment is it possible to devise appropriate, sustainable solutions. When we have a full understanding of community needs we design a program of activities focused on improving the economic, environmental and social conditions for farmers and farming communities. This process takes time but is essential for the success of our initiatives as it builds trust and understanding within the community. We also use this diagnostic phase to build partnerships with local NGOs The natural beauty of the vetiver growing region in Haiti Firmenich | 41 COPAÍBA OIL FROM BRAZIL: A CASE STUDY André Tabanez is our Natural Sourcing Manager When I ﬁrst visited the Amazon in 1992 as an undergradfor Latin America and has spearheaded our work uate student, I thought I was entering a different world. This region takes up half of the Brazilian territory and is in Amazonia to sustainably source copaíba oil. This larger than Western Europe, but its forest was being cut page contains his reﬂections on our project. An down at a startling rate. There were so many battles taking agronomist with a masters in forestry and a PhD in place. Right and wrong wasn’t immediately discernable; biodiversity, André has been at Firmenich for nine the truth of the indians wasn’t the truth of the landless migrants, nor was the latter the truth of traditional caboclo years and regularly visits Amazonia. communities, which wasn’t the truth of the loggers, which certainly wasn’t the truth of the forest, its animals, plants and rivers. More than 20 years later, I went back to the Amazon to start the Firmenich Copaíba Project, and things still looked unsettled. But Brazil, its government, its people and NGOs had begun to change the way the Amazon is used—and Firmenich is part of that change. Today, the conservation of the forest is inherently tied to the lives and livelihood of the people who reside there, indians and traditional communities (caboclos). They must partner with companies that value their products and pay a fair price under fair conditions, otherwise they will leave their homeland, and the forest will become easy prey for loggers and commercial farmers. Each time I go back to the forest, I work with these communities and discuss how they can partner with an international company to grow their businesses. I know that we are making a difference and I’m grateful that my role at Firmenich allows me to do this fulﬁlling work. I’ve realized how much I’ve learned in that different world and how much it still amazes me: the view of a black caiman in the foggy morning, the macaws ﬂying by, the caboclos showing me how they ﬁsh and hunt, their stories of jaguars told in dark nights under the dim candle light, the kids paddling For centuries, products from the Amazonian forest were in canoes, the story of their ﬁght for the land they have traded in conditions that brought little beneﬁt to the local inhabited for generations. All of this is a way to build trust, traditional communities that produced them. These and I explain to them that Firmenich is there to do things communities are located in isolated, remote areas with openly and honestly, countering centuries of unfair relations little law enforcement and few documents to prove between Western society and the “people of the forest.” ownership of the land. Products like rubber, brazil nuts and copaíba oil left the forest, with most of the proﬁt Reaching the communities inside the forest takes time, going to intermediaries. endless ﬂights in small, shaky airplanes over the massive green carpet, hours riding a 4 x 4 truck on dirt roads, sitting Copaíba oil, a wood-scented oil that Firmenich uses in in a boat at times for hours watching the forest and the the formulation of fragrances sold around the world, is birds that ﬂy overhead as we go by. Whenever I’m headextracted from the inside of the trunk of a wild tree native ing to a community, one question comes to my mind: I to the Amazon. In keeping with our sustainability goals, wonder whether I’m making history, helping the forest we at Firmenich realized that we have the power to change people make a better living, or just having the experience things and ensure that most of the beneﬁt would stay of a lifetime. I guess it’s a little bit of all three. with the producers of the oil. In doing so, we also could help protect the largest tropical forest in the world. Our André Tabanez, Copaíba Project ensures that the oil we buy is sourced Natural Sourcing Manager, directly from the local producers in the forest. Latin America. 42 | Firmenich LEADERSHIP IN RESEARCH AND INNOVATION Innovation and Research Innovation in Ingredients Our heritage and storied history of scientiﬁc discovery, which The ingredients we use are central to our efforts. Our susincludes a Nobel Prize for Chemistry, along with our investtainable research continues to focus on our pillars of bioment in research and development, has inspired a “culture of degradation, green chemistry, white biotechnology, green innovation” at Firmenich. This “culture of innovation” – the biotechnology and health and wellness. We strive to source, mindset, expertise and methodologies – is essential to the produce and use environmentally friendly ingredients. Our success of our sustainability efforts. In a sustainability conEco-Reach task force, consisting of experts in biodegradation, text we engage with innovation in the broadest possible sense, analytical chemistry, synthesis and regulatory matters, applying research to expand scientiﬁc discovery, pushing creates state-of-the-art technologies and investigation technological boundaries and designing new business modstrategies to evaluate, measure and reduce the environels and delivery models to develop new ways of adding value mental impact of our ingredients. Analytical science is to our customers and communities. We invest around 10% critical for this task, and our world-class expertise in analytiof our turnover in R&D annually. This commitment is central cal chemistry is involved in all aspects, including: to reinforcing our expertise in creativity and innovation. • Comprehensive characterizing of the biodegradability of our compounds—for which we have developed and Open Innovation implemented an innovative new strategy to systematiand Our Open Discovery Model: cally identify and quantify the biodegradation of our ingredients. A Case Study Open innovation is the recognition that complex • Developing multidimensional approaches to understand problems are best solved through collaboration every component of our ingredients, reaching a level of between “best-in-class” actors. Increasingly, detail never achieved before. We promote the developorganizations are utilizing collaborative research, ment of investigation tools that limit or ban the use of networks and knowledge to accelerate the innovaorganic solvents by using passive sampling technologies tion cycle to ﬁnd different routes to commercializawith microsampling devices, without compromising tion. This trend includes “crowd sourcing” and accuracy and reliability. challenge competitions. At Firmenich, we have developed an open discovery model that structures • Exploring the fundamental properties of our ingredients to our engagement with our stakeholders and the understand their release and volatilization and anticipate “innovation community” to maximize the deployment their behaviour. We challenge and improve standard of new technologies and approaches that solve methodologies to adapt them to the speciﬁcities of fraproblems relevant to our customers and consumers. grance and ﬂ avor ingredients. An example of this approach is our involvement with the McGill World Platform for Health and Economic • Disseminating scientiﬁc knowledge by publishing our Convergence (MWP). This initiative, hosted at McGill discoveries in highly ranked, peer-reviewed scientiﬁc University, is dedicated to effecting the changes journals. We train our partners to ensure they are ready needed to help people make healthier choices in to conduct the most reliable investigations. what they eat, in order to ease the global obesity epidemic and the devastating impact it is having on • Creating a basis for standards in the industry and pushing health, productivity and quality of life. We are partup the requirement level. nering with the McGill platform to develop an open model for understanding healthy consumer behavior, The deep knowledge that we gain is also a source of inspiand we beneﬁt from the ability to connect with innoration to invent higher performing sustainable ingredients. vators also engaged with the platform. Our customers beneﬁt from these innovations and indepth investigation tools. Firmenich | 43 making fortiﬁed food taste good The continuous enrichment of our portfolio of methods To sustain this effort, we recently initiated a partnership makes Firmenich the partner of choice to solve and support supported by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to idenany scientiﬁc challenge requiring innovative, accurate and tify the offending molecules from latrines in developing reliable solutions. It is our vision that by gaining a deeper countries. This newly generated knowledge will help understanding of the physical and biochemical mechanisms educate populations to adopt hygienic habits contributing governing biodegradability we will be able to design more to their health and to the multidisciplinary approach performing and sustainable ingredients in the future. initiated by the Foundation’s Water, Sanitation & Hygiene initiative. Examples of Innovation Focusing on Taste to Improve Nutrition Malodor Management: Sanitation and Hygiene at the Base of the Pyramid According to the World Health Organization, diarrhea is the We are increasingly using our ﬂavor technologies to improve single largest cause of preventable death, killing 2.2 million the taste of food products that target low-income consumpeople every year. It has been estimated that if everyone ers. For instance, in Africa, locally produced rice has a washed their hands properly at key times during the day, competitive disadvantage because the ﬂ avor differs from up to half of all childhood deaths from diarrhea (more than the imported premium standard. 1 million children) could be avoided. Evidence suggests that people wash their hands more if soap makes them In partnership with GAIN and a social entrepreneur, Firmenich smell clean. is developing ﬂavor solutions aimed at improving the taste of local rice in Senegal. This should lead to an increase of Good odors (perfumes) serve as indicators of quality of life, consumption of local rice, creating new business opportulinked to cleanliness and good health. Conversely, malodors nities for local entrepreneurs. In the next phase of the convey unhealthy living conditions. All populations, indeproject the partners will add a nutrition dimension by includpendently of their economic status, deserve access to good ing vitamins and minerals in the ﬂ avored rice. health through hygiene. We contribute to this principle by supplying the perfume for cleaning products used by people Children at the base of the pyramid often lack vitamins and throughout the world. minerals in their diet. To reach out to children with the vitamins and minerals they need, affordable staple food is Firmenich is a leader in designing fragrances that are an ideal vehicle. In that context, an enjoyable ﬂ avor can used in health soap. Our expertise in this area is based on play a role in increasing the acceptance of fortiﬁed food knowing what varying populations consider to be unwanted by children. odors. We continue to study the main molecules in offending toilet, garbage, body and kitchen odors through the use of highly sophisticated chemical and sensory analyses and validate the results with models established at the laboratory level. Moreover, we apply relevant technologies to physically or chemically interact with malodors through mechanisms that can prevent, eliminate, neutralize or mask the offending odors. Our scientists and perfumers work to design optimized perfumes based on proprietary © Oliver Wilkins/GAIN knowledge of ingredients, technologies and fragrance design. We believe that by understanding odors that are unpleasant to humans and delivering—in collaboration with our clients—fragranced products that are affordable to all populations, we have a positive impact on the quality of life of the world’s population. GAIN Sprinkles pilot project in Kisumu Western Kenya 44 | Firmenich RIO+40: CHARTING A COURSE FOR THE FUTURE The UN Conference on Sustainable Development, “Rio+20,” In 2032, the vast majority of consumers will live in urban resulted in a declaration titled “The Future We Want.” This areas, the megacities of emerging and developing nations. declaration stated the following Common Vision: The global urban population is expected to grow from 3.3 billion to 4.9 billion by 2030. Urbanized areas in Africa 1. We, the heads of State and Government and and Asia are forecast to grow most rapidly, doubling in population between 2000 and 2030. Rural populations, high level representatives, having met at Rio meanwhile, are predicted to decrease rapidly due to de Janeiro, Brazil, from 20-22 June 2012, with mortality among older rural residents and migration of full participation of civil society, renew our younger residents. commitment to sustainable development, and This demographic transformation creates challenges and to ensure the promotion of an economically, opportunities for our industry. A major challenge is the socially and environmentally sustainable fuway this rural exodus will affect the sourcing of our natural ture for our planet and for present and future ingredients as a new generation of farmers looks elsegenerations. where for opportunities. We are focusing on reinforcing our sustainable sourcing program to avoid such risks and offer dynamic and attractive solutions for new generations 2. Eradicating poverty is the greatest global of farmers. challenge facing the world today and an indispensable requirement for sustainable developUrbanization was an important theme of the Rio+20 conment. In this regard we are committed to free ference. Fast-growing urban populations face challenges related to hygiene, well-being, nutrition and food. Firmenich humanity from poverty and hunger as a matter can address these challenges working in collaboration of urgency. with our clients and sustainability partners. 3. We therefore acknowledge the need to further mainstream sustainable development at all levels integrating economic, social and environmental aspects and recognizing their interlinkages, so as to achieve sustainable development in all its dimensions. Firmenich applauds this commitment and vision for sustainable development. What does “the future we want” look like for Firmenich? Firmenich is conducting in-depth strategic analyses with its Sustainability Council to deﬁne the direction of our sustainable growth and sustainable innovation programs. The simple questions for us are. How will the world smell and taste in 2032? What are the current global challenges that can be addressed by a fragrance and ﬂavor company? How can we scale-up efforts and create new business models and partnerships? Firmenich | 45 ABOUT THIS REPORT Report Boundaries has ensured that Firmenich has had zero legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, antitrust or monopoly practices in This is our seventh annual sustainability report. The report this reporting period and no monetary ﬁnes or nonmonefollows our 2011 report and contains a full year of data based tary sanctions for noncompliance in these areas. on ﬁscal year 2012 from 1 July 2011 to 30 June 2012 (FY12). The report covers global operations across the Firmenich To highlight our sustainable performance, the previous Group including afﬁliates in 29 countries; it covers our year’s data are included in this report. Some of this data manufacturing sites and nonmanufacturing locations. We may differ from those reported in the last sustainability focus on key activities and achievements that we believe report. These variations reﬂect improvements made in the are of interest and value to our major stakeholder groups, calculation and consolidation methods as well as changes which include our clients, our employees, our suppliers made once more accurate data became available after the and the communities which we serve and interact with. end of the last ﬁscal year. The workplace, human resource (HR) and environmental The performance review process for FY12 extends beyond data, unless otherwise indicated, covers all operations owned the deadlines for the publication of this report and therefore or controlled (production sites, sales ofﬁces, administrative the percent of performance reviews completed on page 49 ofﬁces and combination of such facilities). The HR data is only reﬂects the performance completed as of 23 August; it does not represent the actual ﬁnal number of the program. reported for our ﬁxed headcount only. The Firmenich Board of Directors is comprised of four internal members and ﬁve external members. The board includes representatives of the family shareholders, which Scope of This Report ensures that the shareholders have a direct link to the We have applied the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) prinhighest governance body of the company. The link between ciple of materiality to this report, which states: “Informathe board and the employees is ensured through the tion in this report should cover issues and indicators that Firmenich “Code of Conduct,” where the process for emwould substantively inﬂuence the decisions of the stakeployees to connect with the highest governance body is holders using this report.” We used the GRI indicators as a facilitated through the Group Vice President of Corporate guide to develop this report, and we strive to improve the Compliance, the Group Vice President General Counsel scope and precision of our reporting each year. This is the and the Corporate Vice President of Human Resources. second year that we are reporting our sustainability work according to the GRI guidelines (version 3.1), and we have The Sustainability Team is headed by the Group Vice President therefore made an effort to improve on the indicators from of Corporate Compliance, who reports directly to our CEO, last year. Firmenich is reporting at a self-declared level C+ making the Sustainability Team a crucial link between as deﬁned by GRI, and our report includes strategy, proﬁle, our stakeholders (clients, employees, suppliers, Sustainasustainability governance and 23 performance indicators. bility Council and sustainability partners), the Board of Directors and the Executive Team. This report is independently veriﬁed by SGS (see page 47), and the management systems that generate our safety and The Firmenich “Code of Conduct” is a document designed to environmental data are validated by independent experts. help our employees make ethical decisions in their day-to-day The report also serves as our Communication on Progress work within the company. It is based on our Fundamentals (COP) for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), for and covers ethical points such as conﬂicts of interest, antithe CEO Water Mandate as our COP-Water as well as for trust, harassment, conﬁdentiality, governance and political the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. and community activities. Within the document is a clear statement that Firmenich will in no way support political Firmenich Group www.ﬁrmenich.com candidates or parties either ﬁ nancially or with in-kind Contact: global.sustainability@ﬁrmenich.com donations. Our employees’ adherence to our Code of Conduct 46 | Firmenich EXTERNAL VERIFICATION SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA The apparent discrepancies in the Environment statistics between 2011 and 2012 have been noted by the assurors who are report on sustainability activities in the satisﬁed that they actually reﬂect improvements in data collecFirmenich Sustainability Report for 2012 tion and consolidation methods. The assurance team is of the opinion that the Report can be used by the Reporting Organisation’s Stakeholders. We believe that Nature and Scope the organisation has chosen an appropriate level of assurance of the Assurance / Veriﬁcation for this stage in their reporting. SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA was commissioned by Global Reporting Initiative Reporting Guidelines (G3.1 2011) Firmenich to conduct an independent assurance of the Sustainability Report 2012. The scope of the assurance, based on the Conclusions, Findings and Recommendations SGS Sustainability Report Assurance methodology, included all In our opinion, the Firmenich Sustainability Report 2012 meets the text, and data in accompanying tables, contained in this report. content and quality requirements for GRI G3.1 Application Level C+. The information in the Sustainability Report 2012 of Firmenich Principles – In our opinion the content and quality of the report and its presentation are the responsibility of the directors and adheres to the ten GRI Principles. In future reports we would expect the management of Firmenich. SGS Société Générale de Surthat areas where basic information has been included will be veillance SA has not been involved in the preparation of any of developed in line with these principles. Opportunities were identiﬁed the material included in the Sustainability Report 2012. for consideration in future reporting cycles to ensure continual improvement, including: Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, data, • future reporting should be clearer on the decision making process graphs and statements within the scope of veriﬁcation set out regarding stakeholder identiﬁcation, mapping, engagement and below with the intention to inform all Firmenich’s stakeholders. feedback although some improvements were noted compared to This report has been assured at a moderate level of scrutiny the previous Sustainability Report. using our protocols for: • improved reporting on the identiﬁcation and prioritisation of • evaluation of content veracity materiality issues. • evaluation of the report against the Global Reporting Initiative Standard Disclosures – All the standard disclosures required for Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1/2011) reporting at an application level C+ were included or referenced The assurance comprised a combination of pre-assurance research, in the report. interviews with relevant employees at the Headquarters in Geneva; Indicators – The required minimum number of core indicators are documentation and record review. Data has been assured at corincluded in the report. The number of indicators addressed has porate level; base data utilized in the calculation of the consoliincreased from the previous report. dated ﬁgures have not been assured. Financial data drawn directly from independently audited ﬁnanStrengths cial accounts has not been checked back to source as part of the Firmenich continue to address the wider issues of sustainable develassurance process. opment as are relevant to their business and industry. Statement of Independence and Competence The reporting of the Review of Progress strengths and areas for improvement including areas that need improvement shows increasing The SGS Group of companies is the world leader in inspection, transparency. testing and veriﬁcation, operating in more than 140 countries and providing services including management systems and service Signed for and on behalf of SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA certiﬁcation; quality, environmental, social and ethical auditing and Geneva, September 2012 training; environmental, social and sustainability report assurance. SGS Société Générale de Surveillance SA conﬁrms our independence from Firmenich, being free from bias and conﬂ icts of interest with the organisation, its subsidiaries and stakeholders. The assurance team was assembled based on their knowledge, experience and qualiﬁcations for this assignment, and comprised auditors registered with AA1000SA Certiﬁed Practitioner, Lead Quality, Environmental and SA8000 Auditor and experience in the ﬂ avours and fragrance industry. Veriﬁcation / Assurance Opinion On the basis of the methodology described and the veriﬁcation work performed, we are satisﬁed that the information and data contained within Firmenich Sustainability Report 2012 is accurate, reliable and provides a fair and balanced representation of Firmenich sustainability activities in ﬁnancial year ending 2012. Firmenich | 47 Our Performance in Numbers PERFORMANCE KPI FY11 FY12 ENERGY (GJ) Direct Energy (own source) 1,443,702.80 1,370,111.63 Indirect Energy: purchased (inc electricity, steam, etc.) 749,088.02 712,674.67 Total Energy 2,192,790.82 2,082,786.30 CO 2 EMISSIONS Scope 1: Direct Energy Source 90,013.24 86,092.73 (TONNES) Scope 2: Indirect Source 71,140.77 70,862.71 Total CO 2 emissions 161,154.01 156,955.44 WASTE GENERATION AND DISPOSAL (TONNES) HAZARDOUS (HZ) WASTE Incinerated (without heat recovery) 6,884.85 3,249.66 Incinerated (with heat recovery) 8,135.34 10,515.87 Landﬁlled 127.78 40.64 Other 744.6 957.33 Total Hazardous Waste 15,892.57 14,763.5 NONHAZARDOUS (NHZ) WASTE Incinerated (without heat recovery) 2,375.67 1,518.41 Incinerated (with heat recovery) 710.17 1,247.64 Landﬁlled 4,080.43 2,962.39 Other 1,840.17 377.88 Total Nonhazardous Waste 9,006.44 6,106.32 EFFLUENT TREATMENT WASTE Incinerated 711.2 1,224.08 Landﬁlled 750.06 539.34 Other 5,253.8 4,401.75 Total Efﬂuent Treatment Waste 6,715.06 6,165.17 TOTAL WASTE Total Waste 31,614.07 27,034.99 (HZ & NHZ) Total Incinerated and Landﬁlled 23,775.5 21,298.03 TOTAL RECYCLED WASTE 13,757.82 12,004.78 EFFLUENT Direct Discharge with Treatment (to surface or ground water) 674,077.7 649,903.87 DISCHARGE (M 3) COD Direct Discharge with Treatment (tonnes) 668.74 1,937.07 Without Direct Discharge (to municipal waste water) 758,862.21 679,733.02 COD Without Direct Discharge (tonnes) 3,817.93 3,231.59 TOTAL EFFLUENT DISCHARGE 1,432,939.91 1,329,636.89 TOTAL COD CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND 4,486.67 5,168.66 (TONNES) WATER Municipal 1,404,345.98 1,232,109.62 (QTY USED IN M3) Ground 134,479.00 126,732.00 Municipal and Ground 1,538,824.98 1,358,841.62 Surface 3,686,343.00 3,013,867.00 Total Water 5,225,167.98 4,372,708.62 OTHER DATA NOx tonnes 142.29 135.71 SOx tonnes 151.3 148.44 VOC tonnes 275.31 220.72 PRODUCTION QTY (TONNES) 192,423.99 187,967.82 48 | Firmenich PERFORMANCE KPI FY11 FY12 EMPLOYEE DATA PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL* Employees Covered by Performance Review 100 % 93.3% Performance Reviews Completed 77.5% 73% INCIDENTS** Lost Time Injury (LTI) 20 11 Total Recordable Cases (TRC) 55 45 Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) 0.28 0.15 Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) 0.76 0.63 Fatalities 0 0 Worked Hours 14’420’974 14’289’475 LOST TIME INJURY (LTI) BY REGION Asia Paciﬁc 4 0 Europe 9 6 Latin America 2 5 North America 5 0 TOTAL RECORDABLE CASES (TRC) BY REGION Asia Paciﬁc 8 4 Europe 22 14 Latin America 7 9 North America 18 18 LOST TIME INJURY (LTI) BY GENDER Male 15 9 Female 5 2 TOTAL RECORDABLE CASES (TRC) BY GENDER Male 43 42 Female 12 3 * Performance appraisal extends beyond publishing date, data valid as of 23 August 2012. ** Incidents for employees and supervised contractors. Firmenich | 49 GRI Index Table GRI REPORTED LOCATION GRI REPORTED LOCATION INDICATOR INDICATOR 1.1 Fully 3 4.4 Fully 14 and 46 1.2 Partial 16, 21, 30-31 4.12 Fully 2, 3, 9, 14 and 20 2.1 Fully cover page and 3 4.13 Fully 8, 20 2.2 Fully 5, 6, 7 4.14 Partial 2-3, 8-9, 13-14, 17-21, 37-42, 44 2.3 Fully 6, 7 and w w w.firmenich.com/m/company/ 4.15 Partial 46 about-us/proﬁle/facts-ﬁgures/ 4.16 Fully 8, 13, 2.4 Fully 5 4.17 Fully 18-19, 21 2.5 Fully w w w.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/ proﬁle/facts-ﬁgures/ EC1 Partial Firnews 2012 2.6 Fully 5 EN3 Fully 48 2.7 Fully w w w.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/ EN4 Fully 48 proﬁle/facts-ﬁgures/ EN8 Fully 48 http://www.ﬁrmenich.com/t/locate/index.lbl EN16 Partial 48 2.8 Fully w w w.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/ EN17 Partial 48 proﬁle/facts-ﬁgures/ EN20 Partial 48 2.9 Fully 3 and www.ﬁrmenich.com/m/company/aboutEN21 Fully 48 us/proﬁle/facts-ﬁgures/ EN22 Fully 48 2.10 Fully 2 3.1 Fully 46 EN26 Partial 28, 29, 30, 31 3.2 Fully 46 LA1 Partial 49 3.3 Fully 46 LA7 Partial 49 3.4 Fully 46 LA12 Fully 49 3.5 Fully 46 LA13 Partial w w w.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/ 3.6 Fully 46 proﬁle/management/ 3.7 Fully 46 HR5 Fully 39-40 3.8 Fully 46 HR6 Fully 39-40 3.10 Fully 46 HR7 Fully 39-40 3.11 Fully 46 HR10 Fully 39-40 3.12 Fully 50 SO1 Partial 14, 17, 32, 37-42 3.13 Fully 47 SO6 Fully 46 4.1 Fully 46 and www.ﬁrmenich.com/m/company/aboutSO7 Fully 46 us/proﬁle/management/ SO8 Partial 46 4.2 Fully w w w.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/ PR1 fully 6, 16, 30 and 31 proﬁle/management/ 4.3 Fully w w w.firmenich.com/m/company/about-us/ proﬁle/management/ REPORT APPLICATION LEVEL C C+ B B+ A A+ REPORT ON: REPORT ON ALL CRITERIA SAME AS REQUIREMENT 1.1 LISTED FOR LEVEL C+ C PLUS: FOR LEVEL B 2.1 2.10 OUTPUT 1.2 STANDARD DISCLOSURES G3 PROFILE 3.1 3.8, 3.10 3.12 3.9, 3.13 DISCLOSURES 4.1 4.4, 4.14 4.15 4.5 4.13, 4.16 4.17 REPORT EXTERNALLY ASSURED REPORT EXTERNALLY ASSURED REPORT EXTERNALLY ASSURED NOT REQUIRED MANAGEMENT APPROACH MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES FOR EACH DISCLOSURES FOR EACH INDICATOR CATEGORY. INDICATOR CATEGORY. OUTPUT G3 MANAGEMENT APPROACH DISCLOSURES REPORT ON A MINIMUM REPORT ON A MINIMUM REPORT ON EACH CORE G3 OF 10 PERFORMANCE OF 20 PERFORMANCE AND SECTOR SUPPLEMENT* G3 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS, INCLUDING AT INDICATORS, ATLEAST INDICATORS, AT LEASTONE ONE INDICATOR WITH DUE REOUTPUT INDICATORS & LEAST ONE FROM EACH OF: OF:ECONOMIC, EACH OF: FROM EACH ECONOMIC, GARD TO THE MATERIALITY SECTOR SUPPLEMENT ECONOMIC, SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL, HUMAN PRINCIPLE BY EITHER: PERFORMANCE AND ENVIRONMENTAL. RIGHTS, LABOR, SOCIETY SOCIETY, A) REPORTING ON THE INDICATORS AND RESPONSIBILITY. PRODUCT PRODUCT RESPONINDICATOR OR B) EXPLAISIBILITY. NING THE REASON FOR ITS OMISSION. *Sector supplement in ﬁnal version 50 | Firmenich VALIDATIONS ZONE SITE SAFETY ENVIRONMENT QUALITY FOOD SAFETY HALAL KOSHER SEDEX OHSAS 18001 ISO 14001 ISO 9001 STANDARDS REGISTRATION inc. ISO 22000 BRC GMA-SAFE EUROPE Castets, France Alesund, Norway Geneva (Meyrin), Switz. Geneva (La Plaine), Switz. North Yorkshire, UK Louvain, Belgium Grasse, France NORTH Anaheim, California AMERICA Newark, New Jersey Safety Harbor, Florida Princeton, New Jersey New Ulm, Minnesota St. Louis, Missouri Lakeland, Florida LATIN São Paulo, Brazil AMERICA Bogotá, Colombia Buenos Aires, Argentina Toluca, Mexico ASIA Shanghai, China PACIFIC Dahej, India Daman, India Jakarta, Indonesia Kunming, China Ibaraki, Japan Singapore TOTAL CERTIFICATIONS FY12 21 19 16 15 17 17 25 FY06 0 2 11 11 11 10 0 Details for the above mentioned certiﬁcations can be found online at www.ﬁrmenich.com/sustainability Firmenich | 51 OUR SUSTAINABILITY TEAM PAUL SCOTT JOHAN FIRMENICH Dr. BÉRANGÈRE DAVID SHIPMAN NEIL MCFARLANE Associate Director Project Manager MAGARINOS-RUCHAT Group Vice President Vice President Sustainability Sustainability Vice President Global Corporate Global Health, Safety Sustainability Compliance & Environmental Partnerships Sustainability Our Reporting Heritage 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 A SUSTAINABLE CHOICE OF PAPER This report is printed on FSC-labeled paper, certiﬁed to use vegetal inks and to produce prints carrying the FSC label since 2002. 52 | Firmenich
