Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. February 4, 2013 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that the RnR group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. 2012 was the first full year as a member of Global Compact, inside the company we discussed our role as participant as well as how we can become a leading example for our clients as well as our employees. We commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Bertolt Daems, CEO RnR group Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Relevance of human rights for the RNR Group RnR group is a consultancy company, mainly focussed on real estate, infrastructure and organizational transitions. Our clients are non-profit, not for profit and profit organizations. Most of the current projects are in the Netherlands. In the year 2012 our CEO, mister Bertolt Daems, was President of Junior Chamber International (JCI). In this role he travelled the world, by making over 70 visits in more than 55 countries. During these visits he spoke a lot about human rights Labour, Environmental and Anti-corruption. With business owners local and national governance officials. His drive to make the difference and his will to be a solution provider made that our company started several international project related to the principals of the Global Compact as well as UN MDG’s. Safety for all, excess to water, the mobility on a larger scale, all kind of topics we as a company came up with. The subject as we can say right now is near to our heart and forms for the people of RnR group the basis of doing business. Of course RnR group respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) across her activities and through the relationships with third parties associated with those activities. We hope that 2013 will be the leading year in creating the atlas of safety as well as the atlas for clean and safe drinking water. In which we will create the visibility on real global issues by starting to find and create the sustainable solutions together with partner business. In order to spread the possibilities to create better lives for each and every one on earth. Policies The respect for human rights is not yet integrated in a written policy. The steps we have to take to do so are clear. In our company culture however, human rights are followed the way the International declaration describes. The role of our CEO had in 2012 made clear to all pour employees and clients that RnR works with the UN Global Compact Principles close to our heart. Also the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) are a concept well known by our people. Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. RnR group respects and protects human rights in her daily operations. It is recognized that this responsibility extends beyond the organizations own activities. In 2013 we expect to do more business in other parts of the world. It will be a specific focus when choosing partners to work with to make sure human rights are addressed in the proper way. Internally, the Human Resource policy is being used as the guideline for these processes. In the upcoming year, RnR group has to further developed the Human Resource Policy and supporting procedures. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. RnR group has not received any complaints from employees, business partners or clients in relation to (potential) human rights violations, nor was the organization involved in any human rights incidences before or during the reporting period. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. For the RnR group labour rights are part of the dally business in our client systems during all organizational transitions guided by our employees. When we co-create the future of our client organizations equal opportunities and non-discrimination are part of that process. These processes are also overviewed in the RnR organization it selves, to be sure that the company is totally in line with the principles it selves. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. In 2012 the RnR group reviewed the procedures for personal development in relation to personal growth as well as organizational growth. At this moment the RnR group in relation to its employees is finalizing the last steps of this review together. 2013 will be the year where this process reaches the final statement. So during this year the employees will receive training on the job, and coaching by external people who will help to develop the individual as well as the company. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. RnR group has received no grievances or complaints from employees or others in relation to (potential) labour rights violations, nor was the organization involved in any labour rights incidences before or during the reporting period. Furthermore, our organization has been active in promoting labour rights within the activities of our client organizations by advising them on human rights issues and measures to respect, protect and promote labour rights. Because of the scope of our activities and the limited number of employees , an external audit on labour rights performance is not required. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. RnR group was already in line with all kind of implementation steps related to environmental activities. Inside the company as well as in our client systems choices are also based on the impact of the environment. The bleu economy as a guidance is picked up two years ago. In relation to the infrastructural projects as well as urban development, the knowledge about the influence positive or negative is part of our daily business. RnR has outlined a clear course of action in order to reduce the negative impacts of our organizations’ actions on the environment. Here, the conservation of natural resources, emissions of pollutants, environmental hazards and the conditions of a safe working environment are being described. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. When developing solutions for our clients, the effects on the environment is always addressed. It is in our genes to look for creative solutions that safe the environment. In 2013 we are deeply involved in building processes with environment friendly materials. At the same time, our people are closely working together with a partner on clean water solutions for the developing world. It is our task as a creative solution provider to constantly search for ways to work towards a clean planet. We will continue to involve ourselves in projects that help doing exactly that. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. In 2013 we expect to be involved in several projects in the developing world that contribute to a clean planet. in our daily office live, our staff is used to acting responsible to the environment. Small contributions like putting out the lights, not using an air-conditioning system and only using the water we absolutely need, is part of our daily actions. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. At this moment there are no written guidelines for personnel on how to act in case of bribery or extortion. We haven’t come across situations that might have corruption risk. But are very keen on not executing any work with corruption parties. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. RNR Group is very supportive of an anti-corruption policy. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. There have been no cases of corruption in the line of our work over the course of the organization’s existence. If such a situation might arise, RNR Group will take appropriate action and ultimately withdraw from the assignment. The situation will be evaluated afterwards. RNR Group has the intention to set up a proper anti-corruption policy based on the international standards. This policy will be send to all parties that work with us. This policy will be implemented in 2013.
