United Nations Global Compact Communication On Progress 2013 COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2013 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 1 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE GLOBAL COMPACT As a current Global Compact business participant, I am pleased to reaffirm Euromonitor International’s continuing support for, and commitment to, the UN Global Compact. In this our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe the actions we have taken to integrate the ten principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Robert Senior Chairman May 2013 © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2013 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 2 ABOUT EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL Euromonitor International is the world’s leading provider of global business intelligence and strategic market analysis. We have more than 40 years’ experience publishing international market reports, business reference books and online databases on consumer markets. We deliver market research solutions to support strategic planning for today’s increasingly international business environment. Our research offers in-depth market analysis on consumer goods and service industries worldwide, as well as economic, demographic and socio-economic data and insight on countries and consumers. Euromonitor International is headquartered in London, with regional offices in Chicago, Singapore, Shanghai, Vilnius, Santiago, Dubai, Cape Town, Tokyo, Sydney and Bangalore. We have a network of over 800 analysts worldwide. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2013 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 3 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment Euromonitor International is committed to the well-being of our employees, in-country analysts and contractors; we aim to create a safe, positive and professional work place for all. We comply with all relevant national and international laws regarding human rights. Euromonitor International strives to ensure equality to all employees and is committed to zero tolerance of victimisation, bullying or harassment. Implementation As of January 2012 we have a full time Corporate Social Responsibility Manager who works closely with our full time Head of Human Resources and Administration to ensure the protection of human rights within our company. We have a range of policies which reflect our pro-active stance on human rights including our Equal Opportunities Policy, Flexible Working Policy and Maternity and Paternity Policies. We encourage all employees to contact our Human Resources team, in confidence, with any concerns which cannot be dealt with through their local management team. Euromonitor International is an active supporter of community involvement at both a global and local level, which is another way we show our commitment to human rights. All staff members are allowed to take up two days paid leave to volunteer with a charitable organisation of their choosing. The company has a matched sponsorship scheme, matching funds raised by employees for a charity of their choice and any employees who regularly volunteer with a charitable organisation are able to request a one off donation to support the organisation’s work. The company also makes corporate donations, for example, at Christmas we made donations to organisations addressing homelessness in each of the regions where we have offices. Through these initiatives we believe Euromonitor International is making a positive impact on the communities in which we work. Measurement All volunteer days and charitable donations are recorded and employees are encouraged to provide information about the benefits to the organisation. Case studies, including photos and quotes are published on our internal and external websites. All policies are periodically reviewed by the Corporate Social Responsibility Manager to ensure they are up to date and in line with the Global Compact principles. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2013 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 4 In the past year Euromonitor International has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving human rights. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2013 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 5 LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment As a global company, our employees come from diverse backgrounds and cultures. By valuing diversity and equal opportunity, we benefit from a rich spectrum of experiences, skills and perspectives for all the clients we serve. Euromonitor International complies fully with all aspects of labour law in all countries in which it operates. Where our standards exceed those of local legislation, we apply our own policies. Euromonitor International is an equal opportunities employer, and our Equal Opportunities Policy outlines our commitment to ensure that no employee is discriminated against based on race, colour, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, disability or age, trade union membership (or non-membership) or employment status. Implementation All employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates, holiday and sickness entitlement. All new employees are given a full induction upon joining the company which includes all policies and procedures relating to health and safety, grievance procedures and appraisal processes. A copy of the staff handbook which details all company policies is also made available via our intranet and changes/updates are communicated to all employees. We have systems in place to ensure that any issues arising, for example discrimination or bullying, are dealt with fairly and objectively. These systems are set out in our Disciplinary and Grievance Policies. Measurement Annual appraisals are completed for Euromonitor International employees to identify personal development needs and training requirements, where possible these are actioned. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2013 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 6 Those new to the company receive Appraisee training prior to a first six month appraisal to ensure they understand the benefits of an appraisal and can sufficiently prepare. All employment information is controlled by the Human Resources Department and relevant statistics (gender, ethnicity, age etc.) are available to management as required. Euromonitor International has not been involved in any legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2013 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 7 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment Euromonitor International recognises that actions carried out by employees in the course of their work have an impact on the environment. As a result we take our responsibility in supporting initiatives that prevent and manage environmental risk very seriously. We aim to deliver continual improvement by: ▪ Setting environmental objectives and targets ▪ Monitoring and reviewing objectives and targets ▪ Communicating our policy to all persons working on behalf of the company The environmental targets for 2013 are: ▪ Reduction in the consumption of electricity by 5% in each of our eleven offices ▪ Reduction in the amount of waste produced and the introduction of comprehensive recycling systems in each of our eleven offices ▪ Reduction in the number of inter-office flights taken Implementation The Corporate Social Responsibility Manager has ultimate responsibility for Euromonitor International’s environmental performances assisted by relevant colleagues, for example Office Managers and Green Champions. As a company some of the main ways we strive to minimise our environmental impact are: ▪ Minimising energy use in each local office, through switch off policies and a 5% reduction challenge ▪ Using video conferencing facilities and other virtual meeting technology, where appropriate, to reduce the amount of travel undertaken by employees ▪ Recycling at least one waste stream in each local office ▪ Encouraging people to use public transport and providing facilities for our employees who wish to cycle These targets are included in our Environmental Policy which is available to employees on the intranet. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2013 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 8 An annual global Green Week is held to raise awareness of the impact of our company on the environment and demonstrate to employees simple actions they can take to make the office greener. Measurement All electricity bills are submitted to the Corporate Social Responsibility Manager for comparison. During our first year as signatories to the UN Global Compact we have been collecting baseline data and in April 2013 set an initial yearly reduction target of 5%. Euromonitor International uses licensed waste companies for disposal of waste and recycling. Reports are regularly reviewed to ensure our systems are effective with the majority of refuse produced being recycled. Where possible our offices measure all air travel. The number of inter-office flights is regularly reviewed against the usage of video conferencing facilities, available in our three largest offices. All flights from the London office are offset through the World Land Trust Carbon Balanced Programme. Euromonitor International has not been involved in any environmental incidents, nor has it been the subject of any investigations or legal proceedings by any regulating authority. © Euromonitor International COMMUNICATION ON PRO GRESS 2013 EUROMONITOR INTERNATIONAL 9 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Commitment Euromonitor International is committed to conducting business ethically and honestly everywhere we operate regardless of local cultures and ways of doing business. Employees of Euromonitor International are made aware that bribery, corruption and extortion in any form is not tolerated within our company under any circumstances. Implementation Following an assessment of our business it was agreed that our sales teams would be a high risk area for bribery and corruption. Therefore, in February 2013 an Anti-Bribery and Corruption statement was rolled out to all Sales Managers and briefings were subsequently held with their sales teams. In May 2013 the statement will be rolled out globally to all remaining employees. Euromonitor International employees are encouraged to report anything that they suspect or observe to be contravention of the statement. All reports are confidential and are dealt with by our Commercial Development Director in the first instance. Measurement All employees are required to sign an acknowledgement confirming they have read and understood the Anti-Bribery and Corruption statement. From May 2013 onwards the statement will be included in all new starters’ induction packs. During the last 12 months Euromonitor International has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to bribery, corruption or extortion. © Euromonitor International
