Communication on Progress 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1 Communication on Progress Page01 Corporate Social Responsibility Report The United Nations Global Compact ten principles HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally-proclaimed The United Nations Global human rights; and Compact (UNGC) is the world’s Principle 2 largest voluntary corporate make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. citizenship initiative. The UNGC issues Ten Principles on Human Rights, Labour labour Principle 3 Standards, the Environment businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of and Corruption. Membership of the right to collective bargaining; the UNGC requires companies to issue a ‘Communication on Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Progress’ report annually. Principle 5 This report is our Seventh the effective abolition of child labour; COP and it outlines Shop Direct Group’s activities in support of Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. these Ten Principles environment Principle 7 businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. ANTI-corruption Cover image: Garston Adventure Playground Principle 10 supported by the Shop Direct Foundation. businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Page02 2Contents 3 Communication on Progress Corporate Social Responsibility Report INDICATORS AND GRADING SYSTEM 4 CEO forward and support for 10 Our Community PAGE15 At the end of this report you will find a marking scheme. The purpose of this scheme is for us to rate how well we believe we are performing in each reporting area, ranging from legal compliance to The Global Compact PAGE03 best practice. 5 11 Promoting Positive Body Image Where we have not marked ourselves as world class or good, we intend to raise standards accordingly. In deciding on indicators for this COP once again we have chosen our own system. The CR Board PAGE05 and Design Ethics PAGE16 Nevertheless, this was done after using as reference the Ethos 6 12 Indicators and GRI methodology. We will continue to monitor best practice in the CR and Labour Principles PAGE06 Responsible Lending PAGE17 sustainability reporting industry and adapt our own indicators and reporting accordingly. 7 Human Resources PAGE08 13 How did we do? PAGE19 Assurance 8 Environment/ Energy Consumption/ Recycling/ 14 Stakeholder Engagement PAGE20 After this report is published it will be volunteered for peer-review by a randomly-selected group of corporate members and observers of the UK Network of the UN Global Compact. Transport/ Health & Safety PAGE10 Any suggested changes will be made and the report will be re9 Corruption, Governance submitted (if needed) to the UNGC following the Peer-Review Process. Prior to publishing, there was also assessment by a wide variety of & Transparency PAGE14 stakeholders including Shop Direct Group colleagues, customers, suppliers and NGOs and in this regard, a variety of stakeholder comments appear at the end of the report. * This Communication on Progress predominantly refers to activities and progress during 2012. Back / Forward Contents SDG HyperHomepage links Communication on Progress Page03 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 4 Foreword As we continue on our journey Our purpose: to becoming a world-class digital retailer, CSR will remain at the heart of our business. We support the United Nations Global Compact and strive to abide by the Ten Principles in all our business operations. Alex Baldock Group Chief Executive Communication on Progress Page04 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Highlights Future Focus 10 Our Customers: • Energy use & The Influence of the Global All own brand goods ethically and environmentally recycling manufactured • Over 340 audits and revisits carried out at factories Digital inclusion & Compact on • No goods sourced from countries where there are online safety UN trade sanctions or embargoes Publication paper & Our Colleagues: • A bespoke pensions auto-enrolement website created give colleagues a personalised on-line direct mail our business experience to help them understand their pension Transport Respect for the Global and benefit package Compact principles binds • Launch of an employee community volunteering programme together our activities in CR Ethical sourcing, product, labour, • Maintained BSI OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety human rights and animal welfare and sustainability and gives accreditation. us a simple to use and simple to understand framework Community for action and measurement. Our Community: • Expansion of the Shop Direct Group Charitable Foundation to cover the North West of England Reporting on the Ten Principles ensures • Over £120,000 raised at our Charity Ball Responsible lending we report comprehensively across all our business impacts. • Continuing partnership with Alder Hey Children’s The writing of a COP increases our Hospital and Parklands High School. Corruption, governance & competitiveness as it serves as a public and very visible record of progress and therefore transparency focuses our actions and planning in multiple Our Planet: business critical areas. This aids employee • Reduction in electricity consumption by 4.9% understanding of our business and by mapping • We have reduced our waste-to-landfill to less than Health & safety our impacts has helped identify cost savings 0.1% for 2012 and opportunities to increase efficiencies. • Introduction of a range of new larger capacity, We also believe that the adoption and respect aerodynamic vehicles in partnerships with one of HR, diversity & equal opportunities of the Ten Principles gives us a renewed licence our main logistics partners. to operate among the communities within which we work, as well as with our customers, colleagues, suppliers and wider stakeholders. Page05 5 Communication on Progress The CR Board Corporate Social Responsibility Report Created in 2008, the CR Board oversees the arena of corporate responsibility and sustainability. The CR Board is made up of eight executive members and meets quarterly. Rob Hardman Michael Spenley James Evans Jacqui Humphries Tony Jowett John Pears Peter Johnson Daniel Rogers Head of International Head of CSR & Group Communications Group People Director Managing Director Credit Risk & Head of Internal Audit Head of Group & New Business Compliance Direct Director SDGS Operations Director Property & Facilities Page06 6 Communication on Progress Labour Corporate Social Responsibility Report Principles Michael Spenley We have built upon our Head of CSR & commitment to UNGC Principles Compliance Direct 2, 4 & 5 throughout 2012. This included the introduction of new ways The Shop Direct Group Ethical and Child labour of working including the use of accredited Environmental Code of Conduct, which Our Code of Conduct, which is signed third party audit companies for factory audits is signed by all of our suppliers, states by all of our suppliers, clearly outlines alongside our own Compliance Direct team. the following: our position on child labour in the “We will not tolerate forced strongest terms: Human Rights labour, bonded labour or labour “Exploitation of child labour is We did not source from countries with which involves physical or totally unacceptable under any UK, EU or UN mandated trade sanctions or embargoes. We continued to run a mental abuse. This means circumstances. Suppliers must comprehensive global program of ethical and that suppliers must not use not employ any person under environmental factory audits to ensure there were no abuses of human rights. or threaten workers with any the minimum legal working age physical punishment, verbal or applicable to their country and Forced Labour sexual harassment or dominate under no circumstances must We take all forms of forced labour extremely or restrain workers by force, they employ anybody under the seriously and work hard to make sure we are authority or threats. Workers age of 14 years.” not involved in the exploitation of workers at factories that make our products in any must not be required to lodge geographical location including the UK and “deposits” or their identity The SDG monitoring programme found two EU countries. confirmed cases of child labour at factories papers with their employer in China and Thailand during 2012. This The SDG monitoring programme found two cases of forced labour in 2012. Both cases and they must be free to was deeply regrettable. In each case we did related to the same supplier in India which our best to work with the supplier to ensure leave their employer after the rights of the child and their income was was forcing overtime on workers at two factories by the use of fines. Following our reasonable notice.” protected, in line with best practice. audit, the supplier stopped this mal-practice. These issues and remediation occurred prior to a review of our policies in April 2012 which would have led to the supplier’s immediate disengagement. Page07 6 Communication on Progress Labour Corporate Social Responsibility Report Principles Animal Welfare We have a strict no fur policy and rigid guidelines on the use Monitoring This new approach resulted in an overall of skins based on compliance score of 98% after eight-months. In April 2012 the Group Executive Board However, it is worth noting that the robust industry best practice. introduced the following KPIs: nature of our remediation plan means • All factories that wish to manufacture that this score may be adjusted after a full own label product for Shop Direct Group 12-months has elapsed and then on a must be assessed by our in-house audit rolling basis. providers Compliance Direct HK Ltd or SDG factory audits were completed in our appointed Independent Third Party Albania, Bangladesh, Cambodia, China, Ethical Product Policies Audit Companies prior to appointment SDG has strict policies on timber sourcing, India, Indonesia, Macedonia, Malaysia, • Every existing own label supplier will be Romania, Thailand, Turkey and Vietnam. diamond sourcing and design ethics. audited every two years The last 12-months have seen a period of In 2012, the Compliance Direct Team worked • Under no circumstances will we work on due diligence audit and strict remediation change and development for Shop Direct with factories that fail our audit for Child plans for all own-label product sourced by Group’s activities in support of the UNGC Labour, Forced Labour or Dangerous our offices in the UK, India, Bangladesh, Labour Principles. This has included a Working Conditions. We will cease to China and Thailand. re-framing of objectives by the Group Exec work with factories that are found to be Board that are now very clearly defined. In non-compliant immediately 2013 we will build on these foundations and • We will work with factories on required move further towards industry best practice. improvements to any other aspect of non-compliance to the Shop Direct Ethical & Environmental Code of Conduct. These factories will be re-audited within 12-months from the Audits and Revisits original audit and must demonstrate (Projected) full improvement or they will cease to be suppliers. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 300 400 500 440 345* 400 * It is worth noting that the figure highlighted in the table above is 105 below the projection stated in last year’s COP for 2012 factory ethical and environmental audit. This deficit is due to strategic a series of reviews and team rationalisation. The 2013 audit numbers will rebound to 400 given that we now have a combined in-house and third party approach. Page08 7 Communication on Progress Corporate Social Responsibility Report Human Resources Jacqui Humphries Group People Director It continues to be a tough economic climate with new systems that will better track and flex contributions as required. This is for the retail sector. Our challenge as a and record the customer experience, an ideal platform to build on the legislative business has been to ensure we are able encouraging continuous improvement in the requirements of pension auto-enrolment to adapt, not only to the current market service we offer. which will come into force in 2013. conditions but to secure the success and profitability of the business in the future by meeting changing customer needs. Investing in Leadership Committed to Engagement More customers are choosing to shop online Alongside these internal changes, we We are committed to being a best in class and through mobile devices. Rapid changes invested in our leadership and management place to work and employee engagement in consumer behaviour mean we have to capability. We continued to embed is high on our agenda. We continued our think differently about how we work, what leadership and management skills through digital HR journey by taking our employee processes we have in place and how we our leadership development programme, engagement survey online. Using both engage with our customers. As a result, we DICE. The programme has now been desktop and mobile devices, our colleagues made some internal changes. delivered to all first line managers. told us what’s it’s like to work for Shop Within our Financial Services business, Direct. Despite the level of change within we delivered a training and competence the organisation, our engagement score Supporting through programme to make sure that FS colleagues improved year-on-year and was in line with change met all regulatory and compliance the retail benchmark. Following the survey, requirements within their day to day activity. our People Forum members facilitated 80 We undertook some re-structuring listening groups and have used this feedback activity at our Head Office in Speke with As our customers continue to move online, to create meaningful action plans to drive a view to investing in our area of growth, we must also create innovative ways engagement across the Group. E-Commerce. As a result, we created new of communicating with our colleagues roles across our digital and mobile teams. in a digital way to reflect this move. We We’re proud of what we’ve achieved this This investment will not only enable us to introduced an online training calendar year and 2013 promises to be equally as deliver our online and digital strategy but will enabling colleagues to create a bespoke challenging. We will devise a robust three also deliver improved efficiencies. learning programme from a blend of year plan that will ensure we deliver on E-Learning and workshop learning as well our digital strategy and will re-launch our We transferred our Customer Contact as development solutions. organisational purpose and values. This will Centres and some of our Financial Services require continued investment and innovation Operations to service provider, SERCO. In ‘My Pension Online’ went live in September in our talent management processes, our partnership with SERCO, we ensured the 2012. This online tool gives colleagues leadership capability, training & development smooth transition of colleagues. We'll work a personalised online experience to help as well as how we engage and communicate together to leverage technology and deliver a them understand their pension and benefit with colleagues. customer service in line with our customers’ package as well as allowing them the needs. We are introducing webchat along opportunity to effectively plan for retirement Communication on Progress Page09 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Population Segments Data as at 31/12/2012 “As our business transformation continues and we adapt to the shift in how our customers wish to shop with us, we have put in place a number of changes, some of which have had an impact on our employee headcount. We continue to work with our people and our trade union partners to 42.7% Male ETHNIC ORIGIN manage these changes.” Female 57.3% AGE CATEGORY BUSINESS AREA GENDER 1000 1500 950 976 922 36.7% 870 800 1200 13.1% 600 900 21.1% • WHITE 72.6% 400 600 • NOT DECLARED 13.7% • MIXED 0.3% 200 300 7.0% • CHINESE OR OTHER 0.9% 69 • BRITISH 1.4% • 2.1% BLACK OR BLACK BRITISH 2.2% 0 0 Un de r2 21 -3 0 30 -4 0 40 -5 0 50 + Co n tac Little o Fin an He ad War eh • ASIAN OR ASIAN BRITISH 8.9% 1 wo cia Offic ou tCen ds lS se tre ea er e& & s Cl vic Gr tu ra es ou Re nc e p rn s Page10 8 Communication on Progress Environment Corporate Social Responsibility Report & Recycling Electricity reduction vs Prevous Year% -9.8% -11.7% -13.7% -4.2% -7.5% -4.9% kWh We continue to focus on the four key areas that impact our environment: Electricity Recycling • Energy and Water Consumption consumption • Health, Wellbeing & Safety Shop Direct Group has increased recycling each year and, • Business Travel and its impact on has fallen by although there is still work to do in some areas of the business, our overall numbers are shown 2006below. 4.9% almost 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 the environment • Recycling 1.8m kWh YEAR Percentage Percentage points Total Percentage Daniel Rogers Recycled at difference vs. Recycled (at SDG We have made good progress towards our SDG sites previous year sites + external Head of Group Property goal of environmental ‘best practice’. It Gason (recycled site) vs reduction Prevous recycling materials Year% & Facilities is pleasing that despite tough economic facility) conditions, reducing environmental impact -26.0% -4.7% -9.5% -1.3% -33.9% +8.3% Electricity reduction vs Prevous Year% continues to be a strong area of focus for 2008 59.6% kWh 5.9 59.6% -9.8% -11.7% -13.7% -4.2% our -7.5%business. -4.9% It is, quite simply, part of ‘how we do business’ at Shop Direct. 2009 78.2% 18.6 78.2% kWh 2010 80.0% 7.8 96.8% 2011 81.7% 2.1 97.9% Gas Usage Electricity Usage In 2012 our gas consumption increased by 8.3%. This was due to During 2012, we achieved a reduction of almost 2012 83.2% 1.5 2006 2007 2008 99.9%2010 2009 2011 2012 the extremely harsh and prolonged winter conditions that occurred 1.8million kWh of electricity versus the previous during the year. year, which equates to 4.9% reduction. In 2013 we hope to eliminate waste to landfill completely. the increase, Despite2006 2007 2008investment 2009 in our 2010 building 2011 2012 management system controls has contributed to more effective use of gas. Electricity reduction vs Prevous Year% Having real time information and introducing software driven decision making has optimised consumption as well as the added -9.8% -11.7% -13.7% -4.2% -7.5% -4.9% benefit of prolonging the life expectancy of our systems. Water Consumption kWh We have made further efforts to Water consumption at Head Office (m3) Gas reduction vs Prevous Year% reduce water consumption over the past 12 months, in particular 15,375 -26.0% -4.7% -9.5% -1.3% -33.9% +8.3% at our Head Office which accounts kWh 11,187 for a significant part of our group 7,610 consumption. Other sites have also introduced 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 water saving measures and we intend to report our progress at group level by providing our annual consumption statistics in 2013. 2010 2011 2012 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Gas reduction vs Prevous Year% Communication on Progress Page11 Health, Corporate Social Responsibility Report Safety & Wellness We are fully accredited by the In future, we will be benchmarked by the institute British Standards Institute with a view to gaining subsequent accreditation for our warehousing sites as we look to have a unified OHSAS 18001 (Occupational approach to Health & Safety across the group. Health and Safety Management System) in all our Financial We are pleased to report a 28% decrease in our Services Contact Centre sites reportable-type accidents. Non reportable accidents and Head Office sites. are also down 36% from previous year however for part of the year direct employee numbers were lower due to the transfer of our Customer Contact Centres to our new partner Serco. 28% Travel to Work Activities decrease in We continue to promote public transport via regular marketing activity. We operate a free-to-hire pool our reportable-type bicycles and encourage car-sharing. We have plans accidents. in 2013 to increase the number of car share bays that are available and will be launching a route mapping Wellness continued to be an important focus for website for colleagues to match up with potential car us during 2012. We delivered a programme of share partners. Non reportable activities and events to promote colleague wellbeing including: smoking cessation, a ‘Healthwise’ menu, accidents are also down 36% weight management and healthy eating tips, free eye-tests, flu vaccination, sun safety, reduced dental fees, discounted gym memberships, zumba classes, In 2013 we will work with Merseyside local passenger authority Travelwise to pilot the ‘Walrus Card’ – similar to London’s Oyster card, as well as piloting ‘real time’ from previous year. running clubs, walking clubs and golf events. bus information within our building. Communication on Progress Page12 Business Corporate Social Responsibility Report Travel Cutting carbon emissions from transportation of our product. RAIL With new trailers carrying twice the YEAR CO2/kg Mileage load, saving 300,000 litres of diesel 2008 2009 53,000 77,000 621,000 837,000 per year and 800 tonnes of CO2. 2010 129,000 70,000 2011 110,000 1,212,000 2012 88,000 958,000 Rail travel by our colleagues within the UK has reduced by 21% in 2012, whereas air travel has increased by 17%. Statistics for 2012 The increase in air travel can be attributed to a number of developments Air Travel including an outsourcing arrangement Shop Direct have entered into YEAR CO2/kg Mileage with a new customer contact partner ‘Serco’ who have some sites based 2008 1,701,000 4,922,000 overseas, including South Africa. 2009 952,000 4,814,000 Road travel has reduced again for the fifth year in succession and our 2010 1,290,000 5,587,000 focus for 2013 is to continue encouraging colleagues to choose carefully 2011 967,000 3,832,000 whether they need to travel as well as promoting the use of virtual meeting technology such as web, video or voice conferencing. 2012 929,000 4,489,000 * Flight CO2 based on DEFRA calculations. In addition, we have now contracted to a new range of company vehicle options, providing a choice of Volkswagen Blue Motion models, one of which emits just 99g/C02 per km. We estimate this will reduce C02 emissions from company vehicles by at least 15% by the end of 2013. Business Mileage YEAR TOTAL Tons of CO2 emitted We have continued to work with our logistics partners to influence and reduce where possible, the C02 that is emitted as part of end to end 2008 2,081,000 862 logistics operations. The logistics team has directed the introduction of 2009 2,068,000 857 a range of new larger capacity, aerodynamic vehicles in partnership with 2010 1,474,000 610 one of our main logistics partners. 2011 1,193,000 494 Each trailer takes nearly twice as much product as the old single-deckers 2012 1,094,000 453 so we are able to almost cut the number of trips in half. Assuming large car at 414.2 kg of C02 per 1000 miles. Source www.Transportdirect.info Communication on Progress Page13 Paper Corporate Social Responsibility Report Sourcing Principle 8 80% of the paper DIGITAL FOCUS As the Group continues its We will continue to carefully manage customer communications consumed by the transformation towards a digital that use paper and create new digital opportunities for Group for catalogues department store the volume and communication including social size of catalogues will continue and magazines is to decline. The latest view for media. We have accelerated the development of digital PEFC certified. 2013 shows the number of personalised content to be more catalogues sent to customers relevant for customers. will decrease by 50% versus 2012. The downward trend will By the end of 2012 Shop Direct continue with a further reduction achieved a 20% adoption rate of 20% in volumes in 2014. The of account holders opting for an catalogue pages will reduce by a online statement rather than the further 10%, focusing on driving monthly paper statements. We customers to the retail websites to have set ourselves an ambitious Half of the timber harvested worldmagazines. It is essential that we browse and shop. target of achieving a 50% adoption wide is used to make paper. Paper continue to illustrate our PEFC rate by 2015. products are highly visible to certification with over 80% of the customers as they impact on their paper consumed by the Group for everyday life, from magazines catalogues and magazines. through to direct mail and as well YEAR Volume of Catalogues as product packaging. We must operate responsibly to ensure the In 2013 and beyond our focus paper we buy comes from legal will remain on supplier audits of 2009 14,246,000 and sustainable sources. the ISO 14001 environmental accreditation. 2010 12,246,000 As part of our on-going support to sustainable sourcing, we 2011 11,960,000 continue to print on paper certified Promoting Sustainable Forest 2012 5,669,000 Management (PEFC) for customer catalogues, hand books and 2013 Forecast 2,842,000 As the world's largest forest certification system, PEFC remains the certification system of choice for small, non-industrial private forests, with hundreds of thousands of family forest owners certified to comply with our internationally recognised Sustainability Benchmark. Page14 9 Communication on Progress Corporate Social Responsibility Report Corruption, Governance & Transparency Peter Johnson Head of Internal Audit Audit Principle 10 Shop Direct has maintained its zero In addition to sustaining these key pillars • the Group’s Corporate Responsibility Working against tolerance approach to corruption and has built on the strong foundations established in of our anti-corruption approach we have progressed our policies and processes in the Board monitors a broad cross section of financial and operational management corruption in all its previous years. Those foundations continue to be: following areas: information to highlight any unusual • anti-bribery and corruption training has transactions or trends forms, including • our consistent Group policies been updated and annual refresher • the bribery & corruption risk assessment is training has been scheduled extortion and bribery • a regular risk assessment process used as a key input into the internal audit • colleague training and awareness • we wrote to all suppliers reinforcing our planning process and specific fraud risks zero tolerance approach to bribery and are considered in every audit. • transparent supplier engagement corruption and re-communicating our code • industry networking of conduct These developments improved the level of • robust whistle-blowing and • our Gifts and Hospitality policy has been awareness and oversight across the Group investigation procedures re-communicated to all relevant colleagues of bribery and corruption risks. Looking forward the Group’s focus is on building on the solid foundations established to underpin employee awareness of bribery and corruption by reinforcing the detective components of our anti-bribery and corruption approach. This will be achieved through the embedding of annual refresher training and ensuring all colleagues have completed the training. In addition, we will evolve the use of financial and operational management information to highlight unusual transactions or trends for investigation. Communication on Progress Page15 10 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Community We are proud of our sustainable community investment programme and see it as a key component of our commitment to being a good corporate citizen. Image: Stick 'n' Step James Evans Shop Direct Foundation to influence where our money will be spent, across Liverpool. Group Communications ensuring maximum benefit and impact for the Christmas was once again marked with a 2012 saw the expansion of the SDG Director community we listen to what communities donation of a games console and the latest Charitable Foundation to cover the entire say is most needed. gaming equipment to every ward at Alder Hey. North West of England. The Foundation supports children and families by aiming In addition, we donated £8000 of toys and to create safe and inspiring environments games to Cash 4 Kids, Great Ormond Street Raising funds & awareness Children’s Hospital and four charities who that impact positively on local social need. Administered by local charity, Community The second SDG charity ball was held at the work with disadvantaged children. Foundation for Merseyside, The Foundation BT Convention Centre, Liverpool. More than We are founder members of the Merseyside distributes grants of between £2000-£10,000 1,000 guests attended and over £120k was 100 giving circle, a group of philanthropic to small grass-roots charities in 2012. We raised. The money was divided between five individuals and companies who encourage distributed £55,000 to 13 charities including charities: the Retail Trust, Zoe’s Place, the giving and support charities that reach out Wirral based Stick and Step who provide Fashion and Textile Children’s Trust, Action for some of the more hard to reach individuals. specialist conductive education and support Children and Alder Hey Children’s Hospital. services to children with cerebral palsy. Our colleagues raise a great deal of money Liverpool based Yellow House who work for the good causes that matter to them. Our Colleagues in with young people from socially excluded The money that they raise is supplemented the Community backgrounds to develop their skills and take by Helping Hand, our matched funding an active role in their society, also benefited During 2012, we launched a community programme, with the combined contribution to from funds. volunteering programme that allows our charity being over £500,000. senior management team to lend their As well as a cash donation, the SDG Our family brand, Littlewoods turned 80 strategic insight, skills and expertise to local Image: S Foundation builds capacity within the charities during the year and the celebrations coincided tick 'n' S tep charities. Our people will be working with four as a way of increasing their sustainability. with the report on the Hillsborough disaster. chosen charities to develop strategic plans An example of our approach is our work We were overwhelmed by the dignity and and act as 'trouble-shooters' to solve issues with North City Play, a play-scheme for dedication shown by the families and wanted and challenges, engage key stakeholders and children with severe disabilities and their to do something to leave a positive legacy. deliver greater sustainability for the charities. siblings. As well as donating £5,000 we With the full support of Hillsborough Family have worked with their management team to We are committed to continuing to work with Support Group we donated £25,000 in identify other funding streams, deliver staff our local school, Parklands High School and memory of the victims. £15,000 was shared training and coaching and offer legal advice. will be supporting them as they move through between the city’s two football clubs to SDG colleagues have also completed two the process of becoming an academy. support their community work and enable makeover challenges, completely decorating local young people to develop skills, improve 2013 will see the launch of our first ever and refurbishing four rooms and their garden. their confidence and increase self-esteem. colleague CSR awards which will seek to Our Foundation is linked to local social The remaining £10,000 was used to fund reward staff for the work that they do in the need and we use in-depth needs analysis small charities with grants of up to £1,000 community. for inclusive grass-roots sports activities Page16 11 Communication on Progress Corporate Social Responsibility Report PRomoTING a POSITIVE Presenting a BODY IMAGE positive body image for consumers has now been embedded across the Shop Direct Group As a leading UK retailer with one of the largest photo studios in Europe, Shop Direct Group is committed to promoting both fair ethnicity and body image. Our brand portfolio gives us mass market appeal in the UK population, so we understand our responsibility to present a positive body image to all ages, genders and ethnicities. We have set clear standards on both body models we use comply with the high standards image and ethnic diversity across all of our we have set ourselves. clothing ranges and we collaborate with the We have refined our methods of model casting, UK’s leading model agencies to make sure that booking and photographic processes to ensure the models we use always portray a healthy there are clear check points for quality control body image and represent the wide spectrum of all models booked by SDG. of age ranges, sizes and ethnic diversities of society today. Presenting a positive body image for our customers has now been fully embedded SDG has undertaken an exercise to define across the business and we remain focused on clear guidelines, establish consistent working its delivery within all areas of the Group, from practices and effectively communicate these the product we design, to the images we create. requirements to all parties involved throughout the process – the result is that 99% of the Page17 12 Communication on Progress Corporate Social Responsibility Report Responsible lending and Credit Services Key to our offering is ensuring that whilst we make the good products available to our customers, we do so in a responsible way. John Pears The Shop Direct Group Financial Services is the sole provider of credit facilities to support the retail offering of Shop Direct Group. This enables customers to Credit Risk & finance their purchases using a mix of easy to understand revolving and fixed sum Operations Director credit facilities. In addition, SDGFS partners with other responsible lenders to offer personal loan and credit card facilities to customers of the Group. Fair and Nearly all of the credit decisions Combating Fraud experienced fraud, we ensure We only 30% Transparent are assessed through highly through our dedicated Identity SDGFS uses a wide range of predictive automated scoring. Theft Team, that they are given Financial Services controls and tools to protect both accept around This provides consistency and the right advice and support. All credit facilities are provided robustness of decision making. our customers and ourselves of credit applications. from fraud. During 2012 we We work actively with the Police in line with the Consumer Credit The continued real term to gain successful convictions of have seen across the credit Directive 2010 and SDGFS decline of disposable incomes criminals perpetrating fraud. industry the continued pressure We decline 12% complies with OFT guidance and across the UK, coupled with of identity theft and customers’ Industry Codes and Practices, benefit pressures and weak accounts being taken over. approximately such as the FLA Lending Code. employment, continue to of existing customers’ We have continued to invest in Shop Direct takes a very present challenges for our order requests for measures to prevent and detect proactive approach to customers. SDGFS takes assessing the financial wellresponsible lending very such criminal activity and lessen extending further the effects this can have upon being of its customers, not just seriously and has responded to retail credit. our customers and wider society. upon application of credit but the macroeconomic environment In addition to the fraud protection we continue to monitor our through tightened lending measures we have taken customers every month, both policies in 2011. Through internally, we also continue to in terms of internal account 2013/14 we will continue to test educate our customers on any performance data and external and develop additional tools fraud threats, such as phishing bureau data. This information is to help us further understand scams on the internet and the used in every credit decision. and monitor our customers’ need to protect their personal affordability. data. For customers who have Communication on Progress Page18 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Responsible lending and Credit Services In order to meet the needs of our customers who find themselves in a vulnerable position, SDGFS has expanded the Specialist Support Team, to ensure that any issues they have are dealt with quickly and sympathetically. The team works closely with UK's leading debt and support charities, such as Step Change and The Samaritans. The difference this work makes to our customers in need is clearly reflected in the feedback they receive from those they have helped. This work has been recognised through a National Credit Today Award in 2012. Specialist Support Team Case study: As a member of the Specialist For me, it is comforting to know Alicia Stewart Support Team (SST) for Shop Direct that if I deal with a customer who my main duties are to discuss account is particularly distressed then I can arrears with potentially vulnerable prevent emotional energy levels customers who may be having increasing and sensitively discuss “ difficulties managing their account. the Samaritans where appropriate. The training I have received With the customer I discuss their I can signpost the customer to the personal circumstances to understand Samaritans or, with the customer’s was able to discuss the customer’s from the Samaritans has how it is affecting their ability to deal permission, arrange for someone account arrears and set up a payment plan. This was a positive outcome equipped me with the skills with the Shop Direct account and other finances. As a member of the from the Samaritans to call the customer back. Recently, a for the customer where she was and confidence to deal with SST, many of my customers I interact customer was passed through to the able to get emotional support and it gave the customer the strength to with suffer with some form of mental SST from the Arrears Collections these difficult conversations illness and can become distressed Department as she was very deal with their account to prevent when discussing these difficult topics. distressed on the telephone due a manageable debt becoming so that I can listen to my However, it is important to encourage to a family bereavement. It soon unmanageable. this conversation to gather as much became apparent that the customer customers’ problems whilst information and understanding as was unable to discuss her finances When the customer call has closed, remaining both calm and possible so that this will enable me and needed emotional support. We it is important that we talk about how ” to work with the customer in finding discussed the Samaritans and with the emotionally distressing call made objective. a solution. her permission I arranged for the me feel with my team manager or Samaritans to call the customer colleagues rather than taking these back. A few days later I made a call The training I have received from the feelings home. to the customer and established that Samaritans has equipped me with she had set up a meeting to visit her the skills and confidence to deal with local Samaritans. The customer was Being a member of the SST is both these difficult conversations so that I feeling much better and is confident challenging and rewarding and I really can listen to my customers’ problems in the knowledge that support is only feel I am making a difference. whilst remaining both calm and a phone call away. Following this, I objective. Page19 13 HOW DID WE DO? UN GLOBAL COMPACT PERFORMANCE INDICator Statistics for 2013 Legal World Compliance Class 6 Labour Principles 7 Human Resources 8 Environment/ Energy Consumption/ Recycling/ Transport/ Health & Safety 9 Corruption, Governance & Transparency 10 Our Community Achieved 11 Presenting Positive Body Image and Design Ethics Results 12 Responsible Lending Page20 14 Communication on Progress Corporate Social Responsibility Report Stakeholder Engagement “ “ “ I raised £185 for a small, local Shop Direct has established the Their bi-annual gala ball, now charity which is particularly close Shop Direct Foundation, to ensure staged twice, has proven their ability to my heart and after applying for a strategic approach to supporting to raise the profile of their charitable Helping Hand, I was lucky enough local children, young people and work and CSR aims with a broad to receive an exact pound for pound families in Merseyside in the most audience, raising thousands for match from the company. This effective way. Moving forward, grass-roots projects to improve ” money will make a great deal of Shop Direct Group needs to embed lives. difference and allow the charity to their work across the Group and continue with the life-changing work engage staff at all levels in the act ” “ they do. of philanthropy whether it is the I feel the Company is consistently giving by the company or staff of looking to improve its image in the time, expertise or money, in order corporate and social environment. “ Shop Direct is committed to to take their CSR to next level; We are embracing the Cycle to CSR with a team of expert staff the encouragement of mentoring Work scheme, alternative transport developing and finessing their work voluntary sector leaders via their methods and even replacing car ” and policy to ultimately support their Leadership programme as well park bulbs to LED. customers and the communities in as the Shop Direct Foundation ” which they do business. are evidence of this truly ” “ developing. Waste recycling is a good idea, “ ” The ethical sourcing of product although I’m not sure it is fully ” is key. integrated in all depts.
