S A F E · H AV E N · H O M E S · L L C 3287 MAPLECREST AVE · CUYAHOGA FALLS · OHIO 44221 · PH: +1 (330)∙548∙2782 ∙ EM: CONTACT@SAFEHAVENHOMESLLC.COM Communication on Progress for Safe Haven Homes, LLC CEO Statement “Although SHH remains a start-up company yet to begin production or establish reliable sources of funding, we are committed to the principles of the UN Global Compact. I am proud to state that this commitment is not only a personal passion of mine, but is also embedded in the culture and philosophy of our company.” ~ Dr. Kitt Horn-Samuel Practical Actions 1. Human Rights: Current policies and procedures include safeguards against abuses in the workplace that exploit race, sex, religion or age. 2. Labour: Current activities in the labor force of SHH do not involve any hourly, salary or contracted labor. But SHH will not participate in any partnerships with any company which fails to affirm and support the principles of the UN Global Compact. 3. Environment: As SHH is pursuing ISO 14001 / 9000 series certification and we are holding to all procedures and guidelines for the development of the company production, manufacturing and all other aspects of company operation to meet or exceed all ISO 14001 / 9000 series standards and requirements. SHH also is committed to following all US Green Building Council's and LEED guidelines in building, manufacturing, designing and maintenance. 4. Anti-corruption: Internal reviews are performed at the highest level of management to assure that executives, board members and all others who represent SHH are in compliance with the standards and ethics of integrity and propriety regarding: a. In-house activities, b. Marketing and promotion, c. Collaborations and partnerships with vendors, investors, and contractors. Measurement of Outcomes 1. Human Rights: Total compliance to date: no registered complaints or violations. 2. Labour: Total compliance to date: no registered complaints or violations. 3. Environment: a. Awaiting approval for ISO certification, b. Total compliance to date in following LEED guidelines in design process. 4. Anti-corruption: Total compliance to date: no registered complaints or violations. Fee Waiver Request Although this report recognizes the one year anniversary of SHH participation in the UN Global Compact, we are still a company that has not yet received any funding or established any sources of income. Due to this hardship, we respectfully request that the suggested donation be waived this year, with hopes that we will be adequately funded within the next twelve months enabling our company to join the financial contributors to the UN Global Compact. Submitted by, Michael W. Bradley S A F E · H AV E N · H O M E S · L L C
