Initiating Values for the World Sustainability Report 2013 Harmonizing Human Beings with Nature Connection, Completeness, Joy, and Harmony Korea Land & Housing Corporation is building a world in harmony with the nature world.lh.or.kr that surrounds us. LH is committed to ensuring harmony and happiness across the world. Korea Land & Housing Corporation About This Report CONTENTS Purpose of the Report | This report is the second sustainability report published by Korea Land 03 CEO’s Message & Housing Corporation (hereinafter “LH”) since our integration. It details LH’s efforts to promote sustainability management practices and initiatives as well as the company’s economic, social, and 05 Highlights environmental performances. LH's performances were reviewed by an independent assurance agency to increase the reliability of data, 07 Common_Connection while stakeholders were also engaged to aggregate and reflect their areas of interests with regard to the 09 Corporate Profile company's sustainability management practices in the report. We hope that this report will help enhance 12 Corporate Governance communication with our stakeholders as LH wishes to grow together with them. 13 Transparent and Ethical Management 15 Risk Management Scope and Period | This report covers the sustainability management state and performances undertaken by LH for a period between January 1 and December 31, 2012. All the performances specified 16 Stakeholder Engagement in this report are denominated in the Korean won. 21 Economic_Completeness Compilation and Assurance Standards | This report was compiled in accordance with the Global 23 Efficient Land Management and Stabilization of Reporting Initiative 3.1 guidelines and verified by an independent assurance agency to ensure its Public Residential Environments reliability and enhance its quality. Details regarding the assurance results are available in the assurance 29 Customization of Residential Welfare statement set forth in the Appendix. 33 Outcome of Management Normalization 35 Economic Performances Inquiry | Please refer to the following contact information for any further inquiries or to obtain additional information regarding LH's sustainability report. 37 Social_Joy Department Administration Innovation Team, Administration Management Department 39 Social Contribution Activities E-mail afireant@lh.or.kr 43 Inclusive Growth Tel 82-31-738-7234 45 Customer Satisfaction Management Fax 82-31-738-8665 47 Human Resource Management Website world.lh.or.kr 51 Environmental_Harmony 53 LH's Environmental Management 54 Development of Ecological City and Promotion of Green Houses 57 Eco-friendly Management Operation 59 Appendix 60 Organizational Chart and Memberships Korea Land & Housing Corporation is 61 Sustainability Management Initiatives building a world in harmony with the nature 63 Sustainability Management General that surrounds us. 67 Assurance Statement LH is committed to ensuring harmony and 69 GRI Index 73 Definitions happiness across the world. 74 Awards CEO’s Message Harmonizing Human Beings with Nature_Connection Dear stakeholders of Korea Land & Housing Corporation, I deeply appreciate your overwhelming care and support toward Korea Land & Housing Corporation (hereinafter referred to as “LH”). LH has normalized its management last year so that we could stabilize our operations and expand our business presence. I believe that LH has successfully strengthened its footing to fulfill its public responsibilities for the interests of citizens as a public enterprise. Such accomplishments are based on the contributions and effort of our employees and the consistent support and care of stakeholders. We make the following pledges to sustain public wellness based on our past achievements. First, we will place our top priority on the stabilization of public wellness. Although there were concerns about LH’s unstable financial stability when it was officially launched several years ago, the company successfully addressed such anxieties and posted the largest revenue among the nation's public enterprises last year. Such outstanding performance was achieved as all our executives and employees strived to cope with the challenges. As we have reshaped our financial structure and improved management through our diligent work, we have CEO been expanding our public responsibilities of stabilizing the nation's residential rental market and revitalizing the construction sector. LH will continue to spearhead efforts to help stabilize housing supplies for the nation's population and stimulate the economy. Second, we will lead our efforts to enhance social values and ensure mutually beneficial partnerships with stakeholders. Based on social contributions, inclusive growth initiatives, customer satisfaction, and human resource management, LH carries out our utmost efforts to fulfill our responsibilities as a public enterprise. As a result of striving to enhance public welfare and render services in a customer-oriented manner through social contribution activities based on our unique resources, LH earned high customer satisfaction ratings for four consecutive years. LH was also the first among public enterprises to found an in-house four-year college, aiming to help employees reinforce their competences and competitiveness. We will continue our efforts to enhance values for our stakeholders. Third, we will be committed to building a greener future through promoting eco-friendly construction. LH directly and indirectly contributes to capping greenhouse gas emissions through building ecological cities that ensure a harmonious lifestyle between nature and humans and promoting eco-friendly housing fueled by renewable energy sources to address climate change. The company also actively engages in eco-friendly office operation initiatives and consistently conducts education regarding green growth. We will internalize practices of efficient energy use throughout our operations to lead green management initiatives. All LH executives and employees are committed to expanding LH's sustainable growth potential through reflecting communications with stakeholders in our management practices and creating common values by fulfilling our social responsibilities. We sincerely ask for your continued support for our efforts and advances in ensuring the efficient use of land and stable public welfare. Thank you. April 2013 Lee Jisong CEO of Korea Land & Housing Corporation 3 4 Highlights Harmonizing Human Beings with Nature_Connection 인재경영｜Sustainabitity Report 2013 Harmonizing Human Beings with Nature NO. 1 Since its launch three years ago, LH posted a record income and substantially reduced financial debts ratio NO. 6 Low income households without house ownership started moving in the first “Bogeumjari Apartments” in LH normalizes last year despite ongoing economic depressions, and has Residents move in Gangnam in September 2012, which were constructed to management played a role in accelerating its recovery. the first publicly help these households buy affordable houses. within 3 years constructed after “Bogeumjari establishment Apartments” in Gangnam NO. 2 LH has earned an A in top management rating and a B in institutional rating in the 2011 Public Institution NO. 7 LH became the first public enterprise to found a fouryear in-house college, “LH Land and Housing College”, LH sees state Management Assessment. Both ratings are a full grade LH founds the first after obtaining approval from the Ministry of Education, management higher than those from the previous year. four-year college Science, and Technology rating jump among public enterprises NO. 3 LH hired 500 new employees, the company's first hiring after its establishment. Among them, 200 employees NO. 8 LH hired 2,000 senior job seekers and 500 youth interns to help mitigate unemployment among the elderly and LH hires 500 new did not have college degrees, representing the largest LH hires seniors younger generations, making a great contribution to the employees employment of high school graduates by a public and youth interns government's attempts to create jobs. enterprise ever. NO. 4 LH has successfully fulfilled large-scale state-run projects, including the relocation of government NO. 9 LH has obtained the highest rating in the customer satisfaction survey conducted by the Ministry of Strategy LH successfully institutions to Sejong City and Innovation City. LH earns high and Finance with regard to public enterprises, verifying accomplishes Sejong customer the company's achievements in operating processes and City project, satisfaction ratings system innovation. Innovation City for 3 consecutive projects, and other years state-run projects NO. 5 LH successfully finalized its project of providing 10,000 rental houses to help low income college students NO. 10 LH held the groundbreaking ceremony for its new head office building in Jinju Innovation City in GyeongsangnamLH provides 10 reduce their financial burden. LH starts do in November 2012, vowing to contribute to the local thousand rental constructing a new economy as a member of the community. houses for college head office building students in Jinju 5 6 Happier tomorrow LH strives to become the most beloved public enterprise through its commitment to providing better residential environments for the nation. We have established sustainable management strategies, engaging in corresponding specific missions to ensure well-balanced economic, social, and environmental development. We also pursue transparent and ethical management practices to gain public trust. We will continue Bringing special value for the future our efforts to aggregate various opinions through communication channels with stakeholders and expand public welfare to fulfill our responsibilities as a public enterprise that supports public residential welfare. Economy, LH contributes to enhancing public Environment, 3‚903 95.1 welfare and developing the economy To Ensure Happiness Society and the Korea Land & Housing Corporation Customized Integrity Education Completed BOD Attendance rate 95.1% For Everyone 3,903 trainees (As of 2012) Public (As of 2012) Harmonizing Human Beings Harmonizing Human Beingswith Nature_Connection withNature_Connection 인재경영 Profile Corporate Profile｜SustainabitityReport 인재경영｜Sustainabitity Corporate Report2013 2013 Corporate Outline Missions and Visions LH was established to provide a better residential environment for the nation through LH has established a vision of becoming a “top-class land and housing service provider that enhancing the quality of housing and making efficient use of land. By understanding the enhances residential welfare” to achieve its purposes (mission) of establishment. perspective of the public to place top priority on public benefits, LH endeavors to become a Based on the core values of trust, satisfaction, and challenge, all LH employees are well-respected and reliable public enterprise. endeavoring to develop LH into a public service provider that helps enhance public welfare (As of the end of December 2012) and establish footing for the nation's economic development. Company Korea Land & Housing Corporation Look High 2020! ▲ Headquarters 172 Dolma-ro, Bundang-gu, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do Spearhead the efforts to enhance public welfare and develop the nation's CEO Lee Jisong Mission economy by stabilizing public residential environments and making efficient uses of land Engage in acquisition, development, retention and supply of land, urban Purpose of development and redevelopment, construction, supply, management of housing to Vision A top-class land and housing service provider Establishment enhance public residential welfare and efficiency in land use while contributing to economic development Happy residences that are New green growth cities Globally competitive land desired by everyone that lead the future development Foundation October 1, 2009 Trust Satisfaction Challenge Core Values Total Assets 167,761.6 billion won (Best Place) (Best Partner) (Best Pioneer) Revenue 18,371.7 billion won Excellent workplace Services, sacrificial Challenges and intrepid where associates can trust attitude, and integrity to attitude to become the each other and work in create happy residences world's leading global Organization Headquarters, 12 regional divisions, 6 project divisions and 13 direct project units a self-initiated manner for customers (citizens) land and housing service based on mutual care and corporation understanding Key Subsidiaries Korea Housing Management Co., Ltd. (100%), Hannuri Co., Ltd. (62.5%), Korea and Affiliates (Stock Real Estate Investment & Trust Co., Ltd. (31.3%), Korea Construction Management Ownership) Corp. (38.6%) Phase 3 Key Functions Stabilization Phase 2 Korea Land & Housing Corporation •Become a public enterprise trusted by Transition citizens •Become a corporation recognized as a Engage in comprehensive policies for management of the nation’s land and housing welfare Phase 1 great workplace Crisis Conquest •Initiate future growth businesses •Develop into the best global land and Utilize and develop land •Reinforce sustainability management housing service provider Purpose Improve public housing welfare efficiently systems •Promote future-oriented corporate ▲ •Improve business feasibility through cultures optimizing business structures Operating Housing construction Land development •Restore market confidence by addressing ~2020 Areas urban redevelopment Land management financial hardships •Stabilize the organization by successfully ▲ upgrading the public enterprise system ~2015 •Housing construction •Creating urban spaces •Public housing welfare •Creating industrial spaces Engagements •Redevelopment of urban •Land management functions •Other state policies ~2012 9 10 Harmonizing Human Beings with Nature_Connection 인재경영 Profile Corporate Corporate Governance Sustainability Management Strategies BOD Structure LH is set to increase values for stakeholders related to the company's sustainability The Board of Directors (BOD) consists of six executive directors and eight non-executive performances by ensuring well-balanced economic, social, and environmental growth. directors. The senior non-executive director shall chair the board so as to ensure sound LH has designated four key strategic orientations—enhancement of financial stability, management checks on the CEO. Non-executive directors are appointed by the Executive improvement of business efficiency, development of future growth engines, and Nomination Committe to help make decisions efficiently and rationally. The BOD is operated reinforcement of the customer-oriented management system—and currently engages in in a transparent and independent manner, allowing key decisions regarding economic, social, implementation strategies and action plans associated with these orientations. and environmental aspects to maximize the interests of stakeholders through checks and balances and enhance LH's sustainability. Spearhead the efforts to enhance public welfare and develop the nation's Mission economy by stabilizing public residential environments and making efficient use of land Operation of BOD Vision A top-class land and housing service provider that enhances residential welfare | Operation of BOD | Monthly BOD meetings are held to promote the board's functions and make business Reinforcement of decisions in a timely manner. Ad hoc meetings are also convened when a review or resolution Strategic Orientations Enhancement of Improvement of Development of customer-oriented is required. Those regular and ad hoc BOD meetings allow us to determine key management financial stability business efficiency future growth engines Categorization Unit 2012 management system issues on time. The BOD held 14 meetings in 2012, handling 27 issues. ▲ Number of BOD session 14 Meetings Sustainability Management Strategy Raise LH's sustainability by ensuring well-balanced economic, social, and environmental growth Resolutions case 27 ▲ ▲ ▲ Preliminary Review Ratio % 59 Subcommittees of BOD Revisions in Resolution case 3 Strong commitments of Win-win partnerships Expansion of internal awareness of sustainability Attendance % 95.1 The Planning and Management Subcommittee, Housing Welfare Subcommittee, Green management executives with stakeholders management Ratio of statements by Development Subcommittee, and Audit Committee were established under the BOD to % 63.5 non-executive directors review the agenda in depth and hold management in check more efficiently. A total of nine Economic Environmental Social Reinforce Spearhead low Raise social Strategic Objectives carbon green contributions joint or independent subcommittee meetings were held in 2012. Through these meetings, business competitiveness growth drives the subcommittees have examined 16 different issues. The Audit Committee also held six | Subcommittees | meetings and reviewed 11 agenda items. 01. Heighten financial stability 06. Build green operating 11. Create jobs in private 02. Heighten business systems sectors Planning and Deliberate on planning, efficiency 07. Enhance energy efficiency 12. Lead efforts to improve Management management support, and 03. Develop future growth 08. Address climate change social fairness Subcommittee research engagements Implementation engines proactively 13. Promote inclusive growth Reinforcing Roles of Non-Executive Directors Strategies 04. Reinforce customer-oriented 09. Engage in green initiatives Deliberate on Bogeumjari management system management practices 14. Build social trust Housing 05. Improve technologies and R&D 10. Develop green technologies 15. Secure confidence from Apartment projects, Experts in business management, administration, accounting, law, social affairs, or media Welfare housing welfare, housing competences associates Subcommittee projects, sales and are appointed as non-executive directors of LH to add influence to the voices of the BOD. We compensation attempt to support management engagement of non-executive directors by providing LH's •Expand subsidies for public •Build eco-friendly residences •Initiate investment projects management information and allowing them to tour local and overseas operating locations Green Deliberate on green city, rental housing •Develop green cities and •Enter into overseas project and participate in symposiums and events. Development industrial economy, and •Convert debts into equities in industrial infrastructures contracts Subcommittee construction technologies Non-executive directors have engaged in interviews of high school graduate applicants, Public Housing Fund •Expand usage of renewable •Form fair trade pacts •Diversify businesses and energy and eco-friendly •Support establishment of work and tasks of the Executive Nomination Committee, legal and accounting audits, and operations equipment social enterprises •Raise added values of products •Expand recycling of resources •Procure supplies from SMEs employee orientations in 2012. They have also toured a variety of local operating locations, •Develop high value businesses •Establish carbon emission •Engage in joint R&D projects including the Bogeumjari Apartment projects in Pangyo Seongnam, Dongtan Hwaseong, for the future inventories •Raise customer satisfaction •Reinforce new growth •Develop CDM businesses •Promote land contribution and Gangnam. Suggestions from non-executive directors regarding improvement of audit Action Plans businesses •Establish green management •Raise satisfaction of employees procedures carried out by independent auditors and the Internal Audit Committee were •Develop new products by practices and executives customer needs •Operate eco-friendly supply •Reinforce cooperative laborreflected in the new accounting audit procedures. As non-executive directors proposed to •Establish management networks management partnership hire more employees among youth interns, LH has mapped out a new plan to add more credit accountability by business •Optimize green design •Tap into new future technologies for youth interns. These are just a few examples of how LH actively attempts to enact the initiatives •Strengthen open innovation •Develop low cost eco-friendly business suggestions of non-executive directors. initiatives and complex housing models research system 11 12 Harmonizing Human Beings Harmonizing Human Beingswith Nature_Connection withNature_Connection 인재경영 and Ethical Management Transparent ｜SustainabitityReport 인재경영｜Sustainabitity Transparent and Ethical Management Report2013 2013 SONAMU, LH's Ethical Management Brand Promoting Anti-corruption and Integrity Initiatives LH focuses its resources on ensuring integrity for the public based on its ethical management LH is operating a Integrity mileage program to encourage its employees to pay more vision of “establishing a sustainability management foundation by satisfying customers with a attention to integrity and voluntarily engage in ethical management practices. The program is clean reputation”. We also developed an ethical management brand [SONAMU Management] designed to offer mileage credits to LH's employees for their online and offline engagements in 2012 to embed transparent and ethical management practices into our corporate cultures. in transparent practices, granting rewards to outperforming individuals and departments in The Sonamu pine, an evergreen, represents LH's ethical and transparent management accordance with mileage credits. LH is also operating the Integrity ombudsman program to commitments and our associate's strong and everlasting devotions to the development of LH improve the procedures of project ordering, bidding, and contracting for recommendation and the nation. and to monitor unethical practices. The company has authorized the Integrity ombudsman program to request audits to ensure its efficient application. We are also carrying out efforts to amend regulations, upgrade policies, reduce costs, and produce effective outcomes. Reinforcing Ethical Education for Employees LH engages in a variety of educational programs to raise employees’ awareness of integrity and ethics by preventing corruption risks and internalizing integrity into the organizational culture. S O N A M U Integrity •Conduct integrity training for newly hired employees (1 to 2 hours, 470 employees) Service Ownership Nature Advance Morality Unity Education •Conduct integrity training for promoted employees at Level 2 to 4 (318 employees) •Online integrity training and education over codes of conducts with case studies Online Education (6,498 employees) Special •Conduct ethical and integrity training consistently CEO Education •Morning addresses and general manager meetings (7 sessions) Expanding Ethical Management Organization Special •Integrity academy (15 hours, 119 employees) •Customized integrity education (1 to 2 hours, 3,903 employees) Education •In-house integrity training by department (throughout the year) | Ethical Management Organization | We have established the Ethical Management Committee under the control of the CEO to supervise LH’s overall ethical management practices as the control tower. The committee (Planning and (Execution and Management of Ethical Monitoring of Ethical also has an Ethical Management Practice Team and Anti-corruption Taskforce under its wing. Management) Management) The Ethical Management Practice Team plans and supervises ethical management practices Enhancing Internal Audit Competences while the Anti-corruption Taskforce executes and monitors them. Anti-corruption Taskforce BOD manages audit units, MCA (Master Clean-up Agency), PCA (Partner Clean-up Agency), and LH conducts internal audits to promote transparent and ethical organizational cultures and LH Integrity Taskforce to promote ethical management practices among many different | Training Hours per Auditor (2012) | establishes long-term educational roadmaps to provide educational programs customized CEO Standing departments and regions. for auditors’ experiences and responsibilities as well as reinforce internal audit competences. Integrity Auditor Audit Ombudsman Committee Training Hours LH also made it compulsory for auditors to take educational sessions and outsourced 57.8 hours educational services to external educational agencies, increasing training hours per auditor Ethical Revising Ethical Standards by 172% in 2012. An audit advisory group consisting of internal and external professionals Management Committee was also formed to raise audit quality. LH exchanges data and conducts cross-audits with Year-on-Year Increase LH has overhauled its ethical standards to better reflect changes in business environments similar public institutions such as Korea Southern Power and Korea Rural Community Ethical Management Antiand engage in transparent and ethical management practices. The sustainability 132 % Corporation to ensure objectivity and clarity of audit functions. Practice Team corruption (Director of Taskforce management regulations were amended to stipulate new terms of restraining voluntary Administration (Director of dismissal of executives involved in fraud. The Integrity ombudsman program was also newly Management Audit Office) Office) added to the regulations while the guidelines regarding the whistleblower program were •Anti-corruption and Integrity Rally Ethical revised to raise the maximum reward to 3 billion won from 2 billion won. Under the new MCA LH Integrity Management Audit Branch guidelines, review procedures are waived for small-scale rewards (100 thousand won or less) LH held an “Anti-corruption and Integrity Rally” on May 2, 2012, to discourage corruption and promote transparent organizational Supervisor / PCA Taskforce to expand incentives for fraud reporting. The codes of conducts for employees were amended cultures. LH's executives and employees signed Integrity Pledges to comply with the ethics charters and codes of conducts, reject corruptive practices such as bribery and kickbacks, and fulfill social responsibilities. They also vowed to lead transparent to make it compulsory for employees to take Integrity education classes so that they may practices. further develop their integrity and lead ethical initiatives. 13 14 Harmonizing Harmonizing Human Beingswith Human Beings Nature_Connection withNature_Connection 인재경영 Risk Management Stakeholder Engagement 인재경영｜Sustainabitity Report 2013 Risk Management System LH Stakeholders LH specifies risk control standards and procedures in “Sustainability Management Regulations” LH classifies its stakeholders into six major groups: customers, employees, citizens, government to secure long-term growth sustainability. All threats, uncertainties, and lost opportunities that and local administrations, local communities, and business partners. We are currently disturb the implementation of business plans and achievement of objectives are considered operating regular or temporary communication channels in accordance with the materiality and “risks”. Risks that materialize and substantially harm LH's management practices and influences of stakeholders. We are attempting to collect a variety of stakeholders’ opinions and reputations are regarded as “crises” and are classified into four different categories. demands and reflect them in our corporate operations to increase their satisfaction and LH's sustainability. Categorization Description •External environment crisis •Strategic crisis ... Management Crisis •Operating crisis •Financial crisis CHANNEL.1 CHANNEL.4 •Natural disaster •Artificial disaster •LH Call Center •Customer •Consultation •Congressional inspection Disaster Crisis •Data disaster •Contingency in North Korean projects •General civil suggestion program with government •Workshop, council service office •Customer •Governmentmeetings, etc. Communication (Publicity) Crisis •Negative media coverage •Customer advisory group led management Satisfaction survey •LH sales data app assessments Conflict Crisis •Conflicts with stakeholders Government Customers & Local Strengthening Administration Risk National Central Risk Management Organization CRM Effective Management Implementation Emergency Committee Headquarters of Policies The Risk Management Committee is the supreme decision-making body regarding risk controls, determining risk policies, strategies, and corresponding countermeasures. The CHANNEL.2 CHANNEL.5 Risk Management committee is chaired by the CEO while the Vice President acts as CRO (Chief Risk Officer). The Team Risk Management Risk Management Team supervises overall risk management operations and appoints risk Division managers by department to address risk issues in a timely manner. In contingencies, the Risk Early Response Team Management Division analyzes the crisis, maps out countermeasures, and monitors overall •Labor-Management Local •LH voluntary responses. Conference Employees Communities service group •LH Social Partnership •Social Supervising and Relevant Organizations Employee Social Contribution Committee contribution report Satisfaction Korea Land & and Solidarity •Social Contribution •Employee satisfaction Housing Corporation Advisory Committee Risk and Crisis Management Process survey •Harmony Festival •Union Corporate Committee (UCC) •Public report program •LH eco-system exploration •Suggestion program contest for college students Risk Management (Detection of Crisis Symptoms) Risk Management •LH News •LH advertising contest Crisis Alert for college students Criteria •LH youth literature Monitoring Determination Follow-up Identification Assessment Response of Crisis Level Crisis Analysis Response awards and Reporting Management Business Citizens Partners Heightening Reinforcing Attention Caution Warning Serious (Blue) (Yellow) (Orange) (Red) Public Reliability integrity and cooperation •Routine risk management •Expand engagements to prevent •Risk Management Division and •Report to the Risk Management •Expand engagements to prevent crisis from exclusive organizations or supervising organization conduct the Committee and approve formation CHANNEL.3 CHANNEL.6 crisis from departmental relevant departments to upper levels first assessment to report the results of the Emergency Response undertakings to affect upper levels •Risk Management Division and to the Risk Management Committee. Headquarters •LH website •Public notices •LH inclusive •Integrity survey •Risk Management Division and supervising organization assess and •Risk Management Committee •Establish and operate the Emergency •Sustainability Report •Integrity growth taskforce •Business partner conference relevant departments monitor crisis review probabilities of future crisis conducts final review of the Response Headquarters •Blog, Facebook, Twitter ombudsman program •CEO integrity letter and countermeasures respectively. aggravation. establishment of the Emergency •Risk Management Division and •CEO press conference •Public advertising Response Headquarters. supervising organization cooperate and campaign report with each other. 15 16 Harmonizing Human Beings Harmonizing Human withNature_Connection Beingswith Nature_Connection Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement｜Sustainabitity Report 2013 Materiality Test Stakeholder Survey LH uses the following structured approach to identify crucial issues and reflect them in Outline ┃ LH conducted the 2013 Stakeholder Survey to reflect key areas of interest and the opinions of internal and external stakeholders sustainability reports to communicate with internal and external stakeholders. We have in sustainability reports. The survey was conducted for four days from February 25 to 28, 2013. Approximately 1,200 internal stakeholders and conducted a survey with key stakeholders to aggregate various feedback and interviewed 113 external stakeholders participated in the survey. LH will actively utilize stakeholders’ evaluations and opinions regarding enhancement to external professionals to discuss and analyze identified issues in depth and prioritize them our sustainability management practices. for reporting purposes. Economic Engagements ┃ According to the responses from internal and external stakeholders, LH was found to demonstrate great performances in “Efficient Land Management and Stabilization of Public Residential Environments” and “Urban Regeneration and Enhancement of Residential Welfare” as a leading construction enterprise, but needs to enact further efforts for the “Enhancement of Identification of Internal Issues Identification of External Issues Financial Stability and Profitability”. STEP 1. •Management analysis •Media analysis Identification •Employee survey •Corporate benchmarking 23% 20% of Issues •Employee interview •External stakeholder survey Outperforming Areas Underperforming Areas 20% •In-depth external stakeholder interview 18% Efficient Land Management and 12% E nhancement of Financial Stability Stabilization of Public Residential 11% and Profitability Environments R einforcing Enterprise-wide Analysis of Stakeholder Interests Influence Analysis on Organization Urban Regeneration and Risk Control STEP 2. •Frequency analysis by issue •Analysis of strategic materiality Enhancement of Residential Welfare E ffective Implementation of Prioritization •Stakeholder materiality analysis •Analysis of urgency in issue Promotion of Construction Sector Management Normalization Program Social Engagements ┃ In the social category, respondents gave high ratings to “Enhancement of Anti-corruption Practices, Integrity, 1 and Ethical Management” while they pointed out that improvements are required in the “Establishment of Reciprocal Labor-Management 2 3 Relations”. 8 18% 17.5% 14.5% 5 4 Outperforming Areas 12% 12% Underperforming Areas HIGH 13% Enhancement of Anti-corruption  Establishment of Reciprocal LaborExternal stakeholder 6 assessment Practices, Integrity, and Ethical Management Relations 7 Management Inclusive Growth with Active Engagement in Job Creation Business Partners Customer Satisfaction Management Customer Satisfaction Management STEP 3. Materiality Environmental Engagements ┃ Regarding environmental engagements, respondents pointed out that LH outperformed in “Construction Test of Ecological City and Promotion of Green Houses”, but needed more improvement in “Development and Promotion of Eco-friendly LOW Internal stakeholder assessment HIGH Technologies” and “Comprehensive Climate Change Management”. “Development and Promotion of Eco-friendly Technologies” was included in both outperforming and underperforming areas, demonstrating that LH stakeholders have a high interest in this issue. 1. Enhancement of Financial Stability 5. Enhancement of Anti-corruption Practices, Integrity, and Ethical and Profitability Management 20% 14.5% 17.5% 12.5% 2. Efficient Land Management and 6. Development and Promotion of Outperforming Areas 11% Underperforming Areas Stabilization of Public Residential 14% Eco-friendly Technologies Environments  onstruction of Ecological City C Development and Promotion of and Promotion of Green Houses Eco-friendly Technologies 3. Promotion of Construction Sector 7. Expansion of Overseas Businesses Efficient Use of Energy Comprehensive Climate  evelopment and Promotion of D Change Management 4. Urban Regeneration and Eco-friendly Technologies Waste Reduction Initiatives 8. Customer Satisfaction Management Enhancement of Residential Welfare 17 18 Harmonizing Human Beings Harmonizing Human withNature_Connection Beingswith Nature_Connection Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement ｜SustainabitityReport 인재경영｜Sustainabitity Report2013 2013 Stakeholder 1.Economic STX Construction As STX Construction takes charge of “Uirye New Town Housing Construction Project (District 2)” and seven other project sites, we engage in active Interview cooperation with LH to ensure complete management and undertaking of construction, safety and environmental operations. LH has carried out Kim Youngmok many different land and housing development projects. I especially believe that the company fulfills its public responsibilities of procuring residences Director for underprivileged, implementing housing welfare projects, and launching green growth initiatives. LH's public welfare projects, however, were influenced by the company’s harsh restructuring since its foundation. In order to enhance public housing welfare, LH should ramp up its efforts to engage in housing welfare projects and provide housing aid to the underprivileged to stabilize housing supplies as a public enterprise. The company needs to enhance stability in housing supplies for tenants rather than expanding housing supplies We are expecting quantitatively as the housing penetration rate exceeds 100%. LH is also required to expand its overseas presence based on its reliability and expertise. various initiatives for LH should secure public support for its projects and engagements to mitigate concerns about its responsibilities and businesses and assure enhancement of public sustainability. I think it will create synergy with local constructors for inclusive growth if it raises public reliability through active publicity engagements residential environments and customer management. 2.Social The Housing Welfare Foundation is a public foundation established to enhance the housing welfare of disadvantaged citizens such as residents of poor Housing Welfare Foundation housing conditions or temporary lodgings, offering rental houses, financial aid on rental deposits, and dream housing savings program. It also engages Lee Yoonjae in various social contribution activities to cooperate with LH to ensure housing welfare and independence for underprivileged. Vice Chairman LH engages in constructing and supplying Bogeumjari Apartments, managing rental housing, providing customized rental residences, renovating houses for urban regeneration and social welfare, and offering comprehensive housing welfare services in consideration of life cycles to stabilize the housing market and enhance residential environments. Such engagements help improve the quality of life and expand social contributions based on LH's social responsibilities and commitments as a public enterprise. We are expecting LH I want LH to continue to pay attention to the disadvantaged and develop a variety of housing welfare programs. I also want LH to undertake diverse to stabilize housing social contribution activities based on ongoing housing stabilization policies to build its own presence. Such engagements are expected to enhance supplies for the nation housing welfare for the disadvantaged and create jobs for local communities to facilitate economic independence and act as the “leading welfare and economy as a public service provider” to ease regional and economic imbalances. enterprise 3.Environmental Korea Environment Institute (KEI) reviews environmental impact assessment reports to examine appropriateness of location, suitability of plans, and Korea Environment Institute environmental impact reduction programs. KEI and LH shared opinions regarding environmental plans and pollution reduction measures through Choi Sangki environmental impact assessment reports and conducted field surveys for urban development and industrial complex construction projects to pursue Ph.D., optimal solutions. I think LH embraces opinions about environmental protection and engages in environmental initiatives more actively than other institutions. LH builds ecological cities, supplies eco-friendly housing featuring both convenience and economic feasibility, develops environmentally friendly green houses We are expecting LH customized for the Korean market, establishes carbon credit inventories through green city projects, and undertakes CDM projects. to lead environmental In addition to such undertakings, we expect LH to lead more efforts as eco-friendly products and technologies increasingly gain attention and become commercialized. Since ecological cities and eco-friendly housing can be defined in many different ways, the corresponding specific standards shall be construction initiatives as set forth to specify the scope and criteria for ecological cities. Urban plans and housing complex plans also need to be established to minimize energy a public enterprise consumption and waste production in consideration of both individual residences and entire housing complexes. We hope LH will actively establish plans to build ecological cities and environmentally friendly housing through differentiating itself from other public enterprises. 19 20 Korea’s economy can fulfill its growth Korea Land & Housing Corporation carries out a variety of public projects, including housing construction and supply, urban development, land development, and residential welfare services. By effectively accomplishing these projects, LH helps stabilize the housing market, provides advanced housing welfare services to the underprivileged, and makes efficient use of land to create social value through creating potentials through communication. happier residential environments. LH will also fulfill its public responsibilities through such efforts and build future growth potential by securing financial stability. National Economic 72‚000 27‚500 Improving the Nation’s Economy Increases our Growth and Korea Land & Housing Corporation Construct 72,000 units of Bogeumjari Acquire and supply 27.5 thousand units Happiness Efficient Land Apartments of customized rental (As of 2012) housings (As of 2012) Management Efficient Land Management and Stabilization 자연과 사람의Human Harmonizing 어울림Beings LH_채움 with Nature LH_Completeness of Public Residential Environments Efficient Land Management and Stabilization of Public Residential Environments｜Sustainabitity 인재경영｜Sustainabitity ReportReport2013 2013 Stabilizing Public Residential Environments Housing Sales and Supply ┃ LH is committed to revamping its systems to ensure reasonable pricing, stabilize the housing market, and reinforce comprehensive land and housing marketing | Bogeumjari Apartments Bogeumjari Apartment Project ┃ Bogeumjari Apartments are small-sized residences that are initiatives. As smartphones are now being used by 20 million users across the nation, LH Constructions | constructed or acquired by the government for sale or rental to help underprivileged people and low developed a new smartphone application, “LH Sales Data”, offering LH’s sales data regarding income households without home ownership ease their concerns about housing. The government plans land, apartments, and commercial facilities on the real-time basis to satisfy customer needs and to provide 1.5 million Bogeumjari Apartment units by 2018. LH has obtained operating approvals for over revitalize supplies. We also developed “Real Estate Map” (map.lh.or.kr) and initiated corresponding 450,000 Bogeumjari Apartment units (83%) of the 540,000 units provided by the government through services in September 2012 to enable users to view sales data regarding land, housing and 2012. As the government is set to supply 320,000 units in the greenbelt in the Seoul Metropolitan Area, LH Real Estate Map commercial facilities, and relevant spatial data. The map service feeds map images, aerial 1.6 6.3 7.2 LH has specified 13 districts (160,000 units) among 21 districts (200,000 units) by 2012. In line with such photographs, real housing sales prices, officially assessed land prices, and information regarding efforts, residents started moving into Bogeumjari Apartments in Gangnam, Seoul in September 2012. surroundings. It also features a search function to provide customized information, including 2010 2011 2012 Starting with the move-in, new Bogeumjari Apartments are being readied to hit the market. Upcoming specific regional data and sales prices, to users. Unit : 10,000 units supplies are expected to enable low income households without house ownership to gain housing security as a wide range of affordable rental apartments will be available for them. Quality Improvement and Construction Management ┃ LH is committed to increasing quality and fostering inclusive growth by establishing an efficient construction backup system. We published the “LH Specification Guidelines” in June 2012 to upgrade urban development and •Residents start moving into Gangnam Bogeumjari Apartments housing construction technologies and standardize construction technologies. The guideline includes design and construction standards, respectively operated by Korea Land Corporation Residents started moving into state-financed residences in the A2 Block of the Gangnam Bogeumjari Apartment District, the very and Korea Housing Corporation, as well as new regulations, instructions, and technologies. It first apartments of the Bogeumjari Apartment project designed to also incorporates technical standards that are specified by LH as standards for local construction help low income households without house ownership purchase projects. Environmental guidelines featuring eco-friendly aspects, such as renewable energy LH Specification Guideline affordable houses, on September 14, 2012. The district was facilities designed to address emerging demands and eco-friendly landscaping, are emphasized. designated as the site for the Bogeumjari Apartment project along with Seocho Seoul, Wonheung Goyang, and Misa Hanam around Directions regarding urban information technology facilities, the U-city, were also newly specified three years and four months ago as the project was initiated in in the guideline. The LH Specification Guideline is the nation’s first standard that systematically May 2009. About 6,800 apartment units (including approximately 1,350 units procured by private housing integrates urban development and housing construction technologies, which would help in the constructors) are scheduled to be sold through 2015. 492 units, 54%, of 912 units in the A2 block were development of local construction technologies and improve quality. granted to special beneficiaries such as first-time house buyers, households supporting aged parents, and families with many children. The remaining 420 units, 46%, were sold to buyers without house ownership. | Orders | Establishment of Residential Spaces Housing Design and Architecture ┃ LH endeavors to develop a variety of floor plans for Urban Development Program ┃ LH is leading several projects including the Bogeumjari smaller residences and enhance the quality of public housing designs. In April 2012, the company Apartments, redevelopment zoning, new towns, public rental housing districts, and urban has developed 24 new floor plans (13 plans for regular sales and 11 plans for rentals) for rental and redevelopment to stabilize the housing market and systematically develop cities. We have developed public housing to be built with registered copyrights. Such diverse options allow residents to choose self-sustaining cities based on locally customized development plans in 2012 and established 8.3 12.5 14.5 residences in accordance with their respective tastes and circumstances. As the number of singlefooting for the improvement of business feasibility and profitable business structures through person or two-person households increase due to the growing number of baby-boomer retirees overhauling urban development regulations and taking on pilot development projects for urban 2010 2011 2012 and singles, LH developed two-in-one small-sized house designs, which are currently being applied regeneration. Starting with the Prime Minister’s Office, central government institutions began to be to housing construction projects around colleges, subway stations, and hinterlands of industrial Unit : trillion won relocated to Sejong City in September 2012. LH is gearing up efforts to prepare construction sites complexes. Once a portion of newly built houses are leased, it is expected to alleviate the shortage and construct apartments to build a sophisticated town. of rental houses to some extent. The company is also developing a mini-sized urban house design, “Sharing Housing”, with a size of 20m2 for a single resident as part of the efforts to cope with changes in demands. •Establishment of Sejong City | Two-in-One As Sejong City was launched in July 2012 so that central government institutions started moving into the newly Housing Floor Plan | developed city last year, the city was reshaped into a complex administrative town. Sejong City is located in Yeongigun of Chungcheongnam-do and Changki-myun of Gongju, and is about 72.91km2 in area, about three quarters the size Seoul. The urban development project broke ground in August 2007, which means that it took five years to realize the first outcome. 6,520 households and 12 government institutions, including the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport have moved into the city in 2012 alone. A total of 52 government organizations are scheduled to be relocated to Sejong City by 2014, which will turn the city into Korea’s administrative hub and second capital. Sharing-type Floor Plan Twin-type Floor Plan Duplex-type Floor Plan 23 24 Efficient Land Management and Stabilization 자연과 사람의Human Harmonizing 어울림Beings LH_채움 with Nature LH_Completeness of Public Residential Environments 인재경영｜Sustainabitity Report 2013 Efficient Land Management and Stabilization of Public Residential Environments｜Sustainabitity Report 2013 Residential Land Development ┃ LH is committed to developing comfortable and Reinforcing National Competitiveness competitive housing sites. The company has reinforced its product competitiveness by upgrading the business feasibilities of project districts and cutting costs and carried out optimized projects | Development of Industrial Development of Industrial Complex ┃ LH has established and supplied 22 industrial in line with changes in demand and business environments in 2012. We also upgraded the Infrastructures | districts, covering a 2,222,000m2 area, through reforming its land inventories in 2012. We are also competitiveness of housing site development projects by expanding the usage of self-sustaining seeking to establish four state industrial parks, including Janghang State Ecological Industrial facilities, easing restrictions on the number of households in block-type residential districts, Complex, to brace for future demands in a timely manner. As part of the nation’s growth revising the Special School District Act, and amending regulations in a reasonable manner. promotion projects, LH engages in building a state-run food product industrial cluster and an The compensation statistics app and potential land investment research report services were international science business belt and holds a research forum regarding the regeneration of 11,628 launched to heighten customer-oriented marketing initiatives, shifting the constructor-oriented 6,249 8,601 deteriorated industrial spaces to cope with new policy demands. Such engagements allow us business paradigm into a customer-oriented one, enacting customer-oriented management to expand capacities for leading industrial complex regeneration projects. We plan to develop initiatives to build attractive cities. 2010 2011 2012 customizable industrial complexes to attract foreign investors and local corporations that have Developed Areas (including overseas operations as free trade agreements (FTA) come into effects, which would help Korea free economic zones) become a global high-tech industrial hub due to the economic benefits from FTAs. •LH Outstanding Land Investment Research Report Unit : 1,000 m2 LH published the “LH Potential Land Investment Research Report Key Development Projects (Best Selection 30)” regarding high potential lands that the company owns and released it through websites and local financial institutions. The report covers a total of 31 land plots, including several general Seokmoon State Business District commercial districts, central commercial districts, business and Industrial Complex To be Area (10,000m2 ) completed facility districts, which includes descriptions about each land lots, 1,201 2014 Bucheon, Gyeonggi corresponding development concepts in line with land features, Dangjin, Chungcheongnam-do Janghang State Ecological Bucheon Ojeong Logistics analysis of land and construction costs, profit analysis conducted Complex Industrial Complex Seocheon, Chungcheongnam-do in consideration of prices of neighboring commercial districts, and 275 2018 460 2016 profitability forecasts. It was also released through internal computing Iksan, Jeollabuk-do Pohang, Gyeongsangbuk-do networks and PB centers of financial institutions to diversify publicity Daegu | The commencement of work State Food Product Pohang Blue Valley channels. records in Urban Regeneration Industrial Complex 620 2018 Projects | 232 2016 Bitgreen Industrial Gwangsan, Gwangju Daegu Science Park 6 Urban Developments Complex Hampyeong, Jeollanam-do 855 2018 408 2018 Urban Regeneration Projects ┃ The projects are designed to physically reshape deteriorated areas and improve economic, social and cultural environments to sustain consistent urban growth. LH continues to expand its presence in urban regeneration projects and diversify Overseas Projects ┃ LH actively engages in overseas projects to help private enterprises tap types of business. We have built more affordable housing to help mitigate the shortage of urban into overseas markets and create jobs. Under the management guidelines instructed by CEO Lee 1 1 rental housing in 2012. We also plan to develop a new urban regeneration business model Jisong, LH has been focusing on supporting overseas urban development projects undertaken by to overcome the limitations of past urban regeneration projects and ensure sustainability in private developers using its expertise and technical prowess in urban development rather than business, aiming to establish housing environment renovation plans and reflect the establishment leading overseas investment projects directly since 2009. Instead, LH is focusing on improving of policies such as the [Special Act on Promoting and Supporting Urban Regeneration]. LH is its financial structures and expanding its public functions. Spurred by such efforts, we have won 186 400 11,599 coordinating regional development programs for urban regeneration and strengthening its and are working on several projects in many countries such as Algeria and South Sudan. We 2010 2011 2012 public responsibilities by reinforcing coordinating functions and carrying out urban regeneration also help Korean corporations tap into overseas urban development projects and jointly propose New City Development Project in Hassi Districts / Households programs after the enactment of new regulations to enhance its urban competitiveness and the suggestions for new interstate projects on behalf of the government, spearheading private and Messaoud, Algeria Unit : district, household quality of life for urban residents. public joint collaboration projects. •Development and Application of Eco-friendly Demolition Technologies •Overseas Urban Development Center LH advances its efforts to develop new technologies to enhance the competitiveness of urban regeneration projects LH opened the “Overseas Urban Development Center” in October 2012 to support fast-growing overseas urban as new future growth engines. Predicting that demands for urban regeneration would expand rapidly in the coming development projects. The center was established pursuant to the [Overseas Construction Promotion Act] two or three years, Land & Housing Institute is making large investments in cultivating professional personnel and amended in January. The facility will play a leading role in overseas urban development projects carried out by new technologies to develop eco-friendly advanced demolition technologies. Using these new technologies, LH is local corporations through developing new urban development models, providing data, and fostering experts. deploying newly developed state-of-the-art demolition equipment to ongoing projects and cooperating with affiliated The center is set to establish a comprehensive database covering local and overseas urban development data, corporations to develop and secure advanced technologies. We are also set to standardize eco-friendly demolition develop overseas urban development models, and set up joint state and private collaboration networks to allow standards and techniques. private enterprises to actively make inroads into offshore markets. 25 26 Harmonizing Human Beings with Nature LH_Completeness Overseas Projects Project Management of Improvement of Vietnam Hue Master Plan • Project Period: : June 2011 to August 2013 •P  hases Implemented : Basic research and invitation of local government officials • Project Description LH evaluated and managed projects and advised on project management technologies as the Vietnamese government requested aid from KOICA. MOU with Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) (October 2012) •P  urpose : Strengthen ties with Latin American states and seek business opportunities •D  escription of MOU Develop, research, and evaluate urban and regional development, housing policies, and green city plans, and help develop competences of Latin American public officials Conduct joint feasibility tests over eco-friendly urban plans and infrastructures Planning and Design of New Town Project in Hassi Feasibility Test and Map Production of New Capital in Establishment of Master Plan for Indonesia’s Textile Overseas Urban Development Engineering Messaoud, Algeria South Sudan Industrial Complex and Design Management Project Conference • Project Period : January 2012 to March 2013 • Project Period : March 2012 to June 2013 • Project Period : December 2011 to December 2013 •O  perating Purpose •P  hases Implemented : Contracting and project undertaking •P hases Implemented : Field survey and interim report •P hases Implemented : Field survey, interim report, and overseas training Implement and develop joint state and private selfinitiated projects as a • Project Description • Project Description program for local government officials global paradigm over collaboration and joint growth through helping local Develop a new city that replaces an old town suffering ground subsidence First urban development project initiated by the South Sudanese • Project Description corporations tap into overseas markets due to oil development in the Sahara Desert and logistics industry complex government after its segregation in July 2011 Revitalize regional economies of Central Java through developing • Description  Map out and design the large-scale project to build a new town with a Conduct a preliminary feasibility test, determine district boundaries, and industrial complexes as Korean textile plants are relocated and demands -B  usiness partnerships with 31 civil engineering and construction design population of 80,000 in an area of 4,483ha in Southern Algeria, and produce maps to conduct zoning of the new capital for facility expansion are increased, assess demands for transfer of firms establish a logistics industry complex advanced industrial complex development, conduct feasibility tests, and Subsidize 50% of direct costs incurred to help private builders develop establish basic plans overseas projects 27 28 Harmonizing Human Beings with Nature LH_Completeness Customization of Residential Welfare Customization of Residential Welfare｜Sustainabitity Report 2013 Operation and Management of Rental Housing Comprehensive Housing Welfare Service | Supply and Operation of LH is offering rental housing to ensure residential security for households without house Housing Renovation for the Socially Disadvantaged ┃ LH engages in housing Rental Housings | ownership and underprivileged and undertaking efforts to enhance the quality of housing renovation projects to ensure better residential environments for the underprivileged class welfare services through efficiently operating rental housing and maintaining optimal and boost energy efficiency. LH reinforces structural safety of roofs, renovates interiors, and 702 maintenance. provides green house services to the current and past recipients of basic state subsidies 597 659 LH has hired 3,000 senior associates to supplement the understaffed operation of the leasing whose housing requires renovations or maintenance. We have granted 6 million units service and to create jobs for the elderly. LH also engaged in renovating environmental respectively to each of the 6,000 households in 2012 alone. features, conducting safety checks of facilities, and surveying residents. We initiated safety checkup services for solitary senior residents to prevent them from perishing alone in Rental Housing Welfare Enhancement Program ┃ The Ministry of Land, 56.0 41.9 63.9 June 2012. We have also been renovating deteriorated public rental houses since 2009 and Infrastructure and Transport. Woori Bank and Housing Welfare Foundation have formed the completed digitalization of TV signal transmission facilities for rental houses to improve “Dream Housing Ownership and Leasing Savings Partnership” in July 2012 to encourage 2010 2011 2012 residential functionality. minor household heads without parents to save money in housing subscription saving Operation/ Supply We have established and initiated a comprehensive housing database system to optimize accounts with incentive grants for economic independence. LH leases shops in permanent Unit : 1,000 units maintenance of deteriorated leasing assets, stipulated the “Asset Management Guidelines on rental complexes to social enterprises at a cost that is 70% cheaper than market price rent Compensations for Residents”, and started heating rental housing with cleaner fuel instead to support social enterprises and create jobs for residents. We are also operating a variety of of heavy oil to enhance resident’s satisfaction with housing. We also mapped out profitability programs such as scholarships for low income children in local communities to support the enhancement plans to minimize losses from rental services. In addition to such efforts, we disadvantaged class. proposed a plan to raise profitability of rental services to the government and the National Assembly and established a policy response team to lead the government to expand aid to Family-friendly Welfare Facilities ┃ In consideration of recent social trends such as rental housing for long-term leasing. low birthrate, the growing number of double-income families, and the aging population, LH started building comprehensive welfare facilities in rental housing complexes in 2012. We have built the “Happy Senior Center” featuring upgraded services for senior residents, and Stable Supply of Customizable Rental Housings “Happy Kids” facilities, offering diverse childcare and an educational and secure environment to help parents. | Acquisition and Supply of LH currently supplies customizable rental houses to ensure better housing for the Customizable Rental Housings | disadvantaged class. We have placed top priorities on mitigating social anxieties through leasing residences to college students, securing stable leasing customization services, and raising operating efficiency through improving operating processes in 2012. •Background : College students suffer from shortage of available rental housing. Providing 10,000 •Engagements : 18.5 16.1 27.5 rental houses to Ease restrictions over size and guarantee insurance application college students Cooperate with real estate brokers and external experts organically 2010 2011 2012 (2.3 applicants per All associates looked for residences available for leasing. house) •Achievements : The cumulative number of rental houses topped 10,000 units Unit : 1,000 units in December 2012. Happy Senior Center features larger facilities “Happy Kids” facilities offer more childcare and programs customized for senior residents to services, a kid’s cafe, and after-school services. •Background : Residents increasingly suffered difficulties due to deterioration address the fast-aging population. of rental housing. Securing growth •Engagements : potentials for Demolish deteriorated rental apartments for reconstruction customizable Acquire and lease newly constructed apartment buildings to alleviate leasing program shortage of rental housing in urban areas •Achievements : Develop new businesses and stabilize operations. •“Housing Service Grand Prize” in Public Sector Category •Background : LH increased rental housing inventories. LH received the “Housing Service Grand Prize” in the public sector category at an award ceremony (held by Money College students applying for LH leasing program •Engagements : Today) in May 2012, which was attended by over 100 representatives of construction industries. LH led initiatives Establishing Overhaul fire insurance process for rental houses Conduct tenant surveys systematically to build green cities and apartment complexes fueled by renewable energy to ensure future-oriented housing efficient management plan Help find tenants for unrented housing and manage pricing systematically services. The company also earned high credits for its contributions to developing low cost rental apartments into Improve acquisition and leasing processes residences that feature better job opportunities, education, and welfare services. •Achievements : Enhance operating efficiency and improve financial stability. 29 30 Harmonizing Human Beings with Nature LH_Completeness Best Practice among Housing Welfare Governance As low income residents of LH rental housing increasingly demand self-supportive programs, childcare services, community engagements, and other social welfare services, LH established a housing welfare governance program with private service providers to enhance residential services and the quality of life for residents. LH will continue to expand housing welfare governance engagements to ensure better housing welfare to people and turn LH rental housing complexes into cozy community. Healthy Village Program Healthcare Activities Love Village Program Protection for children and teens Senior Healthcare Class (Jelmi Complex II in Jangyu, Gimhae) Safety Programs and Patrols for Crime Prevention Considering the relatively aged residents in the complex, LH offers (LH Complex 20 in Hopyeong, Namyangju) healthcare classes to allow seniors to enjoy their everyday lives, enhance LH operates community patrol services to protect children from a health, and revitalize their living. In cooperation with the Gimhae Branch of variety of crimes that have frequently occurred. A total of 12 community the National Health Insurance Corporation, LH offers three weekly 1-hour representatives, residents, and apartment managers voluntarily participate training sessions for singing, yoga, and dancing to senior residents, which in the patrol program to monitor low-safety locations and areas to prevent has drawn a immensely positive response. violence and theft. They also guide runaway teenagers to return to their houses to prevent potential crimes. Cozy Village Program Care for Happy Village Program Festivals and the Underprivileged and Senior Residents Entertainment Cultural Experience Program for Defectors from North Korea (LH Complex 2 in Kumo, Uijeongbu) Housing Welfare Celebration for Seniors (Complex 1 in Guyoung, Ulsan) LH holds parties for seniors on Parent’s Day and Senior’s Day to promote Considering that many defectors from North Korea reside in this town, respect for senior residents and inter-generational harmony by offering LH offers cultural programs to help them satisfy their cultural desire and meals and entertainment. We also donate rice cakes made by children to stably settle down in South Korea. Participants can learn how to craft senior residents on the Korean Thanksgiving Day and hold the New Year’s house-made soaps and skin essence every Tuesday through the program. greeting ceremony on New Year’s Day. We also offer quarterly childcare and parenting classes to help residents narrow the cultural gaps with their children. ... ... Clean Village Program Eco-friendly Landscaping Community Engagement Enhance and Cultural Programs communications, resolve issues, and help residents find jobs within the complex Community Flower Garden (Humancia in Sagok, Seocheon) Job Placement Information Center LH operates environmental management programs to promote the (Geomsan, Gimje) residents’ engagements in community activities and environmental LH operates the Job Placement Information Center to help unemployed enhancement. Residents have placed flowerpots to clarify boundaries residents find jobs due to limited information, even though they are between sidewalks and roadways to prevent illegal parking. They also desired to work. The program offers jobs to residents in accordance with clean the town on their own with apartment managers on a monthly basis. their skills and capabilities in partnership with corporations and private LH commissioned weed removal services to residents to create jobs and enterprises based in Jeollabuk-do and Gimje. offer new sources of income. 31 32 Harmonizing Human Beings with Nature LH_Completeness Outcome of Management Normalization Normalization of Management｜Sustainabitity Report 2013 Progresses in Management Normalization Improvements in Management Vowing to “change everything except the name”, CEO Lee Jisong has conducted a large-scale LH set to reduce financial debt burden reform of overall management since 2009. LH formed the Special Financial Restructuring Committee consisting of experts in private sector to identify underlying causes of debt. Based on such efforts, the company has identified 100 key missions for financial restructuring to 350 351 351 enable systematic management. The labor union and LH jointly announced contingency 347 346 management initiatives to promote sales and lower costs by 10% through intensive survival 332 330 326 programs. LH’s entire staff has accepted a temporary 10% cut of wage while the company 320 engaged in an decisive layoff so that over 1,000 employees were dismissed. We also simplified and unified operating systems to maximize productivity. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Normalized Management Financial Liability Ratio Unit : % As all employees worked together in unison, LH has set up some standards to normalize management based on financial soundness three years after its foundation. We saw revenue, net profits, and sales increase compared to the outcomes posted when the company was established. Financial debt ratio and increments are also shrinking fast, which demonstrates Decelerating Debt Growth Improving Sales and Collections that LH is overcoming the liquidity crisis and is gaining momentum to restore profitable business cycles through a variety of indicators. 104 92 98 75 18.3 17.1 15.0 Reinforcing Public Responsibilities LH has set up plans to reduce financial liabilities and restored cross subsidy structures to 20 17 16.0 22.4 17.1 regain financial soundness and maximize synergies so that the company is set to ensure 6 6 sustainability management practices. Considering the ongoing economic uncertainties and 2009 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 the housing crunch weighing on low income households, LH will fulfill its conventional duties Financial Liabilities/ Increase in Liabilities Collections/ Sales and expand its pubic responsibilities for housing welfare to become a more functional public Unit : trillion won Unit : trillion won enterprise, offering benefits from integration to the nation and its population. HISTORY ● Integration ● Crisis ● Sharing ● Commitment ● Challenge ● Passion ● Effort ● Consensus ● Outcome ● Hope October 2009 November 2009 January 2010 August 2010 December 2010 March 2011 May 2011 January 2012 February 2012 April 2012 Establishment of LH Urgent Operations Conversation with CEO Announcement of Announcement of Field Conversation with Sales Orientation for Public Institution Establishment of Employment of Conflicts between 72 trillion won in financial LH’s new management Contingency Management Management Normalization Protesters of Paju Unjeong Products in the Second Workshop Profitable Business New Associates associates intensified, liabilities incurred 8.1 missions were proposed CEO actively led the Plan District area of Sejong City Project Built common Structures Created jobs and enhanced and concerns about job billion won in interest and shared with the entire wholehearted commitment Mapped out and Completed business 22.4 trillion won in total understandings about LH Set up standards sustainable growth security increased. expenses every day. staff. of the entire staff. implemented 110 specific restructuring, amounting sales, 21.8 trillion won in to attract state support. for management potentials. normalization action to 121 trillion won through project budget. normalization early. programs. cutting and delaying investments. 33 34 Harmonizing Human Beings with Nature LH_Completeness Economic Performances Economic Performances｜Sustainabitity Report 2013 Creation and Distribution of Economic Values Financial Status LH distributes its economic values that are created through business activities to | Revenue by Category (2012) | Key Economic Performances Unit : 100 million won stakeholders by using a variety of channels, including tax payment, job creation, contributions to local communities, and cooperation with business partners. 100.0 66.9 Categorization 2010 2011 2012 Unit : 100 million won Revenue 131,606 152,600 183,717 1,228 26.5 Operating Profit 10,587 10,898 14,085 624 \ 4.6 2.0 Net Profit 5,100 7,905 12,047 Shareholders – 122,905 183,717 \ 48,578 8,456 3,778 •The 2011 operating profit was assessed using the new assessment method as the IFRS came into effect. Dividiends 2010 2011 2012 Land Housing Housing Subsidiary Total Development Construction Welfare Business Revenue(100 million won)/ Proportion of Revenue(%) Key Financial Indicators Unit : % 9 Government – \ – Categorization 2010 2011 2012 Corporate Tax Revenue Growth 16.0 20.4 2010 2011 2012 Growth Indicators Net Profit Growth 55.0 52.4 5,620 5,995 Return on Asset 0.3 0.5 0.7 5,429 Profitability \ \ Indicators Return on Equity 1.9 2.8 4.1 \ Employees Liquidity Ratio 282.6 270.5 248.9 Wages and Stability Indicators Debt Ratio 461.2 468.0 466.0 Benefits 2010 2011 2012 Equity Ratio 17.8 17.6 17.7 2,898 Productivity Total Equity Investment 2,521 3.5 4.0 4.2 Local 2,274 Indicators Efficiency \ Communities \ \ •As the IFRS came into effect in 2010, the growth indicators for 2010 are not assessable. Regional Tax and Social 2010 2011 2012 Contributions Condensed Balance Sheet Unit : 100 million won 118,108 110,583 103,395 \ \ Business \ Categorization 2010 2011 2012 Partners Current Assets 853,800 922,496 950,372 Construction Assets Noncurrent Assets 624,987 662,234 727,244 Subcontracting 2010 2011 2012 Total Assets 1,478,787 1,584,730 1,677,616 Current Liabilities 302,127 341,089 381,841 Noncurrent Indirect Economic Contribution Liabilities Liabilities 913,138 964,623 999,380 Total Liabilities 1,215,265 1,305,712 1,381,221 Expanding Social Infrastructures within Local Commuinities ┃ LH contributes to the nation’s economy through building social overhead capital (SOC) incidental on housing Shareholder’s 216,400 224,139 230,760 Capital construction and urban development. We have built roadways, parks, greens, water supply Equities systems, parking lots, public facilities, school facilities, and sewage systems for voluntarily Miscellaneous 47,122 54,880 65,635 up to 2012, leading the efforts to expand local infrastructures. Total Equities 263,522 279,019 296,395 35 36 LH moves forward to Korea Land & Housing Corporation carries out efforts to fulfill its social responsibilities by reinforcing support for the disadvantaged class and revitalizing internal and external communication in association with its pubic responsibilities of ensuring stable housing supplies to low income class, developing lands to contribute to the nation’s economy as a public enterprise, engaging in transparent corporate management help realize your dreams practices to help improve society, creating jobs, and leading efforts to sustain social fairness and joint growth initiatives. We will turn LH into a publicly reliable corporation by conducting customer satisfaction management to impress both internal and external customers. An Infinite possibility 2‚600 3‚000 by Offering Opportunities to All People of Korea by Bring your hopes and Dreams Korea Land & LH CSR + 2,600 300 new employees with consistent social Housing Corporation participants college degrees (As of 2012) 200 new employees with high school degrees engagement 2,000 senior employees 500 youth interns (As of 2012) Harmonizing Human Beings with Nature _Joy Social Contribution Activities Social Contribution Activities｜Sustainabitity Report 2013 Social Contribution System Key Activities in 2012 LH established strategic social contribution plans in association with management activities Child Mentoring ┃ “Child Mentoring” is one of LH’s leading social contribution programs and identified high priority action plans for implementation in 2012. through which college students provide customized personal tutoring to children without parents, students from single parent houses and help them enhance their social skills Vision Reinforcing Reliable Images of a Public Interest Enterprise through emotional engagements. Both employees and volunteering students of local colleges Objective Establishing the reputations as a socially responsible public enterprise from single parent houses in partnerships with LH are selected as mentors. Approximately 200 children without parents and students from single parent houses or under the care of Implementing government policies Enhancing social contribution activities group houses in LH rental housing nationwide receive aid from LH mentoring programs, Strategic for joint growth enjoying educational and emotional benefits through a variety of activities. Recognizing LH’s Missions •Expand social jobs and services •Engage in revitalizing local communities LH receives the National Sharing Grand 2012 •Heighten support to rental complexes •Support Community Service Groups from the Minister of Health and Welfare contributions in helping low income children grow healthy, the company was recognized by the Minister of Health and Welfare with the 2012 Korea Social Contribution Award. •LH’s social Community based Social Enterprises | LH Aid to Community based Social Creating Jobs •Construction of eco-friendly playgrounds •Establishment of ecological towns Enterprises | Community based Social Enterprises┃ Community based Social Enterprises are designed to produce and sell products and services reflecting their regional features and •Conduct child mentoring for the less fortunate Categorization 2010 2011 2012 2012 Supporting •Support after-school programs in rental apartment complex reinvest profit proceeds in various projects to achieve the objectives and values of local underprivileged •Provide meal services tochildren in rental apartment complexes Cumulative Action Plans communities. LH currently helps establish “community-based social enterprises” providing •Hold joint wedding ceremonies for residents Foundations of Social 3 8 12 services and creating jobs for residents of public rental housing complexes and their neighbors. Promoting •Rescue disaster victims Enterprises •Lead voluntary services to share affectionate hope LH rents commercial spaces in rental apartment complexes to social enterprises at a discount Community (companies) Service Group •Grant mileage and incentives and spends rental proceeds to finance the maintenance of rental housing complexes. LH has Job Creation (persons) 60 95 111 conducted collective education and management consulting services to share its expertise with social enterprises, helping to consistently and stably maintain their businesses. Activities by LH Community Service Group Vacation Meal Program ┃ The “Vacation Meal Program” was initiated at the Public LH founded ‘LH Community Service Group’ in order to engage in social contribution activities Housing Complex in Maetan, Suwon, in 2005 to allow disadvantaged children in the complex to consistently and systematically on the awareness that contributions and engagements help enjoy vacations in a healthy way. LH provides safe foods and cultural entertainment classes to develop The LH and society from a long-term perspective. The LH Community Service Group children of the complex during vacations, helping them enjoy a variety of benefits and creating undertakes voluntary engagement and enterprise-wide social contribution activities. It also jobs for local communities. The LH Community Service Group also participated in the program actively conducts social contribution activities by branch. Advanced training is offered to to wash dishes and educate children as single-day instructors to ensure that the children associates to enhance the capabilities of employees and branches while incentive programs are learn healthy eating habits. LH received the 9th Social Contribution Business Award for its launched in accordance with voluntary service engagements. Mileage management systems contributions to child health and local communities. 2012 Social Contribution Business Award are established by each branch and individually to promote voluntary engagements. The LH also set up an emergency rescue engagement system, LH CSR+. Child Culture Class ┃ Child Culture Class is a cultural education program designed to provide interesting experiences for underprivileged children, helping culturally deprived | 2012 CSR + Services | children develop more pride in Korean history and culture and develop positive attitudes. ●Participants ●Participating Hours The class is also prepared to ensure well-directed child care services. “The Archaeological Program and Prehistoric Cultural Experiences!” was offered in 2012. Each of the five different sessions were offered to 30 child participants during vacations. 2011 2012 2011 2012 664 2‚600 5‚152 20‚800 LH’s Child Culture Class persons persons hours hours Reinforcing CSR Capabilities of Employees •Branch Branding LH provides advanced training to allow social contribution associates to improve their Each branch and department develops a social contribution engagement brand to implement social contribution activities in competencies and operates a reward program to promote voluntary social contribution line with their unique operations and regional circumstances. The programs consist of consistent activities that are associated engagement. The company also conducts collective education to help associates strengthen with LH’s services, but are differentiated from the activities of other branches or corporations. LH provides aid and education to CSR competencies by raising understanding of social contribution programs. The LH Social the underprivileged, offers medical care to residents, supports cultural and sports events, engages in environmental protection Service Award was also newly established to grant prizes to the two most outstanding initiatives, helps farmers, and develops and supports programs to help resolve community issues to develop unique and consistent localized projects. volunteers and a department demonstrating excellent social contribution performances, promoting voluntary and active social contribution engagement. 39 40 Social Contribution Calendar August “School Attack” Summer Mentoring Camp February Briefi l Program In cooperation with Soongsil University, LH engaged Mentor ng of “Child Vacation Mea in mentoring programs to help the students of January Rice Donation Event LH held a briefi ing” Se rvices July Jeodong Elementary School in the Isle Ulleung s e r v ice n enhance their creativit y through games and s in 2 0 g regarding “ ren of s tu d e n 1 1 , p re Child M s to the child experiences under the three different themes of ts sen en sa fe meal service se rvice volunte , a w a rd in g p ti n g ca s e s b toring” LH pr ovided through its m eal English, science, and play for five days. tes of the LH Community ers, and r iz e s to y co lle g complexes fered cultura l Approximately 30 associa holding ge rental housin d of vere d a rice pack (10kg) to each a mento o u tp e r ring pho fo r m in g ring vacatio ns an de range of Service Group deli program du joy a wi wa Complex 1 and Jinju to conte low children to en household in Jinju Gaj st. classes to al 07 households in total). Pyeonggeo Complex 2 (1,1 experie nces . se hou seh old s are in the lowest or Most of the me bra ckets, receiving basic second lowest inco sidies. government welfare sub October Joint W edd rships “Happ ing Ceremon f schola n won o hout Parents ranted 3 M illio ads wit September Disaster Rescue Initiatives LH held y Com panion y for March Preservation of A pril hGild Household He LH ren a joint weddin tal hou ship” National Parks to C wo n of sing in g ceremony million Gyeon fo gsang r 15 couples g r a nted 3 a ds and Over 90 volunteers from regional divisions helped nam-d io n gi Divis ild household l housing h e o and J in a LH’s Jeollanam ye o n g h ta restore the areas devastated by flood at project sites inju. -do engaged in LH’s G to 10 c ies in its ren m activities, resto environmental rships oney fro in Gyeongsangbuk-do Innovation City. mountain trails ring the damag ed drainage sy protection schola of foster famil ceived prize m stem on d re n is ion re vitie s. in cooperation chil e div acti office of Nationa with the manag xes as th tribution l Park Mountai n Naejang. ement comple ding social con tan its outs November Cleaning for Busa n Marathon Sharing Kimchi Festival Children’s Day Festival June “Hand & Wall” Wall-pain ting December May Program LH sponsored the 14th Busan Marat hon, one of the largest local events inco me hou seh olds to allow The Gangwon Division fina runners, and helpe attracting more tha n 10,000 LH gran ted kim chi to low als every year nced an initiative to pain d clean the roadways rtm ents , who part icularly suffered ren’s day festiv ilies, t Bridge. on Ulsukdo in rental apa LH holds child n of foster fam a mural on the old wall of Banseok Childcare Center in win ter, to brin g com fort to und erpr ivile ged ho us eh old heads, childre m ultic ultural under the theme of the Litt ch ild n of pa rent ch ildren, and childre neighboring alley. le Prince, brightening the neighbors. single this special day. families to enjoy Harmonizing Human Beings with Nature _Joy Inclusive Growth Inclusive Growth｜Sustainabitity Report 2013 Inclusive Growth Framework SME Sponsorship LH established 25 specific inclusive growth programs in four different categories in 2012 to Easing Prequalification (PQ) Standards ┃ LH has eased credit qualifications to successfully accomplish the government’s inclusive growth policies and promote inclusive expand bidding opportunities for its construction projects. We have applied relatively strict growth practices. In addition to such efforts, we have formed the Inclusive Growth Committee qualification standards to bidders compared to other institutions, and some constructors to consistently implement initiatives and reinforce collaboration. We also examined the consequently found it difficult to participate in bidding. As the ongoing depression in the progress in each specific assignment to lead inclusive growth initiatives. We plan to establish construction sector recently deteriorated the financial status of constructors and their and execute an inclusive growth model for the construction industry to lead partnerships credit ratings, many mid-sized constructors found it increasingly difficult to bid for projects. among constructors. We expect the adjusted regulations to stimulate the construction sector and promote partnerships between SMEs and larger corporations by expanding opportunities to SMEs. Vision Develop Fair Industrial Ecology through Promoting Inclusive Growth Practices Procurement of SME’s Newly Developed Products ┃ LH operates the “Construction Objective Develop and Promote Inclusive Growth Practices for All Employees Technology Forum(sjj.lh.or.kr)” as part of its efforts to further promote construction Expand technologies of SMEs. The system is designed to help SMEs, who find it challenging to Correct unfair Support voluntary opportunities for Establish incentive Strategies subcontracting competence promote its construction technology development, post their own technologies on the website direct SME programs practices enhancement for publicity. Using this website, the associates of LH and construction companies are able engagements ▲ to search and retrieve construction technology data as needed. We plan to further develop Departments in the forum to ensure joint growth with SMEs and spearhead innovation and development of Inclusive Growth Social Fairness Organization charge of Committee Committee Construction Technology Forum construction technologies. ongoing projects Free Patent Licenses for SMEs ┃ LH started leasing its patents and registered designs to SMEs free of charge in December 2011 to pursue the inclusive growth of the construction Establishing Social Fairness industry. LH has made 84 patents, including preferential applications of joint proprietors, available for use among 202 unused patents. We are set to expand free patent services LH overhauled screening systems to correct unfair trade practices, operated transparent through aggregating the opinions of joint proprietors, which incorporate technologies over bidding procedures, and formed an organization whose exclusive purpose was addressing materials and the processing of construction, civil engineering, and electricity. complaints and problems. We have checked problems of subcontractors and conducted interviews to tap into solutions within 10 days after receiving subcontracting documents. We Vocational Training for Construction Engineer ┃ LH has conducted seven lectures also made it compulsory for constructors to enter into a “Fair Trade and Inclusive Growth and vocational training sessions for construction engineers between June and September Pact” with subcontractors to promote corporate partnerships among constructors. We 2012 to promote construction management programs related to inclusive growth and expanded advance subcontracting payment programs, specified appropriate wage rates increase relevant awareness. The training program was implemented for field engineers with for construction workers, and initiated subcontracting payment confirmation programs. regard to construction management programs and subcontracting operations. Such efforts In addition, we have differentiated low cost subcontractors and operated contracting helped form partnerships among LH associates, vendors, and subcontractors and ensure examination taskforces to offer fair business opportunities to SMEs and revamp systems to self-initiated quality enhancement. protect the underprivileged. Vocational Training for Construction Engineers •Open Examination on Public Involvement Stimulating Construction Industry LH adopted the nation’s first “open examination on public involvement” in 2012. Participants viewed the designs of bidders in the preliminary screening process and cast their votes after open presentation sessions to select the group of bidders. LH executives, local administration officials, experts, and citizens evaluated the group As the Four Major Rivers Restoration Project was finalized and the government’s spending to select finalists, which was followed by discussions and assessments conducted by internal and external members to select the winner based on the ratings. A new in SOC projects was cut, the civil engineering sector faced a recession in 2012. The housing screening system was introduced to render engagements by a variety of classes in examining designs for major buildings to ensure open management practices and market also adversely affected housing construction, causing a slowdown in both the civil spearhead screening frameworks of local public institutions. engineering and construction sectors. Given such circumstances, LH placed orders in the third quarter ahead of schedule to spur the local construction market. The company also shortened procedures for tender notice, screening, and contracting to accelerate the process from order placement to completion. In consideration of the ongoing financial challenges in the construction sector, LH made advanced payments for 2013 projects in 2012 to help stimulate the construction sector. Design exhibition Opening the ballot box in the presence of bidders Integrity pledges by bidders 43 44 Harmonizing Human Beings with Nature _Joy Customer Satisfaction Management Customer Satisfaction Management｜Sustainabitity Report 2013 CS Management Framework Establishing Comprehensive VOC Management System LH established long-term customer satisfaction management (CS management) strategies LH mapped out a long-term VOC (Voice of Customer) strategy in 2012 for the comprehensive based on our businesses to contribute to public interests and enhance management management of VOC such as customer inquiries, purchases, and complaints. The company performances. The company will engage in customer-oriented management practices and held three different training workshops based on the joint studies conducted by research foster sustainable initiatives to lead its associates to increase commitments to public benefits associates to improve its overall execution capacity. LH has established long-term VOC and engage in CS management practices. strategies and data system establishment plans that reflect the benchmarking outcomes, VOC analysis results, and survey responses. We expect such initiatives to raise efficiency of CS Vision Beloved Public Enterprise with customer satisfaction VOC services and maximize data utilization. Establish VOC Objective Build management resources from VOCs and establish comprehensive VOC processes Enhance product Ensure customer Build Strategic Reputation of values on customer satisfaction customer oriented Orientations Cooperative Efficient VOC needs through services infrastructures Strategic Set up VOC Maximize VOC Corporation management Form CRM bases Orientations infrastructures utilization ▲ system Implementation CS Management CS Management CS Manager of Organization Advisory Committee Committee Customer Center LH Call Center | LH Call Center Response Rate | LH provides customized professional counseling services to customers in a quick, accurate, CS Management Roadmap and friendly manner to completely prevent customer complaints and ensure customer satisfaction. In addition to such services, we established the LH Call Center service standards LH specified core issues leading up to 2015 quarterly and operates long-term roadmaps to to ensure the service quality of the call center. We also conduct regular self-assessments, raise customer satisfaction. The system has been established in 2012 and is scheduled to be two annual external evaluations, and customer satisfaction survey to improve the quality of upgraded in 2013. We will establish LH’s unique CS identities and improve public awareness 2011 2012 our services. Customer complaints have been reduced by 321 cases in 2012 while customer by sincerely engaging in our missions. 83% 94% service efficiency increased 11%. LH has won KS service certifications for two consecutive years. We will continue to enhance the quality of our customer service by standardizing and Establishment (2011~2012) Upgrade (2013~2014) Takeoff (2015) upgrading our operating processes. •Complete a system to plan and •Establish customer need data loop systems supply products conforming to customer demands •Expand supply of products conforming to customer needs Power Customer Satisfaction Campaign •Set up maintenance •Expand CRM-based services •Spearhead pilot public services system and CRM •Extend CS competencies and •Promote CS-based public models LH carries out the Power Customer Satisfaction Campaign to resolve complaints regarding •Restructure CS approaches capacity •Engage in public responsibilities customer services and improve LH’s image. We designated Mondays as Power Friendliness •Renew corporate images •Promote new corporate images Days and engaged in a variety of customer service activities, including customer service training broadcasts, CS smile contest, photo events, and friendly naming event to encourage associates to internalize customer services. Reinforcing CS Capacity •LH Smile Contest LH engages in CS monitoring and CS training for employees to reinforce its CS capacity. We have monitored 2,179 phone calls from customers and 111 customer visitations in 2012 LH holds smile contests to enhance the friendliness of customer service associates and promote active customer service through voluntary engagement. Seven winners were selected among employees nominated in six different areas of sales, reparation and urban regeneration, housing welfare, and rental housing supply in alone, which helped us earn a high rating according to the monitoring results conducted in consideration of their contributions to promoting CS services, communication with internal and external customers, CS service level, and the charm of their smiles. December. LH also conducted customer satisfaction enhancement workshops, in-house group training such as customer service training, professional external education such as the “Call Center KS Certification Training” to improve the service quality of the call center, CS Enhancement Workshop and online and video education. A total of 1,492 participants attended the in-house group training sessions in 2012 alone, up 24% from the previous year. LH has set up expedited Sales Reparation and UrbanHousing Welfare and Rental Property Hosing Project Development Others report networks between regional branches and headquarters to ensure rapid responses Ryu Seunghee regeneration Rental Supply Management Cho Ara Han Cheolhee Moon Seungchan to customer complaints. The company also examines past performances related to the Assistant Manager Oh Dooseon Chung Youngwoo Lee Donghyuk Assistant Manager Employee Manager Assistant Manager Senior Intern customer charter on a regular basis. 45 46 Harmonizing Human Beings with Nature _Joy Human Resource Management Human Resource Management｜Sustainabitity Report 2013 Status of Employees Senior Associates ┃ Spurred by the positive social response to LH’s senior employment program, the first such attempt by a public enterprise, we have hired 2,000 senior employees | LH Role Model | LH seeks associates that can create value, spearhead changes, and maintain their in 2012 alone. They were deployed to LH rental apartments to assist in management for eight professional expertise. The company strictly bans discrimination by gender and offers months. The senior employment program offered job opportunities to qualified senior job Professional equivalent salary scales to both male and female employees. LH eradicated restrictions seekers, allowing them to utilize their experience and expertise for society and gain selfCreating Expertise on educational background and age to ensure capability-based hiring. We also enforce confidence. 87.2% of the senior associates responded that they were willing to recommend Values affirmative action for socially disadvantaged applicants. A total of 6,703 employees were the program to others, demonstrating high job satisfaction. LH Role working at LH as of the end of 2012. LH Senior Associate Welcoming Ceremony Model Youth Interns ┃ LH hired 500 youth interns(400 college graduates and 100 high school graduates) to support the government’s job initiatives and mitigate youth unemployment. Categorization Unit 2010 2011 2012 We have hired 100 more interns than the previous year to expand opportunities for young job Leading Full-time employees persons 6,629 6,495 6,703 seekers to develop their careers and find jobs. Interns were deployed to LH’s regional branches, Changes Total Temporary employees persons 1,134 992 1,099 business divisions, and operating locations to engage in internships for seven months. We plan Youth interns persons 282 439 389 to encourage youth interns to seek employment during their internships and grant additional credits to high performing interns in their applications for full-time employments. % of female employees among % 17.0 17.2 18.2 Gender full-time associates Equality % of female general managers % 0.8 0.8 1.1 among full-time associates Human Resource Development Socially % of disabled employees Disadvantaged among full-time associates % 2.3 2.4 2.6 | Educational Expense per Education and Training ┃ LH provides a variety of educational programs conforming Employees Employee | to our role model and business features to executives and employees. In 2012, we have Turnover Rate % 1.6 0.8 2.6 enhanced practical and vocational training programs that enable employees to develop field 1,829 skills and focused on fostering field experts and helping new employees quickly adapt to their 1,230 operating environments by utilizing internal expertise enhancement curriculums. We are set 995 Creating Jobs to offer training programs customized for each department and operation to maximize the educational effects and train core talents for the future. LH has carried out the Job 3000 project as part of the efforts to fulfill its social responsibilities by creating many jobs. The project was established to create 3,000 jobs, including 500 fullLH Land and Housing College ┃ LH established the “LH Land and Housing College” time associates, 2,000 senior employees, and 500 youth interns. 2010 2011 2012 that is customized for LH’s operations in 2012 to foster competent experts and provide Unit : thousand won employees with learning opportunities. The college started offering classes in March 2013. Opportunities for College Graduates ┃ LH hired 297 new employees for the first Based on operating knowhow built on field experiences and various studies conducted time since integration. We applied merit-based fair employment standards to attract by the Land & Housing Institute, LH Land and Housing College will offer a wide range of | Training Hours per Employee | human resources with various backgrounds and experiences. We are set to fulfill our social customizable education related to the company’s operations. It is also planned to establish responsibilities as a public enterprise by helping the government create jobs and more 55 lifetime education infrastructures for high school graduates and retirees to enhance their 54 efficiently carry out housing welfare services and government policy projects. competencies and narrow knowledge gaps. The college will raise organizational productivity 44 and reinforce LH’s competitiveness by training practical and field-oriented human resources. Opportunities for High School Graduates ┃ LH hired 200 high school graduates for the first time since integration, the largest number of high school graduates hired by First-rate Land and Housing Education Institution for Globalization with the Nation a public enterprise. High school graduates account for 40% of new hires, far above the ▲ 20% recommendation by the government. Prospective graduates from 653 vocational high 2010 2011 2012 Comprehensive Education Lifetime Education schools nationwide applied for LH’s job offerings despite the harsh competition (roughly 10 applicants for each opening). Among the applicants, 200 graduates were finally selected. LH Unit : hours •Support field-oriented management •Integrate education into operations practices hires high school graduates in line with the government’s youth employment policies and •Lifetime education for employees •Train human resources that can resolve •Well-structured education from job plays a leading role in ensuring advanced employment practices to compensate employees problems at LH •Promote customized and self-initiated placement to retirement for their competence rather than degrees or backgrounds. LH is planning to offer educational education Welcoming Ceremony for New Employees opportunities for associates with high school degrees to study at LH Land and Housing College to close educational gaps and develop them into professional talents. We will also ▲ upgrade the promotion program to offer equal promotion opportunities to both high school Competence Education Long-term Education Lifetime Education Certified In-house College and college graduates to extend merit-based personnel management practices. 47 48 Harmonizing Human Beings with Nature _Joy Human Resource Management Human Resource Management｜Sustainabitity Report 2013 Welfare Benefits Retirement Aid ┃ LH offers systematic training programs to help retirees maintain mental stability and prepare for their future. Phased educational programs are offered Sustaining Work-Family Balance ┃ LH supports a variety of welfare programs, to prospective retirees annually so as to maximize the educational effects through group policies, and education to allow employees to maintain the balance between their work and training, online education, and commissioned education related to re-employment and families. We raised childbirth grants and multichild allowances to encourage childbirth and business startups. Customized person-to-person consulting services are also offered to implemented flexible work programs for employees with children. We also built a childcare prospective retirees based on individual assessments to help them prepare for their postfacility within the company to ease childcare burdens on our employees. Family-friendly retirement plans. programs for better communication were also initiated to strengthen balances between families and work as well as promote their confidence. LH engaged in family travel programs, Upgrading Labor-Management Relations counseling services for children’s education, stress control programs for mental health, and retirement aid programs, boosting the morale and pride of employees and further improving LH Social Partnership Committee ┃ The Social Partnership Committee was jointly the company’s competitiveness. established by LH’s labor unions for the first time among public enterprises to prevent irrationalities that are likely to occur during collective bargaining and promote organizational Family-friendly Program ┃ Four different programs are currently available as LH’s unity. LH’s two labor unions discuss various issues regarding personnel management, family-friendly programs. We also survey the satisfaction of participating associates and their organization, and welfare through the committee. We are set to allow labor unions to prepare families so that we can update the programs and improve their quality. proactive solutions for internal conflicts, after which LH joins the coordinating efforts by the two labor unions to seek better solutions. The Social Partnership Committee of the unions will prevent conflicts between them and promote further unity and cooperation among the Launch of Social Partnership Committee labor unions and LH through active engagement. Healing Camp LH Social Partnership Committee Healing Camp is a mental therapy program for married employees, offering psychological counseling and role education Primary Coordinating Conference Secondary Coordinating Conference through mental education sessions, conducting workout programs and diet education for husbands and wives. Executives of LH’s LH LaborChairmen of LH’s CEO of LH [Satisfaction Rating] two labor unions Management Aid Group two labor unions 4.43 out of 5 Family Camp Family Camp is designed to enhance harmony and mutual Suggest solutions to issues of labor unions and LH understanding between employees and their families. This program is usually offered to employee’s families in the summer, attracting positive responses from employees that desire to spend Enhancing Labor-Management Communication ┃ LH highlights the importance of quality time with their families. [Satisfaction Rating] union-friendly communication approaches and strengthens bilateral communications 4.56 out of 5 between trade unions and the CEO to effectively resolve ongoing issues. The company also established the CEO hotline to enable the CEO to directly listen to the voices of employees. “Filial piety” Camp In addition to such efforts, female grievance management commissioners were appointed “Filial piety” Camp is a travel program for the parents of employees, to handle the grievances of female associates, such as gender discrimination and sexual contributing to familyfriendly management practices and raising harassment. LH is operating a wide range of grievance management channels, including the pride of LH associates and families. personnel management and anti-corruption hotlines, to motivate employees and encourage them to further devote themselves to LH’s operations. [Satisfaction Rating] 4.58 out of 5 •LH Labor-Management Festival Child Camp Child Camp provides employees’ children with opportunities to LH held a labor-management festival in November 2012 to build common understandings among labor unions and LH, experience various cultural and artistic benefits and participate strengthen mutual solidarity, and promote harmony and unity among associates. The event included several programs in community programs so that they are able to develop their such as cultural convergence programs, membership training sessions, and conversations with union leaders to help creativity and personalities and pursue better career paths. The program helps improve employee’s satisfaction and build relationattain better understanding of ongoing issues. LH has expanded the communication channels between the company oriented corporate cultures. and employees and reconfirmed commitments to attaining management objectives by improving labor-management [Satisfaction Rating] relations. 4.54 out of 5 49 50 We will lead Korea’s economic development Korea Land & Housing Corporation is building green cities, constructing energy-efficient environmental housing, developing new renewable energy technologies, initiating CDM projects, and adopting eco-friendly materials to advance green growth drives in the construction sector. We will continue to develop and implement businesses ensuring sustainable growth, coordinate conflicts in the course of development through eco-friendly initiatives rationally, tap further into renewable energy sources, and establish ecofriendly construction plans in consideration of LCA. We engage in environmental management practices to sustain eco-friendly growth initiatives and technologies in the development of land, cities, and housing while spearheading new technological trends. Hopeful Korea Pursuing environmental established 30‚801 26‚593 management practices for eco-friendlier through Green Korea Land & Housing Corporation Application of solar power system to Eco-friendly products purchased developments 30,801 households KRW 26,593 million won Growth Drives (as of 2012) (As of 2012) Development of Ecological Cities and Harmonizing Human Beings with Nature _Harmony LH’s Environmental Management Promotion of Green Houses Green Growth Initiatives Developing Green Cities to Cope with Climate Change Having set up a vision of “spearheading green growth initiatives through building world-class LH is building housing complexes on stricter groundwork standards and anti-disaster designs eco-friendly cities and housing” in 2010, LH has been implementing four key strategies and 10 and applying rainwater management to the water recycling system (of Uirye New Town) to major action plans. In order to “establish green construction infrastructures through expanding effectively cope with climate change. We have also developed carbon emission analysis systems presences of green cities and eco-friendly housing”, we have specified 57 specific missions and and prepared operating manuals to develop green cities by cutting greenhouse gas emissions. actively engaged in management practices for future growth potentials and sustainable growth The carbon emission analysis system is designed to measure the carbon emissions of cities and in 2012. residences and utilize the corresponding outcomes to reduce greenhouse gas emissions for new city development by establishing phased targets. Spearheading green growth initiatives through building the world-class Vision eco-friendly cities and housing We will also carry out efforts to register the CDM project for the solar power program that was certified by the Korean government (in July 2012) with the UN and tapped into a variety of new ▼ projects to expand carbon credits to continuously lead the development of low carbon green Establish green construction infrastructures by expanding presences of Objective green cities and eco-friendly housing cities. ▼ Build green cities to cope with climate change Construct and expand eco-friendly •New Bike Road Network in Korea housing •Strengthen anti-disaster designs to cope with abnormal climate •Establish eco-friendly housing design LH is planning to extend bike roads stretching 1,041km across 12 new •Expand distributed rainwater management standards cities such as Seongnam Pangyo, Hwaseong Dongtan 1, and Gimpo system •Expand usage of renewable energy •Analyze carbon emissions from green •Set up infrastructures for CDM Hangang to actively implement eco-friendly green growth policies. The cities businesses road network is 1.6 times longer than the bike roads along Korea’s four main rivers (633km). We will improve bike infrastructures and initiate public bike rental programs to further embed bicycles, one of the major Priorities in forms of eco-friendly transport, into urban transportation in the years to 2012 come. Engage in green pilot projects Build green cities to cope with climate change •Promote BGB and urban farms •Energy-independent village in •Embed environmental factors into evaluation Dongtan District 2 •Improve eco-friendliness of new •Pilot green apartment project in Gangnam office buildings •Solar power and solar heat energy •Make educational donations to green complex, etc. growth drive Construction and Expansion of Eco-friendly Housing •P  romote green certification (acknowledgement) services Establishment of Eco-friendly Housing Designs ┃ LH is establishing design standards related to energy functionality in accordance with the “Energy-efficient Architectural Standards” and “Standards and Functional Specifications of Eco-friendly Housing”. We have mapped out plans to raise the energy performance index (EPI) to at least 74 by installing insulative windows, Implementation Organization improving the insulation functionalities of walls and roofs, and applying automatic power factor LH is operating the Green Growth Committee regulators and established insulation standards that conform to published design requirements. Green Growth Committee We also provided optimal design schemes, satisfying published standards and lowering costs to engage in eco-friendly businesses. We have (Chaired by Executive Director of revised operating guidelines and expanded Construction Technology Division) to raise the satisfaction of house buyers and residents by cutting maintenance costs. Such the number of participating departments initiatives are estimated to lower maintenance expenses by 323 thousand won and 206 thousand to 24 from 22 in April 2012 to increase the won for apartments with areas of 74m2 and 26m2, respectively, on an annual basis. functionalities of these working committees. Green Growth Working Committee Green Growth Committee Each working committee and the Green (Chaired by Director of Technology Growth Committee convened in May and June, Standard Department) •Playground Remodeling for Eco-friendliness examining LH green growth initiatives and action plans in 2012. Driven by the committee’s The remodeling of playgrounds for eco-friendliness is the longest running social contribution program conducted by LH. The company engagements, LH will comprehensively has rebuilt decrepit and dangerous playgrounds into safe and environmentally friendly locations for children and residents since manage relevant operations and actively and Working Departments (24) 2006. We have adopted a new design program to enable residents’ engagement based on the belief that we can make contributions to efficiently engage in green growth initiatives residents and local communities by remodeling playgrounds. Each eco-friendly playground built by LH offers unique features such as by ensuring inter-department cooperation and promenades, elements of fun adventure, cultural and artistic factors, and ecological protection. preventing overlapped investments. Regional Division 53 54 Development of Ecological Cities and Harmonizing Human Beings with Nature _Harmony Promotion of Green Houses Development of Ecological Cities and Promotion of Green Houses｜Sustainabitity Report 2013 Expanding Renewable Energy Supply ┃ LH has been expanding the usage of renewable energy resources in its rental housing complexes since 2006 to save energy and •LH Community Kitchen Garden ensure energy independence for communities. We are also carrying out efforts to extend the coverage of renewable energy and working on many different pilot projects. Pollution and contamination are growing threats to our society: industrialization and urbanization have We have installed solar power systems for 30,801 households in 39 residential districts, separated cities from farms, resulting in the overexpansion of cities and the dwindling of green areas.. particularly rental housing complexes where many low income households live, in 2012 In response to growing demands for the preservation of ecology and upgrading of urban environments, alone. LH is also carrying out pilot projects for the development of new energy sources and LH launched a community kitchen garden program to utilize untapped land owned by the company. technologies such as smallsized wind power generators and vacuum tube solar collectors. The LH Community Kitchen Garden project is designed to utilize LH’s land inventories that have A pilot project is being implemented to introduce a small-scale wind power generation remained unsold or been stockpiled for a long time to reduce maintenance expenses and prevent the system to 327 households in a rental housing complex in Daejung, Seogwipo. Solar power illegal use of land from producing contaminants. Urban farms help purify air for better air quality and and heating systems were also installed in the Goyang Samsong A16 block to raise the improve landscapes. They also feature a variety of functions such as the absorption and recycling of residential complex’s energy efficiency. rainwater and the prevention of urban warming, thus restoring urban ecologies and adding ecological LH will continue its efforts to utilize renewable energy resources and reduce the energy elements to cities. cost burden for low income residents. We will also ensure energy welfare and build ecoThe gardens are developed to ensure eco-friendly and organic farming in line with four key principles and three major orientations. Urban farmers shall not use chemical pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers, friendly housing that produce energy to reduce the energy consumption and greenhouse gas and plastics (four key principles). They are also supposed to use self-made fertilizers, engage in emissions of buildings and construct energy-independent housing in the future. traditional farming, and cooperate with neighbors within the community (three major orientations). Participants must complete mandatory training sessions related to eco-friendly organic farming and donate a portion of their produce to underprivileged. Green Pilot Projects In addition to environmental benefits, the community kitchen gardens can be also utilized to contribute to social values by using LH’s unique business operations. The “Act on Promotion of and Support to LH enhances the eco-friendliness of construction and expands the footing for green cities Urban Farming” was passed last May, aiming to employ 5 million urban farmers by 2020. This comes and eco-friendly housing complexes by engaging in green pilot projects. in line with the resources owned by LH, a public land and housing service provider. We expect the program to develop new social contribution initiatives and create jobs on urban farms by associating public interests in urban farming with contribution cultures. By utilizing the “vegetable donation Development of •Set up district development plans and obtain authorization since new program” for the underprivileged, we are also set to help correct dietary imbalances. We are offering Energy-independent guidelines were established in 2012 untapped land inventories to urban residents to allow them to develop land into urban farms and Village in Dongtan District 2 •Aim to reduce energy consumption by 70% before 2017 provide fresh vegetables to underprivileged. We also plan to collect vegetable donations from urban farmers to help socially disadvantaged households achieve healthier lifestyles through social welfare centers located in rental apartment complexes. For LH’s community kitchen garden project, sites were •Carry out a pilot project to build apartments consuming 60% less energy selected and infrastructures were established in 2012. We will operate urban farms in various forms Pilot Green House than conventional constructions to expand green housing, and develop Project in that will promote community engagement or donation in 2013. infrastructures for energy-independent housing Seoul Gangnam A7BL District •Establish construction plans for energy efficiency, and test functions after initiating the construction project in 2011 (actually in October 2012) •Pilot Green Housing Complex Green houses are residential buildings that minimize the usage of energy consumed for air conditioning and lighting and fossil fuel. For the new residential designs, renewable energy facilities such as heating systems based on solar and thermal heat or solar power generators, high efficiency insulators, LED lamps, and water-saving equipment are applied to the construction of eco-friendly housing. LH created a roadmap to build 750,000 energy-efficient and eco-friendly houses by 2018. We plan to utilize highly energy-efficient materials in consideration of costs and renewable energy systems for several pilot projects. We are currently building a localized pilot green housing complex in Gangnam, Seoul. Advanced insulators, natural heat collectors, LED lamps, and renewable energy resources are expected to lower energy consumption by more than 60% compared to conventional housing. 55 56 Harmonizing Human Beings with Nature _Harmony Eco-friendly Management Operation Eco-friendly Corporate Management｜Sustainabitity Report 2013 Green Office Key Environmental Performances Energy-saving Practices ┃ LH has established energy-saving plans and is actively Energy Consumption Unit : TJ engaging in energy efficiency initiatives pursuant to the “Public Institution Energy Efficiency Enhancement Guidelines”. We are attempting to reduce energy consumption by complying with indoor air-conditioning guidelines (28℃ or above in summer, 18℃ or below in winter), restraining use of air-conditioning and ventilation facilities, making efficient use of elevators, turning off lights during lunch hours, and adopting LED lamps and high efficiency office appliances. 276.6 247.2 199.4 28.6 21.8 20.9 45.7 36.6 28.6 48.1 24.2 19.3 399.0 329.8 268.2 | Eco-friendly Procurements | New Eco-friendly Office Building ┃ The new head office building located in Jinju 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Innovation City, Gyeongsangnam-do, is designed to power at least 10% of its system with renewable energy resources. LH also obtained the highest eco-friendly construction rating Electricity Heating Natural Gas Fossil Fuel Total and highest preliminary energy efficiency rating for the building design, demonstrating high energy efficiency. The new construction represents LH’s sustainability, including common spaces open to local residents, workplaces for higher productivity and barrier-free Water Usage Unit : ton, % environments for the socially disadvantaged. 6,024 8,430 26,593 Green Procurement ┃ LH preferentially purchases eco-friendly official supplies, electronic appliances, and materials. We regularly conduct education for purchasing officers 12,682 2010 2011 2012 and monitor procurements made by branches across the nation throughout the year to 10,422 Unit : million won expand green procurement practices on an enterprise-wide basis. 177,140 180,317 269,617 18,644 189,822 190,739 288,261 7.2 5.8 6.9 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Green Communication Water Consumption Graywater Total % of Recycling Promoting Green Growth Businesses ┃ LH operates the Green Gallery to externally promote eco-friendly businesses, allowing visitors to experience eco-friendly housing Greenhouse Gas Emissions Unit : tCO2e and green growth policies. We are also offering tour programs for professionals in civic organizations and foreign government officials. We started publishing the Green News in June 2012 and conduct quarterly exhibition events to promote eco-friendly housing technologies The Green Gallery Tour Program for 5,411 Foreign Government Officials Operating Educational Donation Program for Green Growth ┃ LH entered into 3,522 2,785 the “Educational Donation Pact for Green Growth” with the Ministry of Education and the 15,133 13,416 10,962 20,544 16,938 13 ,747 Presidential Committee on Green Growth to develop educational programs in line with LH’s 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 businesses. Scope1 Scope2 Total Categorization Green Lifestyle Festival Eco-friendly Housing, Green City Targets Elementary school students Middle and high school students Eco-friendly Technology Development Unit : case, million won Location The Green Gallery The Green Gallery, Uirye Exhibition Hall Education Making solar-powered toys Making Korean traditional house miniatures Performance 12 sessions (attended by 180participants) 6 sessions (attended by 90 participants) Sponsoring Green Architecture Festival ┃ LH has sponsored the Green Architecture Festival held by the Presidential Commission on Architecture Policy to enhance the 10 11 15 505 976 705 company’s roles in eco-friendly construction. LH’s Daegu Yulha Complex 2, which served as the athletes’ accommodations during the World Championship in Athletics, is a fine 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 example of LH’s outstanding green architecture technologies and has won the top prize and a Projects Investment minister’s award from the Ministry of Culture, Sports, and Tourism. 57 58 Organizational Chart and Memberships 2013 Organizational Chart APPENDIX Board of Directors CEO Standing Auditor 60 Organizational Chart and Memberships Audit Office 61 Sustainability Management Initiatives 63 Sustainability Management General 67 Assurance Statement 69 GRI Index Secretary Public Office Relations Office 73 Definitions 74 Awards Vice-president Planning& Bogeumjari Housing Industry & Administration Marketing & Construction Land and Green City Housing Welfare Housing LH Land and Coordination Housing Business Economy Support Compensation Technology Research Housing College Division Division Division Division Division Division Division Division Division Institute Planning & Bogeumjari New Town Housing Housing Industry Customer Marketing Technology Research Coordination Housing Planning Welfare Planning Complex Satisfaction Planning Standard Support Administration Planning Rental Housing Housing Land Bank Personnel Compensation Technology New Town Management Bogeumjari Project Provision& Project 1 Planning Management Planning Screening General Project Housing Management Housing Inter-Korean Human Financial & Evaluation Project Sejong & Planning & Innovation City Renral Asset Project 2 Development Resources Project Construction Coordination Residential Management Mechanical & cooperation Development Land & Management Land Urban Office Legal & Environment Urban Electrotechnical Overseas Housing Lawsuits Development Renaissance Design Project Finance & Information Development Residential Project Housing Free economic Accounting Land Design Urban Design Urban Design zone Project Procurement & Green Renaissance Housing Contract Landscape Technology Estimate Information Architecture Administration Regional Office Operating Office etc. •Seoul •Daejeon/Chungnam •Busan/Ulsan •Jeonbuk •Incheon •Gwangju/Jeonnam •Gyeonggi •Daegu/Gyeongbuk •Gangwon •Gyeongnam •Chungbuk •Jeju Memberships Policy Council of Transparent trust American Society of Civil Engineers The Korean Institute of Power Electronics Korea Ubiquitous City Association society, Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission Better Social Enterprise Network Korea Construction Engineers Association The Korean Housing Association Architectural Institute of Korea Korea Auditors Forum for Progress The Korean Archaeological Society Korean Association for Housing Policy Studies Korean Society of Transportation Ginkgo Youth Leadership Foundation Korea Area Electricity Association Korea Association of Regional Air(Sponsor) Conditioning and Heating The Society of Air-conditioning and Korea Institute for Structural Refrigerating Engineers of Korea Architectural Institute of Japan Maintenance Inspection: KSMI Earthquake Engineering Society of Korea Korea Electric Association The Japanese Geotechnical Society The Korean Museum Association Korea Concrete Institute Korean Society of Civil Engineers Japan Society of Civil Engineers Environmental Impact Assessment Korean Association of Air Conditioning American Planners Association Refrigerating and Sanitary Engineers International contractors Association The Korean Institute of Illuminating of Korea and Electrical Installation Engineers The Korean Society for Noise and American Concrete Institute The United Nations Global Compact Vibration Engineering 60 APPENDIX Sustainability Management Initiatives Sustainability Management Initiatives｜Sustainability Report 2013 UNGC Index ISO 26000 Having joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in June 2010, LH has been reporting its compliance with the 10 key principles in ISO 26000 is an International Standard for social responsibility launched by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) the human rights/labor/environment/anti-corruption domains through sustainability reports on an annual basis. UNGC detailed in November of 2011. It provides a comprehensive guideline that includes numerous other existing guidelines on seven key issues: its “Communication on Progress (COP)” regulations to encourage corporations to fulfill their social responsibilities and promote Corporate Governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community communications with stakeholders. LH compiled its 2013 Sustainability Report pursuant to the “Advanced Level” standards of newly involvement and development. LH has developed its own list of items for evaluation to ensure continuous compliance with the ISO 26000. published COP regulations. [ Level of disclosure : ● Complete ◐ Partial ○ Non-disclosure ] Level of Topic Key issues Relevant GRI Index Disclosure UNGC Advanced Level GRI 3.1 Pages 6.2 Organizational governance 6.2.3 Decision-making processes and structures 1.1, 1.2, 2.3, 4.1~4.17 ◐ The COP describes key aspects of the company’s high-level sustainability 6.3.3 Due diligence HR1, HR2, HR5, HR6, HR7 ● 1 4.1-4.8 10, 12, 16, 50, 63 strategy in line with Global Compact principles. 6.3.4 Human rights risk situations HR5, HR6, HR7 ● The COP describes effective decision-making processes and systems of 2 4.9-4.10 15, 63 6.3.5 Avoidance of complicity HR1, HR2, HR3, HR5, HR6, HR7, HR8 ● governance for corporate sustainability. 6.3.6 Resolving grievances HR1, HR4, HR9 ● 3 The COP describes engagement with all important stakeholders. 4.14-4.17 16-20 6.3 Human Rights 6.3.7 Discrimination and vulnerable groups HR4, HR6, HR7, HR9, LA13, LA14 ● 4 The COP describes actions taken in support of broader UN goals and issues. 4.12 61-62 6.3.8 Civil and political rights HR5, HR9 ● 6.3.9 Economic, social, and cultural rights SO1, PR1, PR2, EC8, EC9 ● The COP describes robust commitments, strategies, or policies in 5 HR1, HR3-HR4, LA4, LA9 14, 64, 65 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work HR4, HR5, HR8, LA1, LA2, LA3, LA4, LA5, LA13, LA14 ● the area of human rights. The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the human 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships HR2, HR4, HR5, HR8, LA1, LA2, LA3, LA4, LA5, LA13, LA14 ● 6 HR11 66 rights principles. 6.4.4 Conditions of work and social protection LA3, LA4, LA5, LA14, EC5 ● The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of 7 SO4 66 6.4 Labor practices 6.4.5 Social dialogue HR5, LA4, LA5 ● human rights Integration. 6.4.6 Health and safety at work LA6, LA7, LA8, LA9 ● The COP describes key outcomes of human rights integration 8 HR3-HR4 14, 65 (including GRI). 6.4.7 Human development and training in the workplace LA10, LA11, LA12 ◐ The COP describes robust commitments, strategies, or policies in 6.5.3 Prevention of pollution EN19~EN24 ◐ 9 LA1, LA3-LA4 47, 48-50, 64 the area of labor. 6.5.4 Sustainable resource use EN1~EN10, EN25, EN26, EN27, EN29 ◐ The COP describes effective management systems to integrate 6.5 Environment 10 LA9 64 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and adaptation EC2, EN16~EN18 ● the labor principles. 6.5.6 Protection of the environment, biodiversity, The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms of EN11~EN15, EN25 ◐ 11 LA4 64 and restoration of natural habitats labor principles Integration. 6.6.3 Anti-corruption SO2, SO3, SO4 ● The COP describes key outcomes of integration of the labor principles LA1-LA2, LA4, LA7-LA8, 12 47, 48, 50, 64, 65 (including GRI). LA10-LA11, LA13 6.6.4 Responsible political involvement SO5, SO6 ● The COP describes robust commitments, strategies, or policies in the area 6.6 Fair operating practices 6.6.5 Fair competition SO7 ● 13 EC2 53-57 of environmental stewardship. 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain HR2, HR8, PR1, PR2, EC6, EC9, EN26, EN29 ● The COP describes effective management systems to integrate the 14 EN26 53-57 6.6.7 Respect for property rights HR9, SO1, SO7, SO8, EC9 ● environmental principles. 6.7.3 Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for PR3, PR4, PR6, PR7 ◐ 15 EN26 53-57 fair contractual practices environmental stewardship. 6.7.4 Protecting consumers’ health and safety PR1, PR2, PR3, PR4, PR5 ● The COP describes key outcomes of integration of the environmental EN3-EN5, EN8, EN11, EN16, EN18, EN22, 16 54, 55, 57, 58, 63, 64 6.7.5 Sustainable consumption PR1, PR2, PR3, PR4, PR5, EN26, EN27 ● principles (including GRI). EN27, EN30 The COP describes robust commitments, strategies, or policies in 6.7 Consumer issues 6.7.6 Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute 17 SO4 66 PR3, PR4, PR5, PR6, PR7, PR9 ◐ the area of anticorruption. resolution 6.7.7 Consumer data protection and privacy PR8 ● The COP describes effective management systems to integrate 18 SO2-SO3 14, 66 the anti-corruption principles. 6.7.8 Access to essential services PR5, EC9 ● The COP describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms for 6.7.9 Education and awareness PR3, PR4, PR5, PR6, PR7 ◐ 19 HR11, SO4 66 the integration of anti-corruption. 6.8.3 Community involvement SO5, SO6, LA8, EC1, EC8 ● The COP describes key outcomes of integration of the anti-corruption 20 SO2-SO4, SO7-SO8 14, 66 6.8.4 Education and culture LA8, EC8 ● principles (including GRI). The COP describes implementation of the Global Compact principles in the 6.8.5 Employment creation and skills SO1, LA11, EC6, EC7, EC8, EC9 ● 21 HR1, HR2, HR3 14, 65 6.8 Community value chain. involvement and 6.8.6 Technology development and access EC8, EC9 ● The COP provides information on the company’s profile and development 22 1.1-1.2, 2.1-2.10 3-4, 9, 15, 17, 23-32, 60, 63, 74 6.8.7 Wealth and income creation SO1, SO8, EC1, EC6, EC7, EC8, EC9 ● context of operation. 6.8.8 Health LA8 ● 23 The COP incorporates high standards of Integrity and disclosure. 3.1-3.13 1, 16, 20, 67-72 6.8.9 Social investment EC1, EC8, EC9 ● 61 62 APPENDIX Sustainability Management General Sustainability Management General｜Sustainability Report 2013 Organizational Shareholders (2.6) Management of wastewater, waste, and harmful substances (EN21 ~ EN25) [ Unit: million won ] Profile LH strictly manages and handles harmful substances in accordance with applicable regulations. Sewage Shareholders Shareholder’s Equity Paid-in Capital Proportion (%) from LH’s head office and regional branches is processed at sewage treatment plants so that we do not Government 25,710,000 19,983,471 86.6 produce any environmental impact due to sewage. Korea Finance Corporation 4,290,000 3,095,750 13.4 Violations of environmental regulations (EN28) Total 30,000,000 23,079,221 100.0 As a public enterprise exclusively in charge of housing construction and land development, LH strictly •As of the end of December 2012 complies with the environmental regulations and standards. Corporate Assessment of Directors and Executives (4.5) Governance The operations of the board of directors are assessed by external evaluators through annual Environmental impacts of transporting products, materials, and employees (EN29) government-led management assessments. LH pays annual salaries to executive directors differentially LH operates commuting and business shuttle buses, implements car-free day programs, and in accordance with the government-led management assessments. recommends the use of environmentally friendly vehicles and bicycles for commuting and shortdistance business travel so that we do not produce significant environmental impact in transporting our Sustainability Management Framework (4.9, 4.10) employees. LH operates sustainability management organizations based on its cooperation with working departments to ensure sustainability management practices and performances in the economic, Labor Right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining (LA4, HR5) social, and environmental domains. In general, the Administration Management Department currently LH guarantees workers’ rights to exercise freedom of association, collective bargaining, and collective supervises sustainability management practices while the board of directors examines issues pertaining action pursuant to the applicable regulations and collective agreements. LH ensures that workers can to sustainability management. freely join the labor union or withdraw from it. Nonunion members are also entitled to several systematic measures, including grievance management procedures, to protect their standard labor rights. As of the Economic Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations (EC3) end of 2012, 89% of the entire staff was unionized. LH introduced a pension program to help retirees and their families secure financially stable livelihoods. Minimum notice period regarding significant operational changes (LA5) [Four Major Insurance Programs] LH shares the company’s significant issues with employees and aggregates their opinions through a Categorization Unit Employee Contributions LH Contributions Total variety of labor-management communication channels. We are also officially supporting the ILO TriMedical Insurance 100 million won 141 141 282 partite Declaration and UNGC and comply with specific regulations. When policies or plans related National Pension 100 million won 129 129 258 to personnel management and work conditions are newly established or changed in accordance with Vocational Accident collective agreements, we give prior notice to employees to allow them to improve operating stability and 100 million won 8 8 Insurance gain confidence in the company. Employment Insurance 100 million won 27 62 89 •As of the end of December 2012 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees (LA6) Ratio of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage (EC5) LH established the Vocational Safety and Health Committee, which consists of 20 members. We have The standard entry level wage was 200% larger than the minimum wage in 2012. also stipulated joint labormanagement safety and health regulations in collective agreements. Environmental Biodiversity management (EN11 ~ EN15) Rates of work-related accidents (LA7) LH manages ecological and biodiversity data, including environmental preservation areas and natural Categorization Unit 2010 2011 2012 ratings, by utilizing a spatial database to minimize the environmental impact of land and housing Work-related accidents % 0 0.1 0.1 development projects. Based on this data, we exclude ecologically valuable areas from development projects and designate significant habitats as protected areas to preserve the ecological system. We also conduct preliminary environmental assessments to examine the suitability of development and perform Health care program (LA8 ~ LA9) environmental impact assessments of projects that are set to be initiated pursuant to the Environmental LH engages in various health care programs to ensure health and safety for associates and their families. Impact Assessment Act. We offer up to 500 thousand won to each employee and his or her spouse for medical checkups. We have also provided flu shot programs to our associates at headquarters and local branches in October 2012. Air emissions management (EN19 ~ EN20) The healing camp was held to help associates mitigate their stress and enhance mental health while LH is measuring air quality to keep the residents around project locations healthy by preventing air online psychological tests and professional counseling services were offered to raise the effectiveness pollution. The company also conducts regular inspections to fend off air contaminants. We are currently of EAP. We are currently developing childbirth incentive programs to finance infertility treatments, grant carrying out measures to reduce carbon emissions to minimize air pollutants and ozone-depleting childbirth bonuses, and provide additional allowances to families with multiple children. substances caused by projects. 63 64 APPENDIX Sustainability Management General Sustainability Management General｜Sustainability Report 2013 Labor Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews (LA12) Elimination of child and compulsory labor (HR6 ~ HR7) LH complies with the “Convention Concerning the Prohibition and Immediate Actions toward the Categorization Unit 2010 2011 2012 Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labour” of ILO and the labor standards of the UN Global Proportion of performance % 100 100 100 Compact. Since our establishment, LH has not violated any regulations regarding compulsory or child assessment application labor. We strictly ban child labor. Composition of BOD (LA13) Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and /or impact assessments (HR10) Categorization Name Current Title Expertise Gender LH conducts integrity assessments over all its operating locations with regard to relations with business Lee Jisong President Male partners and engages in internal ethical management evaluations on a regular basis to enhance human Kim Youngjin Standing Auditor Male rights protection and fairness. We are also attempting to assess the impacts of fire accidents and flood Chung Ineok Vice President Male Executive and restrain illegal employment practices. Seong Jeungsoo Head of Green City Division Male Cho Seongphil Head of Housing Welfare Division Male Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Park Chanheung Head of Construction Technology Division Male mechanisms (HR11) Kim Joongkwang Former Director of Gwangju Bureau, PBC Media Male LH aggregates a variety of complaints through the Integrity Ombudsman Program, MCA (Master Clean-up Ham Seongdeuk Professor of Korea University Management/Administration Male Agency), and audit branches. We have received no complaints regarding human rights violations in 2012. Cho Yongseong Chairman of Diepetane Seoul Co.,Ltd. Management/Administration Male Kim Yonghan Former Executive Director, CBS Media Male Social Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption (SO2) Non-executive Jeong Mingeun Vice President of Deloitte Korea Accounting Male LH applies codes of ethics over all its operations to ensure Integrity. Jeon Woojeong Chief Attorney of Lawfirm Yoolwoo Law Male Former Director of the Foundation for Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption (SO4) Nam Chansoon Media Male Broadcast Culture LH actively engages in anti-corruption initiatives. We have established a system to allow employees to Song Indong Former Deputy Mayor of Daejeon Management/Administration Male report bribery attempts to eradicate bribery and kickbacks that impede operating fairness. We also make it compulsory to prohibit land and housing trades and report relevant transactions to prevent illegitimate Return to work and retention rates after parental leave (LA15) insider trading. We have detected three incidents of corruption and responded with disciplinary action in 2012 alone. Categorization Unit 2010 2011 2012 Employees on parental leave person 109 181 201 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices (SO7 ~ SO8) Employees returning after parental leave person 60 99 150 LH conducts education for construction engineers to prevent unfair subcontracting practices and informs •Employees returning from parental leave include employees that spent parent leave for the previous year. the relevant authorities of these violations. We have detected 11 violations in 2012. Administrative actions (Other employees are currently on parental leave.) were taken with regard to six violations while the remaining five cases were corrected. Human Rights Suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken (HR1 ~ HR2) Since discriminatory, compulsory, and child labor is strictly prohibited under law, LH does not conduct Product Responsibility Type of product and service information required by procedures (PR3) human rights examination when making investments or forming business partnerships. We are trying, LH provides a variety of business information on LH’s projects, including land development and housing however, not to be involved in transactions with corporations that are likely to breach human rights construction, through many different channels such as public notices, website postings, press releases, regulations or have violated such rules through examining their corporate backgrounds. In addition and smartphone applications, to ensure accurate understanding of its business. to such efforts, we conduct annual integrity inspections over our business partners to examine their integrity and Integrity. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling (PR4, PR7) Employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights (HR3) LH categorizes customers and offers different services corresponding to each category to meet their LH conducts sexual harassment prevention education for the entire staff at least once a year as per needs. The company also operates a VOC system to ensure customer satisfaction. We comply with Article 4 of the Act on Prohibition and Restriction of Gender Inequality to protect human rights of female applicable regulations and operating guidelines in engaging in marketing and sales activities such as associates that constitute a minority group within the company. advertising and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken (HR4) Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of LH does not discriminate employees by gender, educational background, age, religion, origin, or physical customer data (PR8) disability. We comply with No. 111 (Agreement on Discriminatory Treatment in Employment and Vocation) LH established customer privacy policies concerning access control, authority management, and followof ILO convention. We have not had any legal actions or penalties taken against us due to discrimination up audits to protect personal information. We have not had any complaints regarding privacy from during the reporting period. customers during the reporting period. 65 66 APPENDIX Assurance Statement Assurance Statement｜Sustainability Report 2013 Introduction Inclusivity : Good. LH has engaged with a wide range of stakeholders. The stakeholder engagement is practised throughout the Det Norske Veritas Certification Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as ‘DNV’) has been commissioned to carry out assurance organization. The Report covers the ways it engages with stakeholders. The documented process of stakeholder engagement engagement on Korea Land & Housing Corporation (hereinafter referred to as ‘LH’) Sustainability Report 2013 (hereinafter is confirmed with government-led management assessments report. 6 Stakeholder groups which are Customer/Employees/ referred to as ‘the Report’). This engagement focused on the information provided in the Report and the underlying management National citizen/Federal and local Government/ Local community/Supplier and contractor are identified in the Report with main and reporting processes. issues about which the respective stakeholders are concerns. This Assurance Statement is intended for the readers of the Report. LH is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and presentation of all information within the Report. DNV’s responsibility regarding this Assurance engagement is to the Responsiveness : Acceptable. Stakeholders’ views, interests and expectations sought from the survey are considered in management of LH only, in accordance with terms of reference and scope of work agreed. The assurance engagement is based preparation of the Report and in formulation of LH’s sustainability management approach. The Report needs to provide on the assumption that the data and information provided to us is complete, sufficient and true. DNV disclaims any liability or more detailed information with regard to how the material issues disclosed in the previous report were managed and what responsibility to a third-party for any decisions, whether investment or otherwise, based upon this Assurance Statement. performance were resulted from the sustainability management during the reporting period. In addition, providing key performance indicators for the highly material issues determined in the Report will improve the monitoring the progress of Scope Assurance sustainable management. LH is recommended to establish quantitative objectives corresponding to respective material issues This assurance service was conducted in March 2013. The scope of DNV’s Assurance Engagement included verification of the and regularly monitor and measure the performance. These needs to be reported in the sustainability report of next year. following. : Materiality: Good. The materiality determination process is clearly presented in the Report. Inputs from a wide range of sources •Sustainability policy, initiatives, practices and performance, as described in the Report. These were verified at company level. are considered for materiality determination including the needs and concerns of stakeholders, media analysis, peer-based •Cross-check data and information from the calendar year 2012 against disclosures in ALI public information in One and the norms, and survey, interviews. The Report generally provides an account of performance on the issues that are most significant state-owned government-led management assessments report and internal documents and records. to LH’s activities and which are most relevant to its stakeholders. •Processes for defining the boundaries, focus and content of the Report. •Review of the extent to which the principles and requirements of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines for Opportunities for Improvement Sustainability Reporting (GRI G3.1) are reflected in the Report. The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported to LH’s management in addition to the •The extent to which the principles of Materiality, Inclusivity and Responsiveness are adopted. The reliability of the information recommendations above. However, these do not affect our conclusions on the Report and are provided to encourage continual within the Report was verified under Moderate level of assurance. improvement. Limitations •Establish sustainability targets and periodically monitor progress against those; The engagement excluded the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of LH’s suppliers, contractors •To expand sustainability evaluation of contractors and suppliers. and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Verification Methodology DNV is a leading provider of sustainability services, including verification of sustainability reports. Our environmental and social assurance specialists work in over 100 countries. DNV was not involved in the preparation of any information presented in the Report and did not provide any services to LH during 2012-2013 that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our work. Our assurance engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with the DNV Protocol for Verification of Sustainability Reporting (VeriSustainTM). April 2013 Seoul, Korea In that respect, the Report has been evaluated against the following criteria: •Adherence to the principles of Materiality, Completeness, Neutrality, Reliability, Responsiveness and Stakeholder Kwak Seunghyun inclusiveness, as set out in DNV Verification Protocol for Sustainability Reporting, and Lead Verifier •The GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3.1 and its Application Levels. As part of the verification DNV has challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report. In reaching our conclusion, we have undertaken the following work; Ahn Inkyoon •Visited LH’s office in Bundang, Gyeonggi-Do, Republic of Korea; Country Manager •Performed sample-based reviews for determining material issues to be included in the Report; •Examined relevant documents, data and other information requested by DNV and made available by LH; Antonio Astone •Checked that the Report fulfils the requirement of GRI Application Level. Assurance Engagement Reviewer Conclusions Sustainability Services In DNV’s opinion, the Report provides a reliable and fair representation of LH’s policy, practices and performance in 2012. Based on the work undertaken as part of this Assurance Engagement, DNV believes that the Report generally meets the principles, content and quality requirements of GRI G3.1. and the requirement of GRI Application Level ‘A+’. We have evaluated Note : Assurance engagement was conducted based on the Report written in Korean. In the event of ambiguity or contradiction in the Report the Report’s adherence to the following principles: between English version and Korean version, Korean one shall be given precedent. 67 68 APPENDIX GRI Index GRI Index｜Sustainability Report 2013 [ Level of disclosure : ● Complete ◐ Partial ○ Non-disclosure ] [ Level of disclosure : ● Complete ◐ Partial ○ Non-disclosure ] GRI 3.1 Description Page Reported Remarks GRI 3.1 Description Page Reported Remarks Vision and Strategy 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 16 ● ViStrategy and Analysis 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 16 ● 1.1 Sustainability statement of CEO 3-4 ● Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by 4.16 16-20 ● stakeholder group 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 15, 17 ● Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how Organizational Profile 4.17 17-20 ● the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns 2.1 Name of the organization 9 ● Economic Performance Indicators 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 23-32 ● DMA 10-11 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 60 ● EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 35 ● 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 9, 60 ● Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due EC2 53-57 ● to climate change 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates 9 ● EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 63 ● 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 63 ● EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government N/A Not applicable 2.7 Markets served 23-32 ● EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage 63 ● 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 9 ● EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers N/A Not applicable No significant changes during 2.9 Significant changes regarding size, structure, or ownership ● the reporting period EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community N/A Not applicable 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 74 ● Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for EC8 35 ● public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Report Parameters EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts 35, 40, 44, 47 ● 3.1 Reporting period for information provided 1 ● Environmental Performance Indicators 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 1 ● DMA 53 3.3 Reporting cycle 1 ● EN1 Materials used by weight or volume N/A Not applicable 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 1 ● EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials N/A Not applicable 3.5 Process for defining report content 16-20 ● EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 58 ● 3.6 Boundary of the report 1 ● EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 58 ● 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 1 ● EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 54-55, 57 ◑ 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures and subsidiaries 9 ● Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and 3.9 Data measurement techniques such as performance indicators 1 ● EN6 54-55, 57 ◑ reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports N/A Not applicable EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 57 ◑ 3.11 Significant changes of scopes and boundary of report ● No significant change EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 58 ● 3.12 Standard Disclosures in the report 69-72 ● EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water N/A Not applicable 3.13 Matters related to assurance of the report 67-68 ● EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 58 ● Corporate Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and EN11 63 ◑ 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 12 ● areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 12 ● Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in EN12 63 ◑ protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas The number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non4.3 12 ● EN13 Habitats protected or restored 63 ◑ executive members Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 63 ◑ 4.4 16, 50 ◑ the highest governance body Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in EN15 63 ◑ Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk 4.5 63 ● managers, and executives EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 58 ● 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 12 ◑ EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight N/A Not applicable Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 54-55 ● 4.7 12 ● governance body EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 63 ◑ 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 10 ● EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 63 ◑ 4.9 Procedures of the BOD for overseeing sustainability management 63 ● EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 64 ◑ Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with 4.10 63 ● respect to economic, environmental, and social performance EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 64 ◑ Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 15 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 64 ◑ 4.11 ● organization Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other EN24 terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste 64 ◑ 4.12 61-62 ● initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses shipped internationally 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organizations 60 ● Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats EN25 64 ◑ significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff 69 70 APPENDIX GRI Index GRI Index｜Sustainability Report 2013 [ Level of disclosure : ● Complete ◐ Partial ○ Non-disclosure ] [ Level of disclosure : ● Complete ◐ Partial ○ Non-disclosure ] GRI 3.1 Description Page Reported Remarks GRI 3.1 Description Page Reported Remarks Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact Society Performance Indicators EN26 53-57 ● mitigation DMA 13, 30-32, 65 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category N/A Not applicable SO1 Programs that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities 30-32, 39-42 ● Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for EN28 64 ◑ SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption 66 ● noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 14 ● EN29 64 ● used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 66 ● EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 57-58 ● Lobbying is prohibited during Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying ● participation in the establishment of public policies. DMA 47-50 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 47 ● SO6 institutions by country ● Not applicable LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover 47 ● Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly SO7 66 ● practices and their outcomes Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time LA3 48-50 ● employees, by major operations Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for SO8 66 ● noncompliance with laws and regulations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 64 ● SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities N/A Not applicable LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 64 ● Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or 30-32 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and 64 S010 ● LA6 ● actual negative impacts on local communities safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workLA7 64 ● related fatalities by region DMA 45-46 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist Lifecycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed LA8 64 ● workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases PR1 for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to 45, 63 ◑ such procedures LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 64 ● LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 48 ● Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR2 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type N/A Not applicable Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued of outcomes LA11 50 ● employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures 66 ● LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 64 ● Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR4 66 ● LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category 65 ● concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 47 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer 45-46 PR5 ● satisfaction LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave 65 ● Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing Human Rights Performance Indicators PR6 45-46 ◑ communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship DMA 47-50, 65-66 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship 66 ● Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human HR1 65 ● by type of outcomes rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and HR2 65 ● PR8 66 ● human rights and actions taken losses of customer data Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning HR3 14, 65 ● PR9 ● 2012 No payment performance rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained the provision and use of products and services HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 65 ● Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective HR5 64 ● bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures HR6 66 ● taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, HR7 66 ● and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures HR8 N/A Not applicable concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions HR9 N/A Not applicable taken Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews HR10 66 ● and/or impact assessments HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed through formal grievance mechanisms 66 ● 71 72 APPENDIX Definitions Awards Terms Definitions Awards Organizations Year Houses designed to conserve energy by more than 33.5% by improving insulation, windows and doors, ventilation, and Structure of the Year Award – Silver Prize (Head of Society’s Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs, Building with Grade 1 Energy Efficiency Rating Award) Society of Civil Engineers boiler performance. The concept of climate change as defined in the UNFCCC refers to the change in the global atmosphere observed Korea National Apartment Awards – Grand Prize Korea Economic TV Climate change during a comparable period that resulted from direct and indirect human activities, in addition to the natural variability of (Minister’s Award) the climate. Selected as a Successful Case of Inclusive Growth Digital Chosun Ilbo 2010 A people-oriented design that is visually open and allows the disabled, children, senior citizens, and pregnant women to Korea Landscape Awards – Presidential Prize Korea Institute of Landscape Architecture Barrier-free design move around the space without help. 2010 National Value Engineering Exposition – Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs Excellence Award Basic services, including roads, ports, railroads, etc., required to facilitate economic activities which are not directly used Social Overhead Capital 2010 Korea Concrete Institute Awards – Best Technology for production activities. Korea Concrete Institute Award A concept that includes three new energy types (hydrogen, fuel cell, liquefied coal gas) and eight renewable energy types 2011 Housing Service Awards – Top Excellence Award in New and Renewable energy Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs (solar heat, photovoltaics, bio-energy, wind power, water power, geothermal heat, tidal energy, waste energy). Leased Apartments Category 2011 CEO of the Year – Grand Prize in Social Responsibility Korea Economic Daily A voluntary global compact on social responsibility that encourages businesses and UN organizations to support the ten Category United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles (human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption, etc.) through a partnership. Environmental Living Culture Awards – Customer Korea Economic Daily Satisfaction Award in Housing Category A person or group that is affected by an organization’s actions; usually includes shareholders, debenture holders, as well Stakeholder 2011 Digital Land Expo – Silver Prize Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs as employees, consumers, and partner companies. Korea’s Best Apartment Awards – Top Excellence Award Korea Economic TV Prequalification is a process in which a project initiator comprehensively evaluates the construction experiences, (Minister’s Award) Prequalification (PQ) technical expertise, management, status and reliability of bidders, selects competent constructors, and grants Public-Private Best Partnership – Excellence Prize for Public-Private Partnership Forum (Sponsored by: Ministry bidding qualifications to them to prevent defective construction efforts. “Mentor and little friends”, a mentoring program for of Public Administration and Security, Korean Chamber of underprivileged students Commerce, Federation of Korean Industries, etc.) Automatic Power Factor Regulator is equipment that converses power utilities by minimizing electricity loss and Green Construction Awards – Grand Prize in Housing Welfare Asia Today 2011 Automatic Power Factor Regulator enhancing electricity efficiency. Green Living Culture Awards – Grand Prize in Shared Growth Vacuum Tube Solar Collector Vacuum Tube Solar Collector is technology designed to minimize heat loss on panels and enhance solar energy efficiency. Herald Business Category Houses that are powered by a solar generating system, which takes the light and heat from the sun via solar panels and Minister’s Award in Market for New Product Category Ministry of Knowledge Economy Solar House converts it into energy. 2011 National Value Engineering Exposition – Excellence Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs Award To predict, analyze, and evaluate the environmental impacts of infrastructures such as roads, ports, railroads, airports, Environmental Impact Assessment 2011 Value Engineering Awards – Award Certificate Korea Construction Value Engineering Research Institute and industrial complexes, and land reclamation projects. 2011 Daejeon Energy Conservation Awards KEMCO A joint initiative by advanced countries and developing countries to reduce greenhouse gases. It allows advanced countries to conduct emission reductions projects in developing countries, and to utilize them to meet a part of their caps once the 2011 Korea Concrete Institute Awards – Best Technology CDM (Clean Development Mechanism) Korea Concrete Institute emission reductions are deemed as real and additional via an assessment by the administrative structure of the UNCDM Award and the certification of CDM Executive Committee. Korea Green Construction Awards – Grand Prize Seoul Daily CS (Customer Satisfaction) A measure of how products and services of a company meet the expectations of a customer. Open Employment Award Ministry of Employment and Labor Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) An organization established with the help of UNEP in 1997 to develop guidelines for sustainability reporting. Korea’s Most Ethical Corporation Fortune Korea An International Standard for social responsibility launched by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in Korea’s Leading Brand Grand Prize Donga.com, iMBC, Hankyung.com November of 2011. It provides a comprehensive guideline that includes numerous other existing guidelines on seven key ISO 26000 Korea’s Most Beloved Brand Grand Prize ChosunBiz i issues: corporate governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community involvement and development. Korea Housing Service Award Grand Prize Money Today Returning corporations refer to companies that have run overseas facilities for over two years, but build or expand 6th Asia Economic Daily Apartment Brand Grand Prize Asia Economic Daily Returning Corporation (to Korea) domestic manufacturing facilities because they lack domestic production operations or decide to sell, liquidate, or 12th FN Housing and Construction Power Brand Grand scale down on overseas facilities. Financial News Prize VOC (Voice of Customers) Customers’ expectations and/or requests regarding the products and services provided by the company. 2012 Korea Economic Daily Housing Grand Prize Korea Economic Daily Excellent Prize in the 16th Apartment Award Maeil Business 2012 2012 Korea Housing Award Grand Prize Money Today 7th Asia Construction Award Grand Prize Asia Economic Daily 2012 Social Contribution Award Grand Prize Korea Economic Daily 4th Aju Business Construction Award Grand Prize Aju Business Korea Social Contribution Award Grand Prize Ministry of Health and Welfare 2012 Asia Today Green Construction Award Grand Prize Asia Today 5th Green Housing Award Excellence Prize Hankook Ilbo, Korea Housing Association 3rd Korea Green Construction Award Grand Prize Seoul Daily Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs, KIRA, 21st Korea Construction Culture Award Grand Prize 2012 (4 consecutive years) Seoul Economic Daily 73 74 Harmonizing Human Beings Connection, completeness, joy, and harmony with Nature
