KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 Contents Editorial Policy Contents / Editorial Policy 1 The Konica Minolta CSR Report is published to inform all of its stakeholders about the Group’s corporate social responsibility Introduction 2 initiatives. The report focuses on issues identified as being very important to society and having a big impact on the Group’s Message from the President 3 business. It describes, in sections arranged by type of stakeholder, the progress made and specific initiatives taken on priority goals that Special Feature 5 have been set. To facilitate communication with stakeholders around the world, the report is published in five languages: Japanese, The Future of Document Solutions: English, Chinese, German, and French. Bringing Innovation to Global Business Report Boundary Overview of the Konica Minolta Group 9 This report covers Konica Minolta, Inc., and its consolidated subsidiaries. When data is given on a specific subset of companies, Konica Minolta’s CSR Policy 11 the boundary is separately indicated. * In this report, “Konica Minolta” refers to the Konica Minolta Group. “Konica Minolta, Inc.” refers to Konica Minolta, Inc., alone. On April 1, 2013, Konica Minolta Holdings, Inc., the publisher of last year’s report, restructured its management system, merging with seven companies, including business For the Global Environment 15 companies, and changed its trade name to Konica Minolta, Inc. In this report, the current company name is used even when discussing information dated Three Green Activities 17 before the reorganization. p. 39 Progress on the Medium-Term Environmental Plan 20 Reporting Period Environmental Data Summary 23 In principle, the report covers activities from April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013. Some sections may include information on earlier initiatives or more recent activities. In this report, “fiscal 2012” refers to the fiscal year starting April 1, Earning the Confidence of Customers 25 2012 and ending March 31, 2013. Assuring Product Safety and Preventing Quality-Related Problems Publication Date 26 September 2013 (Next report: scheduled for September 2014; Increasing Customer Satisfaction previous report: September 2012) 27 For Further Information More detailed information on the Group’s CSR activities is available at: Cooperating with Business Partners 30 http://www.konicaminolta.com/about/csr Promoting CSR Throughout the Supply Chain 31 Page on the website Relevant information available on the website The documents bellow are available for download at: Growing Together with Our Employees 33 http://www.konicaminolta.com/about/corporate/ document_download.html Promoting and Developing Diverse Human Resources 34 r Company Brochure r CSR Report r Annual Report Promoting Occupational Health and Safety 35 Guidelines Observed in Preparation of the Report Human Resources Data Summary 36 The CSR Report, which consists of the print edition and additional information provided on the company’s website, was created with reference to the 3rd edition (G3) of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Konica Minolta declares that the Contributing to Society 37 report meets application level B. GRI/ISO26000/United Nations Global Compact Content Indices Management System 39 Disclaimer In addition to facts about past or present circumstances, this report contains descriptions of the Group’s current plans and projections for the future. These Expert Opinion of Konica Minolta’s CSR Report 41 descriptions are based on information that is currently available and have been deemed reasonable based on the Group’s current status. The Group’s actual performance could differ from its predictions due to future changes in External Assurance 42 the business environment. 1 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 New Ideas for a Sustainable World Konica Minolta’s brand communication message is “Giving Shape to Ideas.” This message symbolizes our determination to give shape to every stakeholder expectation using our own unique way of thinking and solutions, aiming to realize a high-quality society. We seek to understand the challenges stakeholders and the broader society face, and then work hard to apply our innovative technologies to create products and services that contribute solutions. We are determined to work to build a more sustainable world and keep creating the new value that human society needs. This is the very reason Konica Minolta exists. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 2 Message from the President Continuing to Create New Value that Improves the Quality of Society Group Reorganization: Preparing for New Growth The business environment surrounding Konica Minolta continues to change rapidly. To ensure that we can respond to these changes even more quickly, Konica Minolta reorganized its management system on April 1, 2013. Konica Minolta Holdings, Inc., which had been a pure holding company, merged with seven companies in the Group, including business companies. The resulting structure enables the company to run businesses directly while managing the Group as a whole. With this change, the company’s trade name became Konica Minolta, Inc. The main objectives of the reorganization were to strengthen the management of our Business Technologies business and to enable us to leverage management resources more strategically and nimbly. We also expect integration of our core Business Technologies Business with the holding company to further improve the Group’s overall competitiveness. The change also enables us to drive the growth of each business more actively by centralizing and redeploying management resources, making strategic organizational changes, and accelerating personnel deployment. I think this kind of agility is essential for the development of emerging businesses in fields such as organic light emitting diode (OLED) lighting, functional films, and industrial inkjet devices. In addition, the Industrial business and Healthcare Business have been made into internal companies and given structures that enable optimal administration for their respective business characteristics. All of these changes help to mobilize the total strengths of the Group in pursuit of greater corporate value. A Sustainable Company: Meeting the Needs of the Times Konica Minolta’s vision is to become a robust company that is capable of strong growth and is vital to society. I am certain that a sustainable company that meets the needs of 3 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 the 21st century is one that creates value for both society One Konica Minolta: Creating New Value and itself by integrating efforts to resolve societal challenges Konica Minolta’s management philosophy has been “The and improve corporate competitiveness and profits. Creation of New Value” since the beginning. This is why the Another benefit of the reorganization is that it makes us company exists; it guides everything we do. Now that we better able to deliver on this vision. have made a fresh start with a new Group structure, we are The era of mass production and mass consumption to asking each and every employee to seek an even better satisfy the endless desire for material riches has come to an understanding of this philosophy and reaffirm its deeper end. In the new age, the demand is for value that helps meaning. improve the quality of society by reducing environmental “Giving Shape to Ideas,” our brand communication impact and redressing disparities. This is why Konica Minolta message, is designed to convey to customers and other is focused on creating products and services that offer stakeholders our determination to deliver the new value that solutions to societal challenges. Take our Green Products the coming age demands. It is another way of expressing Certification system, for instance. We use it to drive our management philosophy, a way of saying that we development of highly competitive, environmentally recognize the challenges faced by our customers and the responsible products that not only help our customers and broader society and commit ourselves to generating new society as a whole to reduce environmental impact but also ideas and making them into practical solutions. As “One increase our earnings. Konica Minolta,” our employees around the world are We are also working hard to push sound business working together to keep the promise stated in this practices through the entire value chain involved in the message—to create solutions to the challenges our creation of our products and services. Our socially customers and the global community face. responsible procurement practices, for example, require Konica Minolta’s nearly 40,000 employees around the business partners that supply raw materials and parts to world represent many nationalities, languages, and make progress on occupational health and safety and backgrounds. By sharing the values inscribed in our environmental conservation, encouraging them to make corporate philosophy and message, our diverse workforce is CSR a more integral part of their management. uniquely positioned to create value that helps improve the Konica Minolta participates in the United Nations quality of society. At Konica Minolta, we are determined to Global Compact, supporting its basic principles in the areas make the most of the abilities of our people and their of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. diverse skills and ways of thinking in pursuit of sustainable Our commitment to respecting and complying with these growth we share with society as a whole. Heeding the and other universal principles is articulated in the Konica expectations of all of our stakeholders, we are confident that Minolta Group Guidance for the Charter of Corporate the Konica Minolta Group will keep creating new value that Behavior, which guides our people and operations fulfills their hopes and dreams. worldwide. Konica Minolta has been included on a number of socially responsible investment (SRI) indexes in recognition of our corporate commitment and the various initiatives it leads us to take. Masatoshi Matsuzaki President and CEO Konica Minolta, Inc. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 4 © 2013 DB Schenker Special Feature The Future of Document Solutions: Bringing Innovation to Global Business Office needs have dramatically changed with today’s constantly evolving business technologies. Konica Minolta’s Optimized Print Services (OPS) leverage those changes to bring innovation to offices by streamlining printing infrastructure, reducing costs and environmental impact, and enhancing security. OPS is an optimal solution for multinational corporations with global operations. This case study describes how the global logistics company DB Schenker has benefited from Konica Minolta’s OPS. © 2013 DB Schenker 5 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 Chapter 1 Challenges DB Schenker Was Facing Needed to efficiently manage a massive amount of documentation associated with logistics operations for the entire Asia-Pacific region The challenge faced by leading international logistics infrastructure. After scrutinizing the printing equipment and company DB Schenker was management of a massive solutions of various manufacturers, DB Schenker chose Konica amount of documentation. Minolta’s OPS. This involved installing multi-functional In logistics operations, the necessary shipping documents peripherals (MFPs) and systems at 205 locations in 14 countries are prepared and printed for each item of cargo in addition to across the Asia-Pacific region, including Schenker-Seino usual paperwork. The Asia-Pacific region handles the largest located in Japan. volume and the administrative headquarters in Singapore was From start to finish of the project, Konica Minolta took a preparing as many as 1.9 million pages of shipping documents meticulous approach to each local company while each month. Not only was it essential to print those documents implementing an integrated solution across the region. The efficiently and reliably, the management system and security goal was to provide solutions that would satisfy both the had to be enhanced at the same time. administrative headquarters and each location by responding In this situation, the company was looking to develop an nimbly to individual needs while staying aligned with the information system covering the entire Asia-Pacific region and overall goals of the project. to optimize its printing and document management Asia-Pacific locations of DB Schenker DB Schenker DB Schenker is a global logistics Schenker-Seino company, No. 1 in Europe in land China Japan (17) transport, No. 2 worldwide in (including South Korea (6) Hong Kong/24) airfreight, and No. 3 worldwide in Taiwan (4) ocean freight. Headquartered in India (65) Germany, the company has more than Vietnam (1) 2,000 locations in about 130 countries Thailand (11) Philippines (10) managed by regional headquarters in Europe, the Americas, and Asia-Pacific. Malaysia (16) Asia Pacific Indonesia (4) Schenker-Seino Co., Ltd. Headquarters Schenker-Seino Co., Ltd. is a leading Singapore (14) provider of integrated logistics solution in Japan. The company has been active in the Japanese market Australia (26) since 1964 and has since established itself as a recognized and quality The figures in parentheses New Zealand (7) oriented force in the logistics field. are numbers of locations. Konica Minolta’s GMA Business The Global Major Account (GMA) business targets large-scale customers doing business worldwide, providing global solutions tailored to best meet their unique needs. The GMA Sales Division provides strategic planning and works closely with sales companies in each country to ensure a nimble response to customer requests. OPS Optimizes Office Printing Infrastructure Konica Minolta’s OPS is a solution that delivers benefits including optimal equipment arrangement and improved capacity utilization through an all-in-one contract for the operation of printing devices such as printers and MFPs. OPS consists of three phases: (1) Consult, in which optimal solutions are designed by capturing and analyzing the customer’s unique requests and challenges; (2) Implement, which covers everything from installing high-performance, highly functional printing devices to ensuring they are used effectively; and (3) Manage, which leads to proposals for further optimization through continuous monitoring of usagee of the new printing infrastructure. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 6 The Future of Document Solutions: Bringing Innovation to Global Business Printing Room of Schenker-Seino bizhub 751 MFPs introduced at Schenker-Seino Chapter 2 Konica Minolta’s Solutions Several challenges resolved through the provision of globally integrated solutions The OPS implemented for DB Schenker featured three main people’ s documents. It guards against information leaks and components. strengthens security. By monitoring printer and paper usage The first was the replacement of printers. Traditional dot based on information from the ID cards, it will be possible to impact printers were replaced with MFPs. At Schenker-Seino in make further improve device deployment, going forward. Japan, more than 100 dot impact printers were replaced with Minimizing the number of copies and printouts will also 55 cutting-edge MFPs at 17 locations. Since all models of translate into a lower environmental impact. Konica Minolta’ s MFPs use the same printer driver, it is Third was the promotion of paperless operations. All kinds possible to use a mix of different models under the same of documents are currently being scanned and digitized. This conditions. An efficient setup was achieved by optimally will make it possible to print out data stored on core servers at adopting different MFPs, ranging from low-speed to the administrative headquarters in Singapore from any high-speed machines. Consolidating a large number of printers location. Not only will this enable centralized monitoring and down into a few MFPs enabled improved printing efficiency management; global information sharing will also deliver and reduced time and costs. Moreover, improved print quality greater work efficiency. increased legibility and reduced misreading and other What is more, installing this system made it possible to mistakes. introduce a simple billing system covering equipment, service, Second, a card authentication system was installed for and software licensing costs. This helped to reduce costs even print authentication using ID cards carried by each staff further by enabling simple tracking to replace what used to be member. This system prevents problems such as leaving a much more complicated task of managing printing costs. printed documents at the printer or taking away other OPS Offered Globally Konica Minolta offers OPS globally. The company has Global developed worldwide standards for sales and service processes in order to provide uniform service around the world. It also tri-polar customer operates its own global credentialing program worldwide to support system improve the quality of customer engineers. To date, Konica Minolta has signed global contracts with more than 100 companies in diverse industries—ranging from Sales/service Konica Minolta system spanning sites in insurance and financial services to international logistics services, to industrial equipment and consumer electronics 150 countries 41 countries manufacturers. 7 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 Personal authentication card (left) and card reader (right) Documents and forms made uniform across entire Asia-Pacific region Message from the Customer We look forward to our future partnership, as one global company to another. We chose Konica Minolta not only because of the performance and cost of their MFPs, but also because of the strength of their network and support capabilities for providing uniform service worldwide. Our strength is that we are a global company with a worldwide market. Through this project I became convinced that Konica Minolta is a global company just like we are. I am now looking forward to partnering with Konica Minolta in other regions of the world beyond the Asia-Pacific and to hearing the various solutions they can propose. Herbert Wilhelm, President & CEO, Schenker-Seino Co., Ltd. Massage from the Konica Minolta Manager The trust we built with the people at each location was the cornerstone of the project’s success. The difficulty in this project was transitioning from local rules in each of the 14 countries to rules for the entire Asia-Pacific region in preparation for a complete improvement in the printing infrastructure. Unlike Europe, which is an integrated market called the EU, in this region everything—language, culture, law, and markets—changes when you cross a border. Naturally, customers’ challenges and requests are also different. I am proud of how we built relationships and earned trust by staying in close communication with people at every location. We stayed true to the spirit of our motto, “Think Global, Act Local,” and that is what led to our success. Norihiko Ooba, General Manager, Global Major Account Sales Division, Sales Operations, Sales Headquarters, Konica Minolta, Inc. OPS Reduces Both Costs and Environmental Impact Konica Minolta helps customers reduce both costs and Example of Optimized Device Deployment MFPs Facsimile Machines Printers environmental impact by using OPS to optimize the printing Fewer printing devices strategically placed for user traffic patterns, actually increasing convenience while reducing cost infrastructure in all their offices. For example, consolidating Before After several printing devices into an MFP and updating to the latest 1 models with energy-saving features can reduce power 3 1 1 consumption significantly. Moreover, continuous monitoring of 2 2 1 device usage leads to reduction of wasteful printouts, and 3 2 digitization of documents translates into reduced storage 4 2 space and lower consumption of paper resources. 5 4 5 6 6 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 8 Overview of the Konica Minolta Group Creating the new value that society is demanding in the broad scope of the Group’s businesses. Business Segment Principal Products Business Fields Business Solution zMFPs (Multi-functional peripherals) zLaser printers zCorporate offices zFiling devices zSOHO zFacsimile machines zSoftware and peripheral devices Production Print Business zDigital printing systems zRGB work-flow zPrinting companies zDigital color-proofing systems products Technologies zPrepress production zCorporate printing zCTP (Computer to Plate) departments Business systems zRemote color management systems Industrial Inkjet zInkjet printheads zDigital printing zInkjet textile printers zTextile dyeing zInkjet print units zPrinted electronics zInkjet inks Performance Materials zTAC film for LCD polarizers zVA-TAC film for increasing viewing angle zHigh-precision photo plates zBarrier film zFunctional film for windows zOrganic light emitting diode Optical Devices zElectronics industries Industrial zPickup lenses for optical disks zMicro-camera zFactories Business zPrisms for pickups modules zResearch institutes zGlass substrates for HDDs zLens units zHospitals Sensing zSpectrophotometers, colorimeters zPulse oximeters zLuminance meters, illuminance meters, zSolar cell measurement and and luminance colorimeters calibration equipment zSpectroradiometers zSpectrometers zNon-contact 3D digitizers zDigital X-ray diagnostic imaging systems (CR, DR) zDigital mammography zDiagnostic ultrasound systems Healthcare zMedical imaging filing systems zGeneral hospitals Business zAll-in-one medical imaging information zClinics workstations zMedical management support and service zDiagnosis medicine zOptical planetariums zDigital full-dome systems zPlanetariums Planetarium zDome screen zRestaurants Business zDigital full-dome show zAmusement facilities zManagement and operation for zArt museums planetarium facilities 9 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 Corporate Data Company Name Konica Minolta, Inc. Paid-in capital 37,519 million yen Head office 2-7-2 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, (as of March 31, 2013) Tokyo, Japan Fiscal year-end March 31 President and CEO Masatoshi Matsuzaki Number of employees (Non-consolidated): 6,624 Established December 22, 1936 (as of March 31, 2013) (Consolidated): 41,844 (as of March 31, 2013) Consolidated Net Sales Consolidated Operating Income/Operating Income Ratio Operating Income Operating Income Ratio (Billion yen) (Billion yen) (%) 1,200 60 15 56.3 947.8 804.5 813.0 44.0 800 777.9 767.8 40 40.0 40.3 40.6 10 5.9 5.5 400 20 5.1 5.3 5.0 5 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Breakdown of Sales by Business Segment (FY2012) Breakdown of Sales by Region (FY2012) Other 1% Other 8% Healthcare 9% Asia (excluding Japan) Japan 28% Business 16% Industrial 18% Technologies 72% Europe 28% USA 20% Global Network Konica Minolta has subsidiaries in 41 countries. It operates business in 176 countries and regions through the subsidiaries or via other local agencies (as of March 31, 2013). Sales Production Development, other KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 10 Konica Minolta’s CSR Policy Konica Minolta aims to remain essential to society and worthy The Global Compact’s Ten Principles of its support while continuing to achieve robust growth Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the through the practice of its management philosophy, “The protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Creation of New Value.” This is why the Group strives to Human Rights and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in contribute to the resolution of societal challenges by creating human rights abuses. value that improves the quality of society through its business Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of endeavors. Konica Minolta’s CSR activities are guided by this association and the effective recognition of the right management philosophy and based on its Charter of Corporate to collective bargaining; Behavior. The Konica Minolta Group Guidance for the Charter of Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Labour compulsory labour; Corporate Behavior, which is shared globally, illustrates Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and desirable behavior in each of the categories included in the Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect Charter of Corporate Behavior as a basis for understanding and of employment and occupation. putting the Charter into practice. The Group Guidance Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary articulates Konica Minolta’s approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater commitment to acting in Environment environmental responsibility; and compliance with international social Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion norms such as the Universal of environmentally friendly technologies. Declaration of Human Rights and the Principle 10: Businesses should work against United Nations Global Compact, in Anti-Corruption corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. which the company participates. Management Philosophy The creation of new value Konica Minolta Group Charter of Corporate Behavior Corporations, in addition to being economic entitles fulfillment of the spirit of this Charter is its own role and engaged in the pursuit of profit through fair competition, responsibility, and shall take the initiative to ensure that should be beneficial to society at large. For this reason, all directors, officers and employees fully understand the Konica Minolta Group shall behave in a socially Charter. In addition, the management shall constantly pay responsible manner and shall have all of its directors, attention to the opinions of internal and external parties officers and employees clearly acknowledge the spirit of and shall promote the implementation of effective this Charter of Corporate Behavior. systems to secure ethical corporate behavior. Senior management shall recognize that the 1. Beneficial and safe products 5. Contribution to society We shall strive to earn the confidence of consumers and clients We shall, with a global perspective, affirmatively make through the development and provision of socially beneficial contributions to society while respecting local customs and products and services with the utmost consideration for safety. cultures. 2. Fair and transparent corporate activities 6. Respect for employees We shall, in the pursuit of fair and transparent corporate We shall endeavor to make the lives of employees comfortable activities, comply with laws and social regulations and act in and fulfilling, provide a safe work environment, and respect each accordance with international rules and the articles of employee’s personality and individuality. incorporation. 7. Responsible actions 3. Communications with society and information disclosure In the event of a violation of the principles of this Charter, in We shall communicate with society at large and disclose order to solve the problem senior management shall investigate corporate information fairly and adequately. the cause of the violation and develop reforms to prevent its recurrence in accordance with corporate compliance 4. Environmental protection procedures. Prompt public disclosure of precise information and We shall acknowledge the seriousness of global environmental an explanation regarding the violation shall be made and issues and shall act voluntarily and affirmatively to protect the responsibility for the violation shall be clarified. Strict and fair environment. disciplinary action shall be taken including with respect to senior management where necessary. 11 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Konica Minolta’s CSR Policy CSR Implementation System Establishing Priority Goals for CSR Activities The president and CEO of Konica Minolta, Inc. concurrently In establishing priority goals for CSR, Konica Minolta serves as the executive officer responsible for CSR, a position endeavored to understand the wishes and issues that are most that carries with it the duties and authorities concerning the important to stakeholders by analyzing feedback obtained by entire Group’s CSR. Directly reporting to him is the CSR, communicating with them in a variety of ways. It also Corporate Communications and Branding Division, which sees considered international guidelines related to CSR, including to the implementation of CSR management for the entire the UN Global Compact and ISO 26000. Further, it summarized Group. This division also coordinates with corporate planning and organized risks and opportunities considered when and management divisions within the Group to establish and formulating business plans in each business field. Based on the monitor the progress of priority goals for CSR activities and to results, the Group selected the issues that are very important to oversee the disclosure of information to the public. society have a great impact on its business and established Corporate Social Responsibility Operations, an them as its priority goals. organization under the direction of the executive officer The CSR Report (print edition) outlines the specific responsible for environmental management, safety, and quality measures being taken and the progress on the goals that are control, oversees these important themes across CSR activities. considered most important to stakeholders. It holds meetings of management committees in each of these three areas to create Group policies, construct systems, and manage progress. It also provides information and supports policy measures in close coordination with other divisions. Higher Every week, the head of the CSR, Corporate Communications Mentioned in the CSR Report (print version) and Branding Division submits a report on the progress of CSR Social Importance activities to the executive officer responsible for CSR, in which Mentioned on the Website policy measures are reviewed and proposals made. The Issues being addressed Management Council and other bodies also meet in a timely Higher fashion to discuss matters of importance and keep CSR front Effect on Business and center in management. Konica Minolta’s Inclusion on Socially Responsible Investment Indexes In February 2013, Konica Minolta, Inc. was included for the first the world’s best-known SRI indexes, for 10 years straight. time in the Gold Class category by RobecoSAM, a world leader Konica Minolta has received high marks from various other in SRI research and rating based in Switzerland. The company SRI research companies, such as inclusion in the World and Asia has also been included in the FTSE4Good Global index, one of Pacific categories of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) 2012, the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI), the Prime rating for CSR by oekom research AG, and Forum Ethibel’s Ethibel Pioneer and Ethibel Excellence investment universe (as of June 19, 2013). KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 12 Konica Minolta’s CSR Policy The Relationship between Konica Minolta and Stakeholders Targets and Results Tools and Opportunities Stakeholders Theme for Communication Konica Minolta does business around the yProviding customer service via websites Assuring product safety world. The major customers of Konica and call centers and preventing Minolta’s main business operations are yProviding product information via quality-related problems corporations, government agencies, and websites and newsletters hospitals. yConducting customer satisfaction surveys Customers yExchanging information via visits to p. 25 customers yExchanging information at showrooms and trade shows yHolding seminars Increasing customer satisfaction Konica Minolta procures raw materials, yHolding suppliers’ meetings Promoting CSR parts and components from different yProcurement Collaboration System across the supply companies depending on the type of chain Business yConducting CSR surveys business. Over 90% of these suppliers are (self-assessment questionnaires) Partners located in Japan, China, and elsewhere in Asia. p. 30 Konica Minolta has 30,206 shareholders. yShareholders’ meetings Enhancing Shareholders The breakdown highlights relatively high yBriefings for investors communication with and ownership by institutional and foreign shareholders and yVisits to investors shareholders; foreign shareholders own a investors Investors combined stake of 44%, while Japanese yAnnual reports WEB financial institutions own 40% (as of yIR website March 31, 2013). Konica Minolta employs 41,844 people yInteractive intranet Promoting and worldwide. Of those, 30% are in Japan, yGroup journal developing diverse 20% are in Europe, 18% are in North human resources yEmployee attitude surveys America, and 32% are in China and elsewhere in Asia, and others (Figures are yDialogue with labor unions based on total regular employees of yOffering internal help line systems consolidated companies, as of March 31, yExchanging opinions during inspection 2013). tours of production sites by senior staff Employees p. 33 Promoting occupational health and safety Konica Minolta operates in some 41 yActivities that contribute to local Implementing social countries across the globe, and acts as a communities contribution activities Local and responsible member of every community yCommunity briefings and invitational around the world Global where it operates. events Communities ySending speakers to lectures and places p. 37 of education yIndustry group activities yEnvironmental reports and websites Preventing global As a manufacturer, Konica Minolta engages yCSR reports, environmental reports, and warming in various operations that impact the websites Global environment, for instance generating CO2 Supporting a recyclingyCommunity briefings and explanatory emissions, which contribute to climate oriented society Environment meetings change, using materials derived from Reducing the risk of p. 15 yCollaboration with research institutions petroleum, which is a dwindling natural chemical substances resource, and affecting ecosystems in Restoring and various ways. preserving Biodiversity 1 Serious product-related accidents: Accidents in which products put the lives of product users at risk or cause serious bodily injury and those in which property other than the products is damaged seriously 2 Quality problem index: An index created by Konica Minolta based on the costs related to quality problems that arise in the process of creating products or those involving products on the market 13 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 Fiscal 2012 Targets Fiscal 2012 Results Fiscal 2013 Targets 1. Number of serious product-related 1. 0 2. 78% reduction 1. Number of serious product-related accidents1: 0 yInvestigated and evaluated 100% of cases accidents1: 0 2. Quality problem index2: Halving registered in the critical accident report 2. Quality problem index2: 80% reduction problems by fiscal 2013 compared database compared to fiscal 2008 to fiscal 2008 yContinued product safety education (about yComplete product safety education for all 70% complete) target personnel yIdentified quality-related issues throughout yVisualize quality risk management the product lifecycle and considered and throughout the product lifecycle implemented measures yImproving customer relationship yEstablished a Customer Relationship yAchieve management indicators for management Management Improvement and Promotion strengthening customer relationship Managers’ Committee; established management established for each business management indicators and created detailed (e.g., loyalty measurements) measures for each business yPromoting CSR Procurement yCompleted incorporation of CSR yFinish incorporating CSR procurement into procurement into supplier evaluations within supplier evaluations within ISO 9001 quality ISO 9001 quality management system in management system in all business divisions most business divisions and start operating it yTrained examiners yContinue training examiners in all business divisions yAddressing the issue of conflict yEstablished a promotion system compliant yEstablish management system for compliance minerals with conflict minerals regulations with conflict minerals regulations yEnhancing the IR activities through yGave briefings at conferences and visited yEnhance website for individual investors direct dialogues in Asia investors in Hong Kong and Singapore yHold briefings for individual investors yEnhancing the IR website yWon a gold medal in the Gomez IR Website Ranking 2013, which assesses user friendliness and richness of information on IR websites yAppointing and developing human yEstablished a Group-wide platform for human yRoll out Group-wide platform for human resources who can actively resources development and deployment resources development and deployment participate in the global business yContinued a program to train global business yExpand business leader development environment leaders program to manager-level personnel and yPromoted the employment of “global human offer program in different regions resources” and employee interaction ySupporting career development of yImplemented a support program for the female employees development of women in management positions 1. Number of serious accidents3: 0 1. 0 2. In Japan: 0.11, outside Japan: 0.10 1. Number of serious accidents3: 0 2. Frequency rate of accidents causing yAnalyzed similar accidents and rolled out 2. Frequency rate of accidents causing absence absence from work: 0.1 or less recurrence prevention measures Group-wide from work: 0.1 or less yIncreased the number of model facilities for yReduce risk of accidents during working hours fundamental facility improvement and and prevent recurrences of similar accidents expanded initiative outside Japan yContinue making fundamental facility improvements p p. 37 Typical examples of fiscal 2012 p p. 23 3 Serious accidents: 1. Death, diseases that require or may require long-term care, injuries that cause or may cause disabilities, and specific communicable diseases 2. Accidents that cause three or more employees at one time to suffer on-the-job death, injuries or diseases(including accidents that do not cause absence from work) KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 14 For the Global Environment Konica Minolta established Eco Vision 2050, a set of long-term goals that looks all the way out to the year 2050, focusing on the three aims of preventing global warming, promoting resource recycling, and preserving biodiversity. Governing the Group’s current efforts to achieve Eco Vision 2050 is the Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2015, which establishes major objectives and specific goals to be implemented by the target year of fiscal 2015. At the same time, Konica Minolta has committed itself to the “Three Green Activities” that will help it reach its goals for fiscal 2015. In line with the Group’s commitment to “Giving Shape to Ideas,” Konica Minolta is determined to create environmental innovation at each stage in its business processes, from product development to production, distribution, sales and service, and collection and recycling. This effort will contribute to reducing its environmental impact while also bringing costs down and promoting sales to customers concerned about the environment. Fiscal 2012 Achievements Konica Minolta’s commitment to creating green products brought the share of products certified as Green Products Plus to 27% of total sales. These products have industry-leading environmental performance. p. 17 The Group achieved nearly all targets for fiscal 2012, including the target for product lifecycle CO2 emissions, as it focused on the Three Green Activities and made progress in other areas, as well. p. 23 27% 50% from fiscal 2005 levels Share of sales for Reduction in CO2 emissions Green Products Plus: throughout the product life cycle: Konica Minolta’s Long-Term Environmental Targets According to the Intergovernmental Panel Vision for Reducing CO2 Emissions (%) on Climate Change (IPCC), greenhouse gas 100 emissions in 2004 were 49 billion t-CO2, which, divided by a world population of 6.4 billion people, amounts to 7.66 t-CO2 per Products 80 person per year. The amount of greenhouse gases that the earth can absorb naturally is thought to be 11.4 billion t-CO2. Divided by CO2 emissions the projected population of 9.2 billion 60 people in 2050, this means the earth could Manufacturing naturally absorb 1.24 t-CO2 per person in 2050. That is 80% less than current annual 40 Reduction by 20% Collection, distribution, per capita emissions. from fiscal 2005 procurement, sales and services These estimates were used to levels by 2015 determine the Eco Vision 2050 target of an 20 Reduction by 80% 80% reduction in product lifecycle CO2 from fiscal 2005 emissions by 2050, compared to a fiscal levels by 2050 2005 baseline. 0 2005 2015 2050 (Year) 15 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 Eco Vision 2050 1 Reduce CO2 emissions throughout the product life cycle by 80% by 2050, compared to fiscal 2005 levels 2 Promote recycling and effective use of Earth’s limited resources 3 Work to promote restoration and preservation of biodiversity Medium-Term Environmental Plan 2015 (Base Year: Fiscal 2005) Objectives Product Development Manufacturing Distribution, Sales and Service Collection and Recycling CO2 emissions throughout product life cycle: Reduce by 20% Preventing CO2 emissions from CO2 emissions from CO2 emissions CO2 emissions from global product usage: Reduce manufacturing: from distribution: sales and service: warming by 60% Reduce by 10% (per Reduce by 30% Reduce by 50% unit of sales) (per unit of sales) (per unit of sales) Petroleum-based resource usage: Reduce by 20% (per unit of sales) Amount of resources Waste such as resin Fuel consumption of sales and service such as plastic used in scraps and solvent vehicles products generated in Supporting production a recyclingoriented society yWaste discharged yPackaging materials usage: yProduct recycling: externally1 from Reduce by 25% (per unit of sales) Build up product recycling manufacturing: systems in each region Reduce by 50% (per and aim for a recycling unit of sales) rate of 90% or more yChemical substance yAtmospheric emissions Reducing management: of volatile organic the risk of Maintain strict management compounds (VOCs): chemical of chemical substances, Reduce by 75% (in terms substances including the entire supply of environmental impact chain2 index3) Help restore and preserve biodiversity Restoring and preserving biodiversity 1 Waste discharged externally: The amount of waste disposed of outside Konica Minolta Note: Until now, Konica Minolta set its targets based on unit of facilities, comprising the total amount of waste generated through production activities, sales as an index for assessing environmental impact reduction minus the amount recycled and reduced internally. outcomes. However, such an index no longer reflects reduction 2 Supply chain: In this case, the process by which raw materials from upstream companies outcomes appropriately due to exchange rate fluctuations and pass through component manufacturers and are delivered to Konica Minolta falling prices. Accordingly, for fiscal 2013 a switch has been made 3 Environmental impact index: An index unique to Konica Minolta designed to measure to unit of production, or another index that best suits each target, impact on the environment, obtained by multiplying VOC emission volume by a hazard which is not influenced by these factors, to enable appropriate factor (impact on human health and environmental impact) and a location factor. assessment of environmental impact reduction outcomes. Planning and Development Green Products Certification System Creating and Providing Environmentally Responsible Products Three Green Activities Sales and Services Production Green Marketing Activities Green Factory Certification System Practicing Environmentally Responsible Sales Realizing Environmentally Responsible and Services Production Sites About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Environment Plan: Objectives and Efforts KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 16 For the Global Environment Three Green Activities Green Products Certification System Konica Minolta has introduced a Green Products Certification adding new standards for creating System, its own unique system for evaluating and certifying environmental value for the customer products with superior environmental performance. The system in an effort to help customers and the aims to create environmental value suited to different broader society to reduce businesses and product characteristics with the purpose of environmental impact even further. helping customers and society at large to reduce Target of Sales Ratio Setting for Green Products environmental impact. Since the system went into full operation in July 2011, 47 products in fiscal 2011 and 28 in fiscal Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2015 Target Achievement Target 2012 have been certified. Moreover, the share of sales Sustainable Products (SP) 1 product accounted for by products certified as Green Products Plus, Green Products Plus (GPplus) 15% 27% 30% which have industry-leading environmental performance, Total of Green Products 20% 31% 50% reached 27% in fiscal 2012. Starting in fiscal 2013, the Group is Green Products Certification System Certification standards (excerpts) Preventing global warming Reducing the risks from Products that contribute to Sustainable Products · Reduce CO2 emissions from product usage chemical substances realizing a sustainable society (SP)* · Reduce CO2 emissions throughout product · Restrict the use of hazardous life cycle chemical substances Products that achieve the Supporting a recycling-oriented Restoring and preserving Green Products Plus society biodiversity industry’s top environmental (GPplus) · Reduce petroleum-based resource usage · Use biological resources in a performance · Make products smaller and lighter sustainable manner · Increase the operating life of products Products that achieve Manufacturing process Green Products · Promote the use of re-used and recycled top-level environmental materials innovation (GP) performance in the industry · Promote the use of plant-based materials · Reduce rare metals usage Environmentally responsible products based on product assessment * Sustainable Products (SP) certification standards require Certification requirements that the product not only embody superior environmental performance not typically achieved by earlier products, but Compliance with Accordance with also incorporate original technology. While seeking to Acquisition of global Production at a certified reduce the environmental impact of all of its products, by environment-related Konica Minolta’s CSR environmental marks Green Factory setting a very challenging certification level, Konica regulations procurement guidelines Minolta aims to promote innovation and contribute more proactively to sustainability. Example: Using Originally Developed Recycled Material in Products Konica Minolta uses recycled material in products in an effort recycled PC1/PET2, is a mixed recycled material made using to make effective use of resources. The bizhub C554e series of Konica Minolta’s original chemical processing technology. The color MFPs, for material was developed by evenly mixing materials from example, uses two recovered one-gallon water cooler jugs and plastic drinking kinds of recycled bottles to create a material that has the required strength and material in 20 fire-retardant properties to meet safety standards and that can locations that be mold injected. make up nearly 40% of the outer 1 PC: Polycarbonate, a type of thermoplastic resin casing. One of 2 PET: Polyethylene terephthalate, a type of polyester those materials, Recycled PET/PC plastic Recycled PC-ABS plastic 17 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Environmental Activities > Environment Plan: Objectives and Efforts > Three Green Activities For the Global Environment Examples of Green Products Certified in Fiscal 2012 In fiscal 2012, 28 models were certified as Green Products. Of those, 20 models, including the four products below, were certified as Green Products Plus. Earning the Confidence of Customers bizhub C554e Color MFP REGIUS ΣII Desktop CR More than 39% reduction of power Power consumption when in use has been cut consumption (TEC1) (compared to our by 20%, and 30% on standby (compared to previous model). previous model). Uses originally developed, fire-resistant, The world’s lightest3 cassette CR system, at 28kg. recycled PC/PET. Industry-top-class quietness2 when operated. BD/DVD/CD-compatible plastic single LED lighting objective lens for optical disks Symfos LED-Tasklight The industry’s first BD/DVD/CD-compatible plastic A6KH-200,A6KH-300 single objective lens for optical disks using Achieves industry-best level of power diffraction optics technology. The use of consumption efficiency for a petroleum-based resources has been reduced by surface-emitting lighting using a light guide 79% (compared to our previous model). Cooperating with Business Partners plate Smaller size made possible by reducing Glare and multiple shadows, issues typical of approximately 45% off the total length and outside LED lighting, have been reduced to achieve diameter (compared to our previous model). lighting friendly to eyes 1 TEC: Typical Energy Consumption, a measure of energy consumption established by the International Energy Star Program. 2 as of the May 2013 launch 3 as of the June 2012 launch Green Factory Certification System Konica Minolta has operated its original Green Factory Certification three in Japan) became the first to attain Level 2. System for comprehensive evaluation of the environmental In fiscal 2012, this initiative accounted for significant activities of its production sites since 2010. The purpose of this reductions in environmental impact. Growing Together with Our Employees system is to bring costs down and reduce environmental impact Compared to a fiscal 2005 baseline, CO2 by developing activities in line with each business’s production emissions were down about 100,000 tons strategy. The certification requirements in this system include not and waste discharged externally was down only the achievement of targets but also the degree of attainment about 10,000 tons. for some 250 guidelines related to the implementation process. In fiscal 2011, all business units* achieved Level 1 certification * A single business unit is an organization engaged in the same production activities as planned. In fiscal 2012, five business units (two in China and even across different locations. A single location may include several business units. Green Factory Certification Standards Objectives Management indicators Level 1 Level 2 Preventing global warming CO2 emissions (per unit of production1) 12% reduction2 20% reduction2 Zero waste Waste discharged externally (per unit of sales) 30% reduction2 50% reduction2 Supporting a activities Final disposal rate of total waste 0.5% or less 0.5% or less recycling-oriented society Contributing to Society Petroleum-based resource waste (per unit of sales) 30% reduction2 50% reduction2 Achievement of fiscal 2011 targets for Achievement of fiscal 2015 targets for Reducing the risks of Atmospheric emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) each site in accordance with Mediumeach site in accordance with Mediumchemical substances Term Environmental Plan 2015 Term Environmental Plan 2015 Guidelines for managing soil contamination risk Consistent with guidelines Restoring and preserving Guidelines for biodiversity preservation (consideration of water resources and wastewater, and proper management Consistent with guidelines biodiversity of greenery at factories) Guideline-based activities Achievement rate of implemented items 70% or more 90% or more 1 Per unit of production: Environmental impact in terms of production output or production volume. 2 The base year is fiscal 2005. Based on this (base year) figure, standards tailored to factory characteristics are established. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 18 For the Global Environment Green Marketing Activities Konica Minolta carries out green marketing activities as its way of distribution, the amount of packaging, and the amount of fuel practicing environmentally friendly sales and services. The used by company vehicles, and to recover used products and objectives of these activities are to bring costs down and reduce reuse their materials. Similarly, in order to facilitate the reduction environmental impact by rolling out efficiency-boosting of the environmental impact when customers use its products, measures in distribution, packaging, sales, and service. Konica Konica Minolta seeks to promote their adoption of its Green Minolta also aims to provide optimization solutions that help Products and offers Optimized Print Services (OPS)* solutions that customers reduce their environmental impact. help customers minimize cost of ownership and lower Specifically, Konica Minolta has introduced various initiatives environmental impact, while improving workflow efficiency. in these areas in accordance with its Medium-Term * Optimized Print Services (OPS): Konica Minolta’s consultancy-based services that support the optimization of the printing and documentation environments Environmental Plan 2015 to reduce CO2 emissions from in corporate offices. p. 5 Example1: Konica Minolta Wins Hong Kong Green Award Konica Minolta Business Solutions (HK) Ltd., a sales company in In recognition of these activities, the company won a Hong Kong, has developed business-based environmentally Green Management Bronze Award (Corporate) in the Hong friendly activities. The company sells MFPs certified with the Kong Green Awards 2012 organized by the Hong Kong Green Hong Kong Green Label for incorporating numerous Council. environmental technologies, collects and recycles used MFPs, and also proposes OPS to streamline the arrangement of MFPs to help customers save energy and paper. Furthermore, the company conducts environmental education activities through the Emerald Education Program for children together with the local environmental NGO, Green Sense. p. 38 Example2: Promoting Eco-Driving and an Energy-saving Work Style Konica Minolta Business Solutions Japan Co., Ltd., a sales reception area now features an electronic sign displaying company in Japan, has installed a vehicle operation power usage in real time, where it is visible to visitors and management system in all company-owned vehicles. This facility users alike. system constantly gathers and stores data about the way company-owned cars are being used, such as the rate of sudden acceleration and deceleration, driving time, fuel consumption, and so on. Using the data, drivers of company vehicles are encouraged to implement eco-driving more rigorously to improve mileage and reduce the environmental impact of vehicle use by, for example, cutting down on idling. Additionally, a system to graph and deliver real-time data on electricity use was installed in the head office building in February 2013 to promote an energy-saving work style. The system measures power consumption on each floor, and displays it graphically on the company intranet, and sends out emails if a designated power amount is exceeded, helping employees to stay focused on saving energy. Also, the main Example of on-screen power usage display 19 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 For the Global Environment About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Progress on the Medium-Term Environmental Activities > Environment Plan: Objectives and Efforts > Environmental Plan For the Global Environment Fiscal 2012 Targets and Results Preventing Global Warming As part of its effort to reduce CO2 emissions throughout the 2012 by making even more rigorous efforts to reduce Earning the Confidence of Customers entire product lifecycle, Konica Minolta has set CO2 reduction environmental impact. p. 18 targets for each stage, including product usage, manufacturing, To reduce CO2 emissions from distribution, Konica Minolta distribution, and sales and services. Building on the results of made efforts to reduce the use of air transport, which included reduction efforts implemented in previous years, in fiscal 2012 minimizing quality problems, keeping to development Konica Minolta set its reduction targets to make them even schedules, and improving demand forecasts. more challenging than the goals set for fiscal 2015. These In sales and service, the Group strove to manage and efforts brought lifecycle emissions in fiscal 2012 down to 50% of reduce CO2 emissions from the use of sales vehicles at sales what they were in fiscal 2005. companies worldwide and worked to reduce power In the area of product usage, Konica Minolta is focusing on consumption in offices. its Business Technologies Business, which accounts for over 90% of the total CO2 emissions from product usage, and is CO2 Emissions Across Product Life Cycle Cooperating with Business Partners pursuing the development of energy-saving product Product usage Manufacturing Distribution Sales and services Product life cycle (Target) Product usage (Target) technologies. In fiscal 2012, it strengthened its lineup of (Thousand t-CO2) products with high energy-saving features, mainly color MFPs, 1,800 1,637 with the release of the bizhub C554 series and bizhub C554e 1,350 1,309 series, both of which can save substantially more energy than previous models. 900 888 844 849 818 773 The Group is also striving to improve energy efficiency in 450 manufacturing using its Green Factory Certification System. After all business units achieved Level 1 certification in fiscal 0 2005 2010 2011 2012 2013 2015 (FY) 2011, five of them went on to earn Level 2 certification in fiscal Result Target Target Target Growing Together with Our Employees Example1: bizhub C554e: Color MFP with One of the World’s Lowest Power Consumption Levels The bizhub C554e color MFP boasts one of the world’s lowest environmental technologies resulted power consumption levels. Power consumption during use in a reduction in power consumption has been reduced by adopting LED for the scanner light of about 39% compared to the source and further improving the induction heating (IH) fusing previous model1 (based on TEC2). technology to increase heating efficiency. Moreover, standby 1 previous model: bizhub C552DS power consumption was cut to a third that of the previous 2 TEC: Typical Energy Consumption, a measure model by implementing finely tuned electricity saving of energy consumption established by the measures during sleep mode. Incorporation of these diverse International Energy Star Program. Contributing to Society Example2: Production Lines Reorganized to Cut Emissions Konica Minolta Technoproducts Co., Ltd., which produces production of optical devices such as pickup lenses for optical medical diagnostic imaging devices, has achieved a disks, cross-deployed measures for reducing CO2 emissions substantial reduction in CO2 emissions at its Sayama location that it had found effective to Konica Minolta Opto (Dalian) Co., by reorganizing its production lines to reduce production area Ltd. in China. Thanks to these efforts, these three companies and optimize lighting and air conditioning. Konica Minolta became the first in the Group to attain Level 2 Green Factory Opto Products Co., Ltd., which is the mother plant for certification in fiscal 2012. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 20 For the Global Environment Supporting a Recycling-Oriented Society Konica Minolta is reducing the use of petroleum-based promoting product recycling, the Group focused on the resources via initiatives targeting each of the following phases Business Technologies Business, which accounts for more than of the product lifecycle: development, production, and sales 90% of usage, in slimming down, reusing, and conducting and service. The Group is emphasizing the reduction of studies on recycling packaging materials. resources used in products, especially plastic material—which accounts for over 60% of total petroleum-based resources Waste Discharged Externally from Manufacturing* consumed. In its Business Technologies Business, the company Total volume Per unit of sales Per unit of sales (Target) (Thousand t) (Ton/billion yen) is aggressively using recycled materials, releasing the bizhub 40 40 C554 series and bizhub C554e series, both of which contain a good balance of two environmentally friendly plastics: a 30 29 30 28 27 recycled PC/PET developed in-house and a plant-derived 25 26 bioplastic. p. 17 20 20 The Group is reducing the amount of waste discharged 26.5 externally from manufacturing by improving production 10 22.4 21.7 20.9 10 efficiency and increasing the percentage of internal recycling at 0 0 each business unit in accordance with its Green Factory 2005 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Certification System. p. 18 Result Target In terms of reducing packaging materials usage and * The target for fiscal 2013 was changed from “per unit of sales” to “per unit of production.” Example1: Resources Conserved through Development of Thinner TAC Film In the area of performance materials, Konica Minolta has industry to develop a drawn on its strengths in manufacturing technology to make super-thin TAC film with thinner and thinner TAC film, which protects polarizers in a thickness of only 25 μm liquid crystal displays. This has contributed to the conservation for the mobile market, of resources while also helping to make IT devices lighter. Until launching mass recently Konica Minolta sold a high-quality, thin-film product production in November with a thickness of 40 μm. It has now become the first in the 2012. TAC film for LCD polarizers Example2: Developing Recycling Technology for the Rare Earth, Cerium Oxide There are only a few supplier countries of rare earth materials now exceeds 90%, thanks to the new recovery and recycling of worldwide, leading to concern about risks such as limited supply cerium oxide also from the waste liquid left over from washing and rising costs. Also, rare elements must be used efficiently to products after polishing. Konica realize sustainable human societies. Cerium oxide is a rare earth Minolta is currently installing element used as a polishing material for glass. There has been a this system at lens and HDD need to reclaim cerium oxide from waste liquid left after polishing, glass substrate production sites but the challenge was how to remove the glass particles. Building in and outside Japan, and it will on the advanced materials technology gained in the development also sell the recycling of films and toners, Konica Minolta has successfully developed technology to contribute to the recycling technology able to extract high-purity cerium oxide from broader industrial world. polishing waste. The recycling rate for the polishing process overall 21 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 For the Global Environment Reducing the Risk of Chemical Substances Konica Minolta is committed to strict management of chemical Reduction of Atmospheric VOC Emissions (Risk-Adjusted) * Earning the Confidence of Customers substances throughout the supply chain. In fiscal 2012, it Environmental impact index Environmental impact index (Target) (Points) selected substances of very high concern (SVHC) under the 5,000 5,032 REACH Regulation for reduction, conducted a study of 4,000 alternatives, and established reduction management plans for different applications and fields. The Group also requests 3,000 suppliers to manage substances contained in products, and it 2,000 practices management in compliance with the revised RoHS 1,482 1,366 1,337 1,245 directive. Since 1993 Konica Minolta made efforts to reduce the 1,000 emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from its 0 production sites, focusing on those VOCs that it determined to 2005 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Result Target have a high risk in terms of hazard and volume of use. In fiscal Cooperating with Business Partners * The target for fiscal 2013 was changed from “total points” to “total points per 2012, the Group achieved the targets for all its businesses by unit of production.” carrying out measures under its Green Factory Certification 1 REACH regulations: Regulations enacted by the EU in June 2007 concerning the registration, evaluation, authorization and restriction of chemicals, to System. consolidate existing regulations concerning chemical substances. 2 RoHS Directive: Regulations enacted by the EU in July 2006 prohibiting the use of specified hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. Restoring and Preserving Biodiversity Konica Minolta has been implementing various initiatives, ecosystem impact assessment tests based on bioassays using mainly at its production sites, to restore and preserve Whole Effluent Toxicity (WET)* testing to verify the impact of biodiversity. The Group has made meeting the standards of its wastewater on the surrounding ecosystems. In fiscal 2011, four Growing Together with Our Employees Guidelines for Biodiversity Preservation a requirement for plants in Japan that emit wastewater from manufacturing attaining Level 2 certification under the Green Factory processes into public water areas carried out the tests. In fiscal Certification System, which specifically requires consideration of 2012, a plant in Malaysia also carried out the testing, verifying water resources, consideration of wastewater, and proper that there was no negative impact on algae and other test management of greenery at factories. organisms. Testing will be carried out in the future as needed, As part of these initiatives, the Group is conducting such as when there is a change in production processes. * Whole Effluent Toxicity (WET): A method that assesses the aggregate toxic effect of wastewater on aquatic life rather than the volume of individual chemical substances. Unlike conventional effluent management methods, it enables holistic assessment of the effect of an effluent, detecting the impact caused by any non-regulated chemical substance or the combined impact of multiple substances. Guidelines for Biodiversity Preservation (excerpts) Category Items for monitoring Contributing to Society Reduction targets are set for total water intake, or for Consideration of water used on site, and reduction measures are water resources implemented. Consideration of Checks are in place to determine the impact of wastewater wastewater emitted into public water areas on ecosystems, such as aquatic habitats. Proper management Invasive alien species that are likely to have a negative of greenery at impact on ecosystems are not planted or sown on the factories factory’s premises. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 22 For the Global Environment Environmental Data Summary Fiscal 2012 Targets and Results Self-assessment ✩✩✩: Achievement more than 100% ✩✩: Achievement more than 80% and less than 100% ✩ : Achievement less than 80% Objectives Fiscal 2012 Targets (Base Year: Fiscal 2005) Fiscal 2012 Results and Key Measures Achievement CO2 emissions throughout product life cycle -48.1% -50.0% ✩✩✩ CO2 emissions from product usage -67.7% -67.7% GP Marketed products with high energy-saving performance ✩✩✩ CO2 emissions from manufacturing (per unit of sales) +32.5% +27.7% GF Improved energy efficiency in production ✩✩✩ Preventing global warming CO2 emissions from distribution (per unit of sales) -4.4% -13.7% GM Reduced air freight ✩✩✩ GM Increased efficiency in sales and services CO2 emissions from sales and service (per unit of sales) -15.2% -11.4% ✩✩ GM Introduced eco-cars and eco-driving GP Reduced resources used in products Petroleum-based resource usage (per unit of sales) +15.7% +10.3% GF Reduced waste in production ✩✩✩ GM Introduced eco-cars and eco-driving GM Reduced packaging through improved design Supporting a Packaging materials usage (per unit of sales) +9.7% +6.1% ✩✩✩ GM Made packing boxes returnable between production facilities recycling-oriented society Waste discharged externally1 from manufacturing (per unit of sales) +8.1% +3.3% GF Improved production efficiency and promoted internal recycling ✩✩✩ 1SPEVDUSFDZDMJOHr.BSLFUSFNBOVGBDUVSFE.'1TXPSMEXJEF GM Creation of next-period scenarios for reconditioned copiers ✩✩✩ r*OWFTUJHBUFQBDLBHJOHBOEQBSUTSFVTF GM Investigation of additional packaging reduction measures $IFNJDBMTVCTUBODFNBOBHFNFOUr1MBOBMUFSOBUJWFTUPNBUFSJBMTUBSHFUFEGPSSFEVDUJPO GP Initiative plan for substances targeted for reduction ✩✩✩ Reducing the risk of r3FTQPOEUP3P)42 self-declaration of conformance GP Measures for the RoHS Self-Declaration chemical substances Atmospheric emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) -70.5% -75.3% GF Implementation of the VOC reduction plan ✩✩✩ (environmental impact index3) Restoring and r1VSTVFDPNQMJBODFXJUIUIF(VJEFMJOFTGPS#JPEJWFSTJUZ1SFTFSWBUJPO GF Undertake activities according to the guidelines for biodiversity preservation preserving r%FQMPZUIFFDPTZTUFNJNQBDUBTTFTTNFOU GF Deploy the ecosystem impact assessment outside Japan ✩✩✩ biodiversity r&TUBCMJTIUIFQSPDVSFNFOUTUBOEBSETGPSQBQFSBOEQSFQBSFHMPCBMEFQMPZNFOU GM Prepare global deployment of the procurement standards for paper GP Activity under Green Products Certification System 1 Waste discharged externally: Volume discharged outside Konica Minolta sites, obtained by subtracting the GF Activity under Green Factory Certification System internally recycled and reduced volumes from the total waste generated in production processes. GM Green Marketing activities 2 RoHS Directive: Regulations enacted by the EU in July 2006 prohibiting the use of specified hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. 3 Environmental impact index: An index unique to Konica Minolta designed to measure impact on the Fiscal 2012 Targets and Results / Fiscal 2013 Targets environment, obtained by multiplying VOC emission volume by a hazard factor (impact on human health and environmental impact) and a location factor. Environmental Accounting Konica Minolta has implemented global-scale, consolidated on year. The increase mainly resulted from investment in environmental accounting in order to quantitatively assess the equipment for production technology development in the field costs of environmental preservation in business operations and of performance materials. Expenditures totaled approximately the benefits obtained from those activities. Investments in fiscal 12.5 billion yen, virtually unchanged from the previous year. 2012 totaled approximately 2.4 billion yen, an 83% increase year Investment 2,418 million yen Expenditures 12,474 million yen Economic Benefits 23,776 million yen Environmental remediation Environmental remediation Upstream / downstream 2.6% 2.2% 11.3% Social activity Other Pollution prevention Pollution prevention 0.9% 0.0% 0.0% 9.5% Pollution prevention Preventing global 16.3% warming Preventing global warming Preventing global 11.9% 13.9% R&D warming R&D 6.5% 36.0% 69.8% Resource circulation Resource circulation 2.7% 13.2% Resource circulation Administration Administration Upstream / downstream 76.8% 1.5% 11.0% 14.0% * Percentages do not necessarily total to 100 because of rounding. 23 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 For the Global Environment Environmental Impacts Resulting from Business Activities Calculating Environmental Data Overall Picture of Environmental Impact Earning the Confidence of Customers INPUT Konica Minolta OUTPUT Resources Petroleum-based resources (49.2 kt) Procurement Atmosphere CO2 emissions (408 kt-CO2) (Usage in products) Non-petroleum-based resources (68.4 kt) Atmosphere CO2 emissions (376 kt-CO2) Energy Electricity (488 million kWh) SOx (0.1 t), NOx (58.2 t), Soot and dust (0.6 t) Fossil fuels (2,588 TJ) Production/ Wastewater Wastewater (4,334 thousand m3) Water Water consumption (5,839 thousand m3) Research and COD (2.2 t), Phosphorous (0.1 t), Nitrogen (0.5 t) Water recycled/reused (59.7 thousand m3) development Waste Total waste (30.7 kt), Waste discharged externally (20.9 kt), Resources Amount recycled internally (9.8 kt) Amount recycled (29.8 kt), Final disposal (67.3 t) Chemical Substances Atmospheric emissions of VOCs (591 t) Energy Fossil fuels (532 TJ) Distribution Atmosphere CO2 emissions (38.3 kt-CO2) Resources Packaging materials usage (33.4 kt) Energy Electricity (66.0 million kWh) Cooperating with Business Partners Atmosphere CO2 emissions (offices) (39.3 kt-CO2) Fossil fuels (offices) (124 TJ) Sales and CO2 emissions (vehicles) (37.1 kt-CO2) Fossil fuels (vehicles) (550 TJ) service Waste Waste discharged externally (3.0 kt) Energy Electricity (730 million kWh) Usage Atmosphere CO2 emissions (367 kt-CO2) Resources Product recovery (13.9 kt) Recovery Resources (product recovery) Product recovered and recycled (12.2 kt) Calculating CO2 Emissions Across the Entire Supply Chain Calculating CO2 Emissions Across the Entire Supply Chain Konica Minolta has calculated the entire CO2 emissions these calculation results and move forward with CO2 emissions Growing Together with Our Employees associated with the Group’s activities across its entire supply management and reduction activities throughout the supply chain, from upstream to downstream of its operations, based chain. generally on the standards of the GHG Protocol, the * GHG Protocol: Guidelines for calculating and reporting greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions international standard. The calculation showed that CO2 emissions throughout the supply chain were approximately 1.507 million tons. Emissions from the Group’s activities—that is, direct Overall Picture of CO2 Emissions Across the Entire Supply emissions from fuel use (Scope 1) plus indirect emissions from Chain of Konica Minolta consumption of purchased electricity, heat or steam (Scope Scope 3 (1,055 thousand tons) Scope 1 (172 thousand tons) 2)—total approximately 453 thousand tons, or about 30% of all Other categories (3,5,6,7,8,14,15) Production/R&D emissions. Other indirect emissions (Scope 3) associated with 59 thousand tons 128 thousand tons the Group’s activities totaled approximately 1.055 million tons, Category 4 (Upstream Transportation Sales and service and Distribution) 43 thousand tons accounting for about 70%. 38 thousand tons Contributing to Society Scope 2 Categories within Scope 3 with high emissions were (281 thousand tons) Category 12 (End-of-Life purchased goods and services (27.1%) and use of sold products Treatment of Sold Products) To T otal Total al Production/R&D 1 1,507 ,507 50 1,5 7 th ousand ho tthousand h housan housa hous ousan an n nd d (24.3%). These categories are within the scope of its previous 89 thousand tons ttons to on 248 thousand tons calculations, but the Group has now discovered new Category 2 (Capital Goods) Sales and service 94 thousand tons 33 thousand tons challenges, including the need to set emissions reduction targets for purchased goods and services and to thoroughly Category 11 (Use of Sold Products) Category 1 (Purchased Goods and Services) manage appropriate measures. Konica Minolta will share 367 thousand tons 408 thousand tons information with relevant stakeholders in the future based on * Figures do not necessarily match total because of rounding. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 24 Earning the Confidence of Customers Konica Minolta aspires to maximize customer satisfaction and trust by providing products and services of superior value. The Group has articulated its basic approach to accomplishing this in the Konica Minolta Quality Policy, which governs Group companies worldwide. An issue of particular importance is ensuring safe, reliable products and services. Accordingly, Konica Minolta has established a unified quality assurance system across the Group and addresses quality assurance in terms of the entire product lifecycle. Konica Minolta is determined to help create a better world by solving customers’ challenges, and to do this it seeks to build deeper relationships with customers so that it can pick up and satisfy both latent needs and apparent requests. Fiscal 2012 Achievements The Group conducted a thorough review of market quality issues, identified quality issues at all stages of the product lifecycle, and considered and implemented measures to prevent serious product accidents and quality-related problems. p. 26 The Group started initiatives aimed at improving customer relationship management and established detailed measures for each business. p. 27 0 78% from fiscal 2008 levels Number of serious 1 Reduction in quality product-related accidents problem index 2 1 Serious accidents : Includes those in which products threaten 2 Quality problem index : An index created by Konica Minolta based on the costs related the lives of product users or cause serious bodily injury and those to quality problems that arise in the process of creating products or those involving in which property other than products was damaged seriously products on the market Always Putting the Customer and Quality First In line with its policy of always putting the customer and Konica Minolta Quality Policy (excerpts) quality first, Konica Minolta makes every effort to improve The Konica Minolta Group ensures maximum satisfaction and quality from every angle, including maintenance and trust by our customers, paying the utmost attention to our service, as well as the quality of products themselves. For customers and giving our top priority to the quality of products that reason, it assesses every kind of quality risk at each and services. Our concept is to make steady progress in quality stage of the product lifecycle, from planning to based on quantitative measurement and analysis of accurate manufacturing, sales, and maintenance, in an effort to data. This basic concept is demonstrated in the following prevent quality problems. affirmation: 1. Achieving the industry’s top level Customer Satisfaction Design development 2. Providing advanced products that satisfy customers’ potential Maintenance needs Process design and service 3. Establishment and development of a global Quality System 4. Quality Management in the total life cycle of products and Quality and customer satisfaction management services 5. Continued enhancement of Quality Assurance Process Sales 6. Minimization of product quality risks Procurement 7. Disclosure of product safety information Production About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Together with Customers Universal Design / Security Functions for MFPs 25 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 Earning the Confidence of Customers Assuring Product Safety and For the Global Environment Preventing Quality-Related Problems Group-Wide Quality Assurance System quality problem with a potentially serious risk arises, a Quality Konica Minolta, Inc. has established a Quality Assurance Problem Countermeasure Conference is convened based on Managers’ Committee that supervises Group-wide quality the Market Quality Management Rules in order to promptly management. This committee is chaired by the head of deal with the issue and ensure thorough information disclosure. Earning the Confidence of Customers Corporate Social Responsibility Operations and reports to the In fiscal 2012, there were no serious accidents. executive officer who has responsibility for and authority over the entire Group’s quality issues. The committee meets on a Product Safety Education quarterly basis, in principle, and, in addition to promoting Since fiscal 2009, Konica Minolta has conducted Group-wide quality planning and monitoring progress, it shares and product safety education for technicians involved in design and scrutinizes information concerning quality assurance. development, manufacturing technology, procurement, and Furthermore, each business regularly holds meetings to discuss quality assurance. The courses are designed to increase quality-related issues and work to continuously improve quality technicians’ knowledge of product safety issues and increase by thoroughly implementing the PDCA cycle. their awareness of potential problems. Starting in fiscal 2011, experts in relevant fields from each division led courses on such Quality Management System Notify/instruct Report Participate topics as “Product Safety from CSR, Risk Management, and Cooperating with Business Partners Konica Minolta, Inc. Compliance Points of View,” “Product Safety Regulations,” “Product Safety Management Systems and Their Operation,” President and CEO and “Methods to ensure product safety,” using specific case Executive officer in charge of quality studies to illustrate key points. Coupled with a hands-on training involving combustion tests, these courses constitute a full-fledged product safety education system. Approximately Corporate Social Responsibility Operations 70% of the personnel targeted Propose policy/measures Report progress for training had completed the Quality Assurance Managers’ Committee training by the end of fiscal Chairperson* Discuss potential measures Members: Quality 2012, and the Group plans for assurance managers Secretariats Manage progress in all business divisions all targeted personnel to be Growing Together with Our Employees finished with the training Quality assurance managers during fiscal 2013. A fire experimental course Each division and subsidiary * Chaired by the head of Corporate Social Responsibility Operations Preventing Quality-Related Problems Konica Minolta has continued to identify and fix quality issues at each stage of the product lifecycle, in order to prevent all types Thorough Investigation of All Quality Problems of quality-related problems before products appear on the Whenever a problem related to product quality occurs, sales market. In the development, design, and procurement stages, it sites around the world are required to register information in a inspects quality issues in terms of new technology, design Group-wide critical accident report database within 24 hours. changes, customer use, procured parts, and other matters and Registered information is instantly sent to the appropriate reconsiders assessment items and methods. The Group also supervisor and shared with relevant departments. Using this carries out initiatives in manufacturing, which combine the system, the Group takes action to prevent a recurrence by activities of the Production Capability Strengthening Task Force, Contributing to Society thoroughly investigating all registered incidents, analyzing the consisting mainly of executives and organizational managers causes, implementing countermeasures, and reflecting these in responsible for production, which identifies issues in technical and assessment standards. In the unlikely event of a manufacturing processes from a wide perspective, with Process safety-related incident, a report will be immediately filed with Improvement efforts at individual workplaces. These initiatives the supervisor of the individual business and shared with the resulted in a 78% reduction in problems in fiscal 2012, executive officer in charge of quality as well as the Quality compared to fiscal 2008, based on the Group’s original quality Assurance Department, Corporate Communications, and Legal problem index. Department, regardless of the cause of the problem. When a KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 26 Earning the Confidence of Customers Increasing Customer Satisfaction Working to Improve Customer Relationship Management Examples Konica Minolta aspires to increase the trust and appraisal from customers and to maintain long-term good relations with them. Healthcare Business In order to realize this goal, the Group is working not only to The Healthcare Business has been strengthening remote satisfy essential quality needs such as consistent quality and maintenance and its call centers in order to minimize the time diagnosing stops due to product trouble and operational complete customer support, but also to create innovative mistakes. Also, in April 2012, it moved call centers out of sales products and solutions to customer problems in order to companies and centralized them in the Quality Assurance deliver “appealing quality” that makes a powerful impression by Division at headquarters in order to gather customer feedback providing customer support that goes beyond what customers worldwide and cross deploy measures. expect. In fiscal 2012, it newly established a Customer Relationship Management Improvement and Promotion Managers’ Committee, which oversees Group-wide policies and Spotlight management. It also sets indices and detailed measures within each business according to their respective characteristics. Group personnel made a focused effort over a two-month period to visit customers around the world Heeding the Voice of the Customer who had adopted products from the AeroDR series that Konica Minolta provides customer assistance in countries was launched in March 2011. They obtained a lot of around the world through call centers and websites set up for information that is available nowhere else, such as detailed circumstances of product trouble, instances in different products and services. In addition to responding which functions are not being used sufficiently, and promptly to defect information and inquiries received by each cases where products are being used in unexpected contact point, the Group also centralizes that information in its ways. Within one month, the Group provided answers Voice of the Customer* database in an effort to ascertain the to approximately 1,000 requests and troubles gleaned status of quality and customer requests. Additionally, each from customers through these visits. business division periodically conducts customer satisfaction Wireless Digital Radiography System surveys either through an independent organization or “AeroDR 1012HQ” in-house. Moreover, development personnel in addition to sales personnel make visits to customers who use the Group’s products. * VOC(Voice of Customer) : This database stores feedback gathered from call centers, interviews, and the results of market surveys. Improving the Solutions Provided to Customers Konica Minolta strives to provide solutions in the form of products as well as customer service and support in order to maximize customer satisfaction and trust. In the Business Features zMinimizes burden on patients thanks to high image quality Technologies Business and Healthcare Business, for example, with low X-ray exposure the Group not only implements globally standardized zImproved operability during shooting with increased shooting freedom provided by wireless technology and light processes for providing products and solutions, but also weight (1.7 kg, the lightest in the world*) strengthens maintenance and support systems and offers new * At time of release in April 2013 zSubstantially reduced power consumption while maintaining functions reflecting customer feedback. imaging performance and processing capabilities 27 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 For the Global Environment Industrial Business Sensing Earning the Confidence of Customers Performance Materials As a company that supports quality management in a wide Konica Minolta brings together the materials technologies range of industrial fields, Konica Minolta aspires to be an and film-making technologies it has accumulated over the entity that can deliver on customers’ true needs in years to deliver film materials with the new added value response to consultations from the world’s leading required by industry and society for a wide variety of companies about cutting-edge technology and products. applications, such as protection, thermal insulation, water That is why the Group focuses on quality assurance to shielding, polarization, and luminescence. maintain a high level of reliability even under long use and The Group stays in constant contact with customers puts effort into enhancing after-sales service. and exchanges technical information with them in order to Display color analyzer “CA-310” make product proposals that go the extra mile to benefit the growth of customers’ businesses. Cooperating with Business Partners Functional window film “ICE-μ” Features zHolds an approximately 80% share together with the previous model as a measurement device for adjusting the white balance of displays zHigh-speed measurement possible up to 20 times per second zReduces measurement errors from variability in LED light emission distribution to less than a third Growing Together with Our Employees Spotlight Features zThermal insulation and UV-cutting function thanks to a high infrared reflectance The High-Speed Non-Contact In-Line Color Measuring zDoes not hinder electromagnetic wave transmission thanks to a proprietary System was created with the cooperation of a customer construction that does not use metal film using technology developed thus far by Konica Minolta in response to a request for a way to efficiently measure product color on the production line instead of pulling samples. High-Speed Non-Contact In-Line Color Measuring System Features zContactless color measurement of uneven samples Contributing to Society zWorld’s fastest color measuring speed* of 20 times per second * At time of release in April 2012 Also provided for automotive glass, which requires absolute safety KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 28 Earning the Confidence of Customers Examples Business Technologies Business Business Solution Industrial Inkjet Seeking to build good long-term relationships with Konica Minolta is expanding the scope of application of customers, Konica Minolta measures whether it is industrial inkjets to electronic circuit substrates, textiles and providing products and services that customers can other fields, by leveraging its proprietary materials technology recommend to others and strives to make improvements. and precision processing technology to develop Specifically, it engages in worldwide activities it calls its “CS high-performance inkjet printheads and multi-functional inks. Approach” together with sales companies. Through these It also stays in direct communication with customers activities, the Group aims to deepen relationships with to provide advanced maintenance addressing a wide customers by increasing the quality and response speed of variety of situations. its sales operations and customer support and to win Inkjet printheads, KM1024i Series endorsements from more customers by providing experiences that exceed expectations. Color MFP “bizhub C554e” Features zMulti-row structure inkjet printhead with independent drive system for all nozzles zStable ejection performance and printhead structure with superb ink durability zCertified as a Green Product that is environmentally considerate p. 17 Features zIntuitive multi-touch user interface for the control panel developed with attention to universal design zProvides access to information and documents stored in the cloud (optional) zSaves resources by using proprietary recycled plastic zEncourages low power consumption with a Weekly Timer and ECO Dashboard that come with learning functions Top share of heads for large inkjet printers for outdoor applications 29 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 Cooperating with Business Partners Konica Minolta views the suppliers that provide its raw materials and parts as well as those to whom it outsources manufacturing as “essential partners in its business activities.” The Group strives to build strong partnerships with these business partners, based on fair and transparent transactions, with a commitment to the shared goal of providing superior products and services in a timely manner to customers all over the world. Konica Minolta also recognizes that it is essential to promote CSR not just within its own operations but also across its entire supply chain, to win the trust of society as a global company. This is why Konica Minolta promotes CSR procurement on a Group-wide basis and requires its business partners to give consideration to human rights, labor issues, and the environment in their business operations. Fiscal 2012 Achievements Konica Minolta validated the results of assessments of suppliers and production sites in the Group conducted between fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2011. It also incorporated CSR procurement into supplier evaluation within the ISO 9001 quality management system. p. 32 Konica Minolta established a promotion system compliant with conflict minerals regulations. p. 32 36 sites 17companies 7companies Group production sites Suppliers whose Validated as Rank A targets were not based on CSR achieved based on CSR procurement All procurement assessment assessment (total at end of fiscal 2011) (total at end of fiscal 2012) Konica Minolta Procurement Policy (excerpts) The Konica Minolta Group pursues customer satisfaction by creating Request to Suppliers innovative products and services that contribute to the development of Based on strong partnerships with our society, according to our management philosophy, “The Creation of New suppliers, we ask our suppliers to focus on the Value.” In procurement activities, we establish firm partnerships with our following areas in order to increase customer suppliers based on fairness and transparency and aim to build a satisfaction and fulfill social responsibilities. sustainable society by fulfilling social responsibilities with our suppliers. 1. Excellent quality We will build transparent and reliable relationships with our suppliers 2. Reasonable prices OPEN and manage procurement in an open manner, while sharing 3. Response to changes in demand objectives from a long-term and global perspective. 4. Compliance with laws, regulations and We will carry out transactions under the principle of free competition corporate ethics FAIR with rational evaluation criteria, and seek mutual benefit with suppliers. 5. Environmental protection We will have a global outlook and carry out procurement in the GLOBAL regions that best suit our operational needs. 6. Respect for the human rights of workers 7. Health and safety We will comply with all relevant laws and regulations, corporate COMPLIANCE ethics, and internal policies and regulations. 8. Information security We will contribute to the international society and local communities 9. Firm management foundation ECOLOGY by striving to take the lead in environmental protection, while reducing the impact of our operations on ecosystems. About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Together with Business Partners KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 30 Cooperating with Business Partners Promoting CSR Throughout the Supply Chain Making Improvements by Tackling Challenges Building a Solid Foundation for CSR with Suppliers Procurement In the Business Technologies Business, Konica Minolta has been Konica Minolta is active in its pursuit of CSR procurement to implementing its Procurement Collaboration System in which improve the work environment and ensure respect for human Konica Minolta and its suppliers work together to mutually rights throughout its supply chain. It expects active participation promote business environment improvements with the aim of in CSR initiatives on the part of the suppliers who provide maximizing customer satisfaction. This is an effort in which the materials. The Group monitors their progress, and requests company identifies the issues and challenges that suppliers face improvements and offers advice when needed. The Group also by discussing their situations with them and visiting their sets higher goals at its own production sites when carrying out workplaces. It then makes proposals and provides tangible evaluations and making improvements. As a foundation for these support for solving the problems identified, in order to make initiatives, the Group has created a Code of Conduct that outlines comprehensive improvements in terms of quality, delivery, the criteria for and fields covered by its CSR procurement productivity, the environment, and business management. At the program and has also created and implemented a survey system same time, Konica Minolta also listens to its suppliers’ suggestions that uses self-assessment questionnaires. The evaluation results and works to address any business problems identified. are classified into four ranks, A through D, based on the levels of achievement. Expectations are set at Rank A for Group Example: Suppliers’ Meetings Held in China production sites and Rank B or higher for suppliers. Sites and suppliers that do not meet expectations must make improvements based on a submitted improvement plan. Konica Minolta regularly holds suppliers’ meetings every year in China as part of its Procurement Collaboration System. The * The Code of Conduct and the self-assessment questionnaires are compliant with standards of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC). meeting held in March 2013 was an opportunity to directly convey to the top management of suppliers the most important objective of the management structure reorganization made in Rank Based on Achievement Level April 2013, which is to strengthen the management capability of Rank A Performance achievement level Rank A the Business Technologies Business. The company also shared its Nearly fulfills all social expectations. medium-term priority strategies, its procurement plan for the Rank B Rank B next year forward, and improvement initiatives being carried out Some areas need improvement; jointly by Konica Minolta and suppliers. It also gave an overview these improvements can be of the conflict minerals regulations that need to be addressed made voluntarily. going forward and explained the company’s stance on this issue. Rank C Rank C Attended by 147 Many areas need improvement; immediate action and companies in the east submission of improvement plan China region and 123 required. companies in the south Management system achievement level Rank D Some areas fall short of China region, the mandatory compliance levels meeting was a valuable determined by Konica Minolta; communication urgent improvements and submission of improvement plan opportunity. required. CSR Procurement Promotion Steps Fiscal 2008 Fiscal 2009 Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Promotion system and foundation development Assessments of group production sites Assessment results validation CSR requests to and assessments of suppliers under three-year plan CSR requests to and assessments of new suppliers Incorporation of CSR Operation procurement into ISO 9001 Training of examiners 31 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 For the Global Environment Rolling Out the CSR Procurement Program Addressing the Issue of Conflict Minerals Konica Minolta carried out a survey using self-assessment The conflict in the Democratic Republic of Congo and adjoining questionnaires to evaluate the status of CSR implementation at countries as well as the accompanying serious human rights Group production sites and suppliers based on a plan covering abuses and environmental destruction are major international Earning the Confidence of Customers the three-year period from fiscal 2009 to fiscal 2011. problems. There are concerns that the mineral resources mined In fiscal 2012, the Group reviewed the survey results, made in this region—to be specific, tantalum, tungsten, gold and tin assessments of new suppliers, and expanded the scope of (“conflict minerals”)—could be used to fund armaments, assessments to include production contractors. The validation contributing to the conflict. results confirmed that all 36 main Group production sites that Efforts to address this international problem include had achieved Rank A maintained that rank. As of the end of section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and fiscal 2012, assessments had been conducted on a total of 622 Consumer Protection Act, which was passed in 2010 in the suppliers. The number of suppliers that had not met United States, and the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for expectations went from 17 at the end of fiscal 2011 to seven at Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected the end of fiscal 2012. Additionally, the Group incorporated CSR and High-Risk Areas. Given these circumstances, companies procurement rules into supplier evaluation within the ISO 9001 today are inevitably required to ensure responsibility in mineral quality management system in order to continuously address supply chains. Cooperating with Business Partners CSR procurement throughout the Group. Most business Konica Minolta, for some time, has followed its own divisions completed this process during fiscal 2012. All business Procurement Policy, which includes commitments to comply divisions should complete the process and have the rules with laws, regulations and corporate ethics, respect for the operating during fiscal 2013. human rights of workers, and environmental protection. Konica Furthermore, in fiscal 2012 the Group trained 29 Minolta is determined to fulfill its social responsibilities in all examiners, who are essential for promoting CSR procurement, procurement activities, taking the initiative in its activities across at two Chinese affiliated companies and five sites in Japan. The the entire supply chain. Konica Minolta has responded to Group intends to provide training to other relevant personnel in requirements on conflict minerals and is implementing fiscal 2013. initiatives based on its Procurement Policy to help prevent relevant human rights abuses. In fiscal 2012, Konica Minolta established a cross-Group Spotlight Growing Together with Our Employees promotion system with members including sales and procurement departments. In fiscal 2013, it plans to establish a Campaign to Raise Awareness of Respect for management system and train relevant personnel in order to Human Rights create specific initiatives. It will also study the issue in more Konica Minolta uses its intranet in ongoing efforts to detail, including the establishment of a survey method, in deepen Group employees’ understanding of respect for cooperation with the Japan Electronics and Information human rights in business. In fiscal 2012, it published a Technology Industries Association’s (JEITA) responsible Mineral series of seven commentaries, including examples of specific companies, on various topics related to human Procurement Investigative Commission. rights, such as conflict minerals regulations, the International Labor Organization’s (ILO) Eight Core Conventions, expected corporate Contributing to Society responsibility in the supply chain, and internationally agreed codes of conduct. A commentary KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 32 Growing Together with Our Employees With business operations in 41 countries around the world, Konica Minolta employs people of many different nationalities, languages, and backgrounds. The source of the Group’s competitiveness lies in how this diverse team shares values and cooperates closely. This is why Konica Minolta respects diversity in ways of thinking and expertise and seeks to train personal make the most of their skills from a global perspective, always aiming of continuing to create new value for society. Konica Minolta focuses on improving workplace health and safety Group-wide, seeking to create a workplace environment in which each and every employee can succeed while enjoying physical and mental wellbeing. Fiscal 2012 Achievements Konica Minolta created a common global system for training personnel and utilizing their skills, and stepped up the development of “global employees.” p. 34 The Group shared information on accidents to prevent the occurrence of similar accidents and focused on “top management diagnoses” implemented for accidents causing absence from work with the aim of fostering safety awareness. p. 35 Number of participants in the Global Executive Program for nurturing business leaders (total for fiscal 2010 to fiscal 2012): 114 Number of serious accidents*: 0 * Serious accidents : 1. Death, diseases that require or may require long-term care, injuries that cause or may cause disabilities, and specific communicable diseases 2. Accidents that cause three or more employees at one time to suffer on-the-job death, injuries or diseases (including accidents that do not cause absence from work) Respecting Employees’ Human Rights Konica Minolta’s commitment to respecting the personality and Employee Composition by Region 41,844 individuality of each and every employee is enshrined in its Charter of Corporate Behavior. The globally shared Konica Minolta Group Worldwide: Guidance for the Charter of Corporate Behavior goes into more detail, clearly stating that members of the Group will: seek to eliminate Asia and others:13,448 discrimination of all kinds, whether based on race, nationality, gender, (10,195 in China) Japan: 12,539 religion, belief, or physical disability; seek to eliminate child labor and 32% 30% forced labor; and strive to create an environment with zero tolerance for harassment. Furthermore, Konica Minolta has established Europe: 8,151 consultation offices for addressing these kinds of human rights (2,178 in violations in each of its host countries. Konica Minolta is signatory to Germany, and the United Nations Global Compact and upholds freedom of 1,474 in France) North America: 20% association and the effective recognition of the right to collective 7,706 bargaining. Konica Minolta makes it a rule to strictly confirm the age of applicants when hiring a new employee. By taking such steps, it 18% ensures that there is no instance of child labor in the Group. Similarly, (Total regular employees of consolidated companies, as of March 31, 2013) there is no instance of forced labor. About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Together with Employees 33 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 Growing Together with Our Employees Promoting and Developing Diverse Human Resources For the Global Environment Establishment of a Common Global System for Hiring People with International Experience and Human Resources Development and Promoting Employee Interaction Worldwide Deployment In Japan, Konica Minolta seeks to employ foreign nationals or Konica Minolta has created a Group-wide platform (system, Japanese persons who have lived outside Japan when hiring Earning the Confidence of Customers tools, and mindset) for training personnel and making the most recent college graduates, aiming to bring on more personnel of their skills and is working to boost the collective strengths of who can succeed in international society. Approximately 35% of its personnel throughout the Group. It has finished registering the 112 people hired in fiscal 2012 were such “global employees.” executives at Group companies in a common global HR Furthermore, the Group promotes interaction among database that is the basis of this effort. The Group runs a Global employees of Group companies around the world. The Japan Executive Program to train people selected from the database. Dispatch Program is used to cultivate “global bridge The Group plans to expand registration and training to include employees,” who can serve as bridges between their home manager-level personnel in the future. Moreover, by instilling country and Japan after gaining experience working in Japan standards for desired personnel at the global level through for a period of several months or two to three years. In fiscal each Group company using this platform, the Group will pursue 2012, a total of 15 people from Germany, the Netherlands, and global personnel training and deployment as “One Konica China participated in the program. Fiscal 2012 also saw the start Cooperating with Business Partners Minolta” that respects the diversity of its human resources. of a short overseas training program for young Japanese employees who are sent to the U.S. for six months to receive Developing Global Business Leaders language training and practical experience. Two employees In fiscal 2010, the Global Executive Program was put into action were sent in the first year. in order to increase awareness among managing executives around the world of their role as leaders for the entire Group and foster network-building among them. As of the end of fiscal 2012, the program has been held seven times with a total of 114 people from 59 companies participating. During the program, which lasts about one week, Growing Together with Our Employees participants foster a global mindset and develop their leadership through opportunities to have face-to-face discussions with top managers and debate issues among themselves. The Group plans to open participation to manager-level personnel and to start Regional Global Executive Programs in other locations, including Europe, North America, Training program participant spending time with local people and Asia, in the future in order to develop potential management executives. Supporting Career Development of Women Konica Minolta has put a number of career development programs for women in place since fiscal 2010 in order to further encourage female employees to fulfill their potential. For instance, it has a training program known as Leadership Contributing to Society Training for those women at the section chief level who show potential as managers. The Group also holds meetings to explain its promotion policy for female employees to the supervisors of the women chosen for this program and is implementing a support program with mentors other than the supervisors in charge of guidance and training. Global Executive Programs KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 34 Growing Together with Our Employees Promoting Occupational Health and Safety Preventing Recurrences of Similar Accidents Konica Minolta has implemented various measures to prevent accidents during working hours with the goals of zero serious accidents and a frequency rate of accidents causing absence from work* of 0.1 or less. In fiscal 2012, accident case studies and countermeasures were shared with Group companies worldwide in order to prevent similar accidents that are on the rise. Reports with photos showing specific situations were created, along with specific countermeasures. These are routinely posted to the Group intranet and bulletin boards. Additionally, whenever an accident causing absence from work occurs, the officer in charge of safety at that company Top management performing diagnosis at a workplace where an accident causing absence from work occurred visits the accident site to perform a thorough “top management diagnosis,” in which he or she conducts an on-site investigation. This action is intended to identify the causes of accidents and Implementing Fundamental Facility also increase the safety awareness of each and every employee. Improvements These initiatives resulted in zero serious accidents and a Fundamental facility improvements are initiatives to increase frequency rate of accidents causing absence from work of the safety of facilities and equipment themselves through safety nearly 0.1, both in and outside Japan. In fiscal 2013 and design and risk assessment. The idea is to prevent accidents thereafter, the Group will continue to focus on the prevention even when human error does occur, instead of relying on of similar accidents. humans for safety. At present, accidents caused as a result of equipment hardly ever occur at Konica Minolta, but the Group *Accident frequency rate : Number of people injured or killed due to occupational is continuing to work on fundamental facility improvements as accidents per one million labor hours a measure to prevent serious accidents. Accidents Causing Absence from Work at Sites in Japan In fiscal 2011, the Group completed training for engineers Accidents causing absence from work Accident frequency rate (Case) (Frequency rate) in charge of safety design for facilities and equipment. In fiscal 20 0.4 2012, 18 sites that installed new equipment in Japan and China 0.39 0.28 were established as model facilities where countermeasures 0.21 were implemented ahead of full-scale implementation set to 10 0.17 0.2 0.11 begin in fiscal 2013. 9 11 5 6 0 3 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Preventing Employee Health Problems *Boundary: Regular and temporary employees of Konica Minolta, Inc. and Group companies in Japan Konica Minolta is implementing its Medium Term Health Management Plan, which includes the following three priority measures: prevention of health problems caused by excessive Accidents Causing Absence from Work at Overseas Production Sites work, mental health care, and prevention of lifestyle diseases. Accidents causing absence from work Accident frequency rate (Case) (Frequency rate) With respect to mental health, the Group has developed a 20 0.4 rank-based educational system to enhance care and has identified and taken countermeasures for workplaces and 0.23 10 0.18 0.16 0.2 occupations with high mental health risk. Also, in fiscal 2012 it 0.10 shorter working hours for employees returning to work, which 7 6 7 5 enables employees to work shorter hours for a certain period of 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) time, as part of a program to support employees returning to *Boundary : Regular and temporary employees at major production companies in China and Malaysia work after a long absence. 35 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 Growing Together with Our Employees Human Resources Data Summary For the Global Environment Employee Composition by Employment Status (as of March 31, 2013) Regular employees Non-regular employees* Total Konica Minolta, Inc. 6,624 1,899 8,523 Earning the Confidence of Customers Group companies in Japan 5,915 1,592 7,507 Group companies outside Japan 29,305 7,758 37,063 *Non-regular employees : Contract or temporary employees Employee Gender Ratio (Women : Men) Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Konica Minolta, Inc. 16 : 84 16 : 84 16 : 84 *Note : Includes employees seconded to Group companies Cooperating with Business Partners Percentage of Women in Management Positions Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Konica Minolta, Inc. 1.4% 1.6% 1.8% *Note : Includes employees seconded to Group companies Percentages of Locally Hired and Women Presidents of Subsidiaries Outside Japan Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Locally hired 42.5% 48.6% 56.5% Woman 1.3% 2.7% 2.4% Growing Together with Our Employees Percentage of Employees with Disabilities Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Konica Minolta, Inc. 1.90% 1.37% 2.01% Work-Life Balance Support Program Use Fiscal 2010 Fiscal 2011 Fiscal 2012 Women Men Women Men Women Men Maternal health management leave 5 2 3 Maternity leave 33 26 37 Contributing to Society Spousal maternity leave 140 129 137 Parental leave 80 1 61 5 51 9 Shorter working hours for childcare 170 0 191 1 166 3 Work-at-home during child-rearing 17 5 13 5 13 5 Nursing care leave 1 3 1 0 3 2 Shorter working hours for nursing care 1 0 0 0 2 0 *Scope : Regular employees of Konica Minolta, Inc. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 36 Contributing to Society Committed to Addressing Social Issues around the World Aiming to earn the confidence and trust of society and be a good corporate citizen, Konica Minolta is helping solve local social issues around the world. The Group focuses especially on issues where it can make a unique and highly effective contribution through its business. About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > Contributing to Society U.S.A. Providing School Supplies for Children for the New School Year The Konica Minolta Colorful Tomorrow Foundation (CTF) is a nonprofit organization supported by Konica Minolta Business Solutions U.S.A. Since its establishment in February 2007, it has pursued corporate social contributions with particular emphasis on the fields of education, healthcare, the environment, and disaster relief. In August 2012, CTF ran the Back to School program to provide school supplies to help disadvantaged children get a good start on the new school year. Over 5,500 items gathered by employees at Konica Minolta Group companies across the U.S. were donated to 13 schools all across the country. France Sponsoring a Marathon to Fund Tree Planting in Ethiopia The Green Marathon held in Rennes, the regional capital of Brittany in France, organizes a project to plant trees in Ethiopia in Eastern Africa according to the distances run. This initiative contributes to reforestation in that country, where 1,400 km2 of forest is lost every year, and it also helps to create employment through local contracting of the tree planting work. Konica Minolta Business Solutions France has endorsed the project concept and supported the marathon since its first year in fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2012, there were 67,615 trees planted, one for every kilometer that the participants ran. In fiscal 2013, the company increased its cooperation by becoming a title sponsor. 37 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 Participants in the Pink Ribbon event Canada For the Global Environment Participating in a Charity Event in Support of Breast Cancer Research Konica Minolta provides breast X-ray equipment for digital mammography, which is effective for the early detection of breast cancer. As one aspect of this business, the Group companies around the world support Pink Ribbon campaigns, which seek to raise awareness of the importance of detecting breast cancer in its early stages. In the running and walking event in October 2012 organized by the Run for the Cure Foundation, 110 employees from Konica Minolta Business Solutions (Canada) took part. The funds raised, which amounted to more than 21,535 Canadian dollars, will Earning the Confidence of Customers be used to support breast cancer research. China Supporting Schools for Children with Special Needs Konica Minolta Business Solutions (China) Co., Ltd. has been supporting six schools in Shanghai and Beijing for children with special intellectual Children who won awards in challenges since fiscal 2007. In fiscal 2012, the company presented the the painting contest schools with color textbooks printed on Konica Minolta high-speed MFPs and donated stationary, and employees again volunteered at the schools. Cooperating with Business Partners The company has also conducted a Children’s Painting Contest at the six schools since fiscal 2011. In fiscal 2012, there were 100 submissions, and 20 paintings were selected as winners of awards for excellence, and the award-winning children were given scholarships. Hong Kong Environmental Education for Children Experiment of the solar energy Konica Minolta Business Solutions (HK) Ltd. has been running an environmental education program for children—the Emerald Education Growing Together with Our Employees Eco-tour Program—in collaboration with the local environmental NGO Green Sense since fiscal 2012. The program offers a variety of hands-on experiences such as workshops on making soap from used oil, experiments with solar energy, and eco tours to observe rare creatures. Japan Guest Lectures on the Structure of a Copier Konica Minolta, Inc. offers guest lectures at junior and senior high schools as part of its educational support activities. The theme of these lectures is the Contributing to Society structure of a copier, and MFPs—the company’s main business—are the Experience subject material. In fiscal 2012, the first year of the program, 111 new hires of the copy visited seven junior and senior high schools in Tokyo, Aichi, and Osaka as Experiment of the static electricity guest lecturers and taught approximately 450 students over 13 classes. They explained the principle of copying using static electricity in a clear manner using familiar examples and facilitated understanding through hands-on activities using experiment equipment. Each lecture concluded with a message based on the speaker’s own experiences as a clue for the students in choosing their future careers. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 38 Management System Konica Minolta considers strengthening corporate governance a management priority. The company is reforming its management system to establish a highly transparent corporate governance structure and ensure effective responses to today’s changing business environment. The Board of Directors includes four outside directors, Corporate Governance who are highly independent and have no significant business Konica Minolta believes that improving corporate governance relations with the company. A majority of directors do not serve is a vital part of fulfilling its responsibilities to stakeholders. The as executive officers. company is continuing to reform its management and There are three committees within the Board of Directors: governance structure to ensure more timely and appropriate Nominating, Audit, and Compensation Committees—all of decision-making on matters such as restructuring. which are chaired by outside directors. Although the law in Japan only requires that no executive officers serve on the Management System Restructured Audit Committee, Konica Minolta has implemented a system in Improving upon its holding company system, in April 2013 which its executive officers do not serve on any of these Konica Minolta Holdings, Inc. restructured its management, committees, in order to ensure better transparency. merging with seven companies, including business companies. It moved from a pure holding company structure to become a Board of Directors and Three Committees (as of June 19, 2013) company that carries out business directly and changed its trade name to Konica Minolta, Inc. With this change, the Board of Directors (total of 11 people) Industrial Business and Healthcare Business were also made Seven Non Executive Officers into internal companies. Nominating Audit Compensation Committee Committee Committee Directors Company-with-Committees System (Chairman of the Board) Konica Minolta has adopted a company with-committees Outside Director system, enabling the management supervisory function of the Outside Director directors to be separated from the business execution function Outside Director of the executive officers. The executive officers perform Outside Director decision-making and business execution, as entrusted by the Director Board of Directors. The content of this business execution is subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and to audits Director by the Audit Committee, which enhances effectiveness, validity, Chairman Four Directors and Executive Officers: President & CEO, two Senior Managing Executive legality and soundness of the management. Officers and one Senior Executive Officer Reorganization of the Management System Konica Minolta, Inc Konica Minolta Business Technologies, Inc. Planning and Coordination Division Konica Minolta Holdings, Inc Corporate Konica Minolta Advanced Layers, Inc. Division Research and Development Division Konica Minolta Optics, Inc. Business Konica Minolta Medical & Graphic, Inc. Each Department Technologies Business Inkjet Business Unit Konica Minolta Technology Center, Inc. Reorganization Business Advanced Layers Company Konica Minolta Business Expert, Inc. Division Internal Company Optics Company Konica Minolta IJ Technologies, Inc. Healthcare Company Konica Minolta Planetarium Co., Ltd. 39 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Corporate Governance About Konica Minolta > Sustainability > CSR Activities > Compliance organically by fiscal 2013, which is the last year of the Compliance medium-term plan. At Konica Minolta, the Chief Compliance Officer decides important matters for promoting group compliance and has Anti-Corruption Initiatives the responsibility to promote and oversee compliance under Konica Minolta treats compliance as top priority in all of its the President and CEO of Konica Minolta, Inc., who has ultimate corporate activities. As a tool for ensuring understanding of that responsibility for Group compliance. To fulfill that responsibility, commitment, in April 2011 Konica Minolta published the the Chief Compliance Officer convenes the Group Compliance Konica Minolta Group Guidance for the Charter of Corporate Committee, which is composed of the persons responsible for Behavior, which is shared globally and illustrates expected compliance at each corporate and business department. behavior in detail. The Guidance includes specific anti-corruption rules, including prohibition of extortion of gifts, Group Compliance Promotion System benefits or business entertainment, prohibition of bribery, and a Konica Minolta Group resolute stand against any contact with organized criminal elements. Konica Minolta, Inc. Moreover, an anti-corruption training program has Board of Nominating Audit Compensation been released on the company intranet, and group sales Directors Committee Committee Committee companies worldwide are being encouraged to make use of President & CEO Ultimate Responsibility on Group Compliance it. Group companies are also asked to share best practices Chief Compliance Officer Group Compliance Committee and to produce programs that comply with the laws of their Officer Council respective countries. Assistant Legal Division Reporting Support Responsibility Report Compliance Responsible Official Unit Compliance Committee UK Sales Company Initiative Officer In July 2011, the United Kingdom’s Bribery Act came into Reporting force. The act broadens the scope of regulations, which Compliance Coordinator (Outside Japan) Responsibility traditionally dealt with bribery of public officials, and Compliance Responsible Official makes acts of bribery among entities in the private sector Subsidiaries Around the world punishable for companies that conduct a portion of their business within the UK. The act expands the scope of punishment to acts conducted not only inside Global Compliance Network the UK but in other Konica Minolta has been implementing compliance measures countries as well. Before globally as one theme in the Medium-term Compliance Plan it the law came into force, has been working on since fiscal 2011. Konica Minolta Business In fiscal 2012, the Group established a Global Compliance Solutions (UK) Ltd., a sales Network constituting group companies in key locations such as company in the UK, Europe, the United States, and China and appointed a developed a guidebook compliance coordinator for each region. The Group is aiming to and check sheet showing ensure that global activities conducted by the entire Group and specific steps to prevent local activities carried out by each company according to local any misconduct. Guidebook developed by a UK sales company circumstances complement each other and are functioning KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 40 Expert Opinion of Konica Minolta’s CSR Report We asked Yoshinao Kozuma, Professor of Economics at Sophia University, to give us some feedback on this report. His comments are presented below. We will use this feedback to improve our future CSR activities and the CSR report next year. 2. Management Scope Being Expanded In addition to the fact that CSR management is being carried out with a mediumto long-term view, the development of the underlying value chain is another matter in which the Group has made marked progress in recent years. This year the Group calculated its CO2 emissions across the value chain and disclosed the estimates with itemized data following the “Scope 3” GHG standard. So far, Konica Minolta has been expanding the reach of its CSR management across the value Yoshinao Kozuma chain, including implementing CSR surveys of the supply chain Professor, Faculty of Economics, and establishing plans to reduce CO2 emissions throughout the Sophia University product lifecycle. The disclosure of Scope 3 data is an initiative of high social concern, and Konica Minolta’s leadership deserves praise. The itemized data reveals that approximately 70% of CO2 1. Management Structure Reorganized emissions are generated outside the Group’s business areas The Konica Minolta Group’s CSR management stands out in and are spread across the value chain. In that sense, it is clear that the Group has articulated a long-term vision, established a that CSR management encompassing the entire value chain, roadmap, and developed an organizational structure to carry it including other environmental and social issues, has become out. This is an essential process for getting things done an absolute requirement. systematically, and the way in which the Group goes through that process step by step shows the strategic approach it takes 3. Transparency Improved to CSR management. Human resources data, which had been a pending issue, was Development of the organizational structure has made disclosed in a summary format for the first time this year. This progress in recent years. In April 2013, following last year’s was a major step forward, contributing to improved strengthening of the CSR implementation system, the Group transparency. The disclosure has become an ambitious revamped the conventional structure of holding business initiative, as it included information such as the number of companies under the umbrella of a pure holding company, regular and non-regular employees in and outside Japan and reorganizing the structure to integrate those business the rate of localization of top management of overseas companies into a single company. A new growth model is subsidiaries (including the percentage of women)—a being established against the backdrop of a market disclosure of a kind that is yet to be generally widespread environment that is shifting toward a more sustainable world, among Japanese companies. and it is impressive that the newly-formed Konica Minolta, Inc. I would like to see the Group push this further and strive has earnestly embarked on the path to creating new value. I for total information management on a consolidated basis. The very much anticipate future accomplishments to emerge from Konica Minolta Group is a global company in which nearly this determination. three-fourths of sales come from outside Japan, and so further detailing of employee information on a consolidated basis is desired. I hope that the Group will continue to strengthen its future initiatives using key performance indicators for CSR management. 41 KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 External Assurance Konica Minolta engaged KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. to provide assurance on whether its CO2 emissions from procurement, production/research and development, distribution, sales and service, and product usage; energy use; waste discharged externally from manufacturing; atmospheric emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs); and water consumption have been measured, gathered and disclosed in accordance with the criteria set by the Group. Period: March to June 2013 On-site audit of Konica Minolta Tokyo Site, Hino Comments on the Assurance Process Naomi Sugo, KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. Until now, Konica Minolta has disclosed Scope 3 emissions quantitatively show that green product initiatives help to create associated with the procurement of raw materials, distribution, both social and corporate value. and product use and has worked at reducing emissions Meanwhile, although the CSR Report 2013 explains the associated with distribution and product use based on targets Group’s process for defining the report content, the material set for those areas. Now, the Group has ascertained and aspects identified in that process were not clearly listed. The GRI disclosed Scope 3 emissions for other categories, as well. I hope guidelines, revised in May 2013, now require organizations that that the Group will disclose information in the future on wish to publish compliant reports to disclose not only the initiatives it takes against the newly ascertained Scope 3 process for determining report content but also the material emissions. aspects and boundaries identified. I hope that the Group will This year, the Group disclosed its goals and performance consider disclosure methods in the future that provide related to the sales ratio of green products. I think that the data increased transparency regarding material aspects in reporting. KONICA MINOLTA CSR REPORT 2013 42 KONICA MINOLTA, INC. 2-7-2 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-7015, Japan For inquiries CSR, Corporate Communications & Branding Division Phone: +81-3-6250-2120 FAX: +81-3-3218-1368 E-mail: csr-support@konicaminolta.jp This report is printed on paper certified by the Forest Stewardship Council™ using vegetable oil inks. www.konicaminolta.com Printed in Japan1309BCD
