2012 Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report From the Chief Executive Officer Table of Contents Vestergaard Frandsen (Vestergaard) is a global public health company that innovates game-changing solutions to improve the lives of disadvantaged people around the world.We call this focus Humanitarian From The Chief Executive Officer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Entrepreneurship, and it provides the framework for how we do business. Strong support of the United Nations Millennium Development Goals – such as reducing child mortality and combating HIV/AIDS, About Us . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . 2 malaria, and other diseases – is also a defining characteristic of the company. Game-Changing Products and Solutions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Our award-winning LifeStraw® water filters combat diarrheal diseases, and over a half billion of our best-selling PermaNet® bed nets have contributed to the reduction in deaths from malaria by one third Making An Impact Since 1957 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 since 2000. Other company solutions focus on fighting neglected tropical diseases, increasing HIV testing, reducing hunger and malnutrition, and mitigating climate change. Impacting People In 2012 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 Vestergaard is a socially responsible company. We donate a substantial amount of time and money to help solve some of the world’s most daunting health problems. We work side-by-side with public Corporate Social Responsibility sector partners, donor groups and governments.We invest heavily in scientific research and support the work of independent scientists from leading research institutions. And, we sponsor worthy causes by Improving Global Health . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .10 supplying funds and product donations. UN Global Compact Update . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Vestergaard acts responsibly, too, in the way we conduct business. We’ve been a proud member of the United Nations Global Compact since 2006, and wholeheartedly abide by its code of conduct to protect Philanthropy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14 human rights, maintain fair labor practices, defend the environment, and root out any corruption we encounter. Contact Us . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .16 2012 was a rewarding year. PermaNet® 3.0, a unique combination bed net that fights insecticide resistant malaria vectors, was distributed to more than four million recipients. Our LifeStraw® Carbon for Water™ program is providing sustainable drinking water to 4.5 million people in Kenya and reduced CO2 emissions by over two million tons last year. Donations of our pipe filters to The Carter Center have put Guinea worm disease on the path to soon be only the second disease ever to be eradicated. We introduced ZeroFly® Livestock screens to protect livestock from flies, and we’ve developed new LifeStraw® products. Yes, we’re making progress. But we have a long way to go, especially in light of the limited public sector funding available for so many critical public health needs. We remain steadfast in our commitment to help the world’s most vulnerable people for many years to come. Mikkel Vestergaard Frandsen Chief Executive Officer Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 2013 | 1 About Us Vestergaard was founded in Denmark in 1957, and company is the largest global producer of longHigh-Impact Partnerships In some cases, Vestergaard even delivers products today is headquartered in Switzerland with offices lasting insecticidal bed nets. More than a half billion to the homes of people living in the most remote across the globe.The company is structured around PermaNet® bed nets have contributed to the Unlike the majority of companies that sell directly locations. Such was the case when about 880,000 a humanitarian entrepreneurship business model reduction in deaths from malaria by one third since to end users, most recipients of Vestergaard’s LifeStraw® Family water filters were delivered to an where doing good is good business. This approach 2000. humanitarian products don’t have money to pay for entire community in Kenya’s Western Province. supports achievement of the United Nations them. Instead, they’re bought, in large quantities, by Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The award-winning LifeStraw® water filter from governments, aid agencies, NGOs, faith-based groups Research-Driven Innovation Vestergaard was named “One of Ten Things that and the private sector. These valued partners then Vestergaard’s game-changing solutions contribute Will Change the Way we Live” by Forbes magazine. work with Vestergaard to distribute the company’s Vestergaard invests heavily in scientific research to to a healthier, more sustainable planet by fighting LifeStraw® technology has been deployed following life-saving products to disadvantaged people around ensure that all of its products operate effectively diseases including malaria, HIV/AIDS, diarrheal almost every major natural disaster since 2005, and the world. and efficiently. Highly skilled internal experts diseases and neglected tropical diseases. The the family version is the backbone of the LifeStraw® include engineers, chemists, pharmacologists and Carbon for Water™ campaign in Kenya. This is the Vestergaard also works with many local partners to entomologists. world’s largest privately funded household level deliver products to in-country destinations rather water program in the developing world, providing than simply shipping them to the container port, Extensive product testing is conducted outside of Spirit of Humanitarian 4.5 million Kenyans with sustainable access to clean as is the case with many suppliers. This ensures the laboratory environment where products are Entrepreneurship and safe drinking water. seamless, on-time delivery to the end destination. reviewed by independent third parties. Esteemed The company’s intimate knowledge of these markets colleagues are from research institutions such as the Additional company initiatives targeting the and its network of strategically located warehouse Centers for Disease Control, the London School of It’s the opportunity to invent the next lifeMDGs focus on HIV testing, alleviating hunger and facilities help program implementers distribute Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Oxford University changing health innovation that makes the malnutrition and mitigating climate change. products affordably and efficiently. and the United States Department of Agriculture. humanitarian entrepreneurship model so important to collective efforts to improve In-country research partnerships are also forged with public health. An innovative needle developed Ministries of Health, NGOs and other organizations Commitment to the UN MDGs to tailor research objectives and ensure high uptake by Wyeth helped speed up the delivery of the and utilization of information. Data from field trials smallpox vaccine and it became the first disease is used for continuous product development, and ever eradicated to date. The Guinea worm Vestergaard’s products accelerate achievement is published in internationally renowned peerfilter developed by Vestergaard in collaboration of the following United Nations Millennium reviewed scientific journals. with The Carter Center may enter the history Development Goals (MDGs): books with equal importance because of its critical role in helping to decrease and MDG 1: Reduce poverty potentially eradicate Guinea worm disease. MDG 4: Reduce child mortality MDG 5: Improve maternal health MDG 6: Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases MDG 7: Ensure environmental sustainability 2 | Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 2013 Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 2013 | 3 Game-Changing Products ZeroFly® is an advanced reduced residue defence against and Solutions insect pests for livestock and crop protection prior, during and post-harvest. ZeroFly® products help maximize food yield and increase food security. ZeroFly® Livestock is an advanced insecticide-incorporated screen that keeps livestock healthy and productive by reducing the impact of nuisance and biting flies (such as often deadly tsetse flies). It provides consistent, sustained long-lasting control by continuously refreshing insecticide at the surface of the yarns, and is easy to install and maintain. ZeroFly® Storage Bags are the first insecticide-incorporated storage bags that prevent damaging pest infestations. They reduce postharvest losses which can be as high as 20% in Sub-Saharan Africa. Vestergaard’s innovative products and solutions fight preventable The bags provide consistent, sustained, long-lasting control by diseases and decrease needless suffering for millions of people. ZeroFly® continuously refreshing insecticide at the surface of the yarns. PermaNet® is the leading long-lasting insecticide-treated bed CarePack® is an integrated prevention campaign that bundles net. It prevents vector-borne diseases such as malaria, which health tools given away for free as an incentive for mass kills a child every 60 seconds. The bed net employs a superior HIV testing. In 2008, Vestergaard partnered with the Kenyan technology which enables the slow release of the insecticide, government to initiate a CarePack® campaign including HIV deltamethrin. PermaNet® lasts for a minimum of three years and testing and counseling, water filters to fight diarrheal disease, bed requires no re-treatment or dipping. It’s recommended by the nets to combat malaria, and condoms for safe sex. People who World Health Organization and meets the highest international tested positive for HIV were referred for further treatment.The standards for efficacy. Products in the line include the best-selling campaign reached nearly 41,000 people in seven days—80.27% PermaNet® 2.0 long-lasting insecticide-treated bed net and of the target population—exceeding universal access targets for PermaNet® 3.0. This is the first combination bed net designed HIV testing, clean water, and anti-malarial bed net coverage. A for areas where vectors have become resistant to insecticides third-party study proved that a scaled up version of CarePack® approved for use in bed nets available today. targeting a similar group has the potential to avert 16 deaths for each 1,000 participants. PermaNet® CarePack® LifeStraw® water filters remove disease causing pathogens LifeStraw® Carbon for Water™, launched in 2011, provides that are major causes of waterborne diseases such as cholera, LifeStraw® Family water filters to over 90% of households in typhoid, and diarrhea in the developing world, enabling people Western Province, Kenya, reaching 4.5 million people with to access safe drinking water. LifeStraw® technologies have been sustainable access to safe drinking water. The program earns distributed to more than 64 countries where they are a vital carbon credits because the LifeStraw® Family eliminates the tool for some of the 780 million people who don’t have ready need to boil water for treatment. It thereby reduces current access to safe drinking water. LifeStraw® products are easy to and future emissions that arise from the practice of burning use, and require no electricity, batteries or replacement parts. wood to boil water. Vestergaard earns carbon credits, which The personal version is ideal for out-of home use by hikers, it sells to companies, then reinvests the money to sustain the campers or people displaced by natural disasters. LifeStraw® program. LifeStraw® Carbon for Water™ is the largest private Family, used in homes, provides an average family of five with sector funded household level water treatment program in the safe water for at least three years. LifeStraw® Community is developing world. Its self-financing model links profit intrinsically designed for schools, health facilities and institutions where it LifeStraw® Carbon to performance and overcomes challenges of sustaining public LifeStraw® will deliver an estimated 70,000 to 100,000 litres of safe drinking water over its lifetime. For Water™ health programs with limited public sector funds. 4 | Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 2013 Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 2013 | 5 Making an Impact Since 1957 1957 Denmark farmer Kaj Vestergaard Frandsen starts 1996 2008 a company weaving nylon fabric for work wear. Vestergaard creates a plastic pipe with a filter PermaNet® bed net production is scaled to strain out Guinea worm larva (and prevent up to meet heavy demand.Vestergaard 1968 Guinea worm disease) for The Carter Center. produces its 175 millionth net. Kaj’s son Torben joins the family business. 1997 2009 1986 Mikkel assumes leadership of Vestergaard. He LifeStraw is distributed to victims after the ® Torben buys surplus wool cloth and sells the work uniform operations to focus Haiti earthquake and Pakistan floods. has it made into blankets sold to the entirely on the humanitarian business. Red Cross and Save the Children. 2011 1999 2005 LifeStraw Carbon for Water™ campaign ® 1993 Tsetse fly technology leads to the launch of PermaNet® 3.0 is introduced as the first uses carbon financing to provide 4.5 Torben’s son and current CEO the game-changing PermaNet® bed net, one combination bed net with increased efficacy against million people in Kenya with sustainable Mikkel joins the company. of the first long-lasting insecticidal bed nets. malaria vectors resistant to current insecticides. access to safe drinking water. 1993 2005 Vestergaard develops tsetse fly traps to The personal version of the LifeStraw® catch vectors that carry sleeping sickness. water filter is introduced. It’s named by Time magazine as the “Best Invention of the Year.” 1994 Vestergaard’s blankets are used extensively at 2008 refugee camps following the Rwandan genocide. LifeStraw Family is introduced to purify water ® in homes of people in developing countries. 1994 The company beings to sell mosquito bed nets. 2008 CarePack , an integrated prevention campaign, is ® 2001 launched in Kenya. Nearly 41,000 people are tested The company expands its humanitarian for HIV and receive public health tools for free. offerings, selling plastic sheeting as temporary shelter following crises. 2004 PermaNet 2.0 receives WHOPES ® interim recommendation. 2005 The company headquarters is moved to Lausanne, Switzerland. 6 | Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 2013 Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 2013 | 7 Making An Impact In 2012 Vestergaard supports the launch of IR Mapper which tracks insecticide resistance in more than 50 countries. A Zambia study shows that advanced water filters and safe storage in households with HIV positive mothers reduces the prevalence of diarrhea by more than half. Mikkel Vestergaard Frandsen joins leading In-kind contributions to The Carter Center Over four million PermaNet® 3.0 bed nets are More than 2 million tons of CO2 emissions CEOs who call on countries to lift travel reach $1 million, contributing to the near distributed to fight the increasing are avoided as a result of the LifeStraw® restrictions for people living with HIV. eradication of Guinea worm disease. problem of insecticide resistance. Carbon for Water™ program. 4.5 million Kenyans have safe drinking water in New research proves that a scaled-up CarePack campaign targeting a similar group of people ® their homes following launch of the LifeStraw® Over a half billion people have been protected Carbon for Water™ campaign. by PermaNet® bed nets. has the potential to avert 16 deaths for each 1,000 participants. 8 | Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 2013 Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 2013 | 9 Corporate Social Responsibility Improving Global Health Partnerships Vestergaard has led the private sector in fostering As a humanitarian enterprise, corporate social responsibility permeates meaningful dialogue with influential partners and Vestergaard’s day-to-day operations and guides its long-term plans.The company stakeholders including governments, donor groups devotes a substantial amount of time and financial resources to find solutions and non-government organizations. The company works hand-in-hand with these groups to further the to improve global health. Here are highlights of such activity in 2012. development of policies, procedures and scientific advances that can improve the plight of vulnerable people around the world. IR Mapper mHealth Monitoring • Vestergaard worked with the Nigerian Institute Furthering African Science of Medical Research to launch the Society for The emerging and rapid spread of insecticide Vestergaard was the first, and continues to support Mosquito Control in Nigeria. resistance threatens the utility of current bed work by Oxford University researchers to set up At the end of 2011, Vestergaard funded a research nets in areas where the threat is high. Up-to-date robust electronic and mobile systems to monitor facility within the Noguchi Memorial Institute • The company co-hosted a meeting at the information on insecticide resistance will guide health data in Western Kenya. This enables the of Medical Research at the University of Ghana. International AIDS Society’s 2012 Symposium the deployment of insecticidal tools to ensure that Kenyan Ministry of Health to strengthen pathways In 2012, Vestergaard has continued to develop a in conjunction with the University of California the right tool is used in the right place at the right of care such as ensuring proper administration highly active collaborative relationship with the San Francisco and the National Institute on Drug time. In 2012, Vestergaard supported the launch of of treatment regimens, improving patient followresearchers at the University of Ghana and other Abuse to present evidence and open a dialogue IR Mapper (in beta test), an online tool to do just up, strengthening referral systems, and tracking academic institutions. The research center has about the impact of integrated prevention health that. It consolidates publically available insecticide patient health trends. The work is currently being broadened its focus beyond mosquitoes and flies (its campaigns. resistance data and segments it by country. The scaled up by other donors with a goal of becoming original mission) to include research on the impact interactive map will have a full scale launch in 2013. countrywide. Other countries will also be able to of store product pests such as beetles and weevils, • Vestergaard served as a resource, contributing adapt the technology. which contribute to food security challenges. The expertise to the World Health Organization, center has also become a valuable training ground for its meeting on neglected tropical diseases in for students and a resource in West Africa, enabling Puducherry, India. partners like the Ghanaian National Malaria Control Programme and the President’s Malaria Initiative to • Mikkel Vestergaard Frandsen contributes to benefit from its state-of-the-art facilities. several organizations: Mikkel is the chairman of Roll Back Malaria’s finance and performance committee, he is a member of the board of directors of the International Union Against Tuberculosis and Lung Disease, serves on the board of the Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN) in America, and is a member of the Merck For Mothers advisory board. 10 | Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 2013 Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 2013 | 11 Corporate Social Responsibility UN Global Compact Update proper documentation to ensure transparency Evironmental Stewardship regarding the principles set forth in the Supplier Vestergaard upholds an unwavering commitment to be a responsible corporate Code of Conduct as a precondition for supplying In 2012, Vestergaard initiated a series of eco-friendly to Vestergaard. The company also requires first measures: citizen by adhering to the principles set forth by the United Nations Global tier suppliers to communicate the principles to Compact, which the company has been a member of since 2006. their own supply chain and ensure the compliance • Water Savings: A system to reduce the of sub-contractors producing, processing or amount of water used in the testing process otherwise related to Vestergaard’s supply chain. This for the company’s water filters has saved is monitored through the company’s Responsible approximately 1,500 tons of water. Vestergaard’s Business Conduct Principles govern Anti-Corruption Supply Chain Management System. how the company and its employees conduct their • Material and Chemical Savings: The cleaning professional affairs. These principles mirror the Vestergaard does not tolerate bribery, kickbacks, In 2012, Vestergaard conducted workshops to procedure has been optimized to reduce use of United Nations Global Compact principles in the or influence peddling in any of its operations, and strengthen suppliers’ overall understanding of human the chemical Chloramine. Wiping paper usage areas of human rights, labor, environment and antiis committed to taking swift action against any and labor rights and environmental stewardship. has been reduced by 30 percent and disposable corruption. business associates who act in any corrupt manner. More than 150 employees at Vestergaard’s suppliers rubber glove usage has been reduced by up to Vestergaard’s contracts with business agents are participated in the training, and more workshops 40 percent. An Internal Compliance Council headed by a written to yield maximum transparency. During are scheduled in 2013. dedicated Chief Compliance Officer ensures that the its meetings, the company’s Internal Compliance • Greener IT: Vestergaard outsources its server Business Conduct Principles are being adhered to. Council reviews any suspected violations of the At the request of Vestergaard, the company’s main hosting only to green data centers and sources The Council continuously defines and implements Business Conduct Principles. supplier took several actions in 2012 to ensure most of its equipment from HP, which is at appropriate internal and external controls and Responsible Supply Chain (RSC) compliance. This the top of Greenpeace’s “Guide to Greener provides regular reports to the Board of Directors. included establishment of an RSC committee, Electronics” list. Supply Chain Management training in RSC activities and establishment of auditing at its facilities to ensure compliance. • GreenerTravel: Videoconferencing equipment Employee Diversity In 2012, Vestergaard established a robust new was provided to all offices in 2011 to reduce Responsible Supply Chain unit, reporting directly international travel in 2012 and beyond. In 2012, Vestergaard maintained a multi-cultural to the Chief Supply Chain Officer. The company is Occupational Safety and multi-disciplinary workforce. Two thirds of the implementing a tighter Responsible Supply Chain company’s jobs were held by citizens of developing Management System which includes a risk assessment Vestergaard supports key suppliers in implementing countries. tool to help prioritize how to engage with suppliers accident prevention measures with regard to throughout the supply chain. A variety of measures equipment, safety management and personal to ensure compliance have been initiated including behavior in the workplace. Suppliers work to regular site visits, audits to evaluate compliance, and ensure that there are no toxic fumes, and that issues tracking. the product production lifecycle is handled in the most efficient, environmentally responsible and safe Vestergaard will only work with suppliers who manner. Equipment is inspected for safe and efficient are committed to its Supplier Code of Conduct. operations and training is regularly conducted on The company requires suppliers to provide workplace safety. 12 | Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 2013 Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 2013 | 13 Corporate Social Responsibility Philanthropy • Donated LifeStraw® Family water filters to the Zambia Ministry of Health for a typhoid/cholera outbreak in Mufulira. Vestergaard continuously provides financial and in-kind support to worthy causes around the globe. In 2012, corporate giving remained strong. • Sponsored an educational program for technical staff of the Ministry of Health in Ethiopia. • Donated PermaNet® 2.0 bed nets to the first • Donated PermaNet® bed nets and curtains Rwandan malaria conference on insecticide to Guiness Ghana Breweries for its health resistance. awareness week in Ghana. • Donated LifeStraw® Family water filters to the • Partnered with Infanta Malaria Prevention • Donated PermaNet 2.0 bed nets to Rajendra ® University of Washington for delayed disease Foundation, the Equatorial Coca-Cola Bottling Memorial Research Institute of Medical Sciences progression study. Company and ERD to provide PermaNet® bed in India. nets to a community in Accra, Ghana. • Donated PermaNet® 2.0 bed nets to Anjuman • Supported malaria education campaign for school Masjid in India. • Donated LifeStraw Family water filters to ® children produced by the Kingsley Holgate Rift STEPS OVC program in Zambia. Valley Expedition and Johns Hopkins University. • Served on advisory council to develop new structure for the Ghana Business Coalition for • Sponsored school program about safe water • Partnered with Addonai Community to • Donated LifeStraw® Family water filters to HIV/ Employee Well-being program. run by the Children’s Environmental Literacy distribute LifeStraw® Family water filters and AIDS workshop run by the Alliance Burundaise Foundation. provide training for community volunteers in Contre le SIDA in Burundi. four communities in northern Ghana. • Donated PermaNet® bed nets to countries • Provided water tanks to communities in the and organizations around the world to support • Donated PermaNet 2.0 bed nets to Buy-A-Net ® north section of Kenya’s Western Province for World Malaria Day events. campaign in Uganda. emergency relief after floods. • Provided LifeStraw® Family water filters for • Sponsored Malaria No More campaign with • In-kind donations to The Carter Center for its World Vision’s user acceptability studies in actress/singer Katharine McPhee to build a Guinea Worm Eradication Program reached Mozambique, Zimbabwe and Malawi; served school and donate PermaNet® bed nets in $1,000,000. families after the study. Burkina Faso. • Sponsored a secondary school scholarship • Sponsored Global Health Coalition conference program for students with the highest grades in “The Road to Malaria Elimination 2020 – Kakamega, Kenya. Investment and Beyond” in Johanesburg. • Trained the Emusanda Health Centre’s • Donated LifeStraw water filters and PermaNet ® ® management to be able to run the health center bed nets for distribution as part of the Kingsley Vestergaard has funded since 2009. Holgate Rift Valley Expedition. 14 | Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 2013 Humanitarian Entrepreneurship Report 2013 | 15 Contact Us Switzerland (HQ) Vestergaard Frandsen Chemin de Messidor 5 7, CH 1006 Lausanne, Switzerland Tel: +41 (0) 21 310 7333 Fax: +41 (0) 21 310 7330 India Vestergaard Frandsen (India) Pvt. Ltd 309, Rectangle One, D-4, Saket (Behind Sheraton Hotel) New Delhi – 110017 Tel: 011-40553666 Kenya ABC Towers, 5th Floor Waiyaki Way P.O. Box 66889 – 00800 Nairobi Tel: +254 20 4444758/9 Fax: +254 20 4444526 Kenya Climate Office Vestergaard Africa Ltd. Kakamega-Kisumu Road, Tuskys Mall 1st floor Tel: +254 56 31803 Mobile: +254 733 580010, +254 708 984913 USA Vestergaard Frandsen Inc. 4350 N Fairfax Drive Suite 440 Arlington,VA 22203 USA Tel: +1 571 527 2180 Fax: +1 703 997 3235 Vietnam Vestergaard Frandsen Vietnam 9/253 Minh Khai Street Hai Ba Trung District Post code: 114034 Hanoi Vietnam Tel: +84 4 36369279 Fax: +84 4 36367661
