Findel Education Limited Communication on Progress Implementing UN Global Compact principles throughout our business and value chain. 13th August 2013 Statement of Continued Support To our Shareholders/Stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Findel Education reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of:Human Rights, Labour, Environment & Anti-Corruption In this annual communication on progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours Sincerely, Tony Hillyer Managing Director Corporate Social Responsibility Statement Findel Education strive to purchase both goods and services in a responsible manner, whilst encouraging and supporting our suppliers in doing the same. We are committed to managing all associated environmental impacts, ensuring the fair treatment of those involved in producing the products that we sell and promoting equality throughout our supply chain. By implementing sustainable management systems that adhere to the requirements of both ISO9001:2008 and ISO14001:2004, we have confidence in our continually improving processes, to deliver superior customer service, without impacting negatively on the world we live in. Building sustainable supply chains and eradicating impacts on the environment is a long term commitment and to achieve this Findel Education is proud to have an array of dynamic and diverse people within its organisation. Through the support of effective line management coupled with great opportunities for learning and career progression, our business capability is strong. It is important to us to ensure we encourage all of our people to reach their full potential in everything they do for our business, for our customers, for themselves and for each other. Policies Leading our commitment to ISO9001:2008 and ISO14001:2004 sits our Quality and Environmental Policies. These now sit on our CSR website page, in addition to internal availability. Environmental Objectives and KPIs A framework showing Environmental Objectives, Targets and Actions has been generated and is available on the company. In addition we now have a set of environmental KPIs showing energy usage, paper and waste. In summary however, our key objectives, in 2012 were to: 1. Reduce gas and electricity by 5% by end of October 2013 Electricity has reduced by 20% Gas has reduced by 24% YTD. 2. Target zero waste to landfill Two of three sites are now operating zero waste to landfill contracts. 3. Reduce fuel emissions wherever possible. This has been achieved by looking to source from UK suppliers where possible. All company cars have CO2 caps and schemes such as car sharing is encouraged. A major project has been undertaken to replace current warehouse lighting with more environmentally friendly automated solutions. More projects are also planned in the near future. We are looking to further build on our successes and are on target to reduce water consumption by nearly 50% . These targets will continue into 2014 as part of our continuous improvement programme. Environmental Objectives and KPIs cont’d.. Findel Education continues to look to source environmentally and locally manufactured products possible. We are constantly improving our ranges to include a greater proportion of: • Recycled Products. • Fair-trade. • Environmentally Friendly. • A rated (energy efficiency rating) appliances. • Made in the UK – Demonstrating less distance travelled. • Longer Guarantees on products (some with up to 25 years) . Findel Education constantly monitors its adherence to applicable directives such as the EU timber regulations, WEEE, etc. Reports are made to the relevant authorities on a regular basis and as part of our ISO14001 commitment all legal requirements are complied with and audited. Heightening Internal Awareness 1. To support the understanding of Findel Education’s Quality and Environmental Management Systems, an internal document entitled ‘Superior Business Processes: Building A Better Business’ was produced and distributed. 2. Pure Carbon – a newly introduced internal quarterly Environmental newsletter which is designed in-house and stored on our Intranet gives regular updates on business environmental progress. It also looks into what is happening inside our supply chain to strengthen our commitments and demonstrates the positive impacts we are having as a result. 3. We have trialled and included in our forthcoming learning and development budgets, courses by The Chartered Institute of Environmental Health (CIEH) on Environmental Awareness to be delivered throughout the business and higher level courses for areas of increased environmental risk. These are in addition to continued individual development plans. Labour/Human Rights Supplier Ethical Audits As part of Findel Education’s ongoing commitment to the UNGC labour principles, an agreement has been reached with a third party audit provider. Whilst we have had supply chain data provided through our own audit procedures for many years, we believe by using a third party provider we provide greater transparency throughout our supply chain and customer base. The audits cover the base code of the ETI to ensure that:• Employment is freely chosen • Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are respected. • Working conditions are safe and hygienic • Child labour shall not be used • Living wages are paid • Working hours are not excessive • No discrimination is practiced • Regular employment is provided • No harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed • Environment Audit reports are monitored on a continual basis. Labour/Human Rights contd.. Employee Engagement & Development Findel Education Limited ensure that all its employees are aware of all current legislation surrounding employment . A dedicated Leadership & Development team also encourage active employee engagement through training. A new intranet system is in operation which includes the provision of all HR policies and procedures, every employee has access to this business tool. Findel Education actively encourage employee engagement which helps the business strengthen its processes. Every employee receives a GAME plan which are defined measurable goals to aid them in their development within the business. Measurement of outcomes of the above processes are gauged through our employee voice programme. Actions are put in place to remedy any highlighted weaknesses identified by our employees through our continual improvement programme driven by our leadership team. Anti-Corruption Employees during on-boarding process within the business are informed of the companies anticorruption and ‘whistle blowing’ policy. The company also operate a code of conduct policy which must be adhered to at all times. Additionally, the leadership team and relevant management representatives have completed online courses on the subject through our L&D team. The companies anti-corruption policy enables employees to raise concerns internally at a high level and to disclose information which the individual believes shows malpractice or impropriety. These could be in relation to the following: • Financial malpractice or impropriety or fraud • Failure to comply with a legal obligation or statutes • Dangers to Health & Safety or the environment • Criminal activity • Improper conduct or unethical behaviour An anti-bribery policy is also supplied by our third part audit company to suppliers before carrying out an ethical audit. Findel Edcuation do not have any anti-bribery cases under investigation. Our Vision
