UN Global Compact Communicating on Progress 2012 – 2013 8 October 2013 Table of Contents: Preface: A Message from the Directors:…………………………………..2 I: Description of Practical Actions:……………………………………… 3 5 II: Measurement of Outcomes:………………………………………………. 6 Appendix: Company Profile:………………………………………………….7-9 Page 1 of 9 “A message from the Directors” Dear Sirs, The period of 2012-2013 was the most challenging period that our company faced ever since inception in 2004. The effect of the Syrian crisis on the Syrian economy and on the daily operations of our company resulted in a sudden shift in the strategic planning from being directed towards market expansion to become more concerned with organizational survival and organizational resilience. In a period that witnessed the shut down and the downsizing of several business operations in Syria, our company was proud to be able to sustain its level of operations and to achieve a marginal growth in certain sectors. All our employees kept their positions within the company without imposing any deductions on their salaries. Moreover, our company increased the level of salaries by about 50% in order to account for the ongoing inflation. On the other hand, we showed strong commitment towards serving all our customers even in remote and unstable areas, when the security conditions allow for that, due to our belief that it is our duty to service the health care sector and to keep providing hospitals with their various procurements and after sales needs. Although some might view that committing to the Global Compact Principles is somewhat irrelevant during the most significant crisis of the 21th century, but we do believe that committing to core values related to: Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption will encourage positive thinking within our organization which will eventually trigger effectiveness and competitiveness that are highly needed to survive the current crisis. Hence, we do view that our continuous commitment to the core principals of Global Compact is also beneficial towards the development and the growth of our company. The enclosed report will further explain the actions that have been taken in the course of the past year towards Global Compact Principals and we take this opportunity to renew our commitment to the initiatives and its principals for the year to come. Sincerely Yours, Karim Tabah Samer Al Nachawati Director Director Page 2 of 9 I: Description of practical Action: A: Human Rights: Principle 1: “Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights” • Practical Actions: o All the employees of our company are registered with the social insurance association according to their actual salaries that are being paid to them o Salaries tax is being paid to the ministry of finance on timely manner and in accordance to the actual salaries that are being paid to the employees o Our company is abiding to the labor law especially when it comes to: working hours, public holidays, daily break, overtime compensation, and end of contracts notices and compensations o Our relation with our customers is highly transparent by providing detailed description of the products and services that are going to be performed o Our company has good relation with a major charity hospital within our local community by providing products and services to them at cost • Actions to be taken: o Increasing the level of interaction with other NGOs and associations within our community Principle 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses • Practical Actions: Our company abides to all the requirement of the Syrian law when it comes to the human rights. However, no assessment or explicit internal policies were put in place to address this important issue. • Actions to be taken: Our company will start addressing this principle by working towards the development of clear policies that addresses human rights within our organization and will raise internal awareness of known human rights issues within the company’s sphere of influence B: Labour: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • Practical Actions: Our employees are free to join any professional organization, syndicate or trade union without being subjective to any possible discrimination and prejudice Page 3 of 9 • Actions to be taken: Our company will inform the local community, media and public authorities of our company's endorsement of the UN Global Compact and our intention to respect its provisions, including those on fundamental workers' rights Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour: • Practical Actions: Our company does not benefit from forced labour noting that this issue is not common in our area of operation as well as in our industry Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. • Practical Actions: We adhere to minimum age provisions of national labour laws and regulations. We exercise influence on subcontractors, suppliers and other business affiliates to combat child labour. We use adequate and verifiable mechanisms for age verification in recruitment procedures. Principle 6: “Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation” • Practical Actions: All recruitments are being based on previously set criteria that clearly indicate the skills and qualifications of the candidates. Such criteria does not include implicitly or explicitly any requirements that relate to genre, age, religion or belief. Our company has a clear orientation programmes for each new recruit aiming at helping them to understand the work environment as well as their rights and responsibilities. Our company conducts internal technical training to provide technical knowhow of the products and services that are being offered by our company. Our company sends our employees for technical training abroad in order to increase their product specific know-how. The selection criteria for each of these trainings are widely made available to all the employees. • Actions to be taken: Since our working environment is not disabled friendly in terms of facilities, we will work on reasonably adjusting the physical environment to ensure health and safety for employees, customers and other visitors with disabilities Page 4 of 9 C: Environment: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Since our activities are mostly related to trading of hospital equipment (non radiological) and services, our environmental risk exposure is minimal especially that we do conform to the entire environmental requirement for the use and the storage of the equipment in accordance to the policies of the manufacturers. • Actions to be taken: Develop a code of conduct that confirms commitment to care for health and the environment. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. • Practical actions: As indicated before, the low level of risk that is associated with the environment as well as our engagement in humanitarian issues that are related to the current Syrian crisis did limit our activities to promote greater environmental awareness. Our actions were limited to: • Encouraging our employees to rely on soft copies and only print hard copies when deemed necessary • The re-use of printed papers as drafts when possible Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies.” • Practical Actions: Our company is promoting the use of Medical Waste treatment units at Syrian hospitals. However, the effect of the current crisis is making such requirement as less important since the focus now is on providing more basic health care services. Our company is also promoting the use of water treatment units when it comes to hemodialysis units. D: Anticorruption: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. • Steps to be taken: Our company will introduce anti-corruption policies within our business operations Page 5 of 9 II: Measurement of outcomes: The following table identifies the progress that has been made on some of the principles by illustrating the indicators as well as the level of achievement. It also illustrates the targets and indicators that will be used to assess the progress that will be made on the actions that will be taken in the future. Measurement Taken Action Future Actions Issue Areas Principles indicators Achievement Indicators level Targets Human Principle 1 Number of 100% Engage with at registered least one NGO Rights employees at within our the Social community Insurance Association Principle 2 Developing clear human rights policies Labour Principle 3 Inform the media of our engagement with GC Principle 6 Participation in 85% Preparing a intentional study of the training improvement opportunities that can be made at the work place to make it more disabled friendly Environment Principle 7 Health and environment code of conduct development Anti Principle 10 Anticorruption corruption policy development In addition to the above mentioned targets, our company will work in introducing the core concepts of GC as ethos to be embedded within our organizational culture. Page 6 of 9 Appendix: Updated Company Profile: Page 7 of 9 Company Profile Syrian Medical Services SMS Damascus Office: Tel: +963-11-6666908 Fax: +963-11-6614333 P. O. Box: 60315 e-mail: s-m-s@scs-net.org web site: www.sms-syria.com Homs Office Tel: +963-31-2473112 1. Introduction: Syrian Medical Services Ltd “SMS” was established in 2004 and was able within a significantly short period of time to expand its activities to cover the most vital departments in hospitals and other types of health care facilities. The company offers integrated solutions to the customers by selecting products after a thorough assessment of their specific needs. This is combined with continuous technical follow up to ensure the efficient performance of the equipment by implementing after sales services according to the international standards. The company also offers extensive technical training to the customer’s personnel to ensure the safe use of the equipment and the optimal benefit of the features of the products. SMS has privileged from partnering with leading international companies in various medical sectors which is exposing the company’s team to continuous learning opportunities and enabling them to follow the fast moving trends in the market in terms of applied technologies. SMS has also a unique experience in providing hospitals on turnkey basis where we successfully executed several types of hospitals in different geographical locations in Syria. The scope of work included the logistic handling, installation, put into operations, and services and Training managements of all types of hospital equipment. 2. Technical Background & Training: Our technical team have accomplished several services and marketing training courses at different Hi-Tech equipment such as: • Permanent MRI System (Airis Hitachi) • Spiral CT Scan (Radix Turbo Hitachi) • Bi-plane Cath Lap (Bicor TOP & Hicor Top Siemens) • Patient Monitoring (Cathcor & Epcor Siemens Elema) • Gamma Camera (General) In addition to different training courses at the Sterilization Machines, Washing Disinfection machines, Physiotherapy machines, Incubator Units, Electrosurgical Units, Suction Pump units, Operating Tables, Operating Lights, Medical Furniture, Ceiling pendants, EEG machines, EMG machines, Urodynamic Page 8 of 9 machines, Hemodialysis units, pulmonary machines, endoscopy towers & flexible scopes, as well as the Suture, Endoscopy instrument products and Anesthesia and ventilation consumable products. This wide technical knowledge in addition to the early experience as technical engineers and consultants to leading Syrian Public hospitals and private companies, have allowed “SMS” to well identify potential business opportunities in the region by providing good sights of the regional market to foreign companies that are interested in servicing the growing market of the Middle East. 3. Representations: Up to the current date, SMS represents and offer services for the following companies: ♦ 3M Health Care www.3M.com a leader American manufacturer in the field of Sterilization Assurance, we have been offering services to it since 2004. ♦ Aesculap www.aesculap.com a leader German manufacturer in the fields of surgical instruments for all specialists, sterilization containers, power system and surgical instruments and accessories for neurosurgery. And surgical suture and all closure techniques, we have been representing since 2011. ♦ B.Braun www.bbraun-dialysis.com, a leader German manufacturer in the field of hemodialysis therapy, we have been representing since 2010. ♦ Bowa electronic www.bowa.de a leader German manufacturer in the field of electrosurgical units and their accessories, , we have been representing since 2005. ♦ Cosmed www.cosmed.com a leader Italian manufacturer in the field of the Pulmonary Function Equipment, we have been offering services to it since 2009. ♦ Electromedicarin S.A. www.electromedicarin.com, a leader Spanish manufacturer in the field of Physiotherapy & gymnastic equipment, we have been representing since 2004. ♦ Famos, www.famos.nl, a leader Dutch manufacturer in the field of auxiliary CSSD products, we have been representing since 2004. ♦ Getinge, www.getinge.com, a leader Swedish manufacturer for Sterilizing and washer machines, as well as stainless steel equipment, we have been representing since 2013. ♦ Hersill www.hersill.com,a leader Spanish manufacturer in the field of Suction Pumps units, Resuscitation Trolleys and Medical Gas Network accessories, we have been representing since 2009. ♦ Inso S.p.A, www.inso.it, a leader Italian company that offers equipment packages and services to hospitals in Turn Key Basis, we have been representing since 2004. ♦ Karl Storz, www.karlstorz.com, a leader German manufacturer in the field of Endoscopy and Endoscopic Surgery, we have been representing since 2011. ♦ Trumpf, www.trumpf-med.com, a leader German Manufacturer in the field of OR equipment consists of operating tables, surgical lights and ceiling pendent, we have been representing since 2011. 4. Projects: Please visit our website at: www.sms-syria to review comprehensive lists of projects for each of our core area of operation Page 9 of 9
