First Philippine Power Systems, Inc. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 Principle Assessment, Policy and Goals Implementation Measurement of Outcome Human Rights 1) Business should support and First Philippine Power Systems, Inc. We are OHSAS 18001:2007 certified There has been no reported incident respect the protection of supports the United Nations Universal which is internationally compliant. with regards to violation of the human internationally proclaimed Declaration of Human Rights, The ILO First Philippine Power Systems, Inc. rights during the last 12 months and in human rights Convention on Labor Standards, and ensures that our employees have a safe fact, over the company’s history. 2) Make sure that they are not the principles of the UN Global and conducive working environment. complicit in human rights Compact. abuses Relevant principles are integrated In relation to Human Rights, the FPPS systematically in our management organization is also guided also by the practice to ensure compliance with the following specific Lopez Values – Unity, standard Nationalism, Social Justice and Occupational health & safety, including Employee welfare and wellness. the prevention of occupational accident and deceases is a management As an example, we conduct annual responsibility. physical examination and provide Responsibilities in relation to safety and health cards to our employees. This will health promotion are outlined in our ensure that all regular members of the integrated management system organization maintain their top physical covering quality, environment, shape at all times. Group insurance occupational health & safety and policy is also an added assistance corporate social responsibility. during employees’ time of need. Labour 3) Business should uphold First Philippine Power Systems, Inc. Employees are not unionized; however, We remain committed to ensure a fair freedom of association & recognizes and upholds freedom of the management ensures that the and supportive environment for all effective recognition of the association & the right to collective employees’ welfare and interest are employees regardless of whether they right to collective bargaining bargaining. protected. have formal employee representation. This is in line with our Lopez value to uphold Unity, Nationalism, Social Justice and employee welfare and wellness. 4) The elimination of all forms of It is the Policy of First Philippine Power As a practice, regular communication of We will maintain to monitor the forced and compulsory labor Systems, Inc. to require our employees our policy and monitoring of its operations of our suppliers of their 5) Effective abolition of child and other stakeholders to support the compliance are being undertaken. We compliance to our policy. Nonlabor abolition of all forms of forced, ensure to maintain a zero record of compliance will mean a discontinuance compulsory and child labor. We are also forced & compulsory and child labor of business partnership. working with our suppliers to ensure incident within our operations this policy is adhered to in our supply chain. This is also in line with our Lopez value to uphold Social justice. 6) Eliminate discrimination in First Philippine Power Systems, Inc. We ensure employee behavior is in line Policy and procedures meet the respect of employment and promotes and supports a diverse with promoting and supporting a requirement and constantly pass audit occupation workforce at all level of the diverse workforce. and assessment conducted by organization. We ensure our employees We’ll continue to use policy and Department of Labor and Employment or potential employees that they are procedure in accordance with the not unlawfully discriminated against Philippine laws. directly or indirectly as a result of their color, creed, race, ethnic or national origin, marital or civil partnership status, pregnancy, age, disability, religion, or similar philosophical belief, sexual orientation, gender or trade union membership and never tolerate harassment of any form. Environment 7) Businesses should support a First Philippine Power Systems, Inc. We are an ISO 14001:2004 certified There has been no reported incident precautionary approach to continually improve the sustainability organization which aims to protect the with regards to non-compliance to environmental challenges of our operations with due environment not only for the benefit of environmental regulations during the consideration in minimizing our impact our organization and our people but for last 12 months and the entire history of on the environment the communities that we serve. the company. 8) Undertake initiatives to First Philippine Power Systems, Inc. HIRAC are conducted for all activities. employees promote greater Environmental Policy regards the All risk are assessed and include (but environmental responsibility protection of the environmental of not limited to) the following common paramount importance, coming only risks: second to safety.  Sewerage system, We do not conduct any activity where  ground water contamination the risk is perceived to be significant in  Top Soil damage causing environmental damage.  Vegetation damage – We always employ sustainable protected and non-protected mitigating measures to reduce any risk species to the environment to an acceptable  Wildlife impact protected and level, in all our activities. non-protected species  Ground contamination  Spill of materials  Dust  Noise  Fumes  Vehicle hazards  Flora or Fauna FPPS, being a member of the Lopez Group of Companies, is an active supporter of various CSR initiatives such as – Run for Pasig, Walk the Talk, etc. 9) Encourage the development First Philippine Power Systems, Inc. is We consider the protection of the and diffusion of constantly reviewing operational and environment the responsibility of environmentally friendly manufacturing process to ensure that everyone engaged in or associated with technologies we are using the most environmentally its activities. friendly system. The environment is one of the We are totally committed to company’s primary concerns. Its environmentally friendly technology importance is promoted at every level and confirm our goal of achieving a zero within the company. Project briefing, adverse environmental impact in all of appropriate equipment, training and our activities reporting are seen as the major tool by which we maintain the high levels of environmental awareness within our organization. Environmental protection is given the highest possible priority when planning our activities. Anti-Corruption 10) Business should work against First Philippine Power Systems, Inc. is Prior to company’s registration in the There has been no reported incident on all forms of corruption, committed to the highest standard of special economic zone, First Philippine graft and corruption in the organization including extortion and bribery corporate governance and professional Power Systems, Inc. was required to for the past 12 months or in fact over integrity. We conduct our business in execute an anti-graft certificate in the company’s history. All our actions an ethical, honest and accountable pursuant of Sec 3 & 14 of the Philippine are above board and never intended to manner in accordance with applicable Republic Act (RA) 3019 or what we call violate the laws of the land. laws, rules and regulations. the Anti Graft Act. We’ll continue to monitor and record This is in line with our Lopez values of – The company rules and regulations incident of corruption and violators will a pioneering entrepreneurial spirit, clearly indicate that integrity issues are be dealt with according to established business excellence, social justice and to be dealt severely. rules and regulations. integrity. Will continue program to educate employees and stakeholders on these rules and policies.
