1 Status report 30 June 2013 The UN Global Compact Progress Report 2012-2013 Table of contents 2 Table of contents Statement of continuing support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 1. Sphere of influence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 1.1. Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 1.2. Our commitment to acting in a socially responsible way . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 2. Valuing our clients . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 2.1. Putting plan members and clients at the heart of our activities . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 2.2. New secure website for plan members . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7 2.3. Business security . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 2.4. Disease management project for HIV/AIDS patients . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 2.5. Improving access to health care . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 2.6. Regular assessment of health care needs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 2.7. Monitoring medical expenses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 2.8. Vanbreda International’s Medical Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 2.9. Solid case management capacities . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 2.10. Surveys on specific topics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 2.11. Proximity to clients . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 2.12. Access to Cigna USA health care provider network . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 2.13. Affordable health care – the importance of a global provider network . . . . 10 3. Valuing our employees . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 3.1. Taking care of our employees’ well-being . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 3.2. Valuing our employees’ point of view . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 3.3. Aiming at being an attractive and equal opportunity employer . . . . . . . . . . . 15 4. Valuing our environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 4.1. Raising employees’ awareness . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 5. Our ethics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 5.1. Company code of conduct . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 5.2. Code of Ethics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 5.3. Fighting money laundering . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 5.4. Fighting insurance fraud . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Cross-reference table . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 Statement of continuing support 3 Statement of continuing support At Vanbreda International and Cigna, our mother company since 2010, corporate social responsibility anchors our mission: improving the health, well-being and sense of security of the people we serve. Corporate social responsibility is part of our ethos. We believe that corporate success and a healthier world are interdependent. That is why we support a healthy, educated workforce and adhere to environmental sustainability and transparent governance best practices. These beliefs closely align with the principles laid down in the United Nations Global Compact. Taking our participation to heart, we are naturally renewing our support, as we have done for the past eight years. In 2011-2012, we continued the development of our HR strategy, building further on the foundations laid in previous years, integrating local and global policies. By raising our employees’ awareness of the community around us and showing them how we can contribute as individuals as well as a company, we actively engaged them to take part in our CSR policy by linking their own health and wellbeing to a good cause. We founded a new partnership with a local charity that works towards breast cancer awareness and encouraged our employees to take part in the fundraiser walk or run the charity organises every year. Our plan members and clients have always been at the heart of our services. That’s our promise. We not only reminded our staff of this promise, it also led to product and service innovations that we launched throughout 2011 and 2012. Supporting our plan members in difficult times means more than providing easy access to health care. We take it a step further by launching services that focus on preventing sickness and escalation of existing conditions. Our core activity is helping people wherever they are. Our core value is doing things the right way. We remain committed to being a sustainable and ethical company and we do so by embracing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Wouter Reggers Managing Director Vanbreda International Sphere of influence 4 1. Sphere of influence 1.1. Operations Vanbreda International has over 50 years’ experience in “Everyone has the right to a standard of living adequate designing, implementing and managing cross-border for the health and well-being of himself and of his family, employee benefits and health insurance programmes including food, clothing, housing and medical care and for private, public and not-for-profit organisations. These necessary social services, and the right to security in the include companies with expatriate staff and offices in event of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood, old different countries and continents, intergovernmental age or other lack of livelihood in circumstances beyond his organisations, diplomatic staff and foreign trade control. 2 representatives as well as non-governmental organisations. Transnational corporations and other business enterprises shall respect economic, social and cultural rights as well as As a provider of insurance products, services and civil and political rights and contribute to their realization, solutions, we are aware of the impact that our activities in particular the rights to development, adequate food and have on society, both nationally and globally. The United drinking water, the highest attainable standard of physical Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative and mental health, adequate housing, privacy, education, report ‘Insuring for Sustainability’ (UNEP FI, 2007), freedom of thought, conscience, and religion and freedom of rightfully mentions that “the insurance industry is a opinion and expression, and shall refrain from actions which strong lever for sustainability due to its size, the extent of obstruct or impede the realization of those rights.” 3 its reach into the community and the significant role it plays in the economy.” Since our foundation, we emerged as a company with an ever-increasing global reach. By enabling economic actors to take risks and protect their assets, insurance stimulates investments and For our clients, we play a role in helping them implement innovations. By providing financial protection against their employee benefits strategy in line with their death and disability risks and annuities for retirees, financial targets. We service over 440,000 people residing insurance reduces the pressure on the public sector. By and working all over the globe. By providing global analysing risks, insurance signals danger and provides access to health care we touch upon and influence their risk management advice. Last but not least, by investing daily lives and those of their families, wherever they work collected premiums, insurance directly contributes to the and live. economy.1 In addition to affecting our client’s HR and business strategy and financial performance, and their employees’ well-being, we play a key role in the lives of our employees and their work environment. Our client services are being taken to heart, day in day out, by 492 people4. The majority works from our headquarters in Belgium while others are based in our offices in the United States of America and Malaysia. We also have sales offices and local representations in Italy, Switzerland, Kenya, South Africa and Chile. 2 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 25. 3 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, article 12. 4 Number of Vanbreda International employees on 30 June 2013, 1 UNEP FI, 2007. representing 454.79 full-time equivalents. Sphere of influence 5 1.2. Our commitment to acting in a Vanbreda International is socially responsible way a Major Sponsor of UNICEF We are committed to acting in a socially responsible way. Belgium Our commitment is reflected in systems and initiatives that benefit all our stakeholders. We strongly believe in For many years, Vanbreda International has business ethics. sponsored UNICEF by making a donation for each customer satisfaction survey fully completed by our We support and pursue international principles and standards regarding human and labour rights, clients. Thanks to this contribution we are officially environmental protection and ethical business conduct.5 recognised as a ‘Major Sponsor’ of UNICEF Belgium. Not only do we adhere to the United Nation’s Global Compact principles, but we also subscribe and live up Child survival and development in the to the Diversity Declaration of the Flemish Chamber of Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) Commerce. In addition, in the wake of our acquisition UNICEF Belgium and Vanbreda International renewed by Cigna, we are in the process of integrating Cigna’s their partnership at the end of 2012. Vanbreda CSR policy. Aimed at creating a healthier world for International’s 2013 donation will be allocated to a plan members, employees, partners, investors and the project entitled ’Child survival and development in communities we serve, it focuses on 4 impact areas: several health care zones in DRC’. promoting wellness, developing leaders, expanding opportunities and embracing communities. While infant and child mortality rates have started decreasing in DRC, the situation of children and Moreover, we comply with all legislation and regulations pregnant women remains alarming. Insecurity, that have a bearing on our activities and we act combined with the absence of access roads, makes responsibly beyond what is legally required. Our it difficult to reach children living in the most adherence to the UNGC principles demonstrates that we strive to be a socially responsible service provider and remote areas, where health care is the most needed. employer. Currently, 554,000 children die every year in DRC before they reach the age of 5. We translated all of our engagements into our own Today, 40% of the children are covered by UNICEF’s specific set of commitments. Based on the principles of the ‘Triple Bottom Line’ (People, Planet and Profit), they minimal activity package aimed at reducing infant represent our intentions with an eye to organisational as and child mortality. The objective is to cover 60% of well as societal success. the children by focusing on 4 areas of activity: • immunisations; • supporting the existing health care system through reinforced paediatric care and prevention of mother-child HIV transmission; • nutrition; • emergency health care. 5 We refer to: • the UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights; • the International Labour Standards of the International Labour Organization (ILO); • the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development; • the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises; • the UN Convention against Corruption; • the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). ValUiNG oUr ClieNTS 6 2. Valuing our clients We want to ensure easy and affordable access to health Our effort towards continuous improvement is reflected care worldwide and reduce barriers to health care and in our ISO certification, which we obtained in 1998 protection wherever possible. At the same time, we raise as ‘international settler of claims regarding plan members’ awareness of the cost of health care plans employee benefits’6 . Ever since, this certification was and how they can contribute to keeping these costs renewed every three years. The latest re-certification was down. In addition we foresee measures and mechanisms awarded in 2013. to deter and detect insurance fraud. Our solutions are designed to enable staff covered by a health insurance or wider employee benefits programme to optimally benefit from the plan’s advantages. By upgrading and fine-tuning these plans and by launching new products and services, we continuously improve the 6 Certificate no BE98/01053 SGS European Quality Certification plan and product experience and cost impact. Institute E.E.S.V. Management responsibility a ct pla n Client’s Resource Analysis & management improvement Client’s requirements satisfaction che ck o d Product realisation Input Output Product As an ISO certified company we have a fully maintained quality management system in place that is based on quality design in the business process (PLAN), execution of the business process in accordance with quality guidelines as described in the quality handbook (DO), monitoring of the output with measurable and significant quality criteria (CHECK) and constant process improvement (ACT).7 7 For more information on ISO, see www.iso.org. Valuing our clients 7 2.1. Putting plan members and clients recent versions of most frequently used browsers, mobile versions included. These enhancements make it easier for at the heart of our activities our plan members to navigate through the information As we constantly strive to improve our customer services, and services offered, even those who are less familiar the Customer Centricity Board was created in the second with computers and internet use. half of 2012 to be the focal point for customer-centric actions and ideas, and to monitor customer centricity in 2.3. Business security all company-wide initiatives. By focusing on customer centricity across all 2.3.1. Information protection policy departments, we aim at making it easier for plan As we deal everyday with personal and medical data, members and clients to do business with us and to information protection is one of our top concerns. We making their experience with us warmer and more strengthened our policy in this regard in 2012 by: personal. • reinforcing password rules on all our systems; • implementing email encryption for communication This has translated so far in actions such as: with clients and customers; • sending a personalised ‘Get well soon’ postcard to • reinforcing control of our existing clean desk policy; hospitalised plan members; • installing shred bins in each department for the • sending birth e-cards to new mothers, together with a disposal of confidential documents; child development chart; • performing call vetting: our Customer Service • an internal campaign towards Customer Services Representatives now ask 5 security questions on teams: guidelines to make our written and oral every call from clients and insured before disclosing communication to plan members more useful, clear information to the caller. and complete in order to increase satisfaction and firsttime resolution of queries; 2.3.2. Business Continuity Plan • an internal relaunch campaign of our Customer Care charter. The 10 principles of Customer Care remind us In order to be able to respond to all kinds of disasters of our commitment to our customers every day. They (accidents, emergencies, threats, etc.) without stopping are built around 3 key values: Respect, Responsiveness our operations, we have a Business Continuity Plan. In and Reliability. 2012, a Euro Crisis risk assessment was conducted, with a successful outcome. Coming from various departments, the members of the board meet twice a month to track the progress of all 2.4. Disease management project for initiatives and examine the ideas and suggestions sent HIV/AIDS patients by employees to the new customer centricity mailbox. It has always been a top priority for us and our clients to provide HIV/AIDS patients with optimal health 2.2. New secure website for plan care access without concerns for the financial aspect, members confidentiality or stigmatisation. Our clients’ employees are given access to ‘personal webpages’, a secure website where they can consult With this in mind, we initiated a pilot project with one of all information regarding their insurance plan and use our clients in April 2010 in 9 African countries. It consists various online services. In August 2012, we rolled out of disease management in tight cooperation with the a major redesign that involved not only our Web and patient’s treating physician and of psychological support Marketing departments but also all departments in and treatment advice. contact with plan members. Following a positive assessment in 2011, it was turned The result of this intensive collaboration is a website into a full-blown programme in 2012. A second that offers a clear, intuitive interface as well as a fully assessment was conducted in December 2012, which overhauled structure and rewritten texts. It has also been confirmed that the programme delivers successful results made accessible to users with limitations and supports for both patients and our client, their employer. Valuing our clients 8 Every day, we interact with identified patients directly, guiding them and granting them access to the best Supporting our clients’ possible (proactive) medical care. We actively follow-up employees and manage patients’ health, by monitoring lab results Whenever our clients’ employees and their family and controlling the intake of medication. members need support, we want to be there. Our support focuses on offering health information, This positive evaluation encourages us not only to further coaching and assistance through the key moments enhance and expand the project, but also to use the lessons learnt in the broader context of the development of their life that may impact physical and/or mental of a global disease management programme. resilience. Stress, lack of physical activity and unhealthy eating 2.5. Improving access to health care habits rank as the top health risks in many parts of We have a significant impact on the extent to which the world. To help our clients’ employees improve our clients’ employees and their families are covered their health, we have implemented a health & wellagainst health risks. When designing our health care being strategy with 3 new programmes launched in plans we take into account local specificities and cultural 2012 and 2013: diversities, therapeutic freedom and cost effectiveness. • Health risk assessment: employees answer a 2.6. Regular assessment of health care 15-minute online questionnaire on four topics: needs nutrition, sleep, physical exercise and stress. Based on this assessment of their health, a coaching plan Every year we perform a detailed analysis of each client’s medical claims history. These analyses can reveal new is offered, as well as regular reminders and tips and cover needs that had not yet been included in the tricks emails. The aim is to help them make small health care plan. In such cases, we will advise our clients changes to their health & well-being for longto adjust their plans to better meet the health care lasting results. requirements of their employees and their families. At • Chronic condition management: this pilot the same time, the analyses of the plan experience helps project designed in collaboration with one to raise awareness about the cost of the plan both for of our clients is aimed at employees suffering employers and employees. from diabetes, HIV or a coronary artery disease. 2.7. Monitoring medical expenses This individual follow-up programme is led by an in-house trained nurse acting as a ‘health When reimbursing medical claims to health care plan coach’. During one year, the coach schedules members we always assess whether the expenses made are justified. First of all, we verify whether the treatment approximately 12 telephone sessions with each itself was justified, taking into account the underlying patient (about 1 telephone session per month). diagnosis. Secondly, we assess whether the expenses The goals are to improve the patient’s quality of comply with levels that are reasonable and customary life and ultimately reduce the progression and in the country where the treatment was given. These complications of their condition. assessments require a continuous follow-up of health • Employee assistance programme (EAP): care developments and related costs worldwide. We are telephone counselling to help employees identify supported in this effort by our global network of 178 medical correspondents based in 105 countries. and solve a whole range of personal problems. The multilingual team of qualified counsellors answers plan members’ questions, assesses the problem, and discusses and develops an action plan together with them. Face-to-face counselling is available at a client’s request. Valuing our clients 9 2.8. Vanbreda International’s Medical satisfaction survey to ask our members for input on what they find important and how we can improve ourselves. Board Vanbreda International is specialised in health insurance To keep a high response rate and make the completion services to expatriates worldwide and is trying to meet of the survey as easy as possible, we have published it on an increasing customer demand for health management an online platform. Plan members receive an invitation and advice. Making our Medical Board a top priority either by e-mail or by paper and in both, we ask them confirms our strong global position and presence when to complete the survey online so all respondent data are it comes to our knowledge of regional medical cultures, available online in real time. the follow-up of reasonable and customary expenses, case management and the detection of possible fraud. The survey is sent out to a 5% random selection of members having claimed with us and can be completed Apart from the medical consultants based in our in 6 languages. headquarters in Belgium, our Medical Board also includes medical consultants from all continents: Europe (Italy), 2.11. Proximity to clients America (Chile and Brazil), Asia (Malaysia, the Philippines, India and Afghanistan) and Africa (Senegal). We have local offices, sales and/or local representatives in Italy, Switzerland, Kenya, South Africa, Chile and the United Arab Emirates. With Claims Processing Offices 2.9. Solid case management capacities in Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), Antwerp (Belgium) and In 2012, our case managers successfully assisted more Miami (USA), we are present in three time zones so that than 1,000 patients and their families throughout their our customers globally have the best possible access hospitalisation or other major treatment. to us for communication and smooth claims handling purposes. Case management is two-fold. On the one hand, case managers provide clinical support by looking for Because we find it essential to offer our plan members alternative treatments options that enhance the patients’ a physical presence, we regularly organise visits in comfort and well-being. Whether in the field or in our their various locations all around the world. Our local Service Centres, they call or visit the patient and/or family representatives continuously travel around the greater members to ensure that the hospitalisation or treatment area they are in charge of to give presentations on is running smoothly, provide information and answer various aspects of the health insurance plan and hold their questions. individual appointments with plan members. Such visits can also be performed by headquarter staff from other On the other hand, in consultation with the patient and departments such as the Account Management team, treating doctor(s), case managers discuss the length of Customer Services or Provider Relations. stay and negotiate case-specific rates (on top of the ones already agreed with our Provider Relations department). 2.12. Access to Cigna USA health care provider network 2.10. Surveys on specific topics In 2012, thirteen new clients were granted access to Our clients expect our advice to be well-founded and Cigna’s proprietary provider network in the USA. This realistic. To this end, we make use of our extensive effort results in an improved customer service for plan database of medical information to make analyses and members seeking care in the USA: they now have organise surveys on specific topics such as preventive access to a network of 750,000 US providers without care, disease management, the impact of ageing on any administrative changes as Vanbreda International health care costs, trends in disability management and remains the single point of contact for all care, in and return to work policies and other topics. We work closely outside of the USA. with specialised institutions and academics to perform these surveys. Access to the Cigna US network also resulted in significant cost savings for both plan members and As we place our members at the centre of our activities, clients. processes and developments, we perform an ongoing Valuing our clients 10 2.13. Affordable health care – the importance of a global provider network Our Provider Relations department manages and We maintain optimal relationships with and proximity to monitors the worldwide Vanbreda International network providers worldwide and largely invest in face-to-face of health care providers. This network grows with the contact between our Medical Network Managers and needs of our clients, new and existing ones. Providers providers. In 2011 and 2012, we visited 1,000 health care who sign up to our network agree to apply direct providers in 55 countries. payment for our plan members and/or preferential rates for the health care services they provide. In June In November 2012, we improved one of the most-used 2013, Vanbreda International had concluded 9,020 direct functionalities on the customer secure website by payment and/or preferential rate agreements with health launching a new health care provider database that care providers worldwide. This is an increase of 6.7% makes it easier for plan members to find a health care compared to last year (8,454 agreements on 30 June provider in their area, 2012). The importance of Vanbreda International’s direct payment agreements Direct payment agreements ensure that we pay hospital bills – as well as medical bills for outpatient care – directly and promptly to the health care provider. This service facilitates access to health care as it reduces outof-pocket expenses for plan members and thus the impact on their financial situation. Furthermore, Vanbreda International has obtained preferential rates from many providers, an added means of keeping health care costs under control. This has a positive impact on the aggregate claims expenditure and limits premium and contribution increases for health care plan members and their employers. Valuing our employees 11 3. Valuing our employees Our HR strategy – ‘Healthy Careers… Healthy Returns’ In line with our mission, we help our employees improve their health, well-being and sense of security (as we do towards our clients) through our Human Resources mission entitled ‘Healthy Careers…Healthy Returns’. ‘Healthy Careers... Healthy Returns’ encompasses an integrated People Strategy that covers the breadth and depth of employee experiences, career management and development, performance, and rewards. It is at the core to our overall business strategy. Our People Strategy components are: • Career – we focus on development and retention of talent. • Returns – we offer monetary and non-monetary rewards and our compensation is differentiated among employees based on responsibilities and performance. • Culture – we stand for a work environment that includes the beliefs, values, norms, and management style of our company. • Life – we show commitment to employees’ health, well-being and security, with a strong focus on wellness. Throughout this chapter we demonstrate how we implement this strategy with initiatives that keep our employees healthy and happy. 3.1. Taking care of our employees’ well-being Our employees are at the heart of our activities and they We established a prevention policy, aimed at taking care represent our most precious asset. We consider their of the physical and mental health of our employees and well-being of paramount importance. calling upon every employee to help ensure his/her own health, safety and well-being and that of his/her “Transnational corporations and other business enterprises colleagues and to maintain a clean and environmentalshall provide a safe and healthy working environment as friendly workplace.9 set forth in relevant international instruments and national legislation as well as international human rights and The means to put these ideas into practice are based humanitarian law.” 8 on a combination of labour regulations and practical provisions, targeted at promoting physical and mental Our policies are aligned with international principles well-being. as well as national legislation in Belgium, the USA and Malaysia. 8 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, 9 Vanbreda International’s prevention policy is laid out in its Policy article 7. statement on well-being. Valuing our employees 12 3.1.1. Physical well-being 3.1.1.2. Internal medical service An Occupational Health Physician (OHP) and nurse are 3.1.1.1. Employees’ safety present at our offices once every two weeks. The OHP New employees are informed about our safety examines new employees, follows up on prolonged guidelines, and how to identify, evaluate and sickness and gives all staff working with computer appropriately act upon dangers and risks. We stress screens a sight test every three to five years. the importance and regularly remind employees of order and tidiness guidelines. One of these is the ‘clean He is also responsible for the annual influenza desk’ policy, as an orderly workplace is a first condition vaccination campaign. In 2010, 70 employees working at to prevent accidents and provide easy access to fire our headquarters were vaccinated. The OHP is available extinguishers and emergency exits. for employees who wish to consult him about workrelated medical complaints. Unfortunately, not all accidents or injuries can be avoided, which is why we work in close cooperation From the age of 40, all employees are entitled to a with an external service for work-related accidents. Each complete medical check-up every 3 years. incident is evaluated and results in an improvement of preventive measures whenever possible. Employees 3.1.1.3. Non-smoking policy are encouraged to report defects, complaints and suggestions for improvement via dedicated Our labour regulations include a smoking ban in all communication channels. offices. The following table includes the number of employee 3.1.1.4. Preventive alcohol and drug use policy accidents at work and on the road to work for the last five years. None of these accidents resulted in permanent As from 1 April 2010 a preventive alcohol and drug policy working incapacity or death. was included in the labour regulations for our Antwerp headquarters because work-related alcohol and drug use is a possible factor that can negatively affect the safety, Accidents at Accidents on the health and well-being of the employee and his or her work road to work environment. 2012 1 13 Moreover, it might also have a negative impact on 2011 2 8 the productivity and the work-quality and, as such, on 2010 0 7 our image as a company. Mainly, this policy has been 2009 0 4 established as a means of prevention. 2008 2 10 In its commitment to provide its employees with a safe and productive workspace, a similar, strict approach Vanbreda International organises fire drills for the towards ‘substance abuse’ has been implemented by fire intervention team, and the people in charge Vanbreda International LLC for the Miami offices. of evacuation and first aid on a regular basis. Every month, all alarm signals are tested. After each fire drill a performance report is drawn up and discussed with the Committee for Prevention and Safety at Work. Valuing our employees 13 3.1.1.7. Plan S Promoting physical exercise Support plan for 45+ We encourage our employees to stay fit and practice employees sports. Employees who come to work by bike are As the population ages and retirement age increases, financially rewarded with a bicycle allowance of 0.21 special assistance and guidance is needed in the EUR per kilometre. Alternatively, Antwerp employees workplace to motivate and keep older employees can make use for free of the bike-sharing system of the at work as long as possible in the best conditions city of Antwerp as the company pays for their yearly possible. This is the aim of the programme that was subscription. set up at the beginning of 2013 in our company for ‘Plan S’ is a yearly company-wide initiative to encourage employees older than 45. Special attention is given to our employees to improve their physical condition. their training needs, to part-time work opportunities as well as to their physical health. The HR department In 2012 we encouraged and sponsored participation will invite all employees older than 55 for a meeting to the ‘Race for the cure’, a 3km walk or a 6km run to look at their career development and the organised on 30 September by ThinkPink Belgium, a Company doctor will report every year on the health charity that works towards breast cancer awareness. Both employees and their family members could register and state of employees older than 45 to the Board that benefit from the free subscription to a 10-week training gathers employee representative and employer programme offered by Vanbreda International. 300 representatives. employees, family members took part in the race. In 2013, Plan S consists in an individual training 3.1.1.5. Health risk assessment programme coached by a professional trainer. After an initial test to assess their physical condition, employees In order to help our employees assess their health status are offered a personalised training programme. Followand encourage them to make progressive changes to up tests are planned throughout the year. improve their health and well-being, we have given them access to an online health risk assessment program. All employees were invited to take a personal and 3.1.1.8. Cafeteria confidential survey on their nutritional, sleep, sports To support a more comprehensive approach to our habits and their stress level. After the assessment, employees’ health and fitness, we decided to offer more they received a detailed report with feedback as well than just sports programmes. The menu in the cafeteria as practical tips. To accompany them on the road to of our Antwerp office is both healthy and diverse improved lifestyle, tips are also regularly published on including fresh fruit every day and fresh soup that are our Intranet. free of charge. Our employees can also choose from a wide variety of salads, sandwiches, pastry and desserts. 3.1.1.6. Ergonomics We attach great importance to ergonomics. The following extract from our ISO quality manual reflects this concern: “Creating a pleasant working environment is a key element at Vanbreda International. The Workplace Health and Safety Adviser ensures that all employees are able to work in the best possible conditions.” To eliminate ergonomic risks, Vanbreda International invests in high-quality ergonomic office furniture for all employees. Our Internal Department for Prevention and Safety at Work gives general as well as personalised advice on preventive measures. Additionally, Vanbreda International has hired an ergonomist who visits our headquarters six times per year. Valuing our employees 14 3.1.2. Mental well-being 3.1.2.1. Protection of personal integrity 3.1.2.5. Social events In line with international and national law, we have set In order to create a good working atmosphere, we up a specific procedure to protect employees against uphold a tradition of organising social events on a violence, bullying and sexual harassment at work which regular basis such as company parties, team-building is applicable in our offices worldwide. We included the activities, family days and cultural events. This tradition is complaint procedure in our labour regulations, whereas an integral part of our company identity. a personal confidant was installed who can be contacted by possibly victimised employees. 3.1.2.2. Company Policies Although we are confident that everyone is aware of the applicable laws and regulations, we have decided to include them in our company policy. Divided into 2 separate documents: compliance and ethics, on the one hand, and travel, expenses, entertainment and gifts policy, on the other hand, our company policy is published on our Intranet for easy access by all employees. 3.1.2.3. Sustainable work–life balance “Everyone has the right to rest and leisure, including reasonable limitation of working hours and periodic holidays with pay”. 10 In support of this principle, our labour regulations and collective labour agreements allow several possibilities to improve our employees’ work–life balance. Depending on local labour practice, laws and legislation, these include options such as flex time, a choice of part-time packages, and time credit/career breaks. 3.1.2.4. Employee Assistance Programme Vanbreda International offers all its employees and their family members professional counselling, resources, referrals, and information to help them face short-term personal issues Employees and their family members can call 24/7 for free in case they have work, family, health, legal or financial issues and can be referred to a specialised counsellor for further phone or face-toface counselling. All contacts with the EAP provider are voluntary and strictly confidential. 10 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 20. Valuing our employees 15 3.2. Valuing our employees’ point of As a result of the previous survey, we have launched a quarterly company newsletter and an employee view recognition programme in 2012. 3.2.1. Freedom of association and collective 3.3. Aiming at being an attractive and bargaining equal opportunity employer We endorse the international principles of freedom “Transnational corporations and other business enterprises of association and collective bargaining as described shall ensure equality of opportunity and treatment, as in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and provided in the relevant international instruments and the UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational national legislation as well as international human rights corporations and other business enterprises with regard law, for the purpose of eliminating discrimination based to human rights. on race, colour, sex, language, religion, political opinion, national or social origin, social status, indigenous status, “Everyone has the right to form and to join trade unions for disability, age – except for children, who may be given the protection of his interests. greater protection – or other status of the individual unrelated to the inherent requirements to perform the job, or Transnational corporations and other business enterprises of complying with special measures designed to overcome shall ensure freedom of association and effective recognition past discrimination against certain groups.” 13 of the right to collective bargaining by protecting the right to establish and, subject only to the rules of the organization We support international standards on equal concerned, to join organizations of their own choosing employment and remuneration opportunities. without distinction, previous authorization, or interference, Consequently, we aim to provide fair remuneration and for the protection of their employment interests and for growth opportunities, and to foster diversity. other collective bargaining purposes as provided in national legislation and the relevant conventions of the International 3.3.1. A fair and competitive remuneration Labour Organization.” 11 package for everyone We encourage an open and constructive dialogue “Everyone who works has the right to just and favourable between employer and employees. In line with the remuneration ensuring for himself and his family an relevant national legislation12, our internal regulations existence worthy of human dignity, and supplemented, if describe the composition and duties of the Works necessary, by other means of social protection.14 Council. Transnational corporations and other business enterprises shall provide workers with remuneration that ensures an 3.2.2. Engagement survey adequate standard of living for them and their families. Such remuneration shall take due account of their needs for Our ability to perform successfully as a company adequate living conditions with a view towards progressive depends on how effectively we engage, develop and improvement.” 15 deploy our people. In order to assess our employees’ engagement, a survey was conducted in May 2013, as a We apply a remuneration policy based on objective follow-up to the very first survey conducted in 2011. criteria such as responsibilities, skills, expertise, experience and personal performance. 92% of our employees took the time to complete the 15-minute survey. The results are currently being We provide a broad package of fringe benefits to all analysed and action plans will be proposed based on the employees. Depending on local legislation and ‘good conclusions of this analysis. 13 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, 11 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations article 2. and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, 14 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 23. article 9. 15 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations 12 Bedrijfsorganisatiewet (1948), Royal Decree of 15 May 2003 and and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, of 27 November 1973. article 8. Valuing our employees 16 employer’ practice, this may include group insurance great importance to the professional and personal (pension/death), health care benefits , protection development of our employees. against work incapacity or advantageous mobile phone subscriptions. Salaries and fringe benefits are In 2012, Vanbreda International organised a total of 1,071 being determined without taking into consideration training days, which corresponds to 2.2 training days per or discriminating against gender, religion, ethnic employee. We especially invested in in-house language background or physical handicap. courses offered throughout the year (except for the school holidays) during lunch time. Participants can Every individual staff member is entitled to transparency choose between English, French, German and Dutch (for concerning his or her remuneration package. We the employees who do not have Dutch as their native will use appropriate means to offer this transparency, language). such as a correct and detailed employment contract, staff rules, collective bargaining agreements, internal Apart from language training, computer skills and communication vehicles such as an intranet, and medical terminology remain important focus points in personal benefit statements. our training offer. 3.3.2. Training and personal growth The table below shows the total number of hours of training of our headquarters’ staff for the calendar year Continuous learning opportunities are an important 2012: motivator and a condition for job satisfaction. We attach number of hours of training per type of training Study leave Company system: 1.827,80 Skills: 2.972,50 Study leave Legal system: 845,45 General training: 580,40 Management training: 273,80 Networking: 51,80 Language training: 525,10 Computer training: 288,80 Technical training: 545,50 Seminar/teambuilding: 14,40 Valuing our employees 17 • Education Savings Account on race, colour, sex, language, religion, political opinion, Since the academic year 2008-2009, Vanbreda national or social origin, social status, indigenous status, International has decided to intensify its investment in disability, age – except for children, who may be given up-skilling its management. Every academic year, each greater protection – or other status of the individual management staff member receives a credit on his/ unrelated to the inherent requirements to perform the her personal Education Savings Account, which (s)he job, or of complying with special measures designed to can spend on his/her professional development. The overcome past discrimination against certain groups.” 16 balance of this budget can be transferred to the next academic year. 3.3.3. Equal remuneration “Everyone, without any discrimination, has the right to equal • Cigna University pay for equal work.” 17 Cigna University is a web-based training platform offering various internal trainings to all Cigna We endorse the collective labour agreement 18 regarding employees worldwide. Our employees followed an the equal remuneration for male and female employees. Ethics & compliance course as well as a course on This agreement is an integral part of our labour European data protection legislation. Managers had regulations. The principle of equal remuneration implies the opportunity to take several Customer centricity that, for equal work of equal value, every difference workshops as well as a leadership training aimed at regarding the sexes is abolished. In practice, this means helping them work in an international environment. that we have committed ourselves to making sure that The Customer centricity workshops will be rolled out the company’s performance review system does not lead to all staff later on in 2013. to discrimination. • Performance management Each new employee completes a training schedule 3.3.4. Fostering diversity aimed at acquiring the knowledge and skills required We commit ourselves to fostering diversity among our in several fields (commercial, technical, administration, employees and not to discriminate based on gender, communication). Employees with new responsibilities age, nationality or ethnic background. At the end of or in need of developing additional skills receive 2012, we employed people of 26 different nationalities. appropriate internal or external training. All types of Worldwide, 485 people work for Vanbreda International. training are registered, monitored and evaluated. Vanbreda International’s age structure as from 30 June A new performance management system was 2012 is as follows: put in place at the end of 2012. Every employee defines Annual Performance Objectives (APOs) and Age bracket Number of employees competencies he/she want to focus on during the year to come. After 6 months, employees and their < 20 years 0 manager will review the APOs and competencies to 20 – 29 years 173 check where they stand, giving both an opportunity 30 – 39 years 177 to adjust where needed before year-end. This creates twice a year a year an opportunity for employees to 40 – 49 years 110 formally discuss career development and training 50 – 59 years 36 opportunities with their manager. • Selecting the best people, regardless of nationality, ethnic background, age, gender or physical condition “Transnational corporations and other business enterprises 16 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations shall ensure equality of opportunity and treatment, as and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, provided in the relevant international instruments and article 2. national legislation as well as international human rights 17 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, article 23. 18 CAO no 25 of 15 October 1975, modified by the CAO no 25 b of law, for the purpose of eliminating discrimination based 19 December 2001. Valuing our employees 18 We signed the Diversity Declaration of the Employers’ Platform for Diversity, a collaborative initiative of UNIZO (Union of Independent Entrepreneurs), VOKA (Chambers of Commerce) and VKW (Employers’ Organisation). Our company agrees with the basic principles of the Declaration and is making every effort to implement them within the organisation. Specifically, our commitments are as follows: – We seek to make our personnel policy as objective as possible. We achieve this by ensuring that: • the recruitment and selection process focuses on the competencies of candidates and offers equal opportunities to everyone; • training and developmental opportunities are the same for everyone; • the salary policy is non-discriminatory; • people of foreign origin, people with a work handicap and older employees, etc. can also apply for jobs and be hired. – We evaluate how we formulate vacancies and which recruitment channels we use to reach a diverse group of candidates. We make the selection interview and the practical tests objective. – We do not comply with discriminating conditions that are imposed by clients or other external parties. – We demand respect for all employees and do not tolerate discrimination between colleagues on the basis of origin, age, gender and sexual preference, etc. – Both inside and outside the company, we make people aware that we are a member of the ‘Employers’ Platform for Diversity’. Valuing our environment 19 4. Valuing our environment “Transnational corporations and other business enterprises 4.1.2. Saving natural resources shall carry out their activities in accordance with national Employees are explicitly encouraged to save energy laws, regulations, administrative practices and policies by turning off lights and electrical devices whenever relating to the preservation of the environment of the possible, using heating and ventilation moderately, and countries in which they operate, as well as in accordance avoiding waste of water. with relevant international agreements, principles, objectives, By means of financial and practical incentives, employees responsibilities and standards with regard to the environment are encouraged to come to work by bike or public as well as human rights, public health and safety, bioethics transport, or to carpool. and the precautionary principle, and shall generally conduct their activities in a manner contributing to the wider goal of The following table displays Vanbreda International’s sustainable development.” 19 annual consumption of natural resources: We comply with the ecological requirements determined by international principles, Belgian environmental Resource 2011 2010 2009 legislation and the ‘Welzijnswet’ (Law on Well-being). Electricity 942,000 KWh 967,000KWh 1,004,500 KWh We have translated this commitment into systems to Gas 729,000 KWh 774,000 KWh 728,600 KWh prevent, minimise and compensate any harmful impact on the environment. This includes initiatives at employee Tap water 4,000 m³ 3,500 m³ 3,000 m³ and company level. The increase in gas consumption between 2009 and 4.1. Raising employees’ awareness 2010 is mainly due to the exceptionally hard winter of 2009/2010. When joining our company, employees are informed of our environmental policy and their individual In 2011, we managed to bring our electricity responsibility to comply with it. consumption further down by 2.6% and our gas consumption by 5.8%. 4.1.1. Sorting waste On top of the 4 separate bins for the collection of We provide the Belgian government with an annual recyclable waste placed in 2010 within reach of every environmental report on our performance in terms employee, Vanbreda International employees in Antwerp of waste production as well as emission and energy have been using environmentally-friendly drinking cups consumption (Integraal Milieujaarverslag – IMJV). since December 2011. Plastic cups have been replaced with biodegradable cups that decompose within 6 4.1.3. Environmentally-friendly cleaning weeks and can be thrown away in the organic waste bin. products This has resulted in a 13% decrease in drinking cup usage. Since March 2012, the catering company running the Vanbreda International cafeteria has been using ‘green’ For optimal waste collection, we have drafted guidelines cleaning products bearing the EU Ecolabel. on how to sort and minimise waste and regularly remind all employees of these guidelines. 19 UN Norms on the responsibilities of transnational corporations and other business enterprises with regard to human rights, article 14. Valuing our environment 20 4.1.4. Company-wide initiatives Ecology – Vanbreda International receives ‘CO2 Neutral’ Certificate Since 2006, Vanbreda International has implemented an increasing number of measures to live up to its commitment of achieving CO2 neutrality. For the calendar year 2012, we obtained a CO2 offsetting for the compensation of 1,673 tons of in-house CO2 emissions, a reduction of 6% compared to 2011. This certificate is the result of our financial support to two CO2-reducing projects in South East India and Tanzania, but also of the following green measures: • promotion of carpooling and the use of public transport and bicycle for commuting; • installation of an energy-saving warmth regulation system for heating and cooling; • use of a passive cooling technique with a night cooling system by ventilation; • installation of automatic lighting timers in the hallways; • use of green electricity in the Antwerp building since December 2009. Our ethics 21 5. Our ethics We strive to set an example of ethical and transparent • will not promise, offer, make nor accept any bribes business conduct by taking initiatives in favour of ethical (including payments of money or any other assets, conduct of employees, fighting corruption and money gifts or other objects of value) whatsoever in order to laundering and discouraging insurance fraud. improperly influence decisions or actions or obtain any improper advantage whatsoever; not directly nor With regard to business ethics, Vanbreda International is indirectly; at the forefront of implementing and maintaining best • will uphold all laws that apply and which are relevant corporate practices. It is deeply committed to creating to countering bribery and corruption, regardless of and upholding a culture of ethical behaviour across whether those laws refer to government officials, the company. These efforts are supported by formal political parties, candidates for political office, public procedures as well as regular checks and balances to organisations or persons, and/or private organizations make sure ethical behaviour is not only a mindset, but and persons. also properly secured through a formal system. Both culture and procedures are kept alive through training 5.2.1. Raising awareness among our staff and awareness actions. All our employees are requested to take a 45-minute online Ethics & Compliance course detailing the various In the past year, we have worked further on our best aspects of the Code of Ethics, with concrete examples. practices and continued the implementation and followup of our company policies in the areas of anti-money Regular policy reminders are published on the laundering, anti-corruption, data protection, compliance company’s Intranet as well as information on all actions with economic sanctions and third-party due diligence taken towards our business partners. Some of our (i.e. ensuring that the partners we deal with also respect employees were also offered a course on the European high ethical standards). data protection legislation. 5.1. Company code of conduct 5.2.2. Raising awareness among our business Our labour regulations describe our general partners commitment regarding attitude and conduct at work. We expect from all our business partners and clients New employees are clearly informed of these guidelines. that they share our commitment and that they support our relentless efforts of conducting business ethically 5.2. Code of Ethics throughout the world. We have thus inserted this mutual Being part of Cigna, a global health service company, commitment in contractual documents, varying from Vanbreda International adheres to the Cigna Code of Terms & Conditions of our products to group insurance Ethics and Principles of Conduct. contracts and agreements with brokers and health care providers. The Code of Ethics includes topics such as integrity in the marketplace, fair business practices and competition, We have also published our commitment on our the protection of customers’ and employees’ privacy and corporate website at www.vanbreda-international.com. client confidentiality. Part of the Code of Ethics relates to bribery and corruption. Vanbreda International is committed to the highest standard of integrity and has implemented a comprehensive anti-corruption policy involving our staff as well as all our business partners, existing and potential ones. All parties commit that they: Our ethics 22 5.3. Fighting money laundering 5.4.2. Detecting fraud We comply with Belgian Anti-Money Laundering During the processing of health insurance claims, various Legislation, which complies with the relevant European checks are performed with the goal of minimising the Union directives. The legislation imposes a number or risk of unjustified reimbursements. We assess each claim rules with a view to preventing money laundering. on the basis of what is typical, customary and reasonable in terms of treatments as well as costs. Thorough training Internally, we have drafted a detailed policy document and geographical specialisation enable our Claims as well as operating procedures that will guide and Analysts to recognise possible deviations at an early enhance our continuous efforts in that area. stage. We will contact the health care provider directly if necessary. 5.4. Fighting insurance fraud 5.4.3. Investigation by our Fraud Investigation Health insurance, especially in an international context, is Unit typically prone to fraud. During and after the processing of a claim, a fraud Medical insurance fraud is a serious offence, which investigation may be opened by our Fraud Investigation leads in the long run to other medical plan members Unit. Its role is essential in order for us to increase our becoming the major victims. To protect our clients’ knowledge through practical experience of fraud financial interests we developed a detailed anti-fraud problems tackled and to ensure that future preventive policy aimed at preventing, detecting, investigating, measures are up to date with the reality of the fraud risks reporting and recovering fraud. that we face. Vanbreda International is a member of various It closely cooperates with the Medical Claims Units organisations that aim at reducing fraud and corruption where possible as fraud monitoring is an important part in health care throughout Europe (European Healthcare of the claims handling process as well and where new Fraud and Corruption Network, EHFCN), in the USA fraud files often will be initiated. (National Health Care Anti-Fraud Association, NHCAA) as well as in the UK (Health Insurance Counter Fraud Group, The team can also rely on international networks to HICFG). keep informed of all new health care fraud trends and techniques. 5.4.1. Preventing fraud and raising awareness We maintain close working relationships with a worldwide network of health care providers, whom we have thoroughly screened in terms of quality and trustworthiness. In addition, we count on health care plan members’ sense of responsibility to avoid fraudulent activities. We appeal to them to counter malicious practices and to work towards a balanced and financially healthy medical insurance plan. We guarantee strict confidentiality and a thorough investigation of each individual complaint. Cross-reference table 23 Cross-reference table This table contains a cross-reference guide between the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and Vanbreda International’s Progress Report 2013. UN Global Compact Principle: Vanbreda International Page Businesses should … … support and respect the protection of internationally Valuing our clients proclaimed human rights 2/3 1/2 6 18 Valuing our employees … ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses … support the elimination of all forms of forced and 3 Valuing our employees 4/5 compulsory labour 11 18 … support the effective abolition of child labour … uphold freedom of association and the effective 3 Valuing our employees 3 11 18 recognition of the right to collective bargaining … support the elimination of discrimination in respect 3 Valuing our employees 6 11 18 of employment and occupation … support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Valuing our … undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 4 7/8/9 19 20 environment responsibility … encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Valuing our clients … work against corruption in all its forms, including 6 18 2/3/5 Valuing our employees 10 extortion and bribery 21 22 Our ethics is a company of
