UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 02 WE ARE COMMITTED TO THE GLOBAL COMPACT… As a business that is committed to creating sustainable livelihoods to declare their dedication to sustainability and corporate citizenship, MAS Holdings has adhered to the regulations of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) by submitting the annual Communication on Progress (COP). As accountability policy to the UNGC, this COP presents our company’s commitment to the Ten Principles on Human Rights, Labor Conditions, Environment and Anti-Corruption and the activities and measures we have taken to achieve this. 03 CONTENT Message of Continued Support 05 Human Rights 09 Labour Standards 23 Special Initiatives 25 Recognition 31 Environment 35 Anti-Corruption 49 Sports in our culture 50 Supplementary Information 56 04 MESSAGE OF CONTINUED SUPPORT We welcome you to our 9th consecutive Communication on Progress. 2012 was a hallmark year for MAS Holdings, as we celebrate 25 years of excellence working with our stakeholders to build a great company whilst nurturing people and communities. MAS moves forward, always with a steadfast resolve to ensure the welfare of our people, upholding and refining our ethical and sustainable practices to maintain evolving global standards. Our organisation has always grown through combined effort, with values based on mutual respect and working together with stakeholders on multiple platforms, to drive the company forward. Our ‘culture of belonging’ has organically moulded our corporate structure into more of a family, and extends beyond the organization to our communities. Through our community ties and initiatives, we have created lasting bonds with the localities in which our plants are based, giving us license to operate as we continue to thrive as a corporate entity. In 2012, MAS’ people and sustainability practices were commended both globally and locally. Our pioneering Women’s Empowerment Programme (Women Go Beyond) was declared winner of the Women’s Empowerment Corporate Leader 2012 award by The New Economy; and we were honoured at Asia’s Best CSR Practices Awards in Singapore. HR practices were recognized with MAS Intimates winning Gold at the National HR Awards and two awards at The World HRD Congress in Singapore for Asia’s Best HR Practices in HR Strategy and Excellence in Training. We also received an environmental sustainability award for Asia’s Best CSR Practices in Carbon Accounting, whilst two of our manufacturing plants won Gold at the National Green Awards organized by the Central Environmental Authority of Sri Lanka. The following pages review our Communication on Progress for 2012, revisiting the Global Compact principles on Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. With an empowered workforce and community support, MAS will continue to carve out a unique place in the sun for all our stakeholders. As always, we pledge our continuing commitment to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. Dian Gomes Head, Group Branding and CSR MAS Holdings 05 THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labor. PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support the precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 06 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. MAS ensures adherence to Principles 1 and 2, the law of the land, standards dictated by relevant external parties via self-governance through internal standards, policies and procedures. Thus far, no violation with respect to human rights has emerged within the organization. Since our inception in 1987, we have run our business with an unwavering set of values and ethics. We have followed a simple yet effective principle of “Always Doing the Right Thing”. This has been the resounding principle of engagement in all of our business relationships. Especially our employee and community interactions have been based on the grounds of mutual respect and the strong belief that all must work together for the growth of the company, of the community. MAS has always taken positive action to “live” the essence of Principles 1 and 2, not only through the use of our sphere of influence to protect and respect human rights; but also the support of the enjoyment of rights through our inclusive women’s empowerment programme, community investments and through the platform of sport. “Doing the right thing” goes beyond organizational boundaries in an environment where employee health / safety and wellbeing is an integral part of our operating DNA. With a large workforce of over 58,000 associates, spanning 10 countries, our primary focus is on nurturing communities and creating a stable, secure space that is more than a mere workplace for our employees. Engaging stakeholders on multiple platforms, MAS in the 25 years of operation have been able to socially invest and develop communities where this was most needed, which gives us the social licence to operate in our communities. MAS has a policy framework that governs the entire employee life cycle at the organization from hire to retire. This is strengthened by the MAS Women Go Beyond initiative which is our primary tool for gender equality in an organization where 90% of our workforce is women. We work with some of the best brands in the world and have a reputation for robust compliance practices that go beyond customer, regulatory and legislative requirements. We are proud of our reputation in this context; being recognized and showcased by most of our customers as an example to other vendors. Our values continue to be the key differentiator. MAS has always worked in a different mould, where employees are treated with fairness and dignity, and become an integral part in the company’s success. 09 MAS Holdings has been featured as two good practice case studies in the Human Rights and Business Dilemma Forum an initiative implemented by the United Nations Global Compact and Maplecroft. The case studies can be seen at the following web links: http://human-rights.unglobalcompact.org/case_studies/Gender/gender/promoting_ female_empowerment.html http://human-rights.unglobalcompact.org/case_studies/migrant-workers/ A NEW BEGINNING “Business can also be a powerful incentive for bringing people together across national and cultural lines, creating relationships based on a shared sense of identity and purpose, overcoming differences that, in the wider society, are more difficult to surmount.” Guidance on Responsible Business in Conflict-Affected and High -Risk Areas: A Resource for Companies and Investors (2010) Global Compact Two major Divisions of MAS are building manufacturing facilities in Kilinochcchi MAS Intimates Vidiyal and MAS Active Vaanavil. The names of the facilities themselves, Vidiyal, meaning “dawn” and Vaanavil signifying “rainbows” aptly symbolize MAS Holdings’ thinking behind this venture. Like the “rainbow” which is a beautiful celebration of diversity, MAS’ passion is to unite communities and work together in the area to herald a new phase in the development of the region. The construction of two facilities will affect labour market flows in the area. At maturity Vaanavil and Vidiyal together hope to provide employment for approximately 2000 direct employees and positively contribute to the livelihoods of their families. Many indirect employment opportunities have also opened up during the construction phase; the project and peripheral activity providing employment opportunity for other segments of the labour force. MAS Active embarked on this project on 4th May 2012, when they laid the foundation for commencement of construction of MAS Active Vaanavil, and MAS Intimates Vidiyal ceremoniously commenced construction of their facility on 18th June 2012. Vaanavil will primarily service sports-wear under the leading international brand Nike. This venture will further strengthen both organizations alignment to “celebrating the endless possibilities of human potential”. Vaanavil also inaugurated a temporary training and manufacturing facility in Thiru Nagar, Kilinochchi, in May 2012. 10 Vidiyal, having commenced a temporary training and manufacturing facility in Kilinochchi town this January, made its maiden shipment of briefs to Oysho on 15th March 2012. They will be primarily servicing customer Oysho; the lingerie and intimate apparel brand of Inditex Group. The training centres provide employment for one hundred and forty five new recruits and training on various capabilities required for complex apparel products; whilst integrating the inductees to the MAS culture. These pioneering employees will eventually become team leaders and multi-skilled workers. The construction of the facilities scheduled for completion during the third quarter of 2013, is co-funded by USAID, the development arm of the U.S. Government. The project is supported by USAID, as part of its Public-Private Alliances program. Collaborations such as this are helping recently-resettled populations in recovering regions resume their livelihoods. MAS is positive about the potential in Kilinochchi and the great opportunity this affords us to progress together by providing more than just job opportunities, but working towards the prosperity of the community. The Vaanavil training facility The dawn of Vidiyal CAPACITY BUILDING FOR THE NEXT GENERATION Nation building of another kind is happening with the youth and children in the localities where MAS operate. In 2012, MAS embarked on a unique social innovation programme targeting the next generation by introducing new initiatives as well as refreshing existing programmes under this banner. A series of training and educational interventions coming under this umbrella aimed at school children, prefects, university students and youth leaders have helped equip them with soft skills, information and capabilities to take on demanding roles in the future, simultaneously supporting talented young students achieve a better future. Express Learning Initiative Express learning in almost any field gives extraordinary results. Express Learning is a series of simple methods that enable a person learn extraordinarily and apply knowledge in extraordinary ways. Speed reading, high-tech note taking, discovering your personal learning style, memory techniques, special music, mind conditioning audios and exam success systems are main express learning modalities. Once taught, almost every student could be learning speedily and in an easy manner, performing beyond the accepted standards, especially at exams. Children and parents spend vast amounts of time, effort and money in pursuit of quality education. The Government too invests heavily to provide high levels of education to students. Majority of children attend school and attempt to study and only a small percentage succeed. The pass rates at GCE O/L and A/L bear testimony to this. 11 The general assumption for failure is lack of interest and hard work. This however could be changed through the knowledge and skill of “Express Learning”. Express Learning was first introduced to Sri Lanka by Dr. Priyanga de Zoysa in the year 2000 through his ground breaking and sensational book “Adivegi Igenuma”(Express Learning). This programme is conducted by MAS Intimates in conjunction with Dr. Priyanga de Zoysa, a renowned Sri Lankan author and self-development guru. Dr. Priyanga envisioned the creation of a self-help pack, together with an introductory training programme, that will help students learn fast and perform optimally at exams. TARGET » Primary – Advance Level and Ordinary level students sitting exams in 2013 in selected schools » Secondary – teachers and parents OBJECTIVES To train O/L and A/L students in selected schools » To create awareness amongst teacher through Express Learning seminars » Discussion with parents on how to interact with students sitting for exams, career choices made by their children and how to support your children during major exams » To distribute Express Learning packs to schools for Library and student/teacher use » To generate interest in Express Learning among students, teachers and parents through trained MAS facilitators. MAS’ facilitators follow up with teachers and students in maximizing gain of the seminar by ensuring fair use of the contents of the pack among all students, conducting group sessions using contents of the pack, periodically evaluating progress and offering suggestions for improvement. RESULTS Started in Quarter 3 of 2012, the programmes have catalyzed a change in the approach of students, parents and teachers to studying for these critical exams. Parents also became more open to career options which were not traditional professions. This gave students more freedom to select their optimum career and look at alternatives to university education as well. » In 2012 the Express Learning initiative was implemented at 6 schools in Panadura, Ahangama, Pannala, Kuliyapitiya, Giriulla and Mawathagama » It impacted 3475 students in total and 215 teachers » Approximately 1925 parents attended the programmes » 575 books and 18 packs donated to the six schools This initiative will be continued during 2013; also a second phase implementation in the above schools will be done after the results of the 2013 exams are analyzed. Although an improvement in results would not be directly attributable to this initiative alone, this will form an accurate basis for evaluation. 12 LEADERSHIP TRAINING FOR YOUTH Bodyline II conducted three comprehensive leadership training Programmes for 16 to 25 year olds from Youth Clubs. The Programme emphasizes on elements of having a positive outlook, work ethic, general etiquette and awareness of one’s place and contribution to the family and society. The objective of the Programme was to provide awareness and soft skills to this youth segment, to help mould them into valued members of society and their workplace. Participation Polegoda Programme : 300 nos. Panadura Youth Club Programme: 200 nos. Dodangoda Youth Centre : 200 nos. SUPPORTING APPAREL INDUSTRY SKILLS DEVELOPMENT MAS believes that by investing in capacity building amongst University and National Diploma in Technology (NDT ) students in the various technical disciplines relevant to the apparel industry, we are not only helping a more balanced graduate to come into the marketplace, but also supporting the efforts of creating a technical pool of potential employees. We began focused initiatives with Universities such as Moratuwa, Kelaniya, Peradeniya and NDT (textile and apparel engineering) as far back as 2004. We provide capability development in the form of offering internships within our facilities, mentoring Programmes and structured strategic initiatives. MAS AWARD FOR BEST OVERALL STUDENT Most existing students’ awards give prominence predominantly to academic achievements, MAS Holdings believes in recognizing undergraduate students who not only have excelled in their academic performance, but also entail the other essential attributes that are found necessary to qualify as “marketable graduates”. The Award Programme commenced in 2004 with the University of Moratuwa, and has been successfully conducted each year and now extends to participants from: University of Peradeniya Degree Programme: Bsc. Production Engineering, University of Kelaniya Degree Programme: Bsc. Industrial Management, University of MoratuwaDegree Programme: Bsc. Textile Engineering, NAITA (University of Moratuwa), and Diploma Programme: National Diploma in Technology (NDT). To-date there have been 43 recipients of the awards and approximately 2/3 are employed within MAS. OBJECTIVE » To expose undergraduates to the expectations and standards of the corporate world right from the outset of receiving their degree. » Encourage students to become well-rounded individuals 13 Develop marketable Degree holders: » Academic performance » Team player » Attitude / personality / drive to do the best / ambition » Extracurricular activities (sports/community/at institution) » Communication / interpersonal skills (spoken/written English, presentation) » MAS to become a part of student’s lives & build partnerships with the universities “READY TO UNLEASH” It has been observed that students following their degree programme have little or no exposure to the demands of corporate life, the “Ready to Unleash” Programme was designed to bridge provide the skills for trainees to successfully integrate into work environment at MAS Holdings. The Ready to Unleash Programme is in essence a two day competency building Programme for interns commencing industrial training at MAS Holdings (Divisions and SBU’s). OBJECTIVE » To provide students with an understanding of expectations of trainees at MAS Holdings » To provide them with the necessary soft skill training required in the corporate arena » To teach business etiquette in order for students to understand professional behavior in a work setting. » To teach concepts of teamwork and working towards a common goal METHODOLOGY This is a 2 day residential Programme with elements of classroom learning with resource people from MAS, the apparel Industry and HR experts, experiential learning, includes practical discussions through an Industry Forum. The Programme structure also includes continuous learning evaluation in the form of mini-projects. For the period 2006 to 2012 we have offered this to 390 in-plant trainees / interns who join MAS for their industrial training from University of Moratuwa (Textile Engineering), National Diploma in Technology, University of Kelaniya (Industrial Management), University of Peradeniya (Production Management) and other CREATING AWARENESS OF CAREER OPTIONS interns taken to MAS Holdings. Of these MAS has recruited approximately 275. 14 MAS Holdings, Deutsche Bank, Dialog Summer Internship Programme MAS launched the Summer Internship Programme in 2004 with the objective of giving Sri Lankan undergraduates exposure to career opportunities available at home. Deutsche Bank and Dialog Axiata, two of the most powerful financial and corporate entities partnered with MAS’ initiative respectively in 2005 and 2007. 3M is the newest addition to this meaningful initiative partnering the Programme in 2013. To date 135 students have undergone the internship, among them students from local universities and foreign institutions such as Harvard, London School of Economics, Dartmouth, Cambridge, Yale, McGill, Boston University and renown top local universities. This 6 week Programme entails a two week familiarization period in which the interns gain an overview of the companies, followed by a 2-3 weeks focused project at one of the companies. Upon completion of the project, each intern will present their learnings, experiences and suggestions to the senior leadership of MAS Holdings, Deutsche Bank, Dialog and 3M. In 2012 internship presentations were made to Deshamanya Mahesh Amalean (Chairman MAS Holdings), Mr. Rohan Rodrigo (Chief Country Officer Deutsche Bank) and Dr. Hans Wijayasuriya (Group Chief Executive Dialog Axiata PLC). The internship Programme also includes skill development workshops, adventure based training and many other exciting learning experiences; they are given opportunities to interact with heads of corporate entities, global ambassadors, and leaders in other relative areas that will enable participants to enhance their personal and professional development. Their commitment towards the wellbeing of communities is also an area this Programme emphasizes on, encouraging the students to participate in numerous social and environmental upliftment projects throughout their tenure as Summer Interns. The internship Programme is held generally from July to Mid-August. YEAR FIVE SCHOLARSHIP SUPPORT The Scholarship Examination (also known as the Grade 5 exam) is a highly competitive Sri Lankan examination conducted by the Department of Examinations of the Ministry of Education. It is optional for students to undertake it during the final year of primary school (Grade 5 -usually ages 9-10). Based on the results of the exam, students could transfer to prominent national schools. The exams are held in three mediums: Sinhala, Tamil and English. 15 These Exams are a major milestone in the lives of students from rural schools who are seeking an opportunity to enter better schools. Highly competitive, this also causes undue stress on the children. This year two plants within MAS, Unichela Panadura and Bodyline Horana, undertook a Programme to help mitigate this pressure by conducting workshops. The workshops consisted of motivational speeches, discussion of mock-exam papers and some religious activities to help the students’ spiritual wellbeing as well. The workshop was conducted for students sitting for the exams from schools in the localities of these two plants, and impacted a total of 1,200 students sitting the exams. The Workshop conducted by Bodyline “ATHWELA” This year MAS Active commenced “athwela” (helping hand); a scholarship scheme for deserving children of our own employees. At the end of 2012, 33 students benefitted from this scholarship scheme to further their school education. POLICIES AND PROCEDURES Through Women Go Beyond, our inclusive women’s empowerment Programme, MAS has continuously focused special attention to secure gender equality for the women of MAS. Since signing the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) in November 2011, we have also put a policy framework and corporate sustainability strategy in place to embed the WEP’s into our HR policy and mainstream gender equality. 90% of employees at MAS are women; apart from general policies, the company prides itself in paying special attention to areas that affect women. In 2012 work was underway towards MAS’ new vision 2020, which will be launched in early 2013. In line with the new vision and mission for MAS, we commenced work on an employee code of ethics and a policy that focuses on employee conduct. An Anti-Sexual Harassment Policy will be launched in the third quarter of 2013, as ethics training will take precedence this year in alignment with the launch of the ethics code. We have however done the ground work on this aspect with gender sensitivity training conducted at most of our plants. Also the Group HR (central team) has attended a sexual harassment workshop conducted by the Employer’s Federation of Sri Lanka in order to better understand the integration of such policy and procedures. 16 COMPLIANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT MAS maintains a pro-active approach to compliance and in most occasions intra-company standards exceed legislation, third party affiliate requirements or customer mandates. A strong compliance and risk management framework, globally benchmarked to that of our highest customer and international standards / practice, ensures continuous monitoring, and year on year development of policies and practices to support workplace conditions in such areas as forced labour, harassment and abuse, wages and benefits, working hours, child labour, discrimination, women’s rights, freedom of association, disciplinary framework, record keeping and documentation, health and safety, ergonomics and security. GENERAL POINTS MAS ACTIVE Having now established comprehensive management systems for labour and being satisfied that the Human Resources Systems are functioning effectively, in 2012 MAS Active focused on environmental, health and safety management systems. Several awareness and focused training sessions were conducted for operational staff to increase effective implementation of health and safety into the operations. » A key area for focus this year was Contractor Safety where policies and procedures were formulated and training was conducted for all third party service providers within MAS Active plants as well as those undertaking various construction projects. » A comprehensive information and preparation package was compiled and shared across the Division to ensure better compliance with Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (CTPAT) requirements. » 2012 saw a successful record of customer audits at our plants. Also over 30 internal assessments were conducted by the divisional team to monitor compliance at the facilities. The internal audit is a comprehensive mechanism to measure all areas covered under the scope of Sustainable Business. This strict monitoring and measuring provides opportunity for continuous improvement. As has been our practice over the last 5 years, in 2012 too, the Sustainable Business award will be given to the facility that has scored the highest points at the internal assessment whilst demonstrating high levels of compliance and continuous improvement. » Monthly compliance forums are held to ensure that momentum is continued and to continue to raise awareness on new developments in labour, health and safety, to share best practices among the factories as well as to share challenges and best ways of overcoming them. » In addition to the WRAP certification 10 MAS Active plants are ISO 14001: 2004 and OHSAS 18001: 2007 certified. » MAS Active is currently working with the supply chain to monitor compliance and help build capacity of the supply chain to improve overall working conditions. 17 Industrial Relations at MAS Active The team responsible for industrial relations diligently worked towards better engaging our employees by conducting employee satisfaction surveys, strengthening communication among Employee Representative Bodies and conducting detailed, thorough and impartial investigations whenever misconduct was reported through a robust and disciplinary procedure. MAS INTIMATES » Audits integrating labor, health and safety, Supply Chain Security and Brand Protection are conducted by the central compliance audit team, for each plant at least bi-annually. » A comprehensive / allencompassing audit tool and methodology (including worker interviews) with an objective rating system is used to riskrate the plants so that ensuing competition will drive each plant towards perpetual improvement of their standards. Biannual internal audit reports are submitted to the Director. Random inspections and risk based assessments of production units are carried out. » A web-based Compliance share point is in place and is used by the Compliance team as a platform to share information on compliance related activities and best practices. » Customer audits were conducted throughout the year for which we have been rated above 95% on average. » Our transparency, commitment and the persistent effort to maintain standards of exceptional performance, has convinced the brands to empower us by training our compliance team through joint audits in order to do self-audits on their behalf in the long-term. This is a landmark achievement for MAS in terms of trust, integrity and capacity for self-reliance, as perceived by the brands/customers. » The Incorporation of Ergonomics principles into the MAS Operating System (MOS) (based on lean manufacturing principles) has created a great deal of interest in providing safe and good ergonomics solutions specific to sewing operators and support services. A dedicated MOS unit is set up to conduct regular assessments with the objective of improving the work environment, safety aspects and work methods across the MAS Group. 2012 Performance and Achievements at MAS Intimates ˃ Selected manufacturing units are certified to manufacture organic cotton products that meet international standards. ˃ All MAS Intimates units are Oekotex 100 certified; thereby assuring our customers that all our products are free of harmful substances and meet high human ecological standards. ˃ 55 audits in total ˃ All audits passed with no failures and/or critical issues. ˃ Achievement of Quarterly Vendor Scorecard by biggest customer – Obtained 94% in Compliance audit conducted by the local office of our strategic customer, and based on objective assessment by the customer’s compliance team. ˃ Participating supplier of Fair Labor Association 5 factories ˃ Fairtrade Cotton Certified ˃ Continuous Training and Development of all compliance executives. 18 Key Stakeholders who play an important role in the overall management of our social compliance activities are : ˃ Brands ˃ Employer’s Federation of Ceylon ˃ Federation of Chambers of Commerce and Industry of Sri Lanka ˃ Institute of Engineers, Sri Lanka ˃ National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health ˃ Industrial Safety Division of the Department of Labor ˃ District Factory Inspecting Engineer ˃ District Labor Department ˃ Board of Investment ˃ Central Environmental Authority of Sri Lanka ˃ Regional Medical Officer / Public Health Inspector ˃ International Labor Organization ˃ Commercial Audit Companies ˃ St. John Ambulance ˃ Sri Lanka Red Cross ˃ Fire Department ˃ Air Force Personnel ˃ OSH Experts ˃ National Armed Forces ˃ Security Agencies Safety and Health For All MAS Intimates is committed to achieving high standards of environmental, quality and product safety, and providing a safe and healthy workplace for our employees, contractors and other stakeholders. At the heart of our occupational health and safety culture is the understanding by all that it is a basic human need and a birthright. We exceed all applicable regulatory requirements and implement Programmes and processes to achieve greater protection, and develop innovative Programmes that provide safeguards for the community, the workplace and environment. We seek a healthy and safe workplace, devoid of occupational injury and illness by emphasizing individual accountability for safety by all employees and at all levels of management. We firmly believe that “we cannot make a quality product with an unsafe process.” A high level of emphasis is laid on Ergonomics in order to ensure that the right working conditions are provided for the workers. Furthermore, Health and Safety committees and Food committees are formed at all plants to ensure that health and safety standards are not compromised and to enhance the quality of life at work of employees. All employees are trained on First Aid and Fire Safety to enhance their emergency-preparedness. Training Programmes are conducted on chemical safety and Personal protective equipment to ensure that safety awareness levels are raised. Our framework of health and safety management system comprehensively covers the following core elements: ˃ Fire prevention training ˃ Hazardous materials management systems ˃ Emergency preparedness and response systems ˃ Occupational health systems 19 ˃ Environmental monitoring system ˃ Injury and illness systems, with a “zero accident” vision ˃ Personal safety and hygiene systems / first aid ˃ Product safety ˃ Equipment safety systems ˃ Training and continuous improvement Programmes ˃ Contractor health and safety systems ˃ Selfaudit Programme Internal and independent monitoring systems. To ensure that our health and safety management system is operating effectively and efficiently at all of our plants, we have devised a robust management system and a continuous improvement Programme in partnership with the Labour Department and other interested authorities. We continue to manage occupational safety risks based on OHSAS18001 standards (Organizational Health and Safety Assessment Series) with a view to managing risks efficiently, and systematically adding more transparency and improve the company’s long term reputation as an ethical manufacturer, while at the same time providing an accident/ injury free environment. Employee Wellness and Lifestyle Our worksite employee wellness and lifestyle Programme has a dimensional approach emphasizing the physical and psychological aspects of a balanced lifestyle. It is one that is woven into the fabric of the organization culture to ensure that employees at all levels inevitably reap the rewards by following the directions and guidance given. Our wellness Programme includes 1. Monthly awareness sessions on sexual and reproductive health, HIV, AIDS and family planning with the assistance of the Employers Federation and labor dept. 2. Monthly clinic for pregnant women by a general medical practitioner. Participants are given a medical check-up and advice on essential vaccinations and nutrition. In addition they are also given a special meal every day. 3. Awareness Programme on harassment, healthy life-styles, nutritional foods, etc. is conducted monthly for all workers 4. Maintenance of injury, accident and illness records with an in depth analysis of the same, which is fed back into the system to initiate preventive action. 5. A range of activities/sessions conducted by a pool of professional resource persons. Activities include: Dental clinic, Eye clinic, Full body check-up Awareness of work related risks/diseases, Awareness in sexual and reproductive health, Video films on health related topics 6. On-site medical facilities manned by qualified nurses, with visiting and on-call doctors; special attention for pregnant women; AIDS/ HIV awareness Programme; 7. Fully equipped gymnasium facilities at no cost to employees; 8. Opportunity to participate in various sports both in a recreational and competitive capacity 20 LABOUR STANDARDS PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Whilst formal unions are not present within MAS, the Joint Consultative Committee (JCC) is the voice of the employees. Present at all manufacturing units across the business, the JCC meets with the management team on a monthly basis to address employee concerns. However, today the JCC’s role has surpassed that of just being an employee representative, to a wider scope of involvement in employee attraction, engagement; as well as community outreach plans and strategy formulation. The JCC representatives are elected by the employees annually via an election process. Representatives of the Sri Lanka Labour Department are also invited to monitor the election in order to ensure impartiality. Minutes at each meeting are recorded and the management is required to provide solutions on a time frame agreed by both parties. The minutes are monitored at a central level by the Group HR team headed by the Group HR Director who will engage with the JCCs by visiting each unit every quarter and also ensuring that issues are taken up at the company board level wherever necessary. The company also encourages an open door policy where employees at any level could personally raise issues up to the Heads of Plants/CEOs at any time. PRINCIPLE 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Labour practices and customs at MAS are initiated and actioned based on “what is right for the employee”. The company has lobbied with the government and key stakeholders to provide for a five day work week for employees to ensure that they receive both Saturday and Sunday as weekly holidays. The process requires the signature of each and every employee to be submitted to the labour department for review and labour officers are invited to the plants to speak to employees and verify consent of this. Employees are also provided with leave in line with the local labour laws and they have access to records of their personal information and leave via self-service terminals and kiosks. Familiarization with the leave policy is part of the employee induction and training. Mechanisms for soft skills acquisition as well as skills which support career-life integration are available to employees. These not only include basics like English language and computer training; but also extends to hobbies and sports. There is also a leave swap program implemented in all plants where employees have been given the flexibility to swap their leave dates with colleagues in order to respond to their family needs conveniently. 23 MAS Holdings also has a policy that all vacancies must be advertised internally prior to any form of external search which provides the opportunity for employee progression both laterally and hierarchically within the organization. PRINCIPLE 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour MAS does not employ any person under the age of 17 and/or act in contravention of local labour regulation. All recruits are required to produce valid documentation which includes a birth certificate and an identity card issued by the government to verify birth date. These documents have to be presented and are cited at the first interview itself to enable access to employment within MAS. The Government reduced the employment entry age to 16 years. In response to this, in 2011, MAS also reduced its age of recruitment to 17 years. However, in 2012 this segment forms less than 0.5% of the total workforce, in plants having a single shift working pattern. The well-being and integration of the 17 year old employees is currently monitored very closely at plant level and each recruit is assigned a “big sister” who looks into their welfare. In addition, we continue to implement several special initiatives for 17 year old recruits as follows; » Special monitoring mechanism to monitor 17 year olds via the plant Employee Relations team » HR manager will be taking the responsibility of the recruitment process and work » Specially targeted programs on topics such as women’s health, hygiene and sexual harassment geared by the Women Go Beyond team » “Big Sister” programs at plant level named as “Chooty Nanga” where each 17 year old team member will be assigned a mentor who is a Women Go Beyond Champion » Mandatory weekly counseling sessions where every month the counselor will have to submit confidential reports on the progress of their state PRINCIPLE 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation As an Equal Opportunity Employer, we believe in merit based employee systems throughout the employee lifecycle at MAS. Driven by the “Hay Methodology”, employees are graded and paid using a formula that quantifies their knowledge, skills and accountability levels of the job. There is a performance management scheme in place for Executive and above levels, and at the shop floor levels there are incentive systems linked to up-skilling, multi-skilling and operational efficiency. This ensures an equitable mechanism based solely on individual merit and self and team performance. The “I Can Too” (Marks and Start) program intended to mainstream differently abled colleagues enables creation of opportunities, livelihood development and integration for disadvantaged members of the communities in which we operate. Policies and education on discrimination and harassment, enhancing the Women Go Beyond platform, was also a key focus area driven at a central level. In 2012 extensive work was conducted to formulate a Code of Ethics and a Manual on Employee Conduct to reinforce the zero tolerance approach towards discrimination and harassment. This will be launched in 2013. Zonal committees will be established to implement and drive this policy framework; whilst auditing and monitoring will be done at a corporate and central level 24 SPECIAL INITIATIVES MARKS AND START Marks & Start is Marks & Spencer’s flagship community program and is part of the Plan A Fair partner commitment which addresses environmental and social issues. Marks & Start gives the opportunity of work experience to people of different ages and walks of life, helping them get ready to access the world of work. Placements are offered to disabled people, homeless people, young unemployed and lone parents. In 2003, the Marks & Start program was piloted for Asia at Slimline, a MAS apparel factory. Using the model developed at Slimline the program was opened to other suppliers of Marks and Spencer. MAS presently employs 72 associates with disabilities at Slimtex, Slimline, Casualline, Thurulie and Unichela Panadura; through the Marks & Start program. COMMENDATIONS The Economic Self Sufficiency Project (ESSP) of Sri Lanka Foundation for the Rehabilitation of the Disabled supported by Motivation (UK) and USAID conducts an annual Award Ceremony (called ICAN) to recognize organizations that have provided employment to persons with disabilities. MAS plants were commended as follows : Gold • MAS Intimates Slimline • MAS Intimates Unichela Panadura Silver • MAS Active Shadowline • MAS Intimates Thurulie • MAS Intimates Slimtex MAS WOMEN GO BEYOND PROGRAMME In 2012, Women Go Beyond continued to add value to the lives of MAS women, who form approximately 90% of our global workforce. The programme re-aligned focus for 2011-2013, in order to meet the evolving employee demographics and aspirations, but specifically as a result of MAS becoming a signatory to the Women’s Empowerment Principles jointly developed by UN Women and UN Global Compact in November 2011. In order to embed the principles into the core of the company framework, mainstreaming gender equality was made a company-wide Human Resources policy. The overarching strategy for the Women Go Beyond programme for 2012 is therefore also centred on embedding the Women’s Empowerment Principles into its programme pillars. While tailoring existing policies and practices, MAS established new ones to mainstream the Principles into practice, to re-vitalize women’s empowerment. 25 MAS Holdings was declared winner of Women’s Empowerment Corporate Leader 2012 award by The New Economy (TNE), a global multimedia platform that captures and commends the spirit of thought leadership. Deshamanya Mahesh Amalean, Chairman MAS Holdings, receiving the award at the London Stock Exchange. “ The New Economy recognized “the culture of inclusion”, and honoured MAS Holdings “as a pioneer that adopted and implemented policies, finances and practices to promote women in society, and within the business as associates who contribute to the success of their enterprise at all levels in the organization”. They go on to describe MAS as “not only setting high standards nationally by empowering women both “ socially and economically but contributing towards the creation of a more inclusive, equal and sustainable world on a global scale.” The Four Pillars Career Advancement Skill enhancement and knowledge building / training of MAS women toward encouraging career progression. Work-Life Balance Initiatives to recognize and support the multiple roles of MAS women. Support her right to “have it all” and be able to balance her role as a mother, home-maker and member of society with her aspirations as a career woman. Skill Development Development of soft skills and non-job related skills of MAS employees, contributing towards her stability and community standing. Rewarding Excellence of high achievers in academics, sports, science, commerce, arts & culture and reward them at an annual ceremony for their personal and professional achievements. 26 New Initiatives: • Communication to Avoid Conflict Introduced in 2012 this programme focuses on helping female executives learn how to communicate information in a clear, concise, accurate and timely manner; with the objective of reducing both the number and severity of conflicts that arise at the workplace and in their personal lives. This programme was held on July for 50 executives from 12 MAS plants. It will be conducted again in 2013 along with another programme “Dealing with Difficult People” in order to enhance work-life balance for Corporate employees. • Programme for newly recruited 17 year olds on key areas (reproductive health, HIV/AIDs, etc.) Training of Trainers The objective is to create awareness for these young associates who are entering the workplace for the first time. Sex education does not form part of local school curricula and our culture is such that these topics are not popularly discussed. Today with increased access to information via social media, television etc. it is important to guide these girls with the right information in a secure environment. Overview of Corporate Programmes: Getting More Out of Life (Male Programme) (Work-Life Balance) Aimed at male members of the workforce, this is designed to improve their knowledge on reproductive and general health. It also enables them to actively participate in their own family life. The programme consists of the following: > Achieving a work-life balance through proper planning of sexual and reproductive life of a male > Sexuality, its importance, how it affects work and home > Reproductive health and its importance > Sharing responsibilities > Importance of communicationat home and in the office > Life Skills to improve your relationship with homeworksociety > Health and hygiene > Common sexual problems/illnesses among men > Men’s active involvement/participation in family matters This programme was conducted for the following groups of employees : • Fabric cluster employees (Stretchline, Prym Intimates, Noyon, Trischel and Textprint) in June • Linea Aqua 2, in September • A joint programme for Sleekline, Shadowline, Leisureline, Nirmaana, Intimo and Synergy in September. “ “My husband changed a lot after the training program. Earlier… he didn’t come home, not even on the weekends, he was totally neglecting me. But after the program… he was at home and he “ said that he’ll change and we can work together to build up our family” not disclosed 27 Getting More Out of Life (Female Programme) (Work-Life Balance) A refreshed programme aimed at women, this is designed to improve their knowledge on women’s reproductive and general health as well as personality development training. This programme was conducted for Silueta, Thurulie and Linea Aqua. Additionally, MAS is working in collaboration with the Family Planning Association to promote the “Happy Life Contact Center”. This center provides reliable and accurate information on sexual and reproductive health from qualified doctors and counselors. The center also provides counseling on relationship issues. All of the services are completely free and available in Sinhala, Tamil and English. There are fixed phones located in all plants, providing a direct line to the center. It is also reachable via e-mail, through a hotline number that can be called or SMS from any personal telephone. The Family Planning Association and MAS are also partnering to provide free cancer screening for women at the plant level. The screening includes a Pap smear test to detect cervical cancer, clinical breast examinations, and per-vaginal examinations to exclude any other gynecological pathologies. The programme also includes referral to further management, if needed. HIV/AIDS Training (Work-Life Balance) » Training of trainers. A total of 52 individuals have been trained at MAS by the International Labour Organization (ILO) and Employer’s Federation of Sri Lanka (EFC) » Sensitization of top and middle management at the plants » Developing focus groups at plant level » Training peer educators » Training nurses » Developing and distributed behavior communication material (BCC) » Distributing HIV/AIDS training manuals to all plants » Conducting community education programs (the first was done at the BOI Auditorium in Biyagama on July 12th) Change Agents for the Prevention of Violence against Women (Work-Life Balance) This program is focused on developing the skills of designated employees and training them to become “agents of change” within the plants. These ‘agents of change” take on proactive roles for awareness creation on gender-based violence and empower MAS women to overcome the many challenges posed by violence and abuse. Working with Men to Reduce Gender-Based Violence at the Workplace (Work-Life Balance) This programme works with men in decision making positions to help them understand and eliminate gender-based violence at the workplace. The training also enhances their comprehension of gender, gender-based discrimination, and gender-based violence at work. The programme is designed to motivate men to take personal steps to prevent gender-based violence both at work and at home. It also encourages them to create and support policies that make the workplace gender equal and more women-friendly. This programme was held in collaboration with ILO, in March for Human Resource Managers and in June for Production and Factory Managers. MAS held additional training programme in July for Planning Managers and Executives, and in September for MAS Active management. 28 “ “Before, I only knew the words, but now I understand “ impact of harassment and that we can make small changes to break the cycle.” – Not Disclosed Leadership Programme for Empowered Women Award winners (Career Advancement) The aim of the leadership programme, held in May, in Hantana, Kandy, was to develop leadership skills by training the Empowered Women Award winners of 2010 and 2011 to become effective Lean Leaders. The newly trained winners are now regularly involved in daily operations at plant level, and participate in Kaizen projects, and use lean tools such as the Deming Cycle and PDCA. They will also develop individual projects which will be guided by plant Lean Teams. Empowered Women of the Year Awards Competition (Rewarding Excellence) The Award ceremony was held on November 16th 2012 at the Sri Lanka Foundation Institute where 32 winners were recognized for their accomplishments, perseverance, and aptitude. Their stories are evidence of how determined and capable women are able to reach their full potential using the opportunities offered by MAS and how they, in turn, have contributed to the advancement of the company. SBU Programs Conducted: Career Advancement Rewarding Excellence • Computer classes • Women’s Day Celebrations • English classes • Recognition through the Empowered • Team Building Women of the Year Awards • Leadership Training • Sign language classes for hearing impaired team members Work-Life Balance Skills Development • Awareness for Pregnant employees • Sewing /Pottery & Sari painting • Awareness on HIV / AIDs Project • Domestic Violence Awareness pro • Dancing classes gramme • Beauty Culture course • Counseling Programme • Dress Making course • Counseling programme for new • Cake and Cookery Course comers • Ribbon Embroidery Course • Awareness programme on reproduc • Tea time meetings coaching tive health programme • Health camp • Bridle dressing classes • Parent’s day • Session on people handling and • Awareness on Legal Aid changing attitudes for team members • Getting more out of life (GMOL) pro gramme • Awareness on Family planning and sexually transmitted diseases 29 Empowered woman of the year Awards Skill development Emotional Intelligence programme Training on grooming and hygiene Talent development 30 RECOGNITION Excellence continues to be the cornerstone of MAS philosophy, from people practices to community interventions to operational and environmental initiatives. It is indeed encouraging and humbling when the world recognizes us for what we do as part of our core personality. In 2012 MAS was honoured and recognized with a series of global and national awards in all spheres. MAS Holdings Global • The New Economy Women’s Empowerment Corporate Leader 2012 MAS Intimates Global • The World HRD Congress Asia’s Best Employer Brand Awards : Winner for Best HR Strategy • The World HRD Congress Asia’s Best Employer Brand Awards : Winner for Excellence in Training • Asia’s Best CSR Practices Awards – Winner for Women’s Empowerment • Asia’s Best CSR Practices Awards – Winner for Carbon Accounting National • AON Hewitt and AHRP Sri Lanka Gold at the HRM Awards : MAS Intimates Unichela • National Green Awards organized by the Central Environmental Authority Gold in the Apparel manufacturing category MAS Intimates Thurulie MAS Active National • National Cleaner Production awards Large Scale Manufacturing Category Asialine o National Silver Award in Recognition of Excellence in Cleaner Production Practices. o Excellence Award in Material Efficiency (Large scale Manufacturing ) o Merit Certificate in recognition of Good Performance in Energy Efficiency • National Green Awards organized by the Central Environmental Authority – Apparel Manufacturing category o First Runner Up : Asialine o Second Runner Up : Synergy • AON Hewitt and AHRP Sri Lanka Silver at the HRM Awards : MAS Active Division 31 MAS Fabrics • National Green Awards organized by the Central Environmental Authority Gold Textile Processing Category : Noyon Lanka 32 ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support the precautionary approach to environmental challenges PRINCIPLE 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility PRINCIPLE 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Most of the initiatives under the environment section satisfy two if not all three environmental principles of the Global Compact. Thus, this area has been presented in a collated format. MAS AND EVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY MAS Environmental Sustainability focuses on key areas that are significant to the business and to creating value to our stakeholders. The company works to reduce energy, emissions and water footprints and the product environmental impact. Working within the framework of MAS Group-wide Environmental Management System, the company is working on wider stakeholder engagement and disclosure. A formal Environmental Sustainability Initiative was set up as a strategic priority in 2010. Following is an overview of the work done under the key work streams of energy, emissions, water, waste, standards, culture and eco product. The continued success of this initiative stems from a strong leadership supported by a cross-divisional pool of experts who continuously identify areas of improvement, share best practices and set standards and benchmark for Groupwide environmental performance. After revisiting and evaluating the performance for the period 2010-2012, MAS has launched a more aggressive strategy to address organizational environment footprint for the five year period; 2013-2017 which is integrated with the core business strategy and systems. Strategy and Governance Shirendra Lawrence heads the Environmental Sustainability Steering Team for MAS Holdings and represents the same at the MAS Apparel Board. MAS Environmental Sustainability Steering Team is drawn from across MAS Divisions and is responsible for strategy, review and KPIs for the Group. Divisional teams, that also include Environmental Champions, are in charge of execution of such initiatives across the Group. 35 MAS HOLDINGS ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK Vision: Be and be recognized as a leading environmental sustainability company Streams to mitigate Governance structure Short run and long environmental risks to that drives sustainable run targets and operthe business business ethics from ating plans to support the top streams Seven streams were A dedicated Measurable reduction set up to focus on environmental targets set to energy, emissions, sustainability steering minimize our water, waste, committee led by environmental standards, culture and board level footprint backed by eco product. representation set up intensity benchmarks to drive a sustainable to understand performance consumption of resources better MAS ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 © Energy Energy is a critical focus area and MAS has endeavored to optimize and reduce the energy consumption within the organization, and worked towards developing a more energy-conscious workforce. Intensity driven KPI’s govern the Group approach using a mix of ‘Clocked hours’ as a broad measure of “how long the shop is open for” for Apparel Manufacturing facilities and ‘kilograms’ signifying the output for Fabric and Accessories Manufacturing facilities. Our energy use within the group consists of both direct and indirect energy; direct energy is generated through stationary combustion, while indirect energy comes in the form as either electricity purchased from the national grid, or as energy used in the transportation of goods and people. Both the Apparel and Fabrics/Accessories Divisions have achieved significant reduction in electricity intensity from 2010 to 2012. These reductions were achieved by a combination of investment into energy efficient infrastructure including retrofits, introduction of new technology, skilling and educating facility operators and creating awareness and kaizens focused on energy efficiency improvements. Energy investment focus areas Other Heating 07% 12% The energy investment focus Renewable energy areas demonstrate how our total 17% Cooling 44% investment spend was utilized Lighting 20% across different energy use areas within the Group. Source: Eco Tracker, MAS Environmental Reporting System © 36 Emissions MAS’ work on emissions reduction is closely linked to the work related to energy. Focus on energy efficiency stems from the understanding of challenges to the biosphere and humanity from climate change due to increased Greenhouse Gas loading. Our emission reduction efforts are focused on working through the most controllable sources to the least controllable sources. Accordingly, emissions of MAS have been measured as per Greenhouse Gas Protocol guidelines of WRI/WBCSD which prescribe identification of emissions by scope 1, 2 and 3. At present measurement is focused on scopes 1 & 2 of the protocol. Over the reporting period, MAS emission reduction efforts focused on the considerable dependence on heavy furnace oil within the Fabrics and Accessories Divisions of the business. Whilst it was a challenge at the outset to set up a constant and stable supply of biomass to displace the use of furnace oil, the company has been able to identify and work with biomass residue suppliers to create a mutually beneficial and sustainable value chain for generation of steam. At present, MAS has invested in 11 MW of biomass-generated steam power. MAS has moved towards public disclosure of emissions by becoming a voluntary signatory to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in 2012. Reporting also strengthens the organizational resolve to addressing our emissions forthright. MAS has continued to reduce the organizational emissions intensity, whilst facing challenges such as the National electricity supply’s increase in emissions due to heavier reliance on coal based electricity. 3 TPH biomass boiler at Stretchline Holdings, Biyagama. Stretchline pioneered biomass switchovers within the group at a time when a constant and stable supply chain was serious concern for investments of this nature. In 2012, Linea Intimo also installed its biomass boiler contributing to the 11 MW total of biomass steam power generation. 37 Water All water sources and consumption of all facilities are metered with 2012 serving as a baseline and an aggressive reduction target 2017. A Group-wide Water Policy has been adopted which focuses the business units initiatives to reduce and optimally manage water resources within the organization. Initiatives such as reusing rainwater, and treated greywater / blackwater has helped the organization reduce its dependence on potable sources. We have also continued a more transactional approach to water use, focusing on “small ticket” items such as push and peddle taps and installation of dual flush systems. During 2012, 16 water-efficient fitting projects were implemented within the Group. MAS has constantly worked with our customers and technology providers to ensure that the water released to the environment after use meets strict local and internationally accepted guidelines. For example, searching for better post-use treatment mechanisms of widely used chemical dyes such as Rhodamine continues while working at the same time with customers to identify less challenging alternatives for such dyes. Waste With a target towards zero waste to landfills by 2017, MAS has aggressively addressed waste management within the organization. The company’s lean manufacturing process is geared towards reducing waste at source using a myriad of strategies including marker efficiency improvement, defect minimization and reduction of excess material ordering. All generated waste is segregated and disposed in an environmental friendly manner. This includes recycling of paper, plastics, glass, metal and hazardous waste such as fluorescent lamps, electronic waste through responsible vendors and service providers. Fabric shredders are used to shred the ex-stock or rejected garments adhering to brand protection guidelines. Shredded fabrics and most cut pieces are sent for recycling locally and where there are constraints, internationally, reducing incineration of these materials. Certain categories of waste that cannot be recycled are sent for heat-recovery through Holcim Geocycle. Employee and community recycling Programme are also conducted in facilities. All waste vendors are evaluated and audited by each facility periodically. In April 2012, for the first time within MAS, a Recycle Facilitation Plant set up at the MAS Fabric 38 Park (MFP). The MFP Eco Center is a solution offered in partnership with Green Keepers Pvt. Limited. The initiative is in line with MAS’ waste management policy framework whilst complementing a zero-burn and zero-landfill policy. The Recycle Facilitation Plant is an integrated waste solution. The MFP Eco Center has processed 110,000 kg of waste since its inception. MFP Eco Center: Waste segregation facility at MAS Fabric Park, Thulhiriya MAS began piloting waste-to-energy Programme, and the company expects a wider adoption of these technologies from 2013. In 2012, we partnered with Biofuel Lanka to recover biogas from our food waste. With 58,000 associates MAS has a significant food waste footprint. Working with a team of industry experts to tailor-make a solution, this was piloted at Asialine in Middeniya. With a capacity to handle 230 kg food waste per day the solution on average yields 0.36 M3/kg of food waste. To date it has successfully displaced the use 682kg of LP Gas for cooking purposes, with a by-product is liquid compost which supports vegetation in the facility. MAS Environmental Report 2012 © Captured above are the gas bags in the biogas recovery solution at Asialine, Middeniya which is part of the MAS Active Division. The facility has a workforce of 1,600 and on an average week day Asialine’ s canteen ends up with 120 kg of food waste. 39 Environmental Management System All MAS Facilities have implemented Environment Management Systems (EMS) of which 93% of Manufacturing Facilities have been certified with the ISO 14001:2004 standard. The EMS is aimed to minimize the environmental impact, adhering to legal and other requirements/ standards and continuous improvement. Two dedicated tools, “MAS Energy Management System” and “Eco Tracker” manages Groupwide environmental data ensuring attention to impacts, KPIs and improvements. Product MAS is partnering with customers on identifying and improving sustainability of products manufactured by the company. In 2011, MAS became a founding circle member of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC) which aims to create a global benchmark for sustainable apparel manufacture. 2012 saw increased involvement within the Coalition in 2012, enabling MAS to better appreciate the needs of the consumer market whilst also voicing the realities of apparel manufacture within a brandsdominated forum. As the only Sri Lankan company on this forum as well as one of the few apparel manufacturers, MAS is committed to working with customers to identify practicable solutions to produce mass scale eco products. 40 MAS has continued the sourcing of Organic and Fairtrade Cotton from Burkina Faso for Victoria’s Secret lingerie. This initiative secures over 600 tons of organic cotton per year for manufacturing of 30 million pieces using a 20% organic cotton blend. An increased use of organic cotton blends and recycled polyester based fabrics is seen in sportswear manufactured for Nike. MAS’ products come in direct physical contact with the bodies of the consumers. The company strives to meet strict guidelines to ensure minimum harmful effects on the consumers. MAS has moved into using raw materials that are Oeko-Tex 100 certified, using the certification process to limit the use of identified toxic chemicals during all stages of production and with special attention given to allergy-inducing dyestuffs. ENGAGEMENT OF EMPLOYEES AND COMMUNITIES MAS Eco Go Beyond Sustainable Development Education Programme Successful completion of Phase 2 of the Sustainable Schools Programme 2011-2013 As mentioned in the COP of 2011 the 3 year sustainable schools Programme was modeled along the lines of an EMS (Environmental Management System). The sub areas of the system were: » Increasing Green CoverGrowing trees and grass » Composting of Biodegradable Waste » Recycling on Non-biodegradable Waste » Increasing Nutrition by growing leafy vegetables within school premises » Reduction of Energy Consumption » Reduction of Water Consumption » Promoting Eco-friendly lifestyles » Increasing Productivity through implementation of 5S » Biodiversity ConservationButterfly gardens Measurement of outcome for 2012 compared with 2011 2011 2012 Total number of trees planted 987 3472 Total new grassy area 4162.55 M2 21537.36 M2 Total weight of compost produced to-date 1674.4 KG 2411 KG Total number of unhealthy food removed from canteens 82 107 Total number of nutritious foods introduced to canteens 96 112 Total number of 5S Programme completed in Schools 67 105 41 Only 8 categories out of 9 were awarded in 2012. The awards were widely distributed with a category each was won by Meewanapalana Maha Vidyalaya, Kamburupola Model Junior School, Risikala Aesthetic College, Thulhiriya Maha Vidyalaya, St.Mary's Tamil Maha Vidyalaya, Sugathananda Maha Vidyalaya, Siyane National School and Don Pedrick Maha Vidyalaya. Outline for Programme 2013 The three year Programme will conclude in 2013. All schools are required to complete all possible improvement in the sub categories and awards will be given to the overall sustainable schools. History of the Programme In 2012 The Eco Go Beyond Programme completed six years as a strategic community outreach initiative of MAS Holdings. This Programme which is endorsed and supported by the Ministry of Education in Sri Lanka was launched in 2006 with the primary objective to create and raise awareness on the concept and practice of sustainable development. The model and curriculum was developed by accessing expertise in the field from the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) Youth Exchange (YXC) Programme and the Consumer Citizenship Network’s (CCN) LOLA toolkit. In 2012 the area of Biodiversity Conservation was added to the sub areas that schools worked. The rollout of the Programme impacted an estimated 6000 children bringing the total impacts to date to over 23000 children. 2007 2012 35 30 25 MAS Communities NUMBER 20 15 Number of Participant School 10 Schools which successfully 5 completed the projects 0 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 YEAR 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 MAS Communities 5 8 8 9 10 10 Number of Participant Schools 20 29 27 29 30 29 Schools which successfully completed the projects 18 29 26 28 30 29 42 Geographic Distribution of Schools According to MAS Community Horana Pimbura Hanwella Pannala Kuliyapitiya Pallekelle Awissawella Thulhiriya Koggala MAS Strategic Business Unit Area Number of Schools Bodyline 1 Horana 6 Bodyline 2 Pimbura 3 Linea Aqua Hanwella 3 Slimline Pannala 2 Slimtex Kuliyapitiya 2 Linea Clothing Pallekelle 2 Synergy Awissawella 2 MAS Fabric Park Thulhiriya 3 Unichela Koggala Koggala 4 Asialine Embilipitiya 2 43 BUNDALA NATIONAL PARK PROJECT – LINEA AQUA August 2007 – Present The Bundala National Park is located around 250KM south east of Colombo. It is a RAMSAR protected wetland and considered a national treasure. However, the encroaching growth of plants such as “Proposis Juliflora” and Cactus lead to the desecration of the park’s ecosystem. The spread of these invasive plants lead to detrimental implications for the flora and fauna that are indigenous to the park. The external threats are primarily related to the burgeoning population in the immediate vicinity of the park. The internal threats are more insidious in nature and require immediate tactical attention to resolve. MAS Linea Aqua took the initiative to embark on an Environmental Protection mission to Bundala National Park, to eliminate the threat and the damage caused to the park by these invasive plants. The project commenced on 30th August 2007 and to date 152 hectares have been cleared. On this positive note, Linea Aqua has made an initial commitment to clearing and restoring 200 hectares of the Bundala National Park back to its original healthy state. The commencement of this project also made it possible to provide the local community with employment. Objective: The main objective of the project is to restore the park to its natural beauty and to recreate a healthy habitat for the myriad of plant & animal species that inhabit the area whilst providing the surrounding community with economic benefits through increasing visitor traffic. Impact: This project has a large impact on the eco system and limits the internal and external threats these vexatious plants had on this park which is considered a national and global treasure. Through this ongoing project Linea Aqua has been able to decelerate the growth of these plants and continues to maintain it in order to prevent the plants from growing back. This initiative has also reduced situations of the man-elephant conflict which is common to the area and has developed the surrounding economy by providing jobs for over 100 people from the community. Furthermore, the overall landscape and wildlife visibility of the park has improved, thereby attracting more tourists. It has also increased Linea Aqua employee engagement and commitment towards environmental and sustainability initiatives. Recognition : This project was awarded The Best CSR Project of the Year (Special Projects) at the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Best Corporate Citizens Awards 2011. 44 Awareness and Training Annually, on average 30,000 employees participate in awareness and training Programme on environmental sustainability. Significant investments are also made on technical training for employees to improve our resource efficiencies and adoption of ‘greener technologies’. Continuous employee integrated processes such as quarterly Energy Managers Forum, annual Waste Forum and Sustainability Reporting are key events in the company calendar intended to improve skills and awareness. There are formal processes to standardize best practices and cross-pollination of ideas across divisions and facilities. Various means of communication are used to spread good practices and knowledge among employees such as; electronic media, visuals and guest lectures. MAS sponsored the two lectures by renowned environmental activist Sir Robert Swan in Sri Lanka; where he addressed MAS management and executives. The Company also sponsored a public, open-invitation event for Sri Lankan business leaders, the Sustainability fraternity and University students. Sir Robert Swan OBE, one of the world’s preeminent polar explorers, during his lecture which was facilitated by MAS The Environmental Sustainability Steering Team organizes an annual Sustainability Forum where environmentally conscious employees and business leaders join together to share the developments and the achievements of the year. Highlights from the Annual Environmental Sustainability Forum 2012 held at MIMT Thulhiriya which showcased views and opinions of group and divisional leaders of the business in implementing sustainable best practices across the business. 45 Carbon Emission Management Currently MAS has four ongoing CDM (Clean Development Mechanism) projects. MAS undertook a large project to change the traditional furnace boilers to biomass boilers which cuts down our emissions significantly. Also waste to energy projects, referred above, initiated in some of our plants help achieve further reduction in emissions. New facilities and retrofits designed and built green All new facilities and infrastructure retrofits go through strict environmental assessments internally that also has significant emphasis on energy, water and emissions performance focusing on sustainable construction and operations. MAS’ new facilities in Kilinochchi, Sri Lanka, Vaanavil and Vidiyal are examples where the energy efficient fittings, equipment, efficient chillers, water treatment, water efficient fittings, waste management were integrated using environmental performance as primary criteria for selection/design. Eco Factory Standards Under the Marks & Spencer Plan A initiatives, three facilities were certified for M&S Plan A Eco Factory Standards which were rated for their initiatives in energy, water, waste, emissions and processes. 46 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Honesty and integrity is the first building block in the MAS value framework. This is laid down in our employee induction manual and is publicly stated in an insert on values that forms part of employee company identity cards. We provide training on the interpretation of the values during employee induction. Breaches in this area are subject to strict disciplinary action which can lead to termination of employment. FINANCIAL CONTROL ENVIRONMENT » Annual budgets are prepared, reviewed and approved by the Board » Actual performance is measured against the budgets on monthly basis and reasons for major variances are queried; and corrective actions will be taken to avoid unjustifiable variances. (Budgetary control of the operation) » All payments should have supporting documents, will be checked & approved by the Accountant & Finance Manager & will be authorized by two signatories. » Segregation of duties of the financial function is maintained at all times. » All unbudgeted payments will be approved by the Finance Director or Deputy Chairman. » Safe custody of all the company assets is ensured by keeping a proper Fixed Asset Register. » All Capital Assets additions and disposals are supported by proper documentation to ensure the authorization on such transactions. The authorization levels will link to the value of the assets. » Accounts of the Company are prepared based on the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). » Annual statutory audit is performed by an internationally recognized audit firm. » Internal risk and control team ensures proper monitoring of the internal controls framework of the company. » All the employees sign IT & HR policies and a declaration that ensure information security/ confidentiality and provides general guidelines to the employees. 49 SPORTING SPIRIT Having always been a pioneer in rural capacity building, another aspect to MAS Holdings’ community development initiatives is our commitment towards the upliftment of sports in Sri Lanka. The company is known for creating a nurturing environment for “champions” in numerous disciplines, picking untapped raw talent from rural environs. There is a strong influence of sports in MAS’ culture, be it for team building and recreation of associates; but more importantly creating elite pathways for raw talent to become world class. Many of these athletes become forces to reckon with, and an exceptional few rewrite history. Over 120 sportsmen and women who have represented Sri Lanka internationally in 20 sporting disciplines work amongst us. MAS continues to demonstrate collective strength and individual brilliance through sporting achievements. 2012 proved to be another successful sporting year for the organization. » Anusha Kodithuwakku won a gold medal at the Eight Nation International Tunisian Boxing Tournament. Sithari Sandarekha won Bronze. » I­ndumathi Karunathilake represented Sri Lanka at Paralympics in London 2012 in the 100m and 200m Sprint events » Chaminda Weerasinghe won a silver medal in the Triple Jump at the 17th Asian Games in Taipei » The MAS Fencing team were runners-up at the South Asian Fencing Championship » The 86th Amateur Boxing Association Men’s and Women’s National Championship – Men’s won by Slimline Boxing Club and Women’s by MAS Southern Boxing Club. ­ » MAS Intimates Slimline won the Clifford Cup (Boxing) after 6 years » Slimline Fencing Club won the first ever National Fencing Nationals, whilst Unichela Fencing Club came in runners-up ­ » Dudulie Silva and Shashikala Kumarasinghe won the Gold Medal at the team event in the 13th National Archery Championship ­ » Ruwini Abeymanna and Sagara Wimaladharma both secured medals in the ISSF (International Shooting Sport Federation) National Championships 2012. ­ » Asiri Wijesinghe became the 1st internationally qualified fencing coach for Sri Lanka. ­ » The Sri Lanka 7’s Rugby team was captained by Linea Clothing’s Fazil Marija and Prasad Chathuranga also represented the team in 2012. » T­ he MAS Active Cricket team became the 2012 Mercantile Premier league (A Division) cricket champions for the 2nd consecutive year ­ » The MAS swimming team retained the Mercantile championship ­ » MAS Active Contourline Men’s Volleyball team won the Mercantile Championships ­ » MAS Intimates Casualline Women’s Volleyball team won the Mercantile Championships ­ » The table tennis team retained the Mercantile team championship for the 5th consecutive year. We share two examples which exemplify the opportunities which have been created. 50 Boxing Nationals Fencing Nationals 51 “Unstoppable spirit” Indumathi Karunathilake was the first Sri Lanka woman to represent Sri Lanka at the Paralympics. She honoured her company and country by participating in the London Paralympic Games 2012, competing in the 100m and 200m sprint events. Hailing from a small village in the Monaragala District, she was born with a physical disability in her left arm. This never deterred her spirit and she boldly fostered the potential that nature had bestowed. Born to a farming family, Indu was an active child, participating in numerous activities in school, especially in sports. This led to her representing her school in District and Provincial level meets. “Sport was a passion that stemmed from my childhood, but little did I know that it could bring me this far in life, give me this much recognition. I never knew how much I could achieve until I joined Slimline (a strategic business unit of MAS Holdings); this was definitely a turning point in my life.” Indu muses. Having participated in many National Level meets, Indu has become an undisputed champion in her pet events, the 100m sprint as well as the Long Jump event. She won a Bronze Medal at the 2006 FESPIC Games in Kuala Lumpur. She was placed 4th in the 100 and 200m sprints as well as in Long Jump at the Asian Para Games held in 2010 at Guangzhou, China. Indu’s greatest achievements to date however came this year, when she participated at the 2012 Asian Para Athletic Championships in Kuala Lumpur, securing Gold Medals in all three events she participated in (the 100m and 200m sprint as well as Long Jump) and of course participating in the Paralympic Games 2012. 52 “Fly like a Butterfly” Anusha Kodituwakku is Sri Lanka’s golden girl of boxing; who has just hung up her gloves in retirement. A remarkable career saw her win a gold medal at her last international tournament in Tunisia in November 2012. Anusha excelled at practically everything she tried at school, be it studies, sports or arts and drama. Blessed with natural talent and determination, Anusha was one to step away from the norms, and this is why she approached MAS. “From what I had heard of MAS at that time, I knew it was my only hope for a way out of a mundane existence. I knew it was my only hope to achieve greatness.” Says Anusha. Anusha made the daily trek to the Slimline Sports Club to train and keep fit, joining any sports team that would accept her, practicing hard day in day out. She was playing rugby when the CEO of Slimline, Dian Gomes – godfather of boxing in Sri Lanka, spotted her and dared her to ‘glove up’ for boxing. Glove up she did, and she never looked back. She became Asia’s light flyweight champion in 2006, the first female boxer in Sri Lanka to bring home a gold medal, engraving her name in history books. “MAS is more than an employer. It has been a haven not only for me, but for thousands of hopefuls, who just like me, were looking for a better future. And each time I go back, be it after a victory or a defeat, I feel something much stronger than a sense of belonging, I see something more than a welcome smile. I see pride in their eyes” says Anusha. 53 Powering the Pride “MAS Holdings revives a victorious partnership with Sri Lanka Cricket” For 20 million Sri Lankans, there is no sport that could speak the language of pride as much as the game of cricket. It is an element of Sri Lanka’s DNA, fuelling passion and patriotism; it is simply put, a way of life. In September 2012 MAS revived a partnership with Sri Lanka Cricket, as the company, yet again, embarked on outfitting the National Cricket Team for the next three years; to power the pride of the nation. MAS’ own cricketing heritage boasts of numerous national cricketers, including all-round specialist T. M. Dilshan. Having previously clothed the national team with high performance gear from 2006 to 2008, MAS further strengthened their bond with Sri Lanka Cricket by accepting the privileged opportunity to develop and manufacture the national cricket team’s game day clothing. Commencing with the attire for the ICC World Cup T20 held in October 2012, MAS will gear the national men’s team, women’s team and A team, U-19 team and junior national teams. The total outfitting solution will consist of all game day clothing for Test, ODI and T20 matches including performance base layer innerwear, sweaters, head wear as well as practice kits and track suits. 54 55 THE WAY FORWARD 2013 will see the launch of new vision 2020 and mission for MAS. We are finalizing a Code of Ethics and a Manual on Employee Conduct to bring the relevant policies, standard operating practices, norms and useage under one umbrella. We will also keep working towards embedding the Women’s Empowerment Principles into our operating DNA. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION During the past 25 years of operation, MAS Holdings has gradually evolved from a socially responsible corporate citizen to an organization that has strongly committed to creating sustainable livelihoods for their associates, and the communities which we operate in. It was never part of a plan, it was never strategic marketing. For MAS Holdings, community endorsement has always been our licence to operate. From women empowerment to environment sustainability, from creating opportunities for rural youth to sustainable education development, from uplifting the country’s health infrastructure to strengthening sports facilities in rural schools, MAS Holdings has been creating and nurturing many sustainable initiatives across the country. Women Go Beyond Activities for 2012 MAS Active Plants Operations Program Category Number of Programmes Number of Participants Career Advancement 85 1,774 Skills Development 58 4,268 Work-Life Balance 444 76,213 Rewarding Excellence 60 5,346 MAS Intimates Plants Operations Program Category Number of Programmes Number of Participants Career Advancement 11 307 Skills Development 36 3,074 Work-Life Balance 53 20,923 Rewarding Excellence 14 13,184 Bodyline Plants Operations Program Category Number of Programmes Number of Participants Career Advancement 4 2,188 Skills Development 11 2,762 Work-Life Balance 9 2,006 Rewarding Excellence 1 67 56 Linea Aqua Plants Operations Program Category Number of Programmes Number of Participants Career Advancement 3 1,207 Skills Development 4 1,250 Work-Life Balance 15 6,475 Rewarding Excellence 2 1,200 MAS Corporate Operations Program Category Number of Programmes Number of Participants Career Advancement 1 34 Skills Development 5 414 Work-Life Balance 31 1,202 Rewarding Excellence 1 500 Community Connection In 2012 we also continued working with key community stakeholders through our “local connect” activities. These include a variety of infrastructure development, supporting health and education, as well as charity and philanthropic activities. SBU No. of projects Asialine 33 Bodyline 1, 2 and 3 59 Casualline 16 Contourline 11 Leisureline 7 Linea AITC 10 Linea Aqua 1 and 2 30 Linea Clothing / Linea Intimates 41 Linea Intimo 19 MAS Active Ops. Centre 4 MAS Fabric Park 13 MAS Intimates MDS 29 Mihintale 4 Nirmaana 4 Shadeline 32 Shadowline 13 Sleekline 13 Slimline 44 Slimtex 20 Synergy 33 Thurulie 16 Unichela Koggala 29 Unichela Panadura 38 Vaanavil Kilinochchi 4 Vidiyal Kilinochchi 3 57 www.masholdings.com
