STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Malmö, 20 August, 2013 Wihlborgs will in 2013 and 2014 continue to embrace, support and enact the ten principles in Global Compact, within our sphere of influence. This commitment also implies that we shall continuously evaluate the ten principles with regard to our related conduct and performance. Wihlborgs operates within two countriesSweden and Denmarkand we have decided to continue with the Global Compact. We believe it is important that we carry out all parts of our business activities in a sustainable and ethical manner. We also wish to contribute to a long-term approach vis-a-vis our employees, partners, suppliers, customers, and society in general. In April 2013 we could proudly present our second Sustainability Report, level B+. In page 46 in the report you can take part of the crosstable for Global Compact and GRI. The table illustrates the ten principles in Global Compact. The Sustainability Report includes a report on the ten principles. The principles are presented in the GRI index with reference to Global Compact. We have earlier published two independent Communication on Progress (year 2010 and 2011), our Sustainability Report includes our fourth Communication on Progress. At the end of 2009, we also decided to join the CSR-Skåne network, and during 2012/2013 we continued our participation. CSR Skåne is a network within the region for companies, organizations and NGOs that wish to obtain knowledge, experience and tools to work with social and community responsibility. We recognize that a key requirement for participating in the Global Compact is the annual submissions of a Communication on Progress which describes our company´s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore annually continue to report on progress according to the Global Compact COP policy. Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB Anders Jarl, CEO Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 Contents and introduction The Polisen 3 building, Helsingborg, which has been Green Building certified since June 2011. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 3 04 06 08 10 CEO’s Statement Awards and Introducing About our recognition Wihlborgs sustainability report 15 19 22 24 Governance Sustainability Financial Environmental targets with risks responsibility responsibility and opportunities 36 42 46 47 Social Global Reporting Global Compact Auditors' Report responsibility Initiative Index 49 53 54 Glossary Contact persons Sustainability Highlights 2012 Wihlborgs Fastigheter Wihlborgs is the leading property company in the Öresund region, owning property with a total market value of SEK 19.9 billion. The lettable area of the property totals 1.4 million square metres. The total rental value is SEK 1.7 billion. The property portfolio consists in the main of commercial properties. The Company’s shares are quoted on the Mid Cap List of the OMX Nordic Exchange. A word from the CEO Being equipped to meet the challenges of the future That is exactly what sustainability is about. If Wihlborgs is to remain a real player in the market, we have to be able to address the financial, environmental and social challenges of the future. As the world around us changes, it is important that we as a company adapt to these changes. In this, our second sustainability report, we summarize the events of the past year, which presented us with quite a few challenges. Challenges that in my view have made us stronger. Striking the sustainable balance Clean money To us, the task is to strike the right balance between our comIt is becoming increasingly clear that, to investors, what mercial purposes and our ideological view on the business. We companies are doing in CSR is important, and the number of want to demonstrate that we are a sound, ethically-minded enquiries about CSR has risen sharply. These are not questions enterprise to work and invest in. raising simple concerns; instead, they are seeking detailed I would like to say that all the pieces of the jigsaw puzzle are information about what we are actually doing and not doing. in place, but they are not. On the other hand, while we have In December 2012, we were pleased to learn that Wihlborgs made good progress, striking the right financial, environmental is now included in the OMX Sustainability Index. We see that and social balance is a challenge. What I mean is that many as recognition of our clear stand on sustainability. sustainable solutions are long-term, whereas our financial status is reported on an ongoing basis at short intervals. But one does not necessarily exclude the other. The businesses Focus on day-to-day sustainability that will survive in the future are those able to combine profitI believe that it is important to integrate sustainability in our ability with sustainability. In a nutshell: to be sustainably operations, and by that I mean finding the sustainable business profitable in the company’s core business. I believe that this is models that fall within our core business. For example, in 2012 very much about “digging where you stand”, and in that regard Wihlborgs signed its first green leases. In these agreements, we, I actually feel a degree of pride at the time of writing. as landlord, consult with our tenants in establishing the frameSince 2010, when we signed up to the UN Global Compact, works for how we will proceed in reducing the environmental we have made real investments in both time and energy in reimpact of the property concerned. This type of collaboration viewing and improving our performance against the Compact’s will become increasingly important in the future and is an area ten international principles. We have analyzed the areas that where we at Wihlborgs must improve our performance. Everyare important to us and have focused actively on them. one working in our management functions will be required to But obviously there is more to improve and develop. be able, and have the courage, to communicate on green values. As this comes about, so too will a sense of pride among our Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 5 Anders Jarl, Chief Executive Officer, Wihlborgs, sets the bar high for the Company’s environmental work. personnel, pride at working for a company that has marked out the chances of breaching regulations and bringing negative its position on sustainability issues. publicity on itself. If, damage or loss nevertheless arises, I venture to suggest that a company that has engaged in some Wihlborgs continues to speak kind of CSR process also optimizes its conditions for recovery, unlike a company that has ignored the issues. Another is to the language of sustainability identify the means – in the form of an integrated CSR programme In 2012, we continued to develop the training materials produced – that will help us to become sustainably profitable in our core during 2011. All employees received the Company’s “Wihlborgs business and at the same time strengthen our brand and trust pratar hållbart” (Wihlborgs Talks Sustainability) newsletter and in the business. this was also followed up via further information at breakfast meetings. Investing in the future On the other hand, I have to say that one of our major chalIn the past year, a good deal was done both organizationally lenges is communication and how what we discuss is perceived. and within our workforce. I am pleased to report that in 2012 Common sense, say many people, but what is common sense to we recruited ten employees. Ahead of us is a phase in which me may not be the same for someone else. While we have a number of individuals in our key departments will retire. invested heavily in in-house communication on ethics and As a result, we devoted a good deal of time in 2012 to finding morality in recent years, we had a public case of suspected the right successors for the people concerned. This involved not corruption in 2012. This was not just a tragedy in several senses; only identifying individuals with the right skills, but also, above it was also an indication that we have to keep up our work on all, those who are team players, who share our values and communicating the Company’s rules of play. who will make a contribution to strengthening Wihlborgs as a business and as a brand. To sum up in a few words: we are Risks can bring business investing in the future. opportunities and business The decision to report sustainability in opportunities mean profitability accordance with GRI was approved by Wihlborgs’ Board of Directors in August 2010. I am sometimes asked whether this CSR really is worth investing The Board of Directors unanimously approves Wihlborgs Sustainability Report for 2012. in and whether it is profitable – where does the added value come in? What I would say is that several factors favour a comMalmö, April 2013 pany that has chosen to invest in aspects of CSR. One is that by Malmö, April 2013 Board of Directors, working on sustainability, a company minimizes and manages Anders Jarl, Chief Executive Officer Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB Awards and recognition Some evidence that we are on the right path Winning awards is one thing. Obviously, it is pleasing to gain recognition for something that we have devoted a great deal of energy and time to. But this is no reason for resting on our laurels; on the contrary, this should serve as extra inspiration to carry on improving in terms of striking the right balance between finance, ecology and social issues – linked to and integrated with our core business. Wihlborgs qualifies for achieved. This equates to the annual energy consumption of 45 single-family homes (à 25,000 kWh). Today, the property Nasdaq OMX Stockholm uses around 50 per cent less energy than before redevelopment. Sustainability Index Improving the energy performance of properties often delivers economic and environmental benefits. However, in most cases, In December – just in time for the Christmas holidays – we the process demands considerable know-how and the acid test received good news from Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. Wihlborgs only comes in the operational phase. If a building is constructed had qualified for the responsible investment index. This indiwith very low-energy consumption characteristics but without cator is produced by Nasdaq OMX in partnership with GES any idea of how the property is to be managed in the operaInvestment Services and encompasses the leading businesses tional phase, the whole concept collapses. on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. The companies represented in the index are leaders in sustainability. The criteria for qualification include environmental and social factors. Companies are Wihlborgs wins Malmö’s City assessed using a model known as “GES Risk Rating”. The index Architectural Award is adjusted continuously by measuring the performance of The 2012 Malmö City Architectural Award went to Wihlborgs' companies against the qualification criteria. Media Evolution City development in the Dockan area. Extract from the award citation (translation): “The building is Wihlborgs named as one of an example of a partial redevelopment where the developer, in the winners of the Sweden consultation with the client and architect, has sympathetically Green Building Awards 2012 retained the original tiled facade on Stora Varvsgatan, and incorporated a brand-new concept on the courtyard side and At the “Building Sustainability Sweden” conference, Wihlborgs along the dry dock. The new contrasts sharply with the Fastigheter was named as one of the winners of the Sweden surrounding built environment, but at the same time clearly Green Building Awards 2012. Wihlborgs' award was for its signals the creativity and innovation that is going on inside Polisen 3 building in Helsingborg, in the category “Existing the building’s shell.” buildings certified under Green Building”. The prize was Being able to contribute to the development of society from presented by the Sweden Green Building Council at a sustaina sustainability perspective is important to us. Media Evolution able building conference held in Stockholm in October 2012. City is an example of a redevelopment in which we have In purely concrete terms, energy savings of approximately attached great importance to retaining any element of cultural 1,123,000 kWh/year for electricity, heating and cooling were and historical value and combining it with innovation. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 7 Flag atop the Neptun 6 building in Malmö. Introducing Wihlborgs Job satisfaction the key to productive partnership At Wihlborgs, we place a premium on job satisfaction – it is one of the driving forces in our role of landlord for many of the most successful companies in the Öresund Region. To us, the task is to keep abreast of developments and be prepared for the new requirements and needs that emerge. Here, too, sustainability issues play an important role. As a market-leading property company, we are subject to particular requirements to take the initiative ourselves and drive ethical and environmental issues forward. How we and others develop goes hand in hand. This adds an extra dimension to our day-to-day work, which then also increases the satisfaction we find in our work. Business concept Local involvement Specializing in productive sub-markets in the Öresund region, It is important for us to be actively involved in various organizaWihlborgs will own, manage, in-house, and develop commercial tions and networks. Several of our employees sit on external properties. boards. Today, we are represented on the boards of various organizations in the property and housing sector, including Property portfolio Fastighetsägarna Syd, Fastighetsföreningen Lund City, Malmö as of 31 December 2012 Citysamverkan, Lund Citysamverkan, Medeon, Ideon, the Sweden Green Building Council, Näringslivets Miljöchefer (the Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB (publ) is the biggest commercial Swedish Association of Environmental Managers), Solar Region property owner exclusively focused on the Öresund region. Skåne and Øresundsinstituttet. We have 253 properties with a combined market value of SEK 19.9 billion. The total lettable area of these is 1.4 million square metres and the total rental value is SEK 1.7 billion. Geographic investment Our strategy is to be present in locations where we identify the Helsingborg potential for long term growth. Accordingly, Wihlborgs is represented in Malmö, Helsingborg, Lund and Copenhagen with a head office in Malmö. In each of these locations, we are also geographLund Copenhagen ically concentrated on a number of sub-markets, which makes Malmö us uniquely able to assure cost efficient management. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 9 Employees and structure responsible for newbuild and redevelopment projects, procurement and follow-up. Transactions deals with all acquisitions and On 31 December 2012, Wihlborgs had 89 employees, including sales of properties by the Company. five in Denmark. 81 employees work full-time and eight partWihlborgs' Group Management consists of the CEO, CFO, time. There are 144 companies in the group, including the Communication Director and Projects & Development Director. Parent Company. Not all are subsidiaries of the Parent Company. Group Management has overall responsibility for coordinating Six joint ventures operate in the Group. The joint ventures are the Company’s operations. as follows: The Executive Management Group consists in all of 14 execu• Dockan Exploatering, which is conducting development tives; Group Management (4), property directors (2), property activities in the Dockan area of Malmö. management executives (4), environmental affairs director, • Fastighets AB ML 4, which is building the MAX IV research procurement director, CR director and market analyst. The centre in Lund. Executive Management Group has overall responsibility for • Hälsostaden Ängelholm Holding AB, which is developing major strategic issues in business development, transactions, the site around Ängelholm Hospital. information and analysis. • Medeon AB, which is marketing the Medeon Science Park. • Pålsjö Ängar Holding AB, which is coordinating and developing properties in the Ideon area of Lund. Share information • Nyckel 0328 AB, which is engaged in financing activities. Wihlborgs is a Swedish public limited company that is listed For further information, see Note 17 in Wihlborgs’ 2012 on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. Wihlborgs has been listed on the Annual Report. Nordic Mid Cap list since 2006. Wihlborgs’ operational organization comprises two divisions, On 31 December 2012 the largest shareholder in Wihlborgs Property Management and Business Development. It also was Brinova Fastigheter AB with 10.1 per cent of the shares includes the Group Economy/Finance, Procurement, Environment, outstanding. The ten largest Swedish shareholders held 28.7 per HR, Communication and IT functions. In 2012, a new function cent and foreign shareholders 42.2 per cent. was established – Customer Relations. Its role is to work alongside management in developing and strengthening relationships with new and existing customers. Events in 2012 Property management is divided into nine geographically AA During the year, Wihlborgs acquired eight properties and defined areas. Four are in Malmö, three in Helsingborg, one divested four. in Lund and one in Copenhagen. All property management areas operate under clearly defined profit-centre responsibility. AA In August 2012, Wihlborgs submitted its latest CommuniGuidelines for each unit’s operations are established in close cation on Progress in accordance with the UN Global consultation with Group Management. Compact; wihlborgs.com/COP. There were no significant Business Development operates on two fronts: Projects & changes in the Company during the accounting period up Development and Transactions. Projects & Development is to today's date. Meeting in one of the offices in the Kranen 8 property, Ubåtshallen, in Malmö. About our sustainability report Taking global responsibility at local level This is Wihlborgs' second sustainability report. In the past, we focused mainly on environment issues, but we gradually came to realize the relevance of our social responsibility. When we were asked if we had signed up to the Global Compact and if we were working in accordance with its ten principles, we realized that these were something that came naturally to us and wondered why we had not signed up earlier. Perhaps because we viewed ourselves as being restricted to the Öresund region and mainly saw the Global Compact as a tool for multinational companies. Once we realized the importance of a coordinated sustainability programme, we established a CSR function at Wihlborgs. In addition, we soon realized that there were areas defined by the Global Compact where we could improve. This was one of the reasons behind the decision to produce a sustainability report in accordance with GRI. Today, we have an effective system in place to ensure Wihlborgs develops at all times in a socially, economically and environmentally acceptable way. About our sustainability report the Group for the sustainability report, we can take full responsibility for this information (see chart on right, section B). The Our sustainability report covers all our business operations in report also describes sustainability work in relation to external Sweden and Denmark, Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB and all our stakeholders, in this case mainly suppliers and contractors (see 144 subsidiaries. Joint ventures are not included. Wihlborgs chart, right, sections C and D). We set requirements for our Fastigheter AB does not own any properties, they all fall under suppliers but do not exercise the same degree of control over our subsidiary companies. Where we have control over, and can them and their sub-contractors. The chart on the right illustrates fully determine the outcome of, information generated within the stakeholders in Wihlborgs that have been identified. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 11 Identifying Wihlborgs' key stakeholders * = Key stakeholders A. Society in general Municipalities* Neighbours Stakeholder organizations Networks Media Schools/Universities Legislators Public authorities Citizens Auditors B. Wihlborg Fastigheter AB Employees* Board of Directors* Contract personnel C. Supplier chain Suppliers* Contractors* Lenders* Sub-contractors D. Value chain Tenants* Sub-tenants Shareholders* Tenants’ employees Sponsorship recipients Description of method AA Stakeholder dialogue. In 2011, we distributed a wide-ranging questionnaire to As part of producing this sustainability report, Wihlborgs has more than 200 individuals representing our key stakeholders performed a stakeholder analysis and risk/opportunity analysis. (for details of questions and findings, see pages 16–17 in For further information, see our 2011 Sustainability Report. Wihlborgs’ 2011 Sustainability Report). In 2012, we decided to conduct a stakeholder dialogue in two stages. In the first AA Identifying Wihlborgs' key stakeholders. stage, six selected stakeholders at management level were In 2011, the CSR group listed potential stakeholders. The asked to complete a short questionnaire. The results are stakeholders were then classified into seven key stakeholder presented on pages 16–17. The next stage will be to follow groups: Shareholders, Tenants, Municipalities in which we up the responses by the individuals concerned via in-depth operate, Credit providers, Suppliers/Contractors, Board interviews during autumn 2013. The results will be presented and Employees. These categories will remain as long as in Wihlborgs’ 2013 Sustainability Report. Wihlborgs’ business does not change. The chart above shows all stakeholders. AA Identification of risks and opportunities. This process was described in last year's sustainability report. The risks and opportunities remain the same. About our sustainability report Reporting Our accounting year is the calendar year and the reporting cycle is for the whole year. The report (at B+ level) covers the period 1 January– 31 December 2012. The next sustainability report will be published in April 2014. We believe that the sustainability report meets the requirements for application level B+. An external audit of our sustainability report in accordance with GRI was carried out by Deloitte. The auditors' report appears on page 47. We have also chosen to apply certain aspects of the recently issued guidelines for the construction and property sector, “Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement” (CRE.1). We have used the most recent version of GRI in this report, i.e. G3.1. The GRI Index on page 42 shows the links between G3.1, CRE.1 and ISO 26 000. The sustainability report has been printed in a limited number of copies in Swedish and English. It will be available mainly for downloading from the Wihlborgs website from 12 April 2013. www.wihlborgs.se/Press--Media/ under Publikationer (Publications). If you have any questions or comments on the report, please contact any member of the Wihlborgs CSR group; for contact details, see page 53. Wihlborgs’ first sustainability report was published on 23 April 2012. Application level for reporting At levels C+, B+ and A+, reports must A A+ be confirmed by an external party. B B+ Same requirements Report for all points as for level B. at level C and C C+ Information on sustainability Report management in Information on sustainability management in each each indicator category. G3 Standard information indicator category. Information on profile. Report for each core Report for at least 20 result indicator in G3 and each Not required. indicators and at least one from sector-specific* indicator, each of the following: applying the principle of Information on sustainability Economic impact, environmental materiality by either management. impact, human rights, a) reporting indicator Report for at least 10 result information or employment and working, indicators and at least one b) explaining the reasons role of organization from each of the following: for not reporting. Result indicators and in society, product liability. Social, economic och sector-specific result indicators. environmental impact. * = Sector-specific supplement in final version Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 13 Media Evolution City, Ubåten 2, was awarded Malmö’s City Architectural Award in 2012. Governance, undertakings and commitments The Gängtappen 1 building, also known as Kockumshuset (the Kockums Building), dates from 1958. It is one of the tallest buildings in Malmö. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 15 Listening makes us wiser Wihlborgs’ business is built on values that are not up for discussion. Which is not to say that we believe we have done everything we need to do and have stopped developing – quite the reverse. In our day-to-day work, we maintain constant and open dialogue with our various stakeholders. We need to know and understand what our tenants, suppliers and the world around us at large expect of a company such as Wihlborgs. Wihlborgs is not governed only by its Board of Directors and management groups, but also by the new insights we gain by listening to others. Framework committees. To monitor developments in the credit market, Wihlborgs has an interest rate committee which meets each Wihlborgs is a listed company that is subject to rules and month and presents reports and proposals to the board. The regulations on corporate governance that are made up of Board and Group Management are responsible for ensuring that various laws. In addition to legislation, the Swedish Code of work on the environment, work environment, review of ethical Corporate Governance and stock exchange rules also apply. guidelines, social responsibility and sustainable development is The business is monitored and supervised by external auditors performed in line with the rules, strategies and goals that have and Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. been established. This responsibility also includes presenting a GRI-compliant sustainability report. This report is drawn up Shareholder power at B+ level and incorporates Wihlborgs’ Communication on The Annual General Meeting (AGM) is the highest decisionProgress in line with the principle of the Global Compact. making body. Every shareholder has the right to participate in For more information on the procedures for good corporate the AGM and raise various issues. One of the many important governance with regard to the Board's qualifications, procedures duties of the AGM is to elect members of the Company’s Board and processes, see Wihlborgs’ Corporate Governance Report of Directors. The AGM also resolves on guidelines for remuneraon pages 123–133 of the 2012 Annual Report. The Board's work tion to the CEO and leading decision-makers. The company's is assessed annually, and every two years Board members are auditors check that these guidelines are adhered to. All details required to complete an in-depth questionnaire designed to of the AGM are available on the Wihlborgs website. determine what changes need to be made in the work done by the Board. Board of Directors and CEO The Wihlborgs Board is charged with managing the company Group Management in the best interests of the shareholders for a satisfactory Wihlborgs' Group Management has overall responsibility for long-term return on assets, in accordance with set rules of managing the Company, and the CEO, who is a member of the procedure. The Board is made up of eight members, of whom Board, reports directly to the Wihlborgs Board. With regard six are independent of the company. Two members are considto sustainability issues, we have established an in-house CSR ered to be non-independent, namely Erik Paulsson, Chair, on function that deals with these issues and whose responsibilities account of Brinova's shareholding in Wihlborgs, and Anders Jarl, also include involving the Company's employees. Senior execuwho also serves as CEO of Wihlborgs. In view of the Company’s tives are not entitled to bonuses; for more information, see Note 7 size, Wihlborgs does not have separate audit and remuneration to the financial statements in Wihlborgs’ 2012 Annual Report. Governance, undertakings and commitments Corporate Governance Report that we believe that future in-depth interviews with these individuals will provide us with a further dimension of expectations The Corporate Governance Report in full can be downloaded from for our work on sustainability from a strategic viewpoint. the Wihlborgs website and is included in the 2012 Annual Report. Questions in stakeholder dialogue Important answers from those The following is a summary of the questions asked. who are important to us 1. How do you think that Wihlborgs should deal with sustainability In our day-to-day work, we maintain an ongoing dialogue with issues (such as environmental issues, social and work environment our stakeholders. We have conducted targeted communication issues, responsibility in the delivery chain, anti-corruption etc.) on a with certain stakeholders on several occasions, including via our scale of 1–5, where 1 corresponds to “only meet legal requirements” employee and customer satisfaction index questionnaires, which and 5 to “proactive, be in the vanguard”? are performed by the Group's HR function and management, respectively. 2. How important do you think it is Wihlborgs to inform about its The findings are evaluated and appropriate actions taken. work on sustainability on a scale of 1-5, where 1 corresponds to When we started working on our first sustainability report, we “not at all important” and 5 to “very important”? discovered that at that time we had never conducted a stakeholder analysis based purely on sustainability data. We therefore 3. How would you like to receive this information? established a dialogue with our key stakeholders to find out (Mark option A or B.) what issues they felt were important to Wihlborgs' work on A) I would like a representative of Wihlborgs to inform me. sustainability. For more information on the dialogue for the 2011 B) I would like to seek out relevant information myself. Sustainability Report, see pages 16 and 17. 4. Do you have anything else to add, or is there anything that you At year-end 2012/13, Wihlborgs conducted its second stakethink we should look into in greater depth in the planned interview? holder dialogue. The difference from the preceding year was that instead of distributing the questionnaire to several stakeholders Summary of the results from questions 1–4 among all our key stakeholders, seven individuals were selected. These individuals represented management levels in each key All the stakeholders questioned expressed the view that it is stakeholder category. The following functions participated: important for Wihlborgs to address sustainability issues. The fact that four external stakeholders agreed that we should Stakeholder Role Reason be at the forefront in the area is something that we regard as interesting. Our belief is that the individuals concerned Board of Directors Member Individual has served on Wihlborgs’ Board for responded in this way because they themselves represent an extended period. companies and organizations that actively work on sustainability Employees CEO Senior role in Company issues. It may also be that the individuals concerned believe that Tenant Service Director Represents one of our it is incorrect not to take the view that Wihlborgs should focus most important tenants. on development in this area. Shareholder Representative of fund One of our most Another possible interpretation is that the participating important shareholders individuals feel that it is important for us at Wihlborgs to Supplier Sales manager at one Energy accounts for of our most important a major volume of actually communicate about our work on sustainability. energy companies Wihlborgs’ procurement. We have assumed that those who are interested will seek Municipality Municipal Director Represents the out information or a suitable contact person at our company. department with which That does not appear wholly to be the case. The findings indicate Wihlborgs has frequent contact in connection that as many as three of the seven participants would like to with municipal be contacted with more information. We feel this information development in one of our localities. is significant, as it will influence future strategies for communiLenders Regional bank One of our biggest cation on Wihlborgs’ work on sustainability. manager lenders. Another theme of relevance and importance that emerged from the dialogue is that Wihlborgs should use a collaborative The stakeholder dialogue presented in this section was based approach to sustainability linked to the premises that we rent on six questions. These questions will later be used as the basis out. This is something that we ourselves feel we should develop for the in-depth interviews, scheduled to take place in autumn – and “green leases” represent one step in this direction. We 2013, of all individuals taking part in the survey. foresee that, irrespective of stakeholder category, expectations The reason for choosing individuals at management level is of various forms of collaboration will increase. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 17 5. First select the five most important areas of those below that Stakeholder dialogue 2012 In-house, 2 pers. Wihlborgs should focus mostly strongly on. Rate the five areas Score External, 5 pers. chosen on a scale of 1–5, where 1 is the most important area. 12 10 Social responsibility 8 1 Child labour, forced labour and other human rights issues. 6 2 The right to organize and collective bargaining, equal pay for equal work 3 Management/relationships with employees 4 4 Safe working environment 2 5 Diversity and non-discrimination 0 6 Training and development of employees 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 7 Ability to recruit and retain talented employees Area 8 Social and environment related demands on suppliers 9 Good relations and approach in locations where we operate Summary of findings from question 5 10 Quality of Wihlborgs premises One conclusion is that from an in-house perspective, training 11 Customer service and development of employees is the most important issue. Closely followed by leadership and customer service. It is also Environment seen as important that we should maintain stable financial results and should address work environment issues. 12 Energy consumption From the external perspective, several participants take the 13 Emissions (carbon dioxide and other GHGs) view that what is most important is that Wihlborgs business is 14 Waste management conducted safely, meaning that we should maintain a safe work 15 Water consumption environment. Two issues that may go hand in hand are the quality of our premises and environmental classification of build16 Non-toxic environments in buildings ings. These are also the two areas that external stakeholders 17 Environmental classification/certification of buildings considered to be second-most important. 18 Green transport It is also interesting to note that our external stakeholders take the view that it is important for us to maintain continuous Financial responsibility dialogue with them on sustainability issues. Wihlborgs’ financial results are regarded as important from an external point of 19 Financial performance view too. 20 Wihlborgs to be recommended to ethical investment funds In addition, the chart illustrates that in the view of Wihlborgs’ external stakeholders it is important to maintain good relationOperational management ships in the cities where we operate. From an environmental point of view, this may also be interpreted as indicating that we 21 Transparency should focus on energy consumption in our properties. These 22 Risk and crisis management two areas are prioritized as third-most important. 23 Corporate governance 24 Continuous stakeholder dialogue 6. Do you think that any area has been omitted from 25 Membership of Global Compact the preceding question? 26 Wihlborgs' in-house ethical guidelines In this category, we received one reply stating that in the 27 Information on Wihlborgs CSR/GRI reporting above-mentioned 27 questions, we should have included an option that specifically mentioned “development in partnership with the tenant”. Sustainability targets with risks and opportunities The Skrovet 3 building, in Dockan, Malmö, is home to Wihlborgs’ headquarters plus several restaurants overlooking the harbour. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 19 Seeing risks as a positive factor What progress was made in 2012? A risk is always a risk, but a risk is also something that can always be seized on and developed into something positive. In last year's sustainability report, which also was our first, we described our ten biggest risks and how we planned to address them in the year ahead. We then reformulated our ten biggest potential risks into concrete shortand long-term sustainability goals. The goals were devised on a short-term and a long-term basis. Short-term goals =1–5 years, Long-term goals = > 5 years. Wihlborgs’ potential risks were identified within the context of the main impact of the business. The following table presents our ten risks/opportunities, and how we chose to deal with them in 2012. What is Wihlborgs Target (short or ShortLongStatus on No. Potential risk Business opportunity doing today? long term) term term Area 31 December 2012 1. Contaminated site Can be prevented by Property and contaminSurvey properties Environment Not started. caused by tenant greater awareness of ated site details held on where business activiScheduled for 2013. business activities. tenants’ business risks. an internal database. ties can contaminate Routine surveys when site. Ensure MIFO acquiring property. inspections are performed and obtain reports from such. The goal is zero tolerance. 2. Negative image of The sustainability report Today, we randomly To create within Operational Not started. Wihlborgs in the acts as an invitation monitor what is written the next few years management social media. to our stakeholders to about Wihlborgs in the a systematic way of engage in a dialogue with social media. monitoring the social us and enables us to hear media, and procedures views and opinions that for social media can help us develop. communication. 3. Financial risks See Wihlborgs’ annual Finance Monitored on an ongoing report, page 81. basis, see Wihlborgs’ annual report. 4. A crisis arises that Produce a more Procedures in place Produce a crisis Operational Not started. is not covered by comprehensive crisis for internal health and management plan management Scheduled for 2013. the current crisis management plan. safety inspections and in writing in 2012. management plan. monitoring of physical risks. Contact paths to Company healthcare available. 5. Some form of Continue to work on Business ethics are Zero tolerance. Both Operational Started. A document corruption emerges business ethics at a continuously discussed shortand long-term management on procedures has been within Wihlborgs. strategic level. Dare to within the company, for statistics are to be kept produced and is expected maintain transparency example via the training on any known cases. to be adopted in spring even when cases attract programme “Wihlborgs 2013. Once adopted, all publicity. Talks Sustainability”. employees will be “Wihlborgs Talks summoned to attend Sustainability”. The training/workshop ethical guidelines were sessions on the topic of updated in August 2011 bribery and corruption. – focus on bribes. Sustainability targets with risks and opportunities What is Wihlborgs Target (short or ShortLongStatus on No. Potential risk Business opportunity doing today? long term) term term Area 31 December 2012 6. The company is Our sustainability report Information on the Expand the dialogue Operational Ongoing continuously via perceived as being creates an opportunity business is provided in with our stakeholders. management the stakeholder dialogue non-transparent. for us to present a the sustainability report, External feedback is and sustainability report. transparent image of the annual report and important so we pick the Company. quarterly reports. out the areas that today we may have too little information on. 7. Wihlborgs loses Regular visits to our Today, customer The target is to Social In progress. In 2012 a credibility as customers. Continuous satisfaction surveys achieve 100 per cent new function, Customer expressed by training for employees, are conducted every satisfaction in the Relations, was created in customer index. including with regard to two years. surveys performed. the Wihlborgs organizaour values. Identify addition. Its role is to develop tional tools for measuring Wihlborgs’ relationships customer satisfaction. with its customers. 8. Rising energy Link energy consumption Data on energy From the beginning of Environment Started and continued consumption more closely to financial consumption data are 2012, energy statistics during 2012. A new in comparable monitoring. included in a statistical are to be reported at routine has been property portfolio. analysis application. Wihlborgs' quarterly introduced, in which We conduct a number meetings. all Wihlborgs’ property of energy conservation Over the next three managers/property projects each year. Energy years, we will monitor management executives issues are integrated into kWh in comparable report energy status of newbuild projects. We portfolios. See the properties at quarterly have employees who are Wihlborgs’ environreport meetings. expert in the area. ment goals 2012–2014, page 34. 9. Wihlborgs lacks Develop our current Wihlborgs signs one-year Suppliers categorized Social Started and continued appropriate monitoring system to contracts. The supplier as high-risk must during 2012. However, procedures to show transparency of completes a checklist report improvements this procedure will be make social and and comparability with questions on within the following revised in 2013. environmental between our suppliers. environment, quality, two years. If, despite assessments of work environment and being requested to do our suppliers and ethics. The procurement so, a supplier cannot contractors. director carries out a show any such risk assessment. When improvement, a new renegotiating a contract, contract will not be the supplier is given the signed with that opportunity to improve if supplier, effective 2014. requested by Wihlborgs. See also Wihlborgs’ Approved suppliers are environment goals listed in Wihlborgs order2012–2014, page 34. ing app (see page 39). 10. Wihlborgs is The sustainability report The main sources of Long term, to expand Operational Started during stakeperceived as unclear explains how we aim to information today are the dialogue with our management holder dialogues and in its external be sustainably profitable our website and our stakeholders and deveWihlborgs’ customer communication in our core business. annual report. lop external feedback, satisfaction index. about what our The sustainability report to enable us to pick up Continuous information business stands invites our stakeholders on the areas where we in-house via “”Wihlborgs for in all areas of to engage in a dialogue currently have too little Talks Sustainability”. Our sustainability. with us and provides information. Long term, intention over the next an opportunity to hear to identify quantifiable few years is to further views that can help us key figures. To ensure raise the bar for in-house develop further. We can that more of us in the communication. also improve in getting Company feel secure, this message across in the short and long in future recruitment term, in communicating campaigns. “sustainability” related to our own working area. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 21 Dockporten 1, Malmö, is home to Mercedes’ Nordic headquarters and the Årstiderna by the Sea restaurant. Financial responsibility Sustainability from profitability If we are to be able to realize our strategies and achieve our goals, it is essential that Wihlborgs is profitable. This also applies to the sustainability work that we are integrating with the financial targets set by the Board for our business – everything is connected. Acting with financial responsibility is vital in enabling us also to take responsibility for the part we play in the development of society. Under the Swedish Companies Act, other legislation and regufor our business. If the integration is successful, this will boost lations, the listing agreement with the Nasdaq OMX Exchange, our brand, which should enhance our chances of becoming our the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, the Company’s customers’ first choice when they need to lease a property. Articles of Association and internal instruments of control, such Via our stakeholder dialogue, we have established that it is as the Rules of Procedure for the Board and instructions to the important to adhere to Wihlborgs' financial targets. The value Chief Executive Officer, the management and responsibilities of we create comes from our rental income. The dialogue with the Wihlborgs Group are divided between the Board and Chief our stakeholders also suggests that one of the most important Executive Officer. areas that Wihlborgs needs to take into account is the quality Wihlborgs' overarching objectives and strategies state that of our premises and the customer service we deliver. Without the Company shall operate according to a business model for satisfied customers, we cannot achieve the rental income growth and shall be one of the leading and most profitable targets we establish. Rental income also affects the extent of property companies on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. To the changes in value of our properties. This income is supposed achieve this goal, Wihlborgs shall consolidate and further to provide our employees, loan providers, society and our strengthen its market positions in the Öresund region by suppliers with a share in the value we create. Our shareholders concentrating on various sub-markets. We shall actively improve are also to share in this value via dividends approved by the our property portfolio by acquiring, developing and selling Board through a dividend policy. properties. We shall also manage our property portfolio with The size of the dividend depends on the property managethe focus on sound cost efficiency and high occupancy rates. ment performance the Company delivers and the sales level Our customer relationships shall be enhanced by active engageachieved on completed property transactions. Once all ment and a high level of service. stakeholders have received their share, the remainder is By working to the goals and strategies we have established, retained in the Company to strengthen our business, create we affect the communities where we operate. As a result, we new projects and acquire new properties to grow the company also need to accept an overarching responsibility for our environin a sustainable way. mental impact. This means identifying strategies for all areas Information on Wihlborgs’ financial position can be found on in which we impact the environment. Our sustainability work pages 87–98 of the annual report. shall be integrated with the financial targets set by the Board Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 23 EC 1 The Neptun 6 building, on Malmö’s Västergatan, comprises office space of approximately 5,000 m2. Economic value created Economic value created and distributed, SEKm 2012 2011 Comments and distributed, SEKm 2012 2011 Comments Directly created value Distributed economic value Income 1,505 1,445 Rental income Employees 69 68 Salaries, social insurance costs Changes in values of properties 140 515 Lenders 392 358 Interest costs Changes in value, derivatives -136 -336 Society 74 71 Property tax and VAT Other income 13 13 Other income incl. interest income Suppliers 295 305 Recalculation of tax liability1 265 Shareholders 288 269 Dividend to shareholders Total directly created value, SEKm 1,787 1,637 Taxes paid 131 170 1 As a result of a reduction in the rate of corporation tax to 22 per cent the deferred Total distributed value, 1,249 1,241 tax liability has been recalculated in the 2012 accounts, leading to a non-recurring SEKm surplus of SEK 265 million. No figure for 2011. Retained in the business 538 396 Return on equity, % 14.0 12.3 Target, % 7.0 7.2 Environmental responsibility The purpose of environmental goals Simply expressed, it is to reduce the negative impact on the environment. As a major property owner, we have considerable scope for influencing and improving everything from energy consumption to the vehicles we use. Energy is where we most affect the environment, but it is also where we can make major contributions in the form of improving energy efficiency. Via Green Buildings, green leases, specifications for green vehicles and clearly defined environmental goals, we remain resolute in our endeavour to reduce our environmental impact and carbon dioxide emissions. EN 3 Wihlborgs’ environmental responsibilities are based on the reporting. As far as Wihlborgs' total energy consumption is Company's Ethical Guidelines, Environmental Policy and current concerned, we can see an increase between 2011 and 2012. If we Environmental Goals. Policy and goals have been drawn up by break this down to kWh/m2, however, no difference is apparent. employees and environmental affairs director, and ratified by The illustration indicates that the consumption of gas has fallen Wihlborgs’ Management and Board. sharply. This is partly because the majority of our properties in Wihlborgs' operations are subject to Swedish and Danish Denmark have been connected to the district heating network. legislation. Adherence to the precautionary principle and It is also because the use of district heating overall has increased. compliance with environment legislation represent a minimum For a property to be included in the energy statistics we requirement in our environmental work. To ensure we meet report, we need a reference year from which our energy applicaapplicable legal requirements in the environmental field, we tion can obtain key figures. In other words, a property must subscribe to an external database that is continuously updated have been owned by Wihlborgs for at least the whole of 2011 to with new legislation in our area of operation. be included in reporting for 2012. We estimate that approximately We also perform regular environmental risk analyses that in 8.4 per cent (about 18 properties) falls outside the reporting many cases reflect the areas of the environment that concern range. We are aware that this does not give a completely transus from a legal compliance perspective. parent picture of our energy consumption, as the overall figure does not include consumption for all properties. This is also used Energy consumption in the table that shows energy consumption per square metre, although all Wihlborgs’ properties are included in the lettable A typical Swedish single-family house built in the 1950s or 1960s area. As a result, the consumption of kWh/sqm2 is slightly higher uses 25,000 kWh of energy in a year. Our energy consumption than is shown on the next page. totals 160,077,084 kWh, not 25,000 kWh, so our properties As of 2012, we have introduced a new procedure based on together use as much energy as 6,403 single-family homes, around 70 per cent of Wihlborgs' property portfolio being 160,077 mWh. There is no doubt that energy consumption included in an environmental goal category where the areas represents our biggest impact on the environment. will also be comparable year on year. For more information, The diagram on the next page illustrates our consumption please see the section on our environmental goals for 2012–2014 of heating, electricity, cooling, oil and gas over the past three on page 35. Our biggest energy suppliers consist of Vattenfall, years. Wihlborgs’ overall consumption is also shown. In future E.ON, Öresundskraft and Lunds Energi. The proportion of sustainability reports, Wihlborgs will detail its energy consumpenergy from renewable sources, and what these consist of, are tion over the preceding three years, including the year of presented on page 26. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 25 EN 4 Early morning meeting in an office in the Kranen 9 building, Malmö. Total energy consumption, kWh – electricity, heating, cooling, gas, oil Electricity Gas 2010 52,796,847 2011 54,060,465 2012 53,157,982 2010 12,032,705 2011 9,971,782 2012 6,090,219 2012 Total kWh 2012 160,077,084 District cooling Oil 2010 6,049,726 2010 0 2011 5,747,245 2011 0 2012 6,115,243 2012 0 District heating Total area 2010 2011 2010 78,496,901 2011 83,125,376 2012 94,713,640 m2 2010 1,369,064 2011 1,365,170 2012 1,425,073 Total kWh 2010 149,376,179 Total kWh 2011 152,904,868 All kWh figures in this report may be recalculated to megajoules (MJ) by multiplying the kWh figure by 3.6. Electricity District cooling District heating Gas Environmental responsibility Percentage renewable Energy supplier Percentage renewable electricity Energy sources District District ElecDistrict heating cooling Electricity 1 tricity District heating % cooling % Vattenfall 100 Hydro – – E.ON, 2012 64 100 – – Waste 57 Wind power 100 Natural gas 34 Ind. waste to energy 5 Oil 2 Biofuel 1 Auxilliary electricity, incl. 1 electricity for heat pumps Lunds Energi, 2012 74 23 – – Biofuel 28 Fuel supplied: 100 Heat pumps 2 22 Electricity3 Natural gas 16 Electricity for heat pumps 11 Waste to energy 9 Recycled wood 6 Pellets 3 Procured heating (strawand chip-based) 4 Biogas 0.4 Fossil oil 0.05 Öresundskraft, 2012 95 100 – – Pellets and other Electricity 100 Helsingborg wood-based fuels 35 Waste to energy 31 Waste 8 Heating from HPs, less electricity for HPs 4 7 Flue-gas condensation 4 Landfill gas 3 Electricity for heat pumps 3 Natural gas 3 Auxiliary electricity 3 Oil 2 Purchased hot water 5 1 1 The electricity procured by Wihlborgs over the 2010-2012 period is known as EPD-el and is 100% hydro-generated. EPD – Environmental Product Declaration – is a registered environmental product declaration certified by AB Svenska Miljöstyrningsrådet with quality assured data on the likes of resource consumption, emissions, waste and recycling. 2 Geothermal heat, heat from wastewater, heat from remote cooling. 3 Nordic residual mix. 4 HPs = Heat pumps. 5 Hot water bought from another district heating company. The above figures are based on suppliers' own declarations on centres in Malmö, Helsingborg, Lund and Copenhagen. Our total their energy products in 2012. In 2012, we expressed our need energy consumption in 2012, expressed in kWh/m2 per location, to obtain declarations for the year being reported. All energy is presented on the next page. In many cases, the relatively low suppliers will receive accurate data in spring 2013, which is too total consumption per square metre figure is because it is an late for our reporting needs. This means that the table above is average for all our properties and includes, for example, facilities based on provisional values. Consequently, the values may be with extensive cold storage areas. Our future environment targets adjusted somewhat in spring 2013. will show a considerably higher figure, expressed in kWh/m2. The above table does not include figures for Denmark, which This is because cold storage facilities etc. will have been excluded. we hope to be able to incorporate long term. It is also important See Wihlborgs’ environment goals 2012–2014, page 35. for us to maintain a dialogue with our biggest energy suppliers To us, energy efficiency is about seeing the whole picture. to help persuade them to include more energy from renewable Here, too, our energy statistics application plays a major role. sources in their products. In 2012, we held meetings with all We use the E4 SQL statistics computer program, which enables energy suppliers, discussing the table and Wihlborgs’ expectations us to monitor heating, electricity, water and cooling. Wihlborgs for the future. We regard it as encouraging that, over the year, uses the program to identify potential energy saving projects/ figures indicated a higher proportion of renewable energy. costs savings and to manage consumption in all our properties. Wihlborgs operates in the Öresund region with investment When it comes to deciding which properties to make more Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 27 energy efficient, our first step is to calculate the current energy The chart below provides a graphic illustration of the savings status of the property. Next we calculate how much energy is achieved: used, relative to area. We then produce an action plan with Energy efficiency gains, Knutpunkten efficiency measures including costs etc. The following case is an example of an energy efficiency Saving drive that we implemented in our existing portfolio in 2012. In 3,305,823 2011, Wihlborgs acquired the 18,000 m2 property Terminalen 1 Before (also known as Knutpunkten), located in central Helsingborg. 2,848,979 Terminal 1 includes bus, rail, and ferry terminals, as well as After offices, shops and restaurants. The property was built in 1991 and heating and cooling pumps were installed in 2009. When 2,664,137 we took possession of the property, we discovered that of Before 2,413,964 the three heating and cooling pumps installed, only one was After operating We also recognized potential in replacing the lighting system in the multi-storey car park and installing a new control system. The investment cost for the project was SEK 2.9 million. kWh The following actions were taken in the property during 2012: AA Adjustment of air volumes. Heating Electricity Single-family homes AA Prevention of heat loss from property, meaning better insulation in certain areas. This represents an annual financial saving of SEK 600,000. AA Replacement of control and regulation functions. Expressed in another way, the aggregate saving to date is equal AA Conversion to free cooling.1 to the annual energy consumption of 28 single-family homes2. 1 Systems involving free cooling require the earth’s natural cooling resources. The method is based on a reverse heat pump system, i.e. heating is extracted from exhaust air or watercourses. EN 5, CRE 1 2 Consumption by single-family homes is based on a figure of 25,000 kWh (houses built in the 1950s and 1960s). KWh per m2 per location 3 This figure is 38 kWh lower than in 131,565 m2 Copenhagen 524,323 m2 Helsingborg the preceding year. The reason for this is that the statistic reported last year from Copenhagen included estimated electricity from tenants’ own accounts. 2 Electricity kWh m2 39 Heating kWh m2 54 27 Electricity kWh m2 80 Heating kWh m2 109 The low consumption of cooling in Denmark was also due to the fact that 0 13 1.4 0.3 Cooling Gas Total Cooling Gas Total over the summer they do not have kWh m2 kWh m2 kWh m2 kWh m2 kWh m2 kWh m2 access to cooling facilities in their properties. 128,443 m2 Lund 45 Electricity kWh m2 74 Heating kWh m2 145 18 Cooling kWh m2 7.5 Gas kWh m2 Total kWh m2 640,742 m2 Malmö 51 Electricity kWh m2 60 Heating kWh m2 121 4.8 Cooling kWh m2 5 Gas kWh m2 Total kWh m2 Wihlborgs operates in the Öresund region with investment centres in Malmö, Helsingborg, Lund and Copenhagen. Our total energy consumption in 2012 expressed in kWh/2 per location is presented above. Environmental responsibility Seeing the whole picture The biggest differences between 2011 and 2012 and the explanation: Scope 1 has risen by 35 per cent or 180 tons of CO2. To property owners, the most important issue is very often to This is because losses of cooling media increased by 171 tons monitor the energy performance of their properties, since it is of CO2 in 2012. this that has the greatest – and most direct – impact on the Scope 2 fell by 12 per cent, or 1,095 tons of CO2, of which the environment. But we know that we have to view environmental biggest reduction was again achieved in Denmark this year. issues in a broader context. Through our business, we affect the This was above all because several properties in the Danish communities where we operate and so we also need to accept portfolio converted from gas to district heating. an overall degree of responsibility for our environmental impact. Scope 3 fell by 4 per cent, corresponding to 4 tons of carbon This means identifying strategies for all areas in which we dioxide; the major reduction was in waste, specifically the affect the environment. The chart below illustrates the areas waste dealt with SITA. Here, a reduction of 59 tons was recorded, that account for Wihlborgs’ total carbon dioxide emissions, compared to 2011. It may also be seen that the number of and therefore also the areas where we are trying to reduce our kilometres driven on business declined, as did the volume of environmental impact. air travel at Wihlborgs. Wihlborgs’ total carbon dioxide emissions in tons over the past three years: Year Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total Tons Tons Tons Tons 2010 469 9,483 85 10,036 2011 336 9,362 101 9,798 EN 16, EN 17, EN 29 2012 515 8,267 97 8,879 Service vans Company cars Refrigerants 1 Scope Energy Air travel Rail travel Kilometres driven on official business (privately-owned cars) 2 Private cars on business 3 (commuting) Commuting (bicycle etc.) Waste Scope Scope Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 29 For further details of energy used by our company cars and Waste in 2012, kg, SITA service vans in 2012, expressed in litres and carbon dioxide, please see below. More information on the different fuel uses 517,594 140,410 Recycled waste, kg 4 Combustible waste, kg and how this affected our emissions may be found under the heading “Transport” in this section. Energy usage 2012, company cars and service vans 22,640 28,707 661,887Waste in 2012, kg 14,172 7,194 3,883 Hazardous waste, kg 5 Petrol (lit.) Ethanol (lit.) Gas Waste in 2012, kg, Ragnsells 205,701 344,056 128 Recycled waste, kg 6 Combustible waste, kg Recalculated as total number of tons of CO2 emissions Ozone-depleting substances One area associated with environmental impact that in many 550,744 Waste in 2012, kg EN 22 aspects is linked to the property sector is cooling media and ozone-depleting substances used in cooling systems. Today, CFCs are not used in any of our properties. Going back in time, in 2008 we suffered a leakage of the actual HCFC that we are in 987 the process of phasing out. Where cooling media need topping Hazardous waste, kg 7 up, a specific type, HFC3 is used. In 2013, a new F-gas regulation will be introduced, although it is not clear when it will become In this year's sustainability report, we can now also for the first effective. time report on the share of our total waste that is handled by Ragnsells. Equivalent statistics are still lacking for waste Waste disposal service suppliers in Lund, Helsingborg and Copenhagen. We hope to be able to expand this section as we develop our Waste is one area of our carbon dioxide emissions. We produce capacity for gathering statistics. We estimate that the chart statistics on the volume of waste and number of waste collecabove represents 80 per cent of total waste in Malmö. The station journeys necessary for our properties. Our largest waste tistics have been obtained from our waste disposal contractor. collection service provider is SITA. The graphic below shows the It should also be pointed out that what is shown in the diagram volume of waste in 2012, what was hazardous waste and what above does not include the waste produced during new building was recycled during the year. and redevelopment. Today, we operate routines for waste management on construction sites, but we do not yet have any procedure in place for collecting the relevant statistics. 1 7,194 litres of petrol may be considered high in view of the diagram on page 33, indicating that Wihlborgs has only one petrol-driven car. The high figure is explained by the fact that the 7,194 litres of petrol also includes the petrol used by our hybrid cars. 2 Mix of natural gas and biogas. Malmö and Lund 50 per cent of each. Helsingborg 100% biogas from NSR. 3 HFC has replaced CFC because it does not contain chlorine and does not liberate chlorine radicals that deplete the ozone layer. 4 Recycled waste in 2012 covers all items except combustible, electronic and hazardous waste. Includes: glass, glass packaging, hard plastic packaging, office paper, metal packaging, soft plastic, paper packaging, other plastic, recycled paper, sorted waste, newspapers and cardboard. 5 Hazardous waste in 2012 includes electronic scrap, strip lighting and batteries. 6 Recycled waste in 2012 covers all items except combustible, electronic and hazardous waste. Includes: glass, glass packaging, hard plastic packaging, office paper, metal packaging, soft plastic, paper packaging, other plastic, recycled paper, sorted waste, newspapers and cardboard. 7 Hazardous waste in 2012 includes electronic scrap, strip lighting, toner/ink cartridges and batteries. Environmental responsibility Several of Wihlborgs’ properties are certified under various environmental classification systems. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 31 Raising the bar reduces our impact on the environment EN 6, EN 18, EN 26, CRE 8 Environmental certification Green Building of properties Green Building is actually a programme for managing energy usage, rather than an environmental classification system In addition to energy consumption, one of our major areas of as such. A building may be certified as a newbuild, or via environmental impact is redevelopment and new building. redevelopment of an existing property. In the case of newbuild It has become increasingly common to environmentally certify in southern Sweden, the building’s energy consumption must properties, which involves an external survey and an objective not exceed 75 kWh/m². In the case of redevelopment, energy assessment of how environmentally sustainable a building is. consumption must be cut by at least 25 per cent from the When a property is approved, the property owner receives a existing usage. certificate. Depending on the certification system, certificates As of 31 December 2012, four buildings in the Wihlborgs are issued at different levels. In the case of redevelopments property portfolio have been Green Building certified. The and newbuilds, environmental certification is often about the buildings concerned are the Region Skåne building in Dockan, building as a whole. With newbuilds, this can include whether Fören – where the ÅF will take up occupancy in 2013 – or not you can commute to your workplace by bicycle or public Landsdomaren in Lund and Polisen 3 in Helsingborg. transport. It can also include what type of land the property Of the above-mentioned properties, Polisen 3 in Helsingborg owner is developing, such as whether it is a brownfield or is the one certified in the category of existing properties. At greenfield site. The property developer is awarded points if it is the “Building Sustainability Sweden” conference, Wihlborgs a brownfield site and perhaps may even have been cleared of Fastigheter was named as one of the winners of the Sweden environmentally hazardous substances. A greenfield developGreen Building Awards 2012. Wihlborgs' award was for its ment receives fewer points as the land will have a different Polisen 3 building in Helsingborg, in the category “Existing value from a land resource perspective. buildings certified under Green Building”. The prize was There are around a hundred environmental certification and presented by the Sweden Green Building Council at a sustainable labelling schemes, of which KRAV and Svanen (The Swan) are building conference held in Stockholm in October 2012. two of the best known. Green Building, Miljöbyggnad, BREEAM Green Building certification also means that we as property (the Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment owner must report back on the status of properties that are Method) and LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental certified. This means we must send property energy consumpDesign) are the most common in the property sector. The latter tion data to SGBC once the building has been occupied for at two are based on UK and USA building regulations, respectively. least one year. Although Swedish versions are in the pipeline, Wihlborgs mainly looks at Green Building and Miljöbyggnad. Environmental responsibility Miljöbyggnad Choosing a certification system Miljöbyggnad is a Swedish system for certifying buildings in As it becomes more and more common in the construction and terms of energy, indoor climate and materials. In the system, property sector to environment-certify properties, the various the building is subject to a 15-point check, including energy certification systems have become the subject of debate. Why purchased, noise class, radon content, damp, natural light, choose one system rather than another? We wish to point integral materials, chemicals and building products. We recently out that all environmental classification systems have been achieved our environment goal of eliminating the use of PCBs. developed for the same purpose; to promote buildings with less At the time when the properties from which we are now elimienvironmental impact. However, they address similar issues nating PCBs were being built, the materials used in the building in different ways. The classification system that a company or were not documented in the way that is now required by the contractor in the industry ought to use will depend entirely on Miljöbyggnad system, among others. This type of system makes what kind of company it is. Wihlborgs’ view is that all environit easier for us to trace substances that are classed as hazardous mental certification systems have a role to play and help the to the environment and health. Wihlborgs hopes that by property sector develop in a more environment-friendly certifying properties we can identify materials used in their direction. Wihlborgs is subject to Swedish legislation and so it construction in a structured way and thus save both time and is natural for us to look at systems that are developed to reflect money. In the Miljöbyggnad certification system, a building can national conditions, such as Miljöbyggnad and the Swedish be classified as bronze, silver or gold. Miljöbyggnad covers both version of BREEAM. We have long been using an in-house newbuilds and existing buildings. environmental programme for newbuilds, a programme that At 31 December 2012, no Wihlborgs property had been includes several criteria from various environment classification classified under the Miljöbyggnad system. In 2012, the three systems. We believe that cooperation in the sector is the way to properties formally recorded as at provisional application status achieve sustainable development. were referred to the SGBC’s (Sweden Green Building Council) Technology Committee for inspection; all that now remains are Green leases any supplementary details that may be requested. A provisional In late spring 2012, the Swedish Property Federation and introapplication was submitted for a further property – Gängtappen 1 duced what were termed “green leases”. One of our environ(Rondellhuset) in Malmö in 2012. The application was submitted mental goals when this innovation was launched was to offer in the newbuild category. the green lease appendix to everyone signing a new or renegotiated lease. We did not achieve this goal, but in 2012 work The BREEAM system, started on the process and seven green leases were signed. adapted for Sweden Wihlborgs’ judgement is that green leases fulfill an important function, in that they create a platform for cooperation between The BRE Environmental Assessment Method (BREEAM) is landlord and tenant with the common goal of reducing the environmental classification system originating from the UK. environmental impact of the property or premises. The leases BREEAM , one of the oldest environmental classification systems, include activities in areas such as information and cooperation, has been used to certify over 115,000 buildings, most of them energy and indoor environment, choice of materials and waste in the UK. The Sweden Green Building Council is working with management. Green leases are also included in our environment the adaptation of BREEAM to Swedish conditions and on taking goals with effect from 2012. over management of certification systems in Sweden. The Swedish version of the BREEAM Commercial environmental certification system, BREEAM-SE, has now been approved by Transport BRE Global in the UK. In 2012, five “pilot projects” were sought Transport is one of the areas where we impact on the environfor testing the Swedish system. Wihlborgs submitted an appliment. Transport for the Company’s business is governed by our cation for MAX IV, Lund, and in autumn 2012 we were notified car policy. We have chosen not to have a general travel policy that MAX IV had been selected as one of the pilot projects. In with regard to business travel. This is because our operations the Swedish version of BREEAM, environmental certification are concentrated within the Öresund region. Other business of buildings is easier and less expensive. The requirements are travel is made by air and rail. In total, there were 114 instances of more or less the same in both Swedish and UK versions in order business travel in 2012, of which 90 were made by air and 22 by to ensure that international comparisons between buildings are rail; this volume of travel is small compared with multinational possible. BREEAM comprises the following areas: Energy, Indoor companies. We are well aware that many services associated Environment, Materials and Chemicals, Water, Management, with our properties have a transport element. We have, however, Construction Waste, Infrastructure and Communication, produced a breakdown of our transport-related statistics. To do Ecology and Location, Pollution and Process/Innovation. this, we collate data on transport undertaken by our employees. This includes data on company service vans, company cars, air Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 33 travel, rail travel, mileage on company business in private cars hot and cold water combined. The properties in our portfolio and commuting to and from the workplace. Because energy are supplied via the municipal system. The diagram below consumption in our properties is our biggest environmental shows Wihlborgs’ total water consumption in m3 and m3/m2 for issue, we have no plans at present to start tracing the transport the past three years: chains of our various suppliers and contractors. On the other Consumption in 2012 was 304,382 m3 , 304,382,000 litres of hand, we have decided to confine ourselves to monitoring and water. In Sweden, the average person uses 180 litres of water following up transport used in connection with waste collecper day. This means that our properties consume the equivalent tion at our properties. This statistical summary will be produced amount of water as the annual consumption of 4,633 people. In each year and is something that we as a property owner have future sustainability reports, Wihlborgs will present water conat our fingertips. In 2008, we adopted our car policy, which sumption data for the past three years including the reporting requires all vehicles to be green cars. Our green car criteria are year. The reason why the figure remains at 0.2 is that the total those defined by the Swedish Transport Administration. In 2010, area represented by Wihlborgs’ property portfolio has increased. we added three electric cars to our fleet and in late 2011 we achieved our goal that all our company cars and service vans Total water consumption, m3 should be green vehicles. Our vehicle fleet uses the following fuels: petrol, diesel, ethanol, LPG and electricity. Between 2008 and 2012 our carbon dioxide emissions fell by 61 tons. No. of vehicles per type of fuel in 2012 280,160 269,871 304,382 31 m3 m3 m3 7 Ethanol LPG cars 2010 0.2 m3 per m2 2011 0.2 m3 per m2 2012 0.2 m3 per m2 EN 8, CRE 2 Total area Total area Total area 1,369,064 m2 1,365,170 m2 1,425,073 m2 23 Diesel 3 Electricity 1 Petrol Environmental issues at the construction stage In the majority of our newbuild projects, we draw up a specific environmental programme representing a document of aims. This environmental programme is also used for major Just ordinary water redevelopment projects. The programme is based on Wihlborgs Water is becoming an increasingly important issue from a global Fastigheter AB’s environmental policy, the Swedish Environperspective. Our properties use water, but compared with mental Code, the Environment Manual, the Environmental energy consumption, our water consumption has a lesser impact Status Method and other environmental requirements for on the environment. Our properties are commercial premises buildings, such as municipal regulations. where the majority of space comprises offices and storage. This The purpose of the environmental programme is to ensure means that mostly cold water is consumed. Property companies that environmental goals established for the property are comprising in the main residential apartments have a completely achieved, to create the conditions for an environment-friendly different pattern of consumption in terms of hot water. That building and prevent unwanted surprises during operation. The is not to say that we can ignore the issue of water. We need to environment here includes not only the internal environment start a general discussion on water consumption across the for future users, but also impact on the external environment entire property sector. Today, there are no general initiatives in and the construction site environment. this area similar to energy-consumption programmes taking Since we begun certifying/classifying our properties, the place in in the property sector. Our energy statistics program process has been to start from the 15/16 points listed in the enables us to calculate water consumption in our properties. Miljöbyggnad scheme (see above) and then cover the areas not The information is collected from water meters in the properincluded in Miljöbyggnad. We do this via what we refer to as ties. The water consumption figures show the consumption of “detailed environmental goals”. These are more specific to, and Environmental responsibility governing principles of, the project, and are arranged under acquisition, we also undertook environmental remediation of various headings as follows: the land and buildings for future use. To us, it was obvious from the start to engage a consultant (Demikon AB, now acquired by 1. Design the ÅF Group), who is familiar with the task of managing and 2. Location coordinating projects of this type. Gjuteriet 18 extends over an 3. Materials, products and systems area of 30,000 m2 in Limhamn and is well-known in the Malmö 4. Functions region not least for the type of industrial activity that had been 5. Production conducted at the property. 6. Management and operation Until 1930, the area was used by a cement works and an oil mill (for the production of linseed oil). The oil mill was established Progress is monitored via environmental meetings/environin 1905 and burned down in 1912. The former oil mill buildings mental auditing on the construction site. Minutes are kept at were demolished in 1937. From 1938 onwards, petrol pumps and all meetings and are available for distribution to the tenant other such equipment were manufactured here. on request. Wihlborgs’ attitude towards the project from the outset has In minor projects, environmental issues are to a certain extent been to carry out the entire project and remediation measures integrated. For example, by use of the Folksam (Insurance for both land and buildings on the basis of the regulations and Company) Construction Environment Guide. Over the next few guidelines applying to schools and day nurseries, although the years, we will exercise stricter control to ensure that all projects planning process engaged in is primarily for tenant-owner are conducted in a standard way. developments. We also contacted the relevant public and supervisory authorities in Malmö at an early stage. The aim Environmental remediation was to set up a dialogue as early as possible in order to be clear about the views of other stakeholders. We also believe that the in Limhamn earlier a dialogue can be established, the more time and money In 2010, Wihlborgs acquired the Gjuteriet 18 property, in can be saved. Limhamn, from Dresser Wayne. At the time, the property had Remediation measures are in progress and are expected to been used for the manufacture of fuel pumps. As part of the continue through 2013. The aim is to complete them in 2013. Our environmental goals 2012–2014 EnvironWe set our environmental goals for three-year periods. mental vision The goals were established at a workshop in which all employees participated. What is new – beginning in 2012 2020 Wihlborgs will continue – is that separate goals linked to environmental impact to expand but with reduced are set for each of Wihlborgs' different areas of operation. environmental impact. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 35 1. MANAGEMENT & OPERATION 2012 Outcome 2012 2013 2014 1.1 Energy efficiency, kWh/m2 Wihlborgs’ properties are to maintain Goal achieved in full. On 31 December Wihlborgs’ properties are to maintain Wihlborgs’ properties are to maintain an average rate of energy consump2012, the average consumption an average rate of energy consumpan average rate of energy consumption of no more than 150 kWh/m2. in our green properties was tion of no more than 148 kWh/m2. tion of no more than 140 kWh/m2. This applies to properties within the 149.1 kWh/m2. This applies to properties within the This applies to properties within the environmental goals scheme. 1 environmental goals scheme. 1 environmental goals scheme. 1 1.2 Green leases All new and re-negotiated leases are Started. In the second half of 2012, During all re-negotiations in 2013, During all re-negotiations in 2014, to include a green lease appendix. Wihlborgs signed seven green 100 per cent will include the option 100 per cent will include the option Wihlborgs is to begin using the leases. Work started, but our to sign a green lease. to sign a green lease. leases at the launch of the Swedish conclusion that further in-house Property Federation’s standard lease training is needed means that the agreement, which was expected to goal has not been achieved in full. be in spring 2012. 1.3 Environmental classification Wihlborgs environmentally Goal achieved in part. A provisional Wihlborgs environmentally Wihlborgs environmentally of properties in existing portfolio classifies at least one property application for one property in classifies at least three properties classifies at least five properties (Green Building + environmental in its existing portfolio. Wihlborgs’ existing portfolio was in its existing portfolio. in its existing portfolio. building) submitted to SGBC (Sweden Green Building Council) in 2012. Documents that would enable full application to be made but are lacking include a radon survey (to be conducted over three winter months). 2. LETTING, INFORMATION 2012 Outcome 2012 2013 2014 & COMMUNICATION2 2.1 Environmental prospectus at In 2012, an environmental Started. Relevant environmental In 2013, an environmental In 2014, an environmental viewing of premises prospectus will be provided at facts linked to Vacant Premises prospectus will be provided at prospectus will be provided at viewing of premises in 10 per cent will be available on the web. All viewing of premises in 20 per cent viewing of premises in 50 per cent of Wihlborgs' property portfolio. preparations are complete and the of Wihlborgs' property portfolio. of Wihlborgs' property portfolio. information will be posted on the web following quality assurance. 3. BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT 2012 Outcome 2012 2013 2014 & PROJECTS 3.1 Environmental classification for 100 per cent of Wihlborgs’ new Started. 33 per cent of new 100 per cent of Wihlborgs’ new 100 per cent of Wihlborgs’ new new construction starts construction starts measuring construction starts in 2012 will construction starts measuring construction starts measuring no less than 500 m2 are to be be environmentally classified. In no less than 500 m2 are to be no less than 500 m2 are to be environmentally classified. November 2012, everyone employed environmentally classified. environmentally classified. in Wihlborgs’ administration and project organization underwent basic training in “Miljöbyggnad”. 4. PURCHASING 2012 Outcome 2012 2013 2014 4.1 Purchasing and All those who sign operating and Started. The checklist produced for On the basis of the risk assessments New agreements are not entered procurement routines delivery agreements with Wihlborgs assessment of risk at our suppliers/ of preceding years, Wihlborgs into with suppliers/contractors in 2012 are to be evaluated from contractors was used in 85 per cent monitors those classified at risk classified as level 3 risks. a code of conduct point of view. of new leases signed. In 2012, a new level 3. Further agreements are They are to be assessed for procurement director was appointconditional on positive changes environmental, quality, work ed and set to work with Wihlborgs’ being reported. environment and ethical risk. environment function on developing a new system to further raise standards. 5. TRANSACTION & ANALYSIS 2012 Outcome 2012 2013 2014 5.1 Environmental issues The present routine for taking Goal achieved in full. In 2012, Wihlborgs’ 100 per cent of Wihlborgs' 100 per cent of Wihlborgs' in procurement of properties environmental issues into account analysts worked with the Company’s transactions are documented transactions are documented during procurement and sale of environmental affairs director in provia the environmental indicator. via the environmental indicator. properties is to be reviewed and ducing an environmental indicator redrafted during the year. This is to for use during procurement of propresult in an environmental indicator erties. The indicator is based on a for use during procurement of formula that, depending on the inforproperties. mation submitted, gives an indication of what environmental issues Wihlborgs should take into account during procurement of properties. 6. ADMINISTRATION & IT 2012 Outcome 2012 2013 2014 6.1 Web-based energy statistics Start implementing a routine to be Goal achieved. In 2012, Wihlborgs’ 10 per cent of energy statistics 50 per cent of energy statistics able to offer our tenants, in the long operations supervisor participated for our properties are available for our properties are available term, a facility for obtaining energy in the unit that was assembled by via the Wihlborgs website. via the Wihlborgs website. statistics via the Wihlborgs website. our supplier of the energy statistics application that is designed to enable us to obtain statistics via the web. 6.2 EDI invoicing 20 per cent of Wihlborgs’ invoices Started. In 2012, the outcome was 35 per cent of Wihlborgs’ invoices 50 per cent of Wihlborgs’ invoices from its suppliers will be delivered 11 per cent; the number of e-invoices from its suppliers will be delivered from its suppliers will be delivered via EDI. was 4,235. via EDI. via EDI. 1 This applies to properties covered by environmental goals, which is approximately 70 per cent of the entire Wihlborgs portfolio where there is any form of potential for energy savings in the 2012–2014 period. This indicates that if we had included all properties, we would have reported a considerably lower figure for kWh/m2. The same may be concluded from the figures regarding kWh/m2/location presented earlier in this section. The figures also include properties with major areas of cold storage facilities without any potential for affecting the level of energy consumption in any way. It also means that we can continue our work on properties on the basis of a comparable portfolio in m2. Our new routine means that everyone working in Wihlborgs’ administration from the beginning of 2012, is doing so on the basis of individual key performance ratios, in which the individual key performance ratio has a considerable impact on the overall goal. 2 Our Environmental prospectus will contain information on the environmental impact of the property, which letting managers at Wihlborgs can present to potential tenants when viewing premises. This may consist of information on how the property is heated or cooled. Whether it is environmentally classified, phased-out materials have been cleared etc. Social responsibility At Wihlborgs, everyone is responsible for something That’s how we create a greater sense of community in our business. Employees should be able to develop and grow within the company, and as an incentive for LA 3 them to achieve the targets set, they can share in Wihlborgs’ success via a profit-sharing fund. But no company is an island. We also keep an eye on our suppliers and are increasingly checking on their operations to ensure the absence of any conflict with our own values. The decisions we make and the way we act should always be in line with our ethical guidelines. If they are not, it is our shared responsibility to remind each other what Wihlborgs stands for, and should stand for. Wihlborgs’ corporate social responsibility is based on the followWihlborgs, five are based at the office in Herlev, just outside ing governing documents: Ethical Guidelines, Work Environment Copenhagen. In our statistics, they are only included in the Policy, Equal Opportunities Policy, Pay Policy, Personnel Policy, Workforce and Employee Turnover categories. Company Car Policy and Purchasing Policy. All governing There are 16 managers in the company, of whom six are documents are produced at executive management level. women. In all, 35 (36) per cent of employees in the Group are women. The Wihlborgs Board consists of eight directors, of Employees whom three are women. At year-end 2012 Wihlborgs had two temporary employees. Our employees are an important factor to Wihlborgs’ success. Their know-how, qualifications and professional expertise are a valuable resource. As such, it is important to ensure we offer a Employee turnover work environment that is attractive and helps them develop. Every Employee turnover in 2012 was 9.1 percent. Eight employees left other year, a personnel survey is conducted to test the climate Wihlborgs in 2012, of whom five retired, one left during their at work. The most recent survey was conducted in winter 2010. probationary period and two departed for other reasons. Ten This revealed an Employee Satisfaction Index rating of 3.4 out of new employees joined in 2012. a possible 4. In 2013, a fresh personnel survey was carried out. Sick leave Workforce Sickness absenteeism at Wihlborgs is low; in 2012, it was meaAt year-end, Wihlborgs had 89 employees, of whom 61 worked sured at 2.0 (1.5) percent. Long-term absence (60 days or more) in administration and 28 were collective agreement employees. represented 29.9 per cent (22.6) of total sick leave. All employees 81 employees work full-time (25 women, 56 men) and eight are covered by health insurance. part-time (seven women, one man). Of the 89 employees at Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 37 Employee per location 55 Malmö 5 Lund 24 Helsingborg 5 Copenhagen Number of full-time employees New employees, breakdown by age and gender 9 men 1 women – 30 30 – 49 50+ 30 – 49 Termination of employment, breakdown by age and gender 8 men 30 – 49 50+ 60+ LA 1, LA 2 81 New employee full-time employees per location 4 4 Helsingborg New employee 5 Malmö Helsingborg 1 Copenhagen Board of Directors, breakdown by age and gender 70 68 56 56 31 70 44 43 Copenhagen 1 5 Malmö Benefits Training As an incentive for the Company’s personnel to achieve set Wihlborgs employees must be able to develop and grow within goals, and to increase their involvement in Wihlborgs’ business, the organization. During development discussions, goals must all employees except the CEO have since 2005 been able to subbe agreed between manager and employee for the individual’s scribe to a profit-sharing fund. All contributions allocated to the development. Wihlborgs encourages initiatives and desire from fund are invested in Wihlborgs shares. The maximum allocation employees to develop their competence. On that basis, employees is one price base amount per employee per year. The shares in took part over the year in several in-house and external training the foundation are restricted for five years after the allocation is programmes and courses adapted to individual competence made. The base amount is recalculated in proportion to length development plans. We continuously strive to improve health of employment and employment grade. and safety at work for our employees and in 2011 we decided to Wihlborgs employees are offered a fitness allowance that focus on roof safety issues in our properties. These form part they can use for any fitness activity allowed by the rules laid of our preventative measures to avoid slips, trips and falls. The down by Sweden’s tax authority. We also offer several comfocus in roof inspections is safety and harness systems for safety munal exercise and fitness activities, including participation vests that all our caretakers are equipped with. in recreational runs etc. All employees receive regular health In 2012 we organized a total of 1,128 training hours, an average checks by our company healthcare service. All employees are of 13.66 hours per employee. Women accounted for 479 hours also entitled to subsidized health insurance. and men for 649 hours. During the past year, employees particiSocial responsibility pated in a number of training programmes, courses and seminars. Examples include training in Contract Law, BAS P/U (ConstrucWork environment tion Safety Workplace Coordination Building), Business At Wihlborgs, our aim is that all employees should enjoy, and find English, Locks & Security, VAT Seminar, Property Management, satisfaction in, their work. Hot Works and Technical Operative Courses for Sprinkler and Of course, we must keep our workplace secure and safe, Fire Alarm Systems. In 2012, all employees underwent training without risk of near-accidents and accidents. We have a work in First Aid and Heart and Lung Emergency Procedures. environment committee that regularly conducts and evaluates Wihlborgs’ four offices are equipped with defibrillators. activities to improve our shared work environment. The committee consists of both office staff and collective agreement Number of hours of training in 2012 employees of both genders, from different positions in the company and from different regions. 95 percent of the workforce is represented on the work environment committee EC 6, LA 6, LA 7, LA 10, HR 2, HR 4, HR 6 that oversees Wihlborgs’ operations in this area. Wihlborgs performs regular preventive health and safety 649 hours 479 hours 1,128 hours work designed to reduce the risk of accidents and to reinforce the safety culture within the company. Work environment inspections constantly take place in our properties, and action plans and measures for each property can be accessed by all employees via our in-house IT systems. Men Women Total In our projects, we and our contractors and suppliers share the responsibility for creating as safe a work environment as Work experience hours possible. Our contractors and suppliers are responsible themEvery year, Wihlborgs takes on a number of students from the selves for the health and safety of their own employees under Universities of Malmö and/or Lund on various work experience rules on coordination of workplace safety in construction. schemes. The students selected are generally on a study proWihlborgs has produced a brochure explaining possible workgramme related to the property sector. Wihlborgs encourages related risks at our company. This brochure is available to collaboration with other property companies, for example, to download from our website under “Publications”. share expertise and evaluate various computer software products. The Wihlborgs group had no known instances of serious injuries or work-related illnesses in 2012. Simple procedures for reporting work-related accidents and near-accidents can be Discrimination accessed on our intranet. Work to combat discrimination consists of internal communication on our policies and the need to pick up on and address any cases at an early stage. No cases of discrimination were Suppliers reported in 2012. Wihlborgs is a is a major purchaser, procuring major volumes in both its service and operating activities. So our approach to procurement issues affects to very high degree the suppliers Child labour that we choose to work with. Our vision of a sustainable society There were no known instances of child labour in 2012 in our characterizes our requirements and approach. organization, i.e. Wihlborgs’ employees and Board members Wihlborgs has focused its operations in the Öresund region, (internal stakeholders). As of today, we do not anticipate with offices in Malmö, Helsingborg, Lund and Copenhagen. any significant risk of this as we are subject to Swedish and In order to facilitate our operations, we aim as far as possible to Danish legislation. engage local suppliers represented in the cities where we are based and our properties are located. Otherwise, we work with suppliers on a national level in Sweden and Denmark. One of Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 39 the benefits from working with local/national suppliers is that Suppliers/contractors who are risk-classified and with whom transport and travelling can be kept down, which has both cost Wihlborgs signs an agreement, will also be linked to the WAPPO and environmental benefits. ordering app. In purely practical terms, this means that our As part of our work on the supplier level, and by signing up caretakers, who in many cases order minor jobs and services, to the UN Global Compact, our procurement director actively can be sure that by using the app the suppliers/contractors that raises and explains the ten principles in the Global Compact at they engage have been approved. the negotiation stage and how they relate to the expectations we have of the supplier concerned. Although we operate in A code of conduct for suppliers a limited area, the Öresund region, it is important to us that Even if the conditions applied by different suppliers can differ, it is suppliers have a base in our respective locations, in terms of important that we maintain a general code of conduct for compknowledge of the area, the local authorities and local regulaanies that do business with Wihlborgs. The procedure is as follows: tions, all of which make coordination with our employees easier when ordering. 1. A check list is attached to the agreement. This addresses In 2012, an analysis of our procurement function was perfora number of issues in the environment, work environment med. This resulted in a centralized, streamlined and even more and ethics. powerful procurement function through the establishment of 2. Our suppliers are then assessed on a scale of 1–3. SO 2, SO 3 cross-disciplinary working and more clearly defined goals. By 1 = low risk 2 = medium risk and 3 = high risk. consolidating and coordinating volumes, with a smaller number Any supplier who does not provide sufficient information is of players, Wihlborgs' muscle and its benefits of scale can be put on a watch list and given a temporary classification of 0. deployed more effectively. We are continuing to develop our 3. We monitor any changes in the relationship over the year, supplier relationships through partnership with many of our with regular follow-ups over the contract term so that we major suppliers. can exercise some influence over the supplier/contractor. Our procurement goals for 2013 centre largely on achieving a 4. If we have any doubts about whether information provided more seamless procurement process and a focus on prioritized is correct, we ask to see the underlying data. product/service ranges based on our purchase analysis. The idea is to prioritize effectively in cutting costs and continuing to progress on sustainability issues within a procurement context. 16% 8% Risk category 3 Wihlborgs has opted to sign 1–2 year contracts with our Risk category 0 suppliers. The contract term is important taken in conjunction with the overall cost, the quality of products and services and being served by proactive and environmentally aware suppliers. As of 2013, we are operating a new contract procedure at Wihlborgs in which all purchase contracts are to be accessible Risk Riskvia our contract management system Palette. In the Palette category klass system, contracts are scanned in and are available to all personnel involved in call-off orders and invoice control. We have also developed new contract templates in which stricter demands are placed on our partners. Our intention moving forward 32% 44% Risk category 1 Risk category 2 is that all contracts are to be signed on Wihlborgs’ contract templates and not those of our suppliers. Another aim is to hold regular status meetings at which suppliers present statistics on This is a continuous process and we have set a target of not regoods and services procured etc. In 2013, work on consolidating newing contracts in risk class 3 as of 2014, since by this point in the number of suppliers will continue. time, suppliers will have had two years to make improvements In 2011, Wihlborgs developed an ordering application (“app”). (see environmental goals, page 35). This has been dubbed WAPPO – “Wihlborgs APP for Orders”. Stage 1 of Wihlborgs’ work on suppliers, which began in 2011, Social responsibility only concerned itself with suppliers to the management organibegan to discuss the subject in a different way. It emerged, zation. At year-end 2012, 236 framework agreements assessed for example, that certain sections could be worded even more for risk were contracted for the suppliers concerned. Some clearly. As a result, we will arrange a further training/workshop aspects of the same process for project-side suppliers will begin in 2013 on the topic of our ethical guidelines. in 2013 and will continue over a year or two beyond that. A case of suspected corruption Business ethics In terms of any risk of corruption, the project management and In accordance with Wihlborgs’ ethical guidelines and the UN administration units are relatively the most vulnerable, since Global Compact, Wihlborgs relationships are to be responsible it is these units that purchase goods and services on behalf of and independent. In order to familiarize employees with the ten Wihlborgs. principles in the Global Compact, all employees were invited to In 2012, a case of suspected corruption came to light. Our answer a questionnaire back in summer 2010. in-house day-to-day invoice checking system detected invoices PR 5, PR 6, PR 7 Business ethics is a regularly discussed topic at Wihlborgs, via that did not accord with work performed. An internal investigamedia such as our training pack “Wihlborgs Talks Sustainability”, tion was carried out, based on the suspicion that an employee which is distributed once a quarter. “Seeing risks as a positive had had private work carried out at Wihlborgs’ expense. factor” was the headline in the spring 2012 issue. The idea was The matter was then reported to the police and an external to raise awareness among Wihlborgs employees about the ten investigator took over. After discussions with the trade union major sustainability risks at the Company and how in the long organization involved, the employee was dismissed. The term we use action plans to improve our performance in each employee was offered help and support from the company particular area. healthcare service. The investigation continued, and in January In 2006, we adopted our ethical guidelines, which Board 2013 all documentation was handed over to the police authority, members, employees, suppliers and contractors are required to where the case is now awaiting further action. abide by. These guidelines are available in full on the Wihlborgs The employee, a middle manager in the organization was website under “Corporate Governance”. In summer 2011, an offered the chance to give his version of events and present any addition was made to the guidelines, stating that if an employee material to corroborate his account. Several members of engages a Wihlborgs supplier/contractor to do private work, the personnel at Wihlborgs had contact with the employee employee must get the estimate approved by their immediate during the investigation. manager first. This is to ensure that the employee is not being We will continue to work on business ethics at a strategic given a discount related to their employment with Wihlborgs. level and produce additional governing documents and followAt the employee conference in August 2011, all employees were up material. Corruption represents one of the risk and business informed of this addition and its implications. opportunities identified on page 20. The Company also plans to Activities and discussions on business ethics and morality hold a business ethics course for all employees in 2013. continued in 2012. Our employee conference was attended by Alice Bah Kunke, who delivered an inspirational speech to raise awareness among the Company's employees. In addition, a decision was taken in autumn 2012 to the effect Marketing and that before year-end all employees should read through our ethical guidelines and sign the document to confirm that they customer satisfaction understand and accept how we at Wihlborgs are to comport Assuming responsibility with regard to our properties and the ourselves in various situations. We have observed that policies marketing of these properties is based on our ethical guidelines such as this quickly become regarded as words on paper, but and information policy. All governing documents are produced when the employees were required to sign a document they at executive management level. Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 41 Focus on the customer Truthful marketing Every two years, Wihlborgs organizes a questionnaire survey To ensure that our marketing material is not misleading, we of our tenants. The most recent one was performed in 2012. have a procedure whereby an expert within the company must We sent out an information letter to our tenants ahead of the approve the material. survey. The letter explained, for example, that Wihlborgs had In 2012, there were no reported incidents related to Wihlborgs' commissioned an external company to perform the survey. This marketing. was done to guarantee objectivity and confidentiality. The survey is designed to identify Wihlborgs' strengths and weaknesses from the customer's perspective. Based on the findings of the Sponsorship survey, improvement actions and projects may be implemented Wihlborgs' strong regional roots mean local sponsorship in to develop important success factors and increase customer sport, culture and the environment is important to the satisfaction. In all, 400 customers completed the Wihlborgs Company. It is intended to help increase awareness of our questionnaire in 2012. To achieve this response rate, 759 calls brand and expose our brand in a correct manner. Sponsorship were made. is also to be linked in some way with our core business and Customer satisfaction is presented on a scale of 1–5, where provide scope for activities/customer meetings for customers, 1 represents “Very dissatisfied” and 5 indicates the customer is business partners and employees. “Very satisfied”. The average rating for Wihlborgs in the most In 2012, a new function was created within Wihlborgs – recent survey was 3.88, which is an improvement on the 2010 Customer Relations. One of its tasks is to create a strategic survey (3.84). operation in sponsorship, part of which will be to assist in A summary of the results is presented below. Increased future CSR projects intended to underpin sponsorship customer satisfaction is another of the areas that has been associated with our core business. identified as a business opportunity for Wihlborgs in the risk analysis focusing on the risks and opportunities of sustainability, see page 19. Customer questionnaire 2012 Highest ratings Lowest ratings Attitude of caretakers Knowledge of Wihlborgs’ environmental work Attitude of Wihlborgs, Value-for-money, rents administration/management Easy to make contact with individuals Indoor climate (heating, ventilation etc.) and departments at Wihlborgs when needed Index GRI Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 complies with guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (G3.1). Wihlborgs has also chosen to include certain sector-specific indicators in the Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement (CRE 3.1). Reporting is in accordance with GRI level B+. The report has been audited by Deloitte. The Sustainability Report also includes Wihlborgs’ Communication on Progress in relation to the ten principles in the UN Global Compact, described on page 46. As last year, we also worked to the ISO 26 000 standard; the connection to this standard can be seen in the table below. 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partly 26000 1.1 Statement from CEO. 4 – A 6.2 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities. 4, 19 – A 6.2 2. THE ORGANISATION GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partly 26000 2.1 Name of the organization. 8 – A – 2.2 Brand. 8 – A 2.3 Organizational structure. 9 – A 6.2 2.4 Location of headquarters. 8 – A – 2.5 Countries where the organization operates. 8 – A – 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 9 – A – 2.7 Markets served. 8 – A – 2.8 Scale of the Company. 8 – A – 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period. 9 – A – 2.10 Awards and recognition. 6 – A – Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 43 3. INFORMATION ON THE REPORT GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partly 26000 Report profile A 3.1 Reporting period. 12 – A – 3.2 Date of publication of the most recent report. 12 – A – 3.3 Reporting cycle. 12 – A – 3.4 Contact persons for the report. 53 – A – Report scope and boundary A 3.5 Process for defining report content. 11 – A – 3.6 Boundary of the report. 10 – A – 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope and boundary of the report. 10 – A – 3.8 Basis for reporting on subsidiaries. 10 – A – 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. 11 – A – 3.10 Explanation of the effects of any re-statements No major adjust– A – ments with regard of information provided in earlier reports. to earlier years. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, Two major – A – changes were boundary or measurement methods applied. made in 2012, one regarding waste and the other regarding electricity consumption in Denmark. See page 29. Assurance 42 – A – 3.12 GRI Index. 3.13 Audit and assurance. 47 – A 7.5.3 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partly 26000 Governance A 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. 15 – A 6.2 4.2 Role of the Chair. 15 – A 6.2 4.3 Independent or non-executive Board members. 15 – A 6.2 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations 15 – A 6.2 or direction to the management and Board. 4.5 Compensation to senior executives. 15 – A 6.2 4.6 Processes in place for the Board to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 15 – A 6.2 4.7 CSR competence and qualifications of the Board and Management Group. 15 A 6.2 4.8 Values and policies. 22, 24, 36, 40 – A 6.2 4.9 Procedures of the Board for overseeing sustainability performance 15 – A – and connections to international organizations. 4.10 Evaluation of the Board's own CSR performance. 15 – A 6.2 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach 24 – A – is applied by the organization. 4.12 External declarations/principles that the organization endorses. 46 – A 6.2 External initiatives A 4.13 Memberships of organizations. 8 – A 6.2 Index GRI Communication with stakeholders A 4.14 Stakeholder groups. 16 – A 6.2 4.15 Basis for selection of stakeholders. 16 – A 6.2 4.16 Stakeholder engagement. 16 – A 6.2 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement. 16 – A 6.2 5.ECONOMIC INDICATORS GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partly 26000 Information on sustainability management for category EC 22 – – Financial performance A 6.8, 6.8.3 EC1. Direct economic value generated and distributed. 23 – A 6.8.7, 6.8.9 EC 6. Policy, practices and the proportion of spending to local suppliers 38 – B 6.6.6, 6.8 at significant locations of operation. 6.8.5, 6.8.7 6. ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No Page No B Partly 26000 Information on sustainability management for category EN 24 – – Energy A EN 3. Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 24 – A 6.5, 6.5.4 EN 4. Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 25 – A 6.5, 6.5.4 EN 5. Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 27 – B 6.5, 6.5.4 EN 6. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products 31 – A 6.5, 6.5.4 and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Water A EN 8. Total water withdrawal by source. 33 – 6.5, 6.5.4 Emissions, effluents and waste A EN 16. Total direct and indirect emissions of greenhouse gases by weight. 28–29 – A 6.5, 6.5.5 EN 17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 28 A 6.5, 6.5.5 EN 18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and reductions achieved. 26-28 – A 6.5, 6.5.5 EN 22. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 29 – A 6.5, 6.5.3 EN 26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, 31 – B 6.5, 6.5.4 and extent of impact mitigation. 6.6.6, 6.7.5 EN 29. Significant environmental impacts of transporting products 28 – A 6.5, 6.5.4 and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, 6.6.6 including transporting/business travel of members of the workforce. CRE 1. Building energy intensity. – 27 A – CRE 2. Building water intensity. – 33 A – CRE 8. Sustainability certifications. – 31 B – Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 45 7. SOCIAL INDICATORS GRI (G3.1) CRE (3.1) A Fully ISO Page No. Page No. B Partly 26000 Information on sustainability management for category LA 36 – – Employment 37 – A 6.4, 6.4.3 LA1. Total workforce by gender, employment type, employment contract and region. LA 2. Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee 37 – A 6.4, 6.4.3 turnover by age group, gender, and region. LA 3. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 36 A 6.4, 6.4.3, or part-time employees. Information is to be provided for every major operation, with 6.4.4 a breakdown per individual geographical location where operations are conducted. Occupational health and safety 38 A 6.4, 6.4.6 LA6. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes. LA 7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 38 A 6.4, 6.4.6 and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. LA 10. Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, 38 A 6.4, 6.4.7 and by employee category. Information on sustainability management for category HR 36 – Investment and procurement practices 39 A 6.3, 6.3.3, HR2. Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business 6.3.5 partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. 6.4.3, 6.6.6 Non discrimination 38 A 6.3, 6.3.6, HR4. Number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 Child labour 38 B 6.3, 6.3.3, HR6. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents 6.3.4 6.3.5, of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. 6.3.7, 6.3.10 Information on sustainability management for category SO 36 – Corruption 39 A 6.6, 6.6.3 SO2. Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO 3. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s 39 A 6.6, 6.6.3 anti-corruption policies and procedures. Information on sustainability management for category PR 40 – Product and service labelling 40 A 6.7, 6.7.4, PR5. Practices related to customer satisfaction, 6.7.5 including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 6.7.6, 6.7.8, 6.7.9 Marketing communications 40 B 6.7, 6.7.3 PR6. Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related 6.7.6, 6.7.9 to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. PR 7. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 40 A 6.7, 6.7.3, concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsor6.7.6, 6.7.9 ship. This information is to be specified according to the effects of non-compliance. Global Compact’s link to GRI Global CompactReport In July 2010, Wihlborgs signed up to the UN Global Compact. The Global Compact initiative was launched in association with Principles in the Global Compact GRI indicators the World Economic Forum (Davos 1999). Then UN Secretary Human rights General Kofi Annan challenged the business world to sign up to the initiative. The thinking behind the Global Compact is to 1. Companies are requested to support and HR2, HR4, HR6, LA6, make companies aware of and take active responsibility for respect the safeguarding of international PR5, PR6, PR7 human rights within the sphere that they ten internationally recognized principles in four areas; human can influence. rights, employment law, the environment and anti-corruption. Companies that sign up to the Global Compact, undertake 2. To seek assurance that their own company HR 2, HR 4, HR 6 the following: is not involved in infringements of human rights. AA The CEO of the company is to send a letter to the Labour law UN Secretary General confirming that they support 3. Companies are requested to maintain HR 2 the Global Compact and its principles. freedom of association and to acknowledge a real right to collective bargaining. AA The company is then to incorporate the Global Compact’s principles into its corporate strategy and take steps to 4. Abolition of all forms of forced labour. HR 2 make the principles part of its corporate culture on an everyday basis. 5. Actual abolition of child labour. HR 6 AA The company undertakes to publicly stand up for 6. The elimination of discrimination against LA2, HR2, HR4 the Global Compact and its principles. employment and the practice of a profession. AA The company explains in its annual report how it is Environment supporting and promoting the Global Compact and the initiative's ten principles. 7. Companies are requested to endorse EN18, EN26 the precautionary approach when it comes The Global Compact and to environmental risks. GRI cross table 8. To take initiatives to promote greater EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, environment-related responsibility. EN8, EN16, EN17, EN18, The table, right, shows the ten principles in the Global Compact. EN22, EN26, EN29 This sustainability report also includes a report based on the ten principles. This is presented via the GRI index with reference to 9. To encourage the development and spread EN2, EN 5–7, EN 10, EN18, the Global Compact. We have previously published two indeof environment-friendly technology. EN 26 pendent Communication on Progress reports (in 2010 and 2011); To act to prevent corruption. this report includes our fourth. 10. Companies ought to combat all forms of SO2, SO3 corruption, including blackmail and bribery. Auditors' Report Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 47 Auditor’s Assurance Statement Auditor’s Review Report on the Wihlborgs Fastigheter ABs Our review has, based on an assessment of materiality and risk, Sustainability Report e.g. included the following procedures: To the readers of the Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB’s Sustainability Report. AA An update of our knowledge and understanding of Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB’s organization and activities. Introduction AA An assessment of suitability and application of the criteria regarding the stakeholders’ need for information. We have been engaged by the Executive Management of Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB to review Wihlborgs Fastigheter AA An assessment of the outcome of the Company’s AB’s Sustainability Report for the year 2012. Our review is stakeholder dialogue. limited to the information related to 2012. Our review covers AA interviews with the responsible management, at group the Sustainability Report 2012, pages 4–45 and “Nyckeltal och level, and at selected business units in order to assess if beräkningar” disclosed on Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB’s website the qualitative and quantitative information stated in the (www.wihlborgs.se). The Board of Directors and the Executive Sustainability Report is complete, accurate and sufficient. Management are responsible for ongoing activities regarding AA Shared internal and external documents in order to assess the environment, health & safety, quality, social responsibility if the information stated in the Sustainability Report is and sustainable development, and for the preparation and complete, accurate and sufficient. presentation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the applicable criteria. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion AA An evaluation of the design of the systems and processes on the Sustainability Report based on our review. used to obtain, manage and validate sustainability information. The Scope of the Review AA Analytical procedures of the information stated in the Sustainability Report. We have performed our review in accordance with RevR 6 AA An assessment of the Company’s declared application level Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. A review according to GRI guidelines. consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying AA An assessment of the overall impression of the Sustainability analytical and other review procedures. A review is substantReport, and its format, taking into consideration the consistially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with ency of the stated information with applicable criteria. IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Control and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The proceConclusion dures performed consequently do not enable us to obtain Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that assurance that we would become aware of all significant causes us to believe that the information in the sustainability matters that might be identified in an audit. Accordingly, we report has not, in all material respects, been prepared in do not express an audit opinion. accordance with the above stated criteria. The criteria on which our review are based are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3.1, published by The Malmö, April 10, 2013 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the Deloitte AB Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the Company has developed and disclosed. These criteria are presented in ”Nyckeltal och beräkningar” disclosed on Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB’s website (www.wihlborgs.se). We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Johan Rasmusson Andreas Drugge Sustainability Report. Authorized Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR St Jörgen 21, Baltzar City, is a high-quality property in central Malmö that accommodates both shops and offices. Glossary Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 49 Glossary BAS-P /BAS-U The developer is required to appoint an appropriately qualified Emissions into the air The airborne pollutants that are most harmful are construction work environment coordinator for planning and project design particles that can be inhaled, ozone and certain organic hydrocarbons. of the work (BAS-P) and for the performance of the work (BAS-U). BAS-P and Local emissions are mostly produced by road traffic and the burning of wood BAS-U have considerable responsibilities in terms of the work environment in for home heating. Machinery such as lawnmowers, chainsaws and excavators general on construction sites. These responsibilities are set out in Section 3, also make a big contribution to emissions. To combat these emissions, subs. 7 of the Swedish Work Environment Act 3 and AFS 1999:3, with amendenvironment quality target no 2 ”Fresh Air” has been formulated. ments up to and including 2008:16. Energy efficiency Energy efficiency and energy saving are achieved by trying Bra miljöval el The Swedish Society for Nature Conservation label for to make existing energy conversion more efficient either by reducing energy electricity is based on solar, wind, hydro and biofuel energy, but not nuclear, consumption or by getting more out of existing energy usage. This will enable coal or natural gas. society to obtain more energy without increasing energy production. In so doing, natural resources, capital and the environment can be used more BREEAM (the Building Research Establishment Environmental economically. Assessment Method) BREEAM was developed and is managed by UK’s Building Research Establishment. This environmental certification assesses Energy usage Energy is used for a variety of purposes. When we drive a car we environmental aspects of management, energy, transport, water, materials, use energy in the form of petrol, diesel or ethanol, for example. Heating for our waste and pollution etc. BREEAM is divided into criteria for which points homes and workplaces is delivered either from a district heating network or are awarded which, in turn, lead to certification. The Sweden Green Building through the use of an electric water heater or a gas-, oilor biomass-fired boiler. Council is actively working on adapting BREEAM to Swedish conditions and a BREEAM committee will be appointed in early 2012. Energy sources A common collective term for fuels, energy raw materials, energy bearers and methods of extracting energy. Carbon dioxide Carbon dioxide, CO2, sometimes wrongly called carbonic acid in general parlance, is a gas at room temperature with a faint odour and Energy statistics program Practically every property owner assembles sour taste. energy data via different kinds of property management software. Examples of property software applications available today include Summarum, MomenCSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) A form of corporate self-regulation tum PM and Hogia’s property management program. More energy-focused that aims to embrace responsibility for a company's actions and how it applications include Webbess, Ess200, E4, Energireda and Momentum RC. impacts on society from a financial, environmental and social perspective. The concept is increasingly used both to explain what a company means and Energy supplier A company that sells energy to energy consumers. to emphasize that financial responsibility (which is part of sustainability but Environmental aspects & Environmental impact Environmental aspects not CSR) is necessary if a company's social responsibility is to be long term refers to the aspects of a business, products and services that can impact on and integrated into its business model. the environment. Environmental aspects include emissions and effluents, Derivatives Derivatives are a collective term for a type of financial instrustorage of chemicals, noise and consumption. Environmental aspects do not ment. The most common derivatives are options, forward contracts, futures, end at the factory gates but also impact on the environment in a broader warrants and swaps. Financial derivatives are characterized by being linked perspective. To further explain the nature of an environmental aspect, we to events or conditions at a specific point in time in the future, or to a certain can say that it is the origin of an environmental impact. Environmental impact period of time in the future. The value of a derivative instrument is linked to can be either positive and negative. the value of an underlying asset, such as equities, share indices, currencies, Environmental certification The process of certification consists of an interest rates or commodities. external inspection and an objective assessment of how environmentally EDI Electronic Data Interchange of information in structured messages sustainable a building is. When a property is approved, the property owner between different companies or organizations, for automatic processing receives a certificate. Depending on the certification system, certificates are in IT systems. issued at different levels. Glossary Ethical funds Ethical funds are those where the choice of investments is in picture of the organization's activities in the area of sustainability, including some ways influenced by certain social, environmental or other ethical criteria. both positive and negative aspects. Some ethical funds avoid investments in sectors such as alcohol, gambling, Hazardous waste Waste that has certain hazardous properties or is claspornography, tobacco and arms. Others avoid investments in companies that sified as such by the Waste Directive. Hazardous waste requires special disregard international standards. Some investment companies also try to treatment. actively select companies that are among the environment leaders in their sector, while others also try to influence companies in which they have a stake ISO 26 000 ISO 26 000 is an international standard defining social responsibility. via shareholder engagement. It is based on seven fundamental principles that jointly define the concept of social responsibility. In simple terms, ISO 26 000 may be said to set out what GHG Protocol The GHG (“Greenhouse Gas”) protocol is the reporting system companies and organizations can do to contribute to a sustainable future. most often used by governments and leading businesses to measure carbon dioxide and other emissions. The GHG protocol was developed by the World kWh The unit kilowatt hour, kWh (thousand Watt hours), is often used when Resources Institute (WRI) and the World Business Council for Sustainable measuring the consumption of electrical energy. Development (WBCSD) in consultation with industry representatives and Landfill A rubbish dump, also known in recent years as a landfill site, is a place governments. where waste is dumped (landfilled). Landfill waste consists of the waste left Green Building Green Building is more a programme that specifically governs over once food waste, combustible waste and recyclable waste have been energy usage than an environmental classification system. A building may be sorted out. After sorting, this residual waste cannot be combusted, comcertified as a newbuild, or via redevelopment of an existing property. In the posted or recycled. Environmentally, it is considered important that as little case of newbuild in southern Sweden, the building’s energy consumption waste as possible should go to landfill. must not exceed 75 kWh/m². In the case of a redevelopment, energy consumpLEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) LEED was developed tion must be cut by at least 30 percent from the existing usage. by the US Green Building Council. LEED certification assesses environmental Green cars The concept green car usually refers to cars that meet higher aspects of, for example, site/land usage, water, materials, energy and indoor requirements in terms of emissions of environmentally hazardous substances, environment. Here, too, versions have been modified for different types of compared with standard cars. However, there is not yet any uniform definition building and the environmental aspects are divided into criteria for which of the concept green car, and different criteria are applied by different munipoints are awarded towards a combined rating for the entire building. cipalities and authorities. The then Swedish Road Administration produced a Miljöbyggnad Miljöbyggnad (Environmental Building) is a Swedish system proposal for a green car definition that was expected to provide guidance. for certifying buildings in terms of energy, indoor climate and materials. A car classed as a green car receives favourable treatment in the form of lower In the system, the building is subject to a 15-point check, including energy taxation, exemption from congestion charges and parking concessions in purchased, noise class, radon content, damp, natural light, integral materials, certain cities. Green cars include hybrid cars, electric cars, LPG cars and chemicals and building products. Buildings can be classed as bronze, silver or ethanol cars if they meet the rules in place on emissions, but also conventional gold depending on how they score on the 15-point check. Miljöbyggnad covers petrol and diesel cars (with particulate emissions under 5 mg per km) that both newbuilds and existing buildings. emit no more than 120 g carbon dioxide per km. Miljömål (Environmental Objectives) The Swedish system of environmental Green leases In 2011, the Swedish Property Federation produced a standard objectives includes a generation target and sixteen environmental quality form for green leases. objectives. Organizations and businesses generally formulate their own Green transport Included in Environmental Quality Objective no. 15. Green environment goals that in one way or another can be linked to national transport and transport facilities are located and structured to limit harmful environment quality objectives. effects on urban or cultural environments and such that they do not represent mWh MegaWatt hour. 1 mWh = 1 000 kWh. health and safety risks or otherwise are disruptive to the environment; green public transport systems are accessible and of good quality and conditions for Non-toxic environment Environment Quality Objective No. 4. The presence pedestrians and cyclists are good. of substances in the environment that have been created or extracted by society should not threaten human health or biodiversity. The occurrence of GRI The organization behind GRI (the Global Reporting Initiative) has set out man-made or extracted substances in the environment are near-zero and a set of voluntary, general guidelines on how companies and other organirepresent no more than a negligible threat to human health and the ecosystems. zations should report what they are doing within sustainable development. The levels of naturally occurring substances are close to background levels. These guidelines, which are now available in versions G3 and G3.1, cover preferences for reporting sustainability data within finance, environment Ozone-depleting substances Substances that deplete the ozone layer and social responsibility. Such reporting is to present a balanced and credible contain either chlorine (Cl) or bromine (Br). These substances vaporize readily Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 51 and are highly stable. As a result, they can reach the stratosphere where the directing the whole business – the framework for all activities – as a tool for ozone layer is. Substances that are classified as ozone-depleting are found in making the right tactical decisions along the way. cooling media, fire protection systems etc. Sustainable development Sustainable development is a concept that was PCBs PCBs – polychlorinated biphenyls – are a group of industrial chemicals pioneered by Lester Brown in 1981 and that gained international fame in hazardous to the environment and health that were developed in the 1920s. association with the UN report Our Common Future (1987), also known as They are classified as “long-lived organic pollutants”. Chemically, PCB the Brundtland Report. The UN report defines sustainable development pollutants comprise two aromatic rings that can have 1–10 chlorine atoms as development that meets the needs of the present without compromising attached to them. Their toxicity depends on the position of the chlorine in the the ability of future generations to meet their needs. molecule, not the number of chlorine atoms. PCB pollutants are liposoluble The precautionary principle In technical areas, the precautionary principle which means they are concentrated in body fat. means if there is any uncertainty as to whether or not a substance is hazarPurchase/spend analysis A way of structuring a company’s purchasing dous, it should be treated as hazardous. The Swedish Environmental Code chart. The analysis may then be used as an aid in drawing up purchase strate(Section 2, subs. 3) defines the precautionary principle as follows: “Everyone gies. The objective is to gain an understanding of the historical pattern of who operates or intends to operate a business or undertake an action, shall purchasing and to identify, for example, what the company’s major purchasing perform all safety precautions, observe any restrictions and otherwise adopt categories are, the degree of contract compliance, which parts of the organicautionary measures that are required to prevent, avoid or counteract any zation buy from the various suppliers etc. This data may then be used as a harm or inconvenience that the business or action may cause to human health launchpad for future activities and for forecasts for future volumes, budgets, or the environment. For the same reasons, the best possible technology shall purchasing projects etc. be applied in commercial operations. These precautionary measures shall be adopted as soon as there are grounds to believe that a business or measure Recycling The reuse of materials from waste. In general, recycling is a preferred may cause harm or inconvenience to the health of people or the environment.” method for dealing with waste. Narrowly speaking, recycling means recovering The UN Global Compact The Global Compact initiative was launched at materials for reuse. As a result, virgin materials are replaced by used materials the World Economic Forum (Davos 1999), when Kofi Annan challenged the collected. In addition, the term “energy recycling” is sometimes used; this may business world to sign up to the initiative. The thinking behind the Global include certain kinds of combustion. In Sweden, practically all waste is recycled Compact is to make companies aware of and take active responsibility for ten or combusted and only a very small proportion is sent to landfill. internationally recognized principles in four areas: human rights, employment Renewable Renewable energy sources are energy sources that are constantly law, the environment and anti-corruption. renewed and therefore will not be exhausted within the foreseeable future. Third party The body producing the report declares itself which level has Risk analysis A means of systematically using available information to describe been used, having made its own assessment based on the criteria in the and calculate risks associated with a certain given system. A risk analysis is a Application Levels of the GRI. In addition to declaring the level of selfway of assessing the probability of different undesired events occurring and assessment itself, the reporting organization can choose one or both of the consequences of such. Decisions can be based on this and measures taken the following voluntary actions; 1) obtain a statement from a third party to minimize these risks, which may can be either longor short-term. A risk on the assessment made, 2) commission GRI to check the self assessment. analysis can be performed using various methods, which may be qualitative, Transparency This concept is used in enterprise as a measure of how open a semi-quantitative or quantitative. company is towards various external stakeholders, and also as a measure of SGBC The Sweden Green Building Council is a not-for-profit organization that whether it is possible to obtain a picture of the organization and understand is owned by its members and is open to all businesses and organizations in the its internal workings. One example of work being done to improve transpaSwedish construction and property sector. The Council promotes green building rency in businesses lies in the development of financial accounting principles, and the development of environment and sustainability work in the sector. such as IFRS (International Financial Reporting Standards) that define what information should be included in financial reporting in order to increase Stakeholder dialogue When structuring their work on sustainability, many transparency and comparability. companies start by consulting their stakeholders. Conducting active dialogue with stakeholders can be crucial to the success of work in CSR. According to Waste By waste, we mean all objects or substances that the holder wishes to GRI, stakeholder dialogue forms part of sustainability reporting. dispose of, or is required to dispose of. Waste is defined in accordance with an EU-wide directive (EU Directive 2006/12/EU on waste), and is therefore to be Strategy is about seeing the whole picture – about understanding the way in interpreted in accordance with the case law of the European Court of Justice. which a company or brand can be competitive in the long term and where the The basic regulations on waste can be found in the Swedish Environmental most profitable business deals will be found. Strategy serves as a compass Code (1998:808), Section 15 and the Waste Directive (2011:927). Wihlborgs’ CSR group: Mats Wessman, Procurement Director, Iréne Johansson, Director of Corporate Communication, Arvid Liepe, Chief Financial Officer, Britta Nordin, HR Director, Hanna Claesson, Environmental Affairs Director. Contact persons Wihlborgs Sustainability Report 2012 53 Contact persons Thank you for reading our sustainability report. We appreciate any feedback that we may receive. If you have any thoughts or reflections on our work on sustainability, please contact Wihlborgs’ CSR group. Hanna Claesson, Environmental Affairs Director, Tel. +46 (0)40 690 57 92 hanna.claesson@wihlborgs.se Iréne Johansson, Director of Corporate Communication Tel. +46 (0)40 690 57 21, irene.johansson@wihlborgs.se Arvid Liepe, Chief Financial Officer Tel. +46 (0)40 690 57 31, arvid.liepe@wihlborgs.se Britta Nordin, HR Director Tel. +46 (0)40 690 57 09, britta.nordin@wihlborgs.se Mats Wessman, Procurement Director Tel. +46 (0)40 690 57 26, mats.wessman@wihlborgs.se Sustainability Highlights 2012 Sustainability Highlights 2012 AA In April, Wihlborgs’ CEO was elected to the Board of Directors AA In early August, the Education Department moved into a of SGBC (the Sweden Green Building Council). The Sweden Wihlborgs property that is located on one of Malmö’s pedesGreen Building Council is a not-for-profit organization owned trian streets. Following redevelopment, the Department by its members that is open to all businesses and organizatook a whole floor in the building. Right from the start of tions in the Swedish construction and property sector. the redevelopment, the Department expressed a clear wish The Council promotes green building and the development to make the redevelopment as environmentally friendly as of environment and sustainability work in the sector. possible. The led to collaboration between property owner, All members have a deputy, and Wihlborgs’ environmental building contractor, tenant and the Svanen environmental affairs director was elected as a deputy board member. certification organization. The end result demonstrates environmental adaptation all the way from material selection AA In July, Wihlborgs began work in a quality committee on to colour schemes and office interior. a project entitled “CSR-driven enterprise”. The project is to encourage small businesses to enhance their brand by AA In October, NMC (the Swedish Association of Environmental adopting a CSR perspective. Partners in the project include Managers) hosted an afternoon meeting on the theme Region Skåne, the Swedish Federation of Business Owners “Practical aids to successful work in CSR”. The meeting was and Malmö University. Our involvement in the quality group based on a dialogue between Wihlborgs and a CSR expert at consists of continually assessing quality and security in the the TEM Foundation. processes and support tools produced. AA In November, all property managers, property management AA In August, one of the highlights of our annual kick-off meetexecutives and project managers attended a basic course in ing was a presentation by Alice Bah Kunke. As an external the “Miljöbyggnad” scheme. The course provides an introcontributor, Alice Bah Kunke gave a humorous hour-long duction to and understanding of this Swedish environmental talk on sustainability where the message, briefly and classification system for properties, new and redeveloped. concisely expressed, was that it is possible to be profitable This is also in line with Wihlborgs’ goals for environmental and still play a beneficial role in the community. classification of buildings. AA Also in August, a new department at Wihlborgs, Customer AA In November, all employees also signed up to Wihlborgs’ Relations, was established and a new head of department ethical guidelines. The guidelines had long been in place at appointed. From the viewpoint of sustainability, the the Company, but we wanted to ensure that all employees department’s contribution will be an extra high standard had familiarized themselves with the contents. Training and of customer care and a strategic approach to future sponsorfollow-up are continuing in 2013. ship relationships. AA In December, Wihlborgs and the TEM Foundation were AA Wihlborgs’ new procurement director was appointed on invited to send speakers to an informal environmental 1 September. He joined Wihlborgs from a major building session with coffee, organized by the Municipality of contractor where his work had consisted of both financial Kristianstad. On this occasion, too, we shared the expeand environmental aspects of large-scale procurement riences of our journey from signing the Global Compact projects. This additional resource will enable us to improve to the processes we went through leading up to last year’s our performance vis-à-vis our suppliers/contractors and sustainability report. their approach to environmental, quality, working environment and ethical issues. ÖMÄRK IL J Production Wihlborgs in association with Adamsson Appelfeldt Advertising. M T Photography Felix Gerlach (interiors and exteriors), Peter Westrup (portraits). Printing Exakta Printing. Printed on Swan marked paper, licence no. 341 140. 341 TR 140 YCK SAK Wihlborgs has been included in the OMX Sustainability Index since December 2012. Malmö – Head Office Helsingborg Lund Denmark Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB Wihlborgs Fastigheter AB Wihlborgs A/S www.wihlborgs.se Box 97, SE-201 20 Malmö, Garnisonsgatan 25 A Ideon Science Park Ellekær 6, opgang C info@wihlborgs.se Sweden SE-254 66 Helsingborg, Scheelevägen 17 DK-2730 Herlev, Denmark Registered address: Malmö Visitors: Dockplatsen 16 Sweden SE-223 70 Lund, Sweden Tel: +45 396 16157 Company reg. no.: Tel: +46 (0)40 690 57 00 Tel: +46 (0)42 490 46 00 Tel: +46 (0)40 690 57 00 Fax: +45 396 16158 556367-0230 Fax: +46 (0)40 690 57 01 Fax: +46 (0)42 490 46 01 Where job satisfaction is key With the commitment of our employees and the quality of our properties, we will create conditions for strong growth for business in the Öresund region. wihlborgs.se
