2012 Sustainability Report Summary Growing Responsibly About New Gold We are an intermediate gold mining company, with four producing mines and two significant development projects on three continents. In 2012, we produced approximately 412,000 ounces of gold. Everywhere we operate, we are a significant participant in the local communities and a major economic contributor. We understand that our success and prosperity depend on our ability to earn the welcome of our host communities and regions – a welcome that comes from our demonstrated respect for local culture, care and concern for the environment, and support for the long-term economic well-being of local communities. We are committed to contributing to sustainable development wherever we operate by acting ethically and with integrity, and by taking responsibility for the impacts of our decisions and actions on communities and the environment. We consistently apply this approach through the mine life cycle, from early exploration, development, and operation, to decommissioning and mine closure. 2012 Sustainability Table of Contents Report Summary Growing Responsibly 1 Message from the President and CEO 2 New Gold Properties This is a summary of the 2012 4 Corporate Social Responsibility at New Gold New Gold Sustainability Report, which is a GRI Level B (self6 Growing Our People declared) report, available in full 12 Growing Our Communities at www.newgold.com. 18 Caring for Our Environment All currency in United States dollars unless otherwise noted. Tables and figures are a compilation of information from across all sites. All figures are unaudited. May 2013 Message from the President and CEO Growing Responsibly We made progress toward certifying all our cyanide-using mines to the Responsible development is a philosophy that extends throughout our International Cyanide Management Code. In 2012, Mesquite was fully Company, and guides every decision we make. We are measured by certified, and we expect Cerro San Pedro and Peak Mines to be fully our ability to safeguard the health, safety and welfare of our people. certified or in substantial compliance by the end of 2013. We respect the cultures and values of our host communities, while assisting with the development of sustainable local economies. We No major environmental incidents were reported at any site. At Peak are responsible for environmental stewardship over the air, land and Mines, the New South Wales Environmental Protection Authority water throughout the life cycle of each site, and for reclaiming mined investigated a minor tailings spill into a controlled area that occurred land so that it may be used and enjoyed once mining is complete. in 2011. The spill occurred during renovations to the tailings storage facility. The spill was reported and mitigated, and this will result in a We are committed to disclosing our achievements as well as our proceeding penalty for an as yet undefined amount. challenges and remain committed to the United Nations Global Compact’s principles on human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REport SUMMARY Our People Our primary responsibility is always to our people. We are committed to promoting their welfare, developing their careers and protecting their health and safety. I am pleased to report that once again there were no fatalities at any of our operations and that across the Company, our Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate decreased by approximately 23% and was 66% lower than the average rate for those jurisdictions in which we operate. Our 2012 achievements are attributable to the commitment of our workers and contractors and the introduction of a new Health and Safety Management System. In 2012, we launched a cross-company, values-based leadership program, designed to develop principled leaders and decision-makers in various levels of the organization. The program continues 1 through 2013. Our Communities We continue with progressive reclamation and revegetation activities, At New Afton, where we successfully transitioned to an operating including the rehabilitation of historic mining areas for which we have mine ahead of schedule in 2012, our Participation Agreement with assumed responsibility. After mining activities are complete, our the Tk’emlúps and Skeetchestn Bands moved into its next phase: objective is to restore the land to an adequate level of productivity New Gold made its first production royalty payments to the bands. supportive of sustainable land use. The Participation Agreement’s effects can be seen throughout the region, where local First Nations businesses provide the mine with Looking Ahead a broad range of support services, from construction to catering. For 2013 and beyond, we have set a number of objectives for safety, community engagement and development, and environmental At Blackwater, we finalized two Exploration Agreements, and initiated performance. discussion on a Participation Agreement for the construction, operation and closure phases of the project. Aboriginal people make New Gold management will begin developing an Environmental up over 20% of the Blackwater workforce, very close to New Afton’s Management System and a Community Engagement and percentage. Throughout the region, we support economic growth Development Management System, which will set internal standards by engaging local suppliers and services. Our efforts at Blackwater with clear, measurable objectives. and New Afton were recognized with a number of awards, including the British Columbia Mining & Sustainability Award, the Corporate Everyone at New Gold has contributed to our efforts in health, safety, Champion for Aboriginal Business Award, and the Developer of the environmental stewardship and socio-economic sustainability, and I Year Award. extend my gratitude to them. I look forward to continuously improving our policies, procedures and performance over the years to come. Outside of British Columbia, our largest community development efforts were at Cerro San Pedro, where we made great strides on a Sustainable Development Program – a strategy for business development and social planning to ensure a sustainable community beyond the life of the mine. Caring for Our Environment At New Gold we continually seek new strategies for enhancing our Robert Gallagher environmental performance, including programs to improve energy President and CEO, New Gold Inc. efficiency, reduce our carbon footprint and minimize our use of water and other resources. For example, at New Afton, we installed an innovative “smart” Energy Management System. New Gold Properties New Gold operates four producing mines and one In 2012, our mines produced a total of 411,892 ounces of gold, major development project. A second development a 6% increase from 387,155 ounces in 2011. project is operated by a joint development partner. Corporate Offices • 44 employees, 6 contractors Named one of the “Top Ten Most Sustainable Canadian Mining Companies” Corporate Knights New Af ton • Operation (in production since June 2012) 2012 Mining & Sustainability Award, Mining Association of British Columbia and BC Ministry of Energy, Mines and • 100% New Gold Natural Gas • West of Kamloops, British Columbia (BC), Canada • 469 employees, 29 contractors 2012 Corporate Champion for Aboriginal Business award, • Underground copper, gold and silver mine Industry Council for Aboriginal Business Viola R. MacMillan Award for excellence in mine development, Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada Mesquite • Operation (in production since 2008) Fully certified under the International Cyanide Management Code • 100% New Gold • Imperial County, California, USA • 274 employees, 5 contractors • Open pit, run-of-mine, heap leach gold mine 2 Cerro San Pedro • Operation (in production since 2007) “Socially Responsible Company” for the third consecutive year, Mexican Center for Philanthropy • 100% New Gold • Cerro de San Pedro, Mexico Recognized by the Ministry of Labour with the nation’s • 489 employees, 39 contractors highest safety designation: Empresa Segura (Safe Company) • Open pit, run-of-mine, heap leach gold and silver mine Peak Mines • Operation (in production since 1992) “Highly Commended” for Environmental Achievement at the Shire of Cobar Business Awards • 100% New Gold • Shire of Cobar, New South Wales, Australia • 320 employees, 19 contractors • Underground gold and copper mine Blackwater • Exploration/Development Project Named “Developer of the Year” and one of the “Province’s most caring” by BC Natural Resource Forum • 100% New Gold • Southwest of Vanderhoof, BC, Canada • 114 employees, 30 contractors • Potential open pit, gold and silver mine El Morro • Development Project For CSR information regarding El Morro, see http://csr.goldcorp.com • 30% New Gold, 70% Goldcorp Inc. (operator) • East of Vallenar, Northern Chile • Potential open pit copper and gold mine New Gold Values We are a company with a strong set of values and we use these values to guide everything we do. Integrity Do what’s right • Ensure safety in all we do • Be honest, trustworthy and ethical • Demonstrate environmental and stakeholder responsibility CREATIVITY Lead with innovation • Seek continuous improvement • Implement positive change 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REport SUMMARY • Encourage creative thinking • Be bold – think outside of the box COMMITMENT Deliver • Do what you say you are going to do • Be accountable, take personal responsibility • Agree on goals and measure results • Be persistent in the pursuit of our goals EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT Commit to personal development • Ensure a development plan for everyone • Provide access to relevant training 3 • Maintain regular constructive dialogue on job performance and development TEAMWORK Leverage our collective skills • Recognize that the whole is greater than the sum of its parts • Work to common goals • Maintain trust • Respect one another • Leverage individual contributions Operation Exploration/Development Project Corporate Offices Corporate Social Responsibility at New Gold Our social responsibility strategy includes commitments to excellence in the management of health, safety, environment, labour practices and community engagement and development through the mine life cycle, from early exploration, development, and operation, to decommissioning and mine closure. Our directors and senior managers support philanthropic and charitable organizations using their personal resources, and New Gold contributes to all of our host communities through donations and sponsorships to support education, health and wellness, economic diversification, job creation and food security initiatives. The New Gold Health, Safety, Environment and Corporate Social Responsibility (HSE & CSR) Policy describes our high-level commitments in these areas and is available at www.newgold.com. Our 15 Health, Safety, Environment and Corporate Social Responsibility Guiding Principles provide a framework for the application of the HSE & CSR Policy and provide clear direction for developing and applying the Company’s HSE & CSR Management Systems at all levels. These systems are intended to provide clear and consistent corporate guidance to sites in relation to the implementation of the HSE & CSR Policy. In 2012, we were identified as one of the Top Ten Most Sustainable Canadian Mining Companies by Corporate Knights, a Canadian organization which aims to demonstrate how markets can promote social and ecological sustainability. (top) Great Basin spadefoot toad at New Afton. (above) Mine maintenance mechanics at Mesquite. 4 Scorecard 1: Corporate Performance Priorities Ta r g e t 2 0 12 P e r f o r m a n c e 2 0 12 Ta r g e t 2 0 13 Economic Report on local economic This report includes a discussion of Economic target for 2013 is defined under impacts. economic impacts in the Growing Local Economic Impacts. Our Communities section. Policy Advance in our commitment New Gold’s Human Rights and No target defined. to the UN Global Compact by Anti-Corruption Policy was developing a human rights policy. established. Metrics Achieve Level B Global Reporting The New Gold 2012 Sustainability Maintain Level B GRI reporting. Initiative (GRI) reporting. Report received third-party validation as a Level B GRI by Canadian Business for Social Responsibility. The report included 31 GRI indicators. Standards and Advance New Gold toward In 2012 we initiated an awareness Develop the New Gold Environmental Guidelines alignment to ISO 26000. building program with all sites and a Management System and the Community gap analysis at the corporate level. Engagement and Development Management System in alignment with ISO 14001, ISO 26000 and Towards Sustainable Mining, and initiate implementation of priority elements. Progress Cerro San Pedro Both mines have progressed toward Achieve ICMC certification or substantial Mine and Peak Mines ICMC compliance. compliance for Cerro San Pedro and toward International Cyanide Peak Mines. Management Code (ICMC) Progress toward World Gold Council certification in 2013. Conflict-Free Gold Standard compliance for its first reporting year. Achieved In Progress Not Achieved T h e 15 H S E & C S R G u i d i n g P r i n c i p l e s 1. Leadership and accountability 9. Design, construction and commissioning 2. Requirements, commitments and document control 10. Operations and maintenance 3. Risk and change management 11. Suppliers and contractors 4. Planning and measurable goals 12. Stewardship 5. Awareness, competence and behaviour 13. Incident reporting and investigation 6. Health and hygiene 14. Crisis management and emergency response plans 7. Engagement 15. Monitoring, audit and review 8. Business conduct, human rights and community Health, Safety, Environment and Corporate Social Human Rights and Ethics 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REport SUMMARY Responsibility (HSE & CSR) Policy As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, and in Summary of Commitments observation of the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, Health and Safety New Gold is committed to reflecting the Compact’s ten principles We are committed to promoting and protecting the welfare of our relating to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption in employees through safety-first work practices and providing a healthy all of our business operations. In 2012, we adopted our first Human workplace. We are committed to leading industry practices and Rights and Anti-Corruption Policy. systems in health and safety. Our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics outlines the principles Labour Practices under which we conduct our business. All employees of New Gold We are committed to upholding fair employment practices and and its subsidiaries must review the Code and confirm compliance encouraging a diverse workforce, where people are treated with on an annual basis. Our corporate Whistleblower Policy provides respect and are supported to realize their full potential. a confidential address, phone number and email address that any employee can use to communicate a concern or complaint with the 5 Community Engagement and Development assurance that there will be a timely response with no retribution or We are committed to establishing relationships based on mutual negative consequences. benefit and active engagement with our host communities to contribute to their health and well-being and sustainable development. The Human Rights and Anti-Corruption Policy, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and the Whistleblower Policy are available on our Environment website at www.newgold.com. We are committed to preserving the long-term health and viability of the natural environments affected by our operations. Compliance with Laws and Regulations In 2012, there were no instances of significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. We have not had any legal actions against the Company for anti-competitive behaviour. At Cerro San Pedro, the Ejido (communally owned lands) Cerro de San Pedro filed a request to local agrarian authorities to revoke the temporary occupation agreement for the mine’s use of surface land. After successful negotiations, a new agreement has been signed and the Ejido has withdrawn the request and the case has been closed. Growing Our People New Gold operates in Canada, Mexico, the United States and New Gold’s equal opportunity Australia, and is involved in a joint development project in Chile. Each employment practices are well reflected in its diverse workforce (right: New Afton, country and region where New Gold operates is unique, and we below: Mesquite). strive to respect and support local customs. At the same time, we are rigorous in applying certain universal standards in health and safety, as well as in our human rights and non-discrimination policies. 6 Scorecard 2: Health, Safety, Human Rights and Professional Development Priorities Ta r g e t 2 0 12 P e r f o r m a n c e 2 0 12 Ta r g e t 2 0 13 Health and Standardize safety systems across A Health and Safety Management Complete the implementation of Safety all operations. System meeting Occupational the Health and Safety Management Health and Safety Assessment System standard across all sites. Series (OHSAS) 18001 standard and industry best practices was developed, and implementation is ongoing. Reduce Total Reportable Injury Total Reportable Injury Frequency Reduce Lost-Time Injury Frequency Frequency Rate by 10% year Rate was reduced by 6%. Rate by 10% year on year. on year. Reduce Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate by 10% year on year. Complete 85% of target lead 85% of all target lead indicators (7) Complete 95% of target lead indicators during the second were met or exceeded. indicators. through the fourth quarters of the year. Employment Implement performance and Performance and development Implement performance and development plans for 90% plans were completed for 77% of development plans for 90% of of employees. employees. employees. Teamwork Continue to reinforce the value A leadership development program Complete implementation of of teamwork and personal was launched in 2012 with the first leadership training for first line responsibility for safety and cohort of trainees participating in supervisors at our operations. productivity. July 2012. Achieved In Progress Not Achieved Growing Our People Health and Safety In 2012, our Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) was down by 23% overall, and down 6% for Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate Our people are our greatest asset and the core of our success. (TRIFR). This is, in large part, a result of an initiative under our new We depend on skilled, hard-working and empowered employees Director of Occupational Health and Safety. This initiative is focused to contribute to our business. We seek to create a culture in which on improving lead indicators (injury prevention initiatives such as everyone is motivated to do the right thing in order to keep themselves improvements to training, inspections, safety audits, reporting, etc.). and their colleagues healthy and injury-free. It is a fundamental principle at New Gold that everyone should return home injury-free During 2012, Mesquite showed sustained reductions, quarter by after each workday. quarter, in both TRIFR (60%) and LTIFR (75%). At New Afton, incident frequency was very low, even though this was the mine’s first year in Case Study: Cerro San Pedro achieves highest safety recognition “This is an acknowledgement of our Safety Management System, and Cerro San Pedro of the overall culture of safety Mexico that we have created.” – Fernando Velazquez, Health, Safety and Environment Manager, Cerro San Pedro 8 Emergency response team at Cerro San Pedro. Emergency response teams are in place and are regularly trained at all New Gold operations. By nature, mining is a risky enterprise. So when Cerro San Pedro is nationally recognized for its exemplary safety standards, it’s worthy of note. When it happens for three years in a row, it’s even more impressive. In May 2012, the mine was audited again by officials from the Mexican government’s Health and Safety Performance safety program, which is based on international standards such as Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series 6 (OHSAS) 18001. In June, the Ministry of Labour confirmed that Cerro San Pedro had again achieved Level 3 certification as an Empresa Segura (Safe Company), the highest national standard. 4 “This is an acknowledgement of our Safety Management Total Reportable System, and of the overall culture of safety that we have Injury Frequency created,” said Fernando Velazquez, the Health, Safety and Rate (TRIFR)1 2 Environment Manager at Cerro San Pedro. “It reassures our Lost-Time Injury employees that their employer is continually improving Frequency Rate health and safety standards. And it sends a message to our (LTIFR) 2 local communities that there are rigorous health and safety 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 regulations in place.” 1 Total Reportable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) is the number of injuries per 200,000 hours worked. (Lost-Time Injuries + Medical Treatment Injuries + Restricted Duty Injuries) x 200,000 hours ÷ total hours worked. 2 Lost-Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) is the number of lost-time injuries per 200,000 hours worked. (Lost-Time Injuries x 200,000 hours) ÷ total hours worked. New Gold injury frequency rates continue to decline, even as the Company grows. Growing Our People commercial operation. The final construction push at New Afton Emergency Response saw workforce numbers reach an all-time high, and the majority of underground mine workers are new to mining – which are all Every New Gold site maintains highly trained and well-equipped risk factors. Cerro San Pedro achieved one million hours without emergency response teams, with members from every operational a lost-time injury. area. All emergency team members receive ongoing training in first aid, evacuation, emergency control and firefighting, as well many other In 2012, there were no notable safety citations and fines for site-specific emergency skills. Teams routinely conduct exercises in infractions were very minor in nature and did not exceed $3,000 a broad range of risk scenarios to maintain a high level of readiness across all operations. and expertise. Case Study: Mesquite’s Health and Wellness program takes the holistic view 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REport SUMMARY Mesquite United States Mesquite’s Health and Safety Team offers weekly health and wellness checks to operators in the mine, bringing a heightened sense of awareness HEALTH 9 to employees and their families. At any gold mine, the subject of Health and Safety might bring to mind heavy equipment and injury prevention. And while that is a serious issue, it’s only one aspect of employee health. Workers at the Mesquite Mine are like people anywhere: their effectiveness on the job is directly related to their overall health and well-being. The mine operates a dedicated Wellness Program, which has been remarkably effective in involving the workforce in lifestyle improvement. “This program has had a real impact on The program runs campaigns encouraging staff to make the overall culture of health and wellness… healthy lifestyle choices. It offers no-cost access to personal We’ve had people quit smoking and trainers and fitness assessments. For desk and workstation chewing (tobacco), lose weight and adopt staff, task ergonomics are examined. “Biggest Loser” and “Strongest Miner” contests have proven especially popular. exercise into their everyday life… the feeling of success they gain affects their attitude “This program has had a real impact on the overall culture towards life, work, family – everything.” of health and wellness at Mesquite,” said Health and Safety Coordinator Demetra Johnson. “We’ve had people quit – Demetra Johnson, smoking and chewing (tobacco), lose weight and adopt Health and Safety Coordinator, Mesquite exercise into their everyday life. Not only are they healthier, but the feeling of success they gain affects their attitude towards life, work, family – everything.” Growing Our People Labour Practices wages and benefits, opportunities for career advancement, and recognition of employee performance make us an employer of choice, In every jurisdiction where we operate, we comply with local labour everywhere we operate. laws. We also strive to create a culture of inclusivity and acceptance – of race, religion, ethnicity, national origin, gender, age, sexual Our commitment to fair and equitable labour practices extends orientation, citizenship, veteran status, marital status and disability – throughout our operations. We adhere to the labour principles of the that begins at the top, and carries through hiring, promotion and UN Global Compact and have identified employee development and worker-to-worker relationships. Our reputation for safety, competitive teamwork as corporate values. Case Study: Training the next generation in the meaning and objectives of values-based leadership “‘In developing ourselves, we develop our business’ is the philosophy behind New Gold’s collaboration on an innovative values-based leadership program.” – John Marshall, Vice President of Human Resources, New Gold 10 Blackwater’s Finance Manager during a climbing challenge, as part of the leadership program. “In developing ourselves, we develop our business” is the philosophy behind New Gold’s collaboration with a leading consulting firm and its innovative values-based leadership program. In July 2012, the first cohort of trainees, consisting of superintendents, senior managers and employees with management potential, were launched into the program, which involves a series of intensive workshops. The program requires up to eight months to complete and is intended to create principled leaders and decision-makers. Through workshops, classroom learning and personal interactions, attendees come to understand the vision and rationale for New Gold’s style of values-based leadership. They improve their communication skills, become skillful at developing and empowering others, and enhance their selfawareness, accountability and business acumen. There are seven cohorts of 14 to 20 participants in the current series of workshops, which are ongoing in 2013. “This program has given me the opportunity to recognize, reaffirm and live the values that have been part of my life, but that perhaps I forgot or pushed aside at some point,” said Elvia Villegas, Community Relations Coordinator at Cerro San Pedro. “I now recognize that each person around me has something to teach me; it is up to me to be able to learn and put it into practice.” Growing Our People Training and Development requirements, they can comply with specific standards and safety regulations. Health and safety training is critical in all operations and To help New Gold employees achieve their career objectives, we help projects and is reviewed regularly for continuous improvement. them create a performance and professional development plan, with short-term and long-term goals, which is routinely monitored and assessed yearly. We also provide access to training opportunities so employees can build their skills; this includes specialized training for operating personnel and contractors, so that, depending on their job Case Study: Cerro San Pedro workers support colleague through illness 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REport SUMMARY Cerro San Pedro Mexico Roberto Rangel (middle) with colleagues at Cerro San Pedro. Roberto has recovered from a kidney transplant and has returned to his original team 11 occupation as a truck driver at the mine. Roberto Rangel’s path to his truck-driving job was not smooth – in fact, if it weren’t for his co-workers and mine management, he might not have it at all. Roberto had a kidney condition that had made working at a mine difficult, yet Cerro San Pedro considered him a solid, reliable worker. Over time, his illness worsened, and he was moved from one job to another, to accommodate his physical limitations. “This is a tight community, where When, ultimately, a kidney transplant became necessary, the workers of Cerro San Pedro pitched in with time and money. people help each other in difficult The Company made some funds available for the costly times. The mine strives to do the same, surgery; fundraisers helped cover his bills and volunteers with real support for our workers and devoted their time to support their colleague. their families when illness strikes.” When eventually he was capable of returning to the job that – Dr. Laura Garcia, had been held for him, he was welcomed back to low-stress Safety Supervisor, Cerro San Pedro duties in the plant nursery. His strength grew, and before too long he was judged medically fit and able to get back to what he loves best, driving a truck at the mine. Growing Our Communities Our goal is to contribute to increased quality of life and sustainable (right) Cerro San Pedro Community Relations Coordinator at the annual development within our host communities. To this end, we foster Scholarship Award celebration. In open communication with residents and community leaders, from 2012, 70 scholarships were awarded a project’s earliest development phase through the mine’s life and to young students. after closure. We believe that it is important to thoroughly understand (below) Peak Mines’ Senior the people, their histories and their aspirations, as well as their Environmental Advisor presents a needs and concerns, so that can we truly engage and help support donation to the Cobar and District Mothers Association. Peak supports healthy communities and long-term social, cultural and economic non-profit, non-denominational, development. non-advocacy local organizations dedicated to education, health and community causes. 12 Our economic contributions benefit communities and regions in many supplies locally. Local communities often benefit from improvements forms. There are taxes and royalties, but there is also the impact of the that our operations make to roads, water, energy and network salaries brought home by hundreds of employees and contractors. In infrastructure, as well as to area schools and health facilities. addition, whenever it is practical, we strive to source our services and Scorecard 3: Community Engagement and Development Priorities Ta r g e t 2 0 12 P e r f o r m a n c e 2 0 12 Ta r g e t 2 0 13 Engagement Update stakeholder maps1 of All sites created or updated Formalize and implement all mine operations. Develop stakeholder maps. engagement and communications stakeholder map for Blackwater. plan at all sites. Feedback and Formalize external grievance Both sites have implemented Formalize external grievance Complaints procedures at New Afton and grievance procedures. procedures at Blackwater project. Mesquite. Local Economic Develop Cerro San Pedro A Community Engagement and Continue to implement the Cerro Impacts Sustainable Development Program. Development Manager was hired to San Pedro Sustainable Development develop and manage the Cerro San Program. Pedro Sustainable Development Work with Blackwater Community Program. The initial planning phase Liaison Committee to identify was completed; the information opportunities for maximizing local gathering and analysis phase was economic impacts. initiated and is ongoing. 1 A stakeholder map is a visual representation of an organization’s Achieved In Progress Not Achieved stakeholders, their level of interest, relevance and influence. Growing Our Communities Community Engagement performance. TSM guides us to identify our stakeholders, effectively engage and maintain dialogue, maintain a feedback mechanism and At New Gold, community engagement begins while a project is in the report on performance. exploration and development stage, and continues through the mine’s life and after closure. We foster open communication with residents Throughout a project’s life cycle, we host meetings with local residents and community leaders and strive to be a full partner in the long-term and leaders in order to remain connected to the communities and sustainability of the communities and regions in which we operate. their priorities and concerns, and to help resolve existing or potential Our engagement activities are guided by the Mining Association of disputes. New Gold sites regularly hold open houses and provide mine Canada’s Towards Sustainable Mining (TSM) protocol on outreach tours to a wide variety of educational institutions, regulators, investors and community groups. Case Study: Supporting a sustainable community in Cobar “2012 was busy. We had 28 new clients, and 16 new or expanded businesses. Peak Mines We are now accepted as part of the Australia town’s business scene.” – Mark Workman, Cobar Enterprise Facilitator 14 The Cobar Enterprise Facilitation project, partly funded by Peak, has worked to help establish a number of new businesses in the community. The family-run Knight Fabrication was named the Best New Business at the 2012 Great Cobar Business Awards. For several years, Peak Mines has been investing heavily in the Cobar Enterprise Facilitation, an initiative that helps local people create and/or expand small businesses, with the intention of supporting an economy that will thrive after the mine has closed. For anyone with energy and ideas, the Cobar Enterprise Facilitation can help them identify markets, connect with industry associations, research industry sectors and assist with government regulations. “2012 was busy. We had 28 new clients, and 16 new or expanded businesses. We are now accepted as part of the town’s business scene. For many people, we are the first choice for assistance. They’re often brimming with ideas, but don’t know how to start,” said Mark Workman, Cobar’s Enterprise Facilitator. “We’ve had clients who have gone from nervously talking about their business idea to employing staff, having sales across the central western region of New South Wales and beyond, and making a tidy profit.” Growing Our Communities While all of our sites encompass local community engagement, we mutually beneficial dispute resolutions can we maintain our recognize that there are challenges in this area, and that there remains meaningful, trust-based relationships with our local communities work to do. We are addressing these issues through the development and other stakeholders. At the end of 2012, we reached our of a Community Engagement and Development Management System, target of establishing formal external grievance mechanisms at which is being designed to improve consistency across our operations. all our operations. Feedback Mechanisms A discussion of the complaints received and processed is presented in New Gold’s full Sustainability Report, available on our website. All We maintain open channels through which complaints and complaints filed through our grievance mechanisms in 2012 have suggestions can be received and addressed. Only through respectful, been processed and resolved. Case Study: Blackwater’s Community Liaison Committee builds a foundation of trust 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REport SUMMARY Blackwater Canada Blackwater’s Community Liaison Committee meets in Vanderhoof, BC. Members are elected officials, economic development officers, school and dialogue 15 college representatives, a social service agency and an environmental group. Since acquiring the Blackwater project, New Gold has actively encouraged communication with the community. In 2012, we established an advisory forum, the Community Liaison Committee, to help identify interests and concerns and provide recommendations for developing policies, plans and programs throughout the life of the mine. Its 15 members include local elected officials, economic development officers, school and college representatives, a social service agency “When New Gold first came to town, and an environmental group. they said they wanted to do as much “The fact that there is a committee at all shows that New as they could within the community. Gold is looking at the community’s needs. I think that And they proved that last year.” speaks volumes,” said committee member Brian Frenkel, a Councillor with the District of Vanderhoof. “When New Gold – Brian Frenkel, first came to town, they said they wanted to do as much as Councillor, District of Vanderhoof they could within the community. And they proved that last year. They bought their fuel here and hired a lot of services in Vanderhoof. It had a very positive impact on the community. So now, with this committee, we’re starting to work together on how we look at this project, and how it can benefit all the communities in the area.” Growing Our Communities Community Development and Economic Impacts indirect economic benefits for local communities, and very often, hiring and purchasing locally makes good business sense. For example, at Our commitment to local socio-economic sustainability is Cerro San Pedro, our safety vests and sun hats are sourced from an demonstrated in the opportunities we create for local employment, the independent seamstress living in the village of Cerro de San Pedro. investments we make in community infrastructure projects, through At Blackwater, the boxes we use for storing our core samples were facilitating local entrepreneurship, as well as capacity building and manufactured by a local First Nations business. In 2012, we made economic diversification projects. the decision to locate the Blackwater project’s Sample Preparation Laboratory in Vanderhoof, which has provided jobs, training, and We preferentially hire locally, and engage local services and suppliers indirect economic impacts to the town. By working within local whenever it is practical. This is a powerful tool for creating direct and communities, we found high-quality products and skilled labour, Case Study: Corporate donations and sponsorships continue to grow “The Donations Committee seeks to maintain a balance among our many objectives. In general, we establish longterm collaborative relationships with deserving associations that share our attitudes, objectives and purpose.” – Rick Killam, Director of Environment and Social Responsibility, New Gold 16 One of the Pacific Salmon Foundation’s Community Salmon Programs supported by New Gold in 2012 included a project to improve public areas which are frequently used for classroom salmon education projects. without the delays and expenses of sourcing products and services Corporate donations1 have increased every year since from farther away. New Gold’s inception. New Gold’s donations policy is well defined. Recipients are non-profit, non-denominational, New Gold has generated direct and indirect economic value in our host non-advocacy organizations supporting education, health, communities. Payments in employee wages and benefits increased and social and community causes. Organizations that have from approximately $129 million in 2011 to over $180 million in 2012. received significant contributions in 2012 include: Income and mining taxes paid to governments also increased, from about $98 million to over $100 million. In 2012, New Gold invested • the Pacific Salmon Foundation, an independent nearly $4.2 million in community investments, projects, donations and organization dedicated to the future of wild Pacific salmon sponsorships, an approximately 20% increase from 2011. populations in British Columbia and the Yukon Territory • Indspire (Indigenous Education, Canada’s Future), a Over the year, our sites and employees contributed to numerous national charity focused on supporting and transforming cultural events, sports events and community clean-up activities, Indigenous education in Canada as well as initiatives to encourage recycling and healthy lifestyles. • The Nature Conservancy of Canada, Canada’s leading Our sponsorships and donations supported education, health and national land conservation organization wellness, economic diversification, job creation and food banks. • The Clinton Giustra Sustainable Growth Initiative (Canada), a charity whose mission is to alleviate poverty, Direct Economic Impact: Community Investments improve health care, advance education, and improve the environment in developing nations 4 Said Rick Killam, New Gold’s Director of Environment and 3 Social Responsibility, “The Donations Committee seeks to maintain a balance among our many objectives. In general, we 2 establish long-term collaborative relationships with deserving associations that share our attitudes, objectives and purpose.” Community 1 Investments ($ millions) 1 Corporate donations do not include the many contributions to community health, 0 2011 2012 education, business development and local infrastructure that are made by each project to their local communities. Growing Our Communities Working with Aboriginal Communities Agreement with one First Nations band. These positive relationships have already facilitated considerable employment and contracting In Canada, we have been recognized for excellence in Aboriginal opportunities, including a multimillion-dollar contract to clear the land relations and as an advocate for entrepreneurship and economic for our exploration site which is being completed by a local Aboriginal development within Aboriginal communities. company. Our community development initiatives in Aboriginal communities near In 2012, the New Afton Mine initiated another significant component Blackwater made great strides in 2012. Two Exploration Agreements of its Participation Agreement: the first production-based royalty were finalized, and we made progress toward a Participation payments were paid to the local bands. We believe this form of direct Case Study: New Afton and the Participation Agreement, five years on 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REport SUMMARY New Afton Canada New Afton’s Human Resources Assistant and Community Relations Generalist with her grandmother during Elders Day at the mine. integrity 17 Located in the asserted traditional territory of the Tk’emlúps revenue sharing has been critical to the trust-based relationships that and Skeetchestn Indian Bands, New Afton operates within we continue to maintain with Aboriginal communities surrounding the terms and conditions of our landmark Participation New Afton. Agreement. This agreement establishes mutual environmental goals, economic opportunities, and social and financial In 2012, New Afton expenditures with local Aboriginal businesses benefits for the Company and the bands. more than doubled. We made payments of over C$14.5 million to almost 30 Aboriginal businesses, compared to nearly C$7 million to Five years after the Agreement’s signing, New Afton was about 20 businesses in 2011. At Blackwater, we made payments of named a “Corporate Champion for Aboriginal Business” by the more than C$6 million in Aboriginal contracts. On December 31, 2012, Industry Council for Aboriginal Business, in recognition of 21% of Blackwater employees and 23% of New Afton employees our success in developing Aboriginal/non-Aboriginal business were Aboriginal. relationships, and our demonstrated leadership and best practices in working relationships with Aboriginal businesses. Education, Training and Development Education and training of local community members are key to our policy of preferentially hiring locally, and sourcing services and supplies “This partnership shows how First from nearby. In communities where the required skill sets and/or work Nations and the mining industry can experience are in short supply, we provide major funding for education and training. We also offer numerous apprenticeship programs to help work together and find solutions. Our young workers on their path to a career in mining. goal is to participate meaningfully in the use of our traditional territory as In British Columbia, for example, our support for the Underground Miner Training Program and founding support for the British Columbia well as provide training, investment and Aboriginal Mine Training Association have resulted in many local employment opportunities for our people. Aboriginal residents beginning successful careers. This agreement shows a constructive path towards accomplishing those goals.” – Tk’emlúps Chief Shane Gottfriedson Caring for Our Environment At every New Gold site, we take a proactive risk management for vibration. At Cerro San Pedro, blast operations are also observed approach to safeguarding the environment. At every stage of a mine’s by monitors from federal authorities. life cycle, guided by national and international standards, we apply best practices in environmental management. From the earliest site All sites must internally report every environmental event that is investigations, we carry out comprehensive environmental studies to outside of normal operating procedures, regardless of its magnitude establish baseline measurements for flora, fauna, land, air and water. or its regulatory significance. Should any incidents occur, we are As mining operations proceed, we work to minimize environmental committed to prompt reporting and remedial measures to prevent impacts and maintain robust monitoring programs that include groundwater and air quality. We strive to minimize energy and water (below) Peak Mine’s Environmental Field Officer inspecting piles of African consumption, and reduce material consumption through recycling and boxthorn – a Weed of National Significance – for regrowth. In 2012, Peak carried reuse. At all New Gold mines, blast operations are closely monitored out 25 hectares of boxthorn control with excellent results. 18 Scorecard 4: Environmental Performance Priorities Ta r g e t 2 0 12 P e r f o r m a n c e 2 0 12 Ta r g e t 2 0 13 Incidents Review and update all sites’ risk Environmental risk registries Establish an automated incident recording registries. have been revised and updated and tracking system across all sites. as part of the ISO 14001 review. Water Identify targets and build plans Adopted the GRI protocol for Continue to monitor and report water into budget cycle for 2013. monitoring and reporting water recycling and reuse. recycling and reuse. Complete evaluation of the pilot project at Cerro San Pedro to utilize treated city water in leach piles as an alternative to groundwater. Energy Identify targets and build plans Will adopt the Towards Achieve TSM Energy and GHG Management into budget cycle for 2013. Sustainable Mining (TSM) Energy Level B in all operations. and GHG Management Protocol Achieve ISO 50001 (Energy Management) as a guideline for all sites. compliance at New Afton. Greenhouse Identify targets and build plans Will adopt the TSM Energy and Achieve TSM Energy and GHG Management gases (GHG) into budget cycle for 2013. GHG Management Protocol as a Level B in all operations. guideline for all sites. Initiate reporting to Carbon Disclosure Project. Waste Identify targets and build plans 2013 target defined. Increase overall recycling across sites by 10%. Management into budget cycle for 2013. Reclamation Continue progressive Legacy site reclamation Complete the restoration of higher-risk reclamation. performed at Peak Mines and historical mine shafts at Peak Mines to a safe, New Afton and planned at Cerro stable and non-polluting state. San Pedro. At Cerro San Pedro, reforest 70 hectares of land at Monte Caldera. Achieved In Progress Not Achieved or minimize environmental impacts. An annual crisis management our sites implemented progressive rehabilitation and reclamation of simulation is done for each site, which includes a simulated over 95 hectares of land. Each of our mines has obtained approval environmental incident to ensure the sites’ readiness to remediate and for their closure rehabilitation plans, which are reviewed and updated communicate potential incidents. All-incident reporting is encouraged regularly. as a key factor in monitoring and management for continuous improvement. Among our environmental performance highlights in 2012, New Afton won the Sustainability Award granted by the Mining Association of Planning for a mine’s closure begins at the design stage and continues British Columbia and British Columbia Ministry of Energy, Mines through the mine’s life to ensure the physical and chemical stability and Natural Gas, and Peak Mines received a “Highly Commended” of the waste material that will be left behind. New Gold sites practise designation for Environmental Achievement at the Shire of Cobar progressive rehabilitation and reclamation of disturbed land. In 2012, Business Awards. Water Management We continue to look for opportunities to reduce our raw water 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REport SUMMARY consumption and increase water recycling at all sites. In 2012, we Water management is a prime concern for any mining or processing estimate we recycled approximately 27.3 million cubic metres of operation and for its neighbours. Our objective at every New Gold water – almost five times the amount of raw water we withdrew from mine or development property is to minimize water use through natural sources – and used approximately 226,000 cubic metres recycling, reuse and treatment, applying efficient designs and state of of rainwater. We also use treated domestic wastewater wherever the art technologies. All of our mine sites operate in a closed circuit, possible. At Cerro San Pedro, we expect to complete the evaluation with no water discharges to the environment. of a pilot project to utilize treated city wastewater in the leach pads, which would significantly reduce groundwater use at the mine. At all of our mining operations, rainwater is scarce. Except for New Afton, which sources water from a large surface water supply, New Energy and Emissions Management Gold sites source their water from groundwater wells. Most of the water consumed in our sites is used in tailings and the processing of We work to minimize greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions throughout our ore. We also require water for dust control on mine haul roads and use operations, from our ongoing efforts to reduce energy consumption of dust suppressants to minimize evaporative loss. all kinds, to our active reclamation of land. Significant progress toward 19 reducing energy consumption and increasing energy efficiency in 2012 We recognize that, corporate-wide, raw water efficiency (raw process occurred at New Afton, where a new Energy Management System water used per amount of ore processed) has declined over the last was implemented in 2012. three years. During 2012, New Afton gathered water for start-up of mill operations, which increased the water consumption at that site. Like Peak Mines, New Afton uses flotation to process ore, which consumes more water than the heap leach processes in place at Cerro San Pedro and Mesquite. Raw Water Efficiency Greenhouse Gas Emissions1 0.20 8 0.15 6 0.10 4 0.05 2 Emissions, as Raw Water (cubic tonnes of CO2-e metres) per tonne per 1,000 tonnes of ore processed of ore processed 0 2010 2011 2012 0 2010 2011 2012 We have slightly increased the consumption of raw water per tonne of ore 1 Carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2-e) emissions generated by mobile equipment are calculated processed over the last three years. In 2012, New Afton gathered water for mill from diesel fuel and gasoline consumption using the World Resources Institute (WRI) and the start-up operations and, like Peak, New Afton uses flotation to process ore, World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) Greenhouse Gas protocol for Direct Emissions (Scope 1 Emissions). which consumes more water than the heap leach processes at other sites. We continue to look for opportunities to reduce raw water consumption and increase Our calculated greenhouse gas emissions efficiency (total emissions per water recycling at all sites. 1,000 tonnes ore processed, as tonnes of CO2 equivalent) has slightly improved in the last three years, from 8 tonnes of CO2 equivalent per 1,000 tonnes of ore processed in 2010 to 7 tonnes of CO2 equivalent per 1,000 tonnes of ore processed in 2012. Caring for Our Environment Materials Stewardship and Cyanide Management Two materials critical to our operations are explosives and cyanide. All our operations use explosives and track their usage with care. Three We are guided by the International Council on Mining and Metals’ operations (Mesquite, Cerro San Pedro and Peak Mines) consume extensive work on Materials Stewardship. At New Gold, our practices cyanide, and at those operations its responsible use and management and systems ensure the adequate management of process materials – are paramount. In 2012, our sites collectively consumed approximately as is demonstrated in our management of water, waste, energy 13,900 tonnes of explosives (ammonium nitrate and ammonium nitrate and materials. emulsion) and approximately 9,700 tonnes of sodium cyanide. Case Study: New Afton moves to ISO 50001 compliant energy management “Energy Management is not only about efficiency projects, but is what is done New Afton by all employees on a day-to-day basis. Canada It is part of what we do at New Gold.” – Andrew Cooper, Energy Specialist, New Afton 20 New LED lighting in the basement of the mill at New Afton. New lighting is estimated to have saved C$24,000 in energy costs in 2012. In 2012, New Afton made significant progress toward our vision of sustainable energy management. We installed an innovative energy management information system that will be the backbone of the new ISO 50001 compliant Energy Management System (targeted for completion by the end of Non-Process Waste Recycled 2013). It should help reduce annual energy consumption by 5% to 8%. In the maintenance shop, a new high-efficiency 1,200 heating system will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by almost 200 tonnes of CO2 annually (equivalent to removing 36 cars from the road). A major LED lighting upgrade in the 900 basement of the processing plant reduced annual electrical energy and associated maintenance costs by about $24,000. And an energy efficiency study identified annual energy 600 savings of up to $130,000 through relocation and improved Paper, Plastic, control of air compressors – a project that will be completed Metals and Other (tonnes) in 2013. 300 Oil and Lubricants (000s of litres) 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 Recycling of non-process waste is an essential part of sound environmental management, and is practised at all New Gold sites. In 2012, we recycled approximately 513 tonnes of used tires and increased the recycling of paper, plastic and metals by 60% from approximately 750 tonnes in 2011 to approximately 1,260 tonnes in 2012. Caring for Our Environment While cyanide has inherent toxic properties, its safe transport, Under the Code, we committed to the certification of our three handling, use and destruction are well understood and manageable. cyanide-consuming operations within a three-year period. In 2011, All three New Gold operations that use cyanide in the gold extraction Mesquite achieved initial certification, and in 2012 received full process follow procedures that are strictly controlled for the safety certification. In 2013, Cerro San Pedro and Peak Mines will proceed of personnel and the environment. In October 2010, New Gold to substantial or full certification by meeting the objectives identified was accepted by the International Cyanide Management Institute in their pre-certification audits. as a signatory to the International Cyanide Management Code, the international benchmark for transporting, storing and using cyanide. Case Study: Mesquite certified as fully ICMC compliant 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REport SUMMARY Mesquite United States Carbon-in-columns tanks at Mesquite, where cyanide solution is prepared and applied in full compliance with ICMC. control 21 Developed under the auspices of the United Nations Environment Program, the International Cyanide Management Code (ICMC) is a voluntary industry program that promotes the responsible management of cyanide used in gold mining. In 2012, the Mesquite Mine was certified to the ICMC. Said Mike Worley, Mesquite’s Senior Environmental Coordinator, “The challenge was primarily one of “The challenge was primarily one of documentation. Our standard practices were already compliant to the majority documentation. Our standard practices of the requirements, but the ICMC demands very strict were already compliant to the majority accounting.” The process began in 2011, he explained. “It was of the requirements, but the ICMC mostly a matter of going through our documents and revising them to comply with the wording of the Code.” demands very strict accounting.” – Mike Worley, In 2011, the mine was found to be in substantial compliance. Senior Environmental Coordinator, Mesquite “We did find one corrective action, a change management process, and once we got that in place we were good to go.” Following a Corrective Action Plan, the mine was audited again in 2012 and certified as fully compliant. Caring for Our Environment Biodiversity Management Environmental Incidents and Regulatory Compliance At New Gold sites, environmental stewardship means more than just Since New Gold began reporting in 2008, there have been no applying restoration practices to lands that are affected by mining significant spills and no incidents greater than a “moderate” level. to create a habitat conducive to natural biodiversity. It also means In 2012, there were three moderate incidents, the same number as in conserving the environment on lands that are undisturbed by mining 2011, despite the significant increase in activity at New Afton and the operations. At all our sites we have identified a number of different Blackwater project. These incidents occurred at New Afton: asbestoslevels of at-risk species, and have put management plans and/or containing material was accidentally disposed in general waste; the procedures in place for each one. sewage treatment plant exceeded permit limits in a routine sample Case Study: Cerro San Pedro’s nursery increases production to restore fire damage “As of 2012, nearly 40% of that target had been achieved. In 2012 we planted Cerro San Pedro 86,303 plants over 78.46 hectares.” Mexico – Guillermo Velasco, Environmental Coordinator, Cerro San Pedro 22 Native tree seedlings at the Cerro San Pedro plant nursery. This in-house nursery has produced over 135,000 plants of various species of native pine trees and cacti. For many years, Cerro San Pedro has operated an in-house plant nursery, producing over 135,000 plants of various species. The nursery is the cornerstone of our reforestation and revegetation program, which employs people from several local communities. Our objective is to cover nearly Habitat under Restoration 375 hectares of land while the mine is in operation. In the Cerro de San Pedro municipality, we are returning heavily 120 deforested areas to their former state, planting approximately 1,100 plants per hectare. As of 2012, nearly 40% of that target 100 had been achieved. In 2012 we planted 86,303 plants over 78.46 hectares. 80 The reforestation program has faced significant challenges, 60 such as an accidental wildfire in 2011 that consumed most of the reforested land. In response, the nursery’s production was 40 increased by more than 60%, and by year-end, much of the burned area had been restored. 20 Approximate hectares1 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 1 These figures include reclamation activities such as seeding, replanting and removal of contaminated material within and outside our properties. New Gold operations practise progressive rehabilitation of lands affected by its activity as soon as areas become available after operations cease. We also rehabilitate historic mining areas within our leases. In 2012, our sites implemented rehabilitation and reclamation of almost 120 hectares of land. Caring for Our Environment monitoring (promptly reported to regulators and corrective actions At Peak Mines, the New South Wales Environmental Protection taken); and there was one dust complaint which was classified as Authority investigated a minor tailings spill that occurred in 2011. This a moderate incident because it was received through an Inspection spill occurred during renovations to the tailings storage facility, which Notice from the BC Mines Inspector. A Ministry-approved dust was redesigned to minimize the risk of wildlife exposure to cyanide. mitigation plan was implemented and included the use of chemical The spill was reported and mitigated. This will result in a proceeding dust suppressants, enhanced reclamation work, a meteorological penalty, the amount of which has yet to be determined. station, and third-party review of monitoring results. Case Study: Peak Mines reclaims abandoned historic mine shafts 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REport SUMMARY Peak Mines Australia Inspection of one of the historic mine shafts within Peak’s mining leases. In 2012, 49 shafts were inspected for safety and environmental risks and bat restore 23 habitat. We also evaluated fencing, signage and fill requirements. Within Peak Mines’ lease area, over 300 long-neglected mine shafts remain as potentially hazardous reminders of the area’s mining history. We have assumed the responsibility for rehabilitating these open shafts, many of which are on publicly accessible land. For several years, we have been identifying these shafts, and assessing the environmental and At-Risk Species safety risks they may pose. Some will be filled, while others, which have become environmentally valuable as bat habitat, Location A tR i s k S p e c i e s 1 will be fenced with warning signs. New Afton 2 There are 93 mine shafts listed in our updated database as Mesquite 2 neither filled nor fenced. In 2012, our reclamation teams inspected 49 for safety and environmental risks and bat Cerro San Pedro 15 habitat, and evaluated fencing, signage or fill requirements. For 2013, plans are in place for restoring the high-risk shafts Peak Mines 1 to a safe, stable and non-polluting state. Blackwater 2 1 As defined by local legislation and/or the International Union for Conservation of Nature Red List of Threatened Species. Includes flora and fauna. All New Gold sites have identified different levels of at-risk species. These are managed according to management plans and/or procedures at each site. A list of at-risk species at each site, including risk status, is presented in our complete Sustainability Report, available on our website. In our fifth year of sustainability reporting, New Gold is again demonstrating our commitment to open reporting of our performance. At New Gold, we view transparency as essential for maintaining trust with our stakeholders, and to upholding our corporate reputation. Our performance targets for 2013 are based on our ongoing drive to improve our performance and on feedback received from stakeholders. These targets are communicated to our employees. We remain dedicated to stringent international standards for corporate behaviour and reporting. (left) Exploration geologist on field traverse at Blackwater. This image is one of the winners of the 2012 New Gold Photo Contest. Photo by Robin Whiteaker. We invite you to send any questions and comments on this report to sustainability@newgold.com. In order to encourage responsible paper use, we have included our more comprehensive 2012 Sustainability Report on our website (www.newgold.com) and have printed a limited number of summary reports. This summary report is also available in Spanish. (The English and the Spanish summary reports are also available on our website in PDF format.) Concept and Design: THE WORKS DESIGN COMMUNICATIONS LTD. www.worksdesign.com Writing: Eric Brown memberships supporters of recognized by VANCOUVER OFFICE TORONTO OFFICE INVESTOR RELATIONS Two Bentall Centre Royal Bank Plaza tf: +1.888.315.9715 555 Burrard Street South Tower f: +1.416.324.9494 Suite 1800 200 Bay Street, Suite 3120 e: info@newgold.com Vancouver, BC V7X 1M9 Toronto, ON M5J 2J4 www.newgold.com t: +1.604.696.4100 t: +1.416.324.6000 f: +1.604.696.4110 f: +1.416.324.9494 TSX/NYSE MKT: NGD
