HL Display Communication on Progress 2012 HL Display and corporate responsibility HL Display’s corporate responsibility and ethics. HL Display’s Corporate “At HL Display, we continuously programme is decided by the Board of Responsibility Policy forms the basis of drive for improvement in the area of Directors. The programme has been introthe Company’s work in these areas. It corporate responsibility. Through our duced at Group management level and is discussed and renewed every year membership­in the United Nations the work is headed by the Company’s by the Board. The Policy also interGlobal Compact, we clearly demonstrate Product Development Director, with acts with other policies governing­ that we support the UN’s fundamental­ the support of Group management corporate responsibility work. These values and principles­in the areas of colleagues. The Group’s local entities­ include HL Display’s Code of Conduct, human rights, labour,­environment and have a high level of responsibility for Environmental Policy, Work Environment anti-corruption.” day-to-day sustainability work. The Policy, Purchasing Policy and Whistle production facilities in particular have Blowing Policy. special responsibility with regard to HL Display has been a participant environmental­ issues. in the UN Global Compact since 2010. HL Display has developed guidelines HL Display’s President and CEO, for the work undertaken in areas such Gérard Dubuy: as social responsibility, environment­ Ethics and social responsibility HL Display’s Corporate Responsibility Policy defines the fundamental­guidelines that the Company follows in the areas of human rights, gender equality and discrimination, and anti-corruption. This is further emphasized in HL Display’s Code of Conduct, an important extension to the CR policy. Human rights HL Display’s Code of Conduct clearly states that HL Display supports and respects the protection of internationally­ proclaimed human rights and makes sure that the company is not complicit in human rights abuses. This is implemented in the organization­ by having all key personnel (managers,­ sales personnel and purchasing personnel)­within HL Display Group sign the Code of Conduct. New key employees­sign the Code of Conduct as an addendum­to their employment contract. A reminder of the policy is done annually in the individual yearly review with all employees and their respective line manager. 2 HL Display has historically had low The Company regularly updates its safety Invoicing and client payment relating to risk related to the Human rights area. procedures and examines different risk each order is controlled by the company’s No Human rights related incidents have factors. HL Display has established back-office function and separated from been reported during 2012. processes which are designed to provide the field sales. local managers, mainly at the production­ HL Display had 1 (2) corruption-related Equal opportunities facilities, with methods for optimal incident that led to disciplinary action in HL Display is a multicultural company. management of sickness absence. The 2012. It therefore goes without saying that number of workplace accidents leading to the Company will endeavour to give all absence or sick leave in 2012 was 33. Purchasing policy its employees­equal opportunities for No fatal accidents occurred. HL Display has clear requirements professional development, promotion and for its suppliers. All suppliers­must pay growth, regardless of background, Zero tolerance to corruption sign HL Display’s Purchasing policy, gender, race or age. HL Display’s Code of Conduct states the guaranteeing­their compliance with the Company’s firm stand against corruption.­ ILO (International Labour Organization) Labour standards HL Display’s reputation of honesty, conventions relating to human rights and The labour standards that HL Display integrity­and responsibility must be labour. In addition, there are clear guidefollows are clearly stated in the Code upheld and any involvement in bribery, lines on business ethics and corruption. of Conduct. In short these include for extortion or corruption in any form is not example­a firm stand in favour of freedom tolerated by HL Display. Whistleblower function of association and the right to collective­ Corporate responsibility risk analyses It was HL Display’s intention to establish­ bargaining, an equally firm stand against have identified corruption­as the area in a whistleblower function within the group forced or compulsory labour, against which the Company faces the greatest in 2012. At the end of 2012, the board child labour, and against any type of risks. Risks are mainly associated with adopted the establishment of such a discrimination. Moreover, HL Display purchases made in local markets. The function, which will now be implemented shall provide a working environment that risk is lower for large purchases of raw during 2013. The function will enable is healthy, safe and in accordance with materials­for production, for example. employees to report malpractice to a international standards and local laws for This is because the counterparties­are centrally placed unit. It will complement­ all employees. large international suppliers which share the natural dialogue that takes place HL Display is keen to follow collective­ HL Display’s high standards in the area between employees and managers about bargaining agreements in countries of anti-corruption. Risk for corruption malpractice at the Company. Examples where such agreements are in place. In also exists in the customer relationship. of such malpractice could be failure general, HL Display apply the conditions HL Display operates in some risk to comply with local legislation or of employment pursuant to local law and markets, where some parties try to HL Display’s Code of Conduct covering applicable collective bargaining agreefacilitate­deals by making direct payments areas such as human and labour rights, ments, whether the employees choose to to individuals in the client company. and corruption. be unionized or not. To combat corruption, all employees Reports through the whistleblowing Working environment is further in managerial or particularly­vulnerable channels will be centrally investigated. emphasized­in HL Display’s policy for positions must sign HL Display’s Code If concerns are proven to be well founded external and internal working environof Conduct, which contains clear rules of these will lead to disciplinary or legal ment. This policy states for example practice with regard to corruption. This is action. that HL Display shall respect European also followed up each year in the annual health and safety standards in the performance appraisal. manufacturing­units, respect employees Increased centralisation and control freedom of association in all work places, of purchasing activities also plays an according to the principles of ILO and important­part in the Company’s antiUN, and work systematically to secure corruption efforts. Any local suppliers­ fulfilment­of legal requirements. that HL Display wishes to engage in the regions must be validated centrally. Health and safety at work This ensures that the prices and other Health and safety is monitored terms are in line with the Company’s continuously­at HL Display’s facilities. other collaborations. Under the local Health risks at the Company are mainly purchasing­procedures, the individual­ associated­with production. HL Display’s placing a purchase order is not the one preventive work is aimed at ensuring­ who identifies­and selects a supplier. safe workplaces with a good working In the selling activity, agreed prices are environment.­ entered into HL Display’s ERP system. 3 Environment MATERIAL USAGE METRIC TON HL Display’s Corporate Responsibility Policy defines the fundamental guidelines that the Company follows with regard to environmental impacts. 6,638 HL Display has four production facilities,­which are located in Sweden, Poland, the UK and China. The main 2,194 environ­mental impacts of the Company’s 1,458 986 239 production are related to plastic waste, 642 use of plastic raw materials and energy PVC PET ABS Polycarbonate Polystyrene Aluminium, (PS) (PS) steel and wire consumption. The Company has a presence in 47 markets, which means that shipments of products represent a source of indirect environmental impacts. of factories with ISO 14001 certification HL Display replaced polycarbonate Requirements for suppliers has fallen to 50 percent from 60 percent materials­in its merchandising solutions HL Display requires its suppliers to in 2011. The factories in Sweden and for loose goods (3eBin™) in 2012, due comply with all current environmental­ China have ISO 14001 certification. to the fact that polycarbonate contains legislation. All new suppliers are It is HL Display’s aim that its factories the hormone-disrupting substance expected to sign HL Display’s purchasing­ in Poland and the UK will be certified as Bisphenol A. policy, which defines the Company’s soon as practicable. requirements in this area. The actual Waste management conditions at suppliers’ premises are Raw materials The waste generated at HL Display’s observed during site visits. HL Display’s HL Display’s main raw material is plastic,­ factories consists largely of plastic. major suppliers are large international­ notably PVC. See the table above for HL Display addresses the problem of producers of plastic raw materials which more details about raw materials use. waste in production in two ways. The first have their own environmental programmes HL Display complies with REACH, the is to reduce plastic waste generated in in place. EU’s chemicals legislation, and this is production by streamlining production taken into account in the Company’s processes where possible. The second is ISO 14001 certification approval of new materials. In conseto recycle plastic and other waste as far Certification under the ISO 14001 quence of this, raw materials suppliers as possible. environ­mental management standard­has now have to complete a special declaHL Display’s goal is that all waste from been an important part of HL Display’s ration form based on the chemicals production will eventually be recyclable. environmental work. Back in the late regulations.­No substances classified as Total waste at the Company’s production 1990s, HL Display’s largest factories­ SVHC (Substances of Very High Concern) facilities in 2012 was 2,778 tonnes, and were certified under the standard. may be used, and the presence of phase91.7 percent of this was recycled. Changes in the production structure in out substances is also checked. recent years mean that the proportion Applying the precautionary principle, Waste management, metric ton Packaging Mixed Other safe Total safe Hazardous Total Plastic Metal materials materials waste waste waste Composting – – – 1 – 1 – Re-use in own production 114 – – – – 114 – Recycled externally 1,273 371 170 362 – 2,176 3 Recycled for heating – – – 258 – 258 – Deposit 120 – – 1 109 230 4 4 Use of chemicals Production at the Falun factory was transferred to the new factory in the Polish city of Gliwice in 2012. Operations at Falun were subject to notification requirements due to solvent use in the screenprinting process. The solvent was used in the printing ink itself and for washing templates used in the printing process. Production at Falun lasted until 31 July 2012. During that period, use of solvents amounted to 2,500 litres (4,968 for the full year 2011). HL Display no longer operates its own screen printing; this is purchased from suppliers instead. At the new factory in Poland, HL Display has invested in a new digital printing line which can replace screen printing in many cases. closed cooling water systems in order to large proportion of production is now minimise water consumption. closer to many of the Company’s largest Energy consumption markets. This should result in reduced HL Display’s direct electricity consumpTransport costs and lower environmental impacts tion in production was 26.6 (25.8) GWh HL Display has sales companies and from transport. in 2012. Various measures for reducing distributors in Western and Eastern electricity consumption are being impleEurope, Asia, the Middle East, South Reducing CO2 emissions from mented at all the factories. These range Africa and Brazil. This means that transcompany cars from heating the premises using waste port is a major part of HL Display’s It is HL Display’s aim to gradually reduce heat from machinery to installing timeenvironmental­impacts. HL Display CO2 emissions from its car fleet. The controlled lighting. engages third-party suppliers­for its transCompany has four different categories Under an energy agreement signed port and requires these suppliers to have of vehicles and there are limits on CO2 with Vattenfall in 2010, HL Display’s environmental programmes in place. emissions for each category. These limits Sundsvall factory and logistics centre The majority of shipments are by are revised every 12-18 months to see if in Falkenberg run entirely on hydrogentruck. HL Display works with its logistics they can be lowered. erated electricity. This is a conscious suppliers­to route inward and outward choice on HL Display’s part and the transport flows from road transport to Respect for the environment Company pays a somewhat higher elecsea and rail transport wherever possible. in all operations tricity fee for using renewable energy. HL Display’s efforts to reduce carbon HL Display endeavours to promote a Water is used primarily for cooling dioxide emissions also include strategies­ high level of environmental awareness in in certain of HL Display’s production to improve transport efficiency. The everyday activities at its offices around processes, in particular the cooling of Company constantly endeavours to the world. This means collecting and extruded plastic products, such as dataincrease the number of products per sorting­paper, packaging material and old strips, in waterbaths. 313,334 (317,233) package and reduce package size. electronic equipment and ensuring they cubic metres of water were used at the The transfer of production from are sent for recycling. Group’s production facilities in 2012. Sweden to the Polish city of Gliwice was HL Display has been using telephone Several of HL Display’s factories use completed in 2012. This means that a and video conferences as an alternative to travel between offices for many years now. With technological development and the launch of services such as Google Energy consumption 2012 Hangout, the use of video conferencing­ at HL Display has increased further. Electricity “green” (MWh)* 12,642 This means lower travel costs for the Electricity (MWh) 8,217 Company and a reduction in the environGas (MWh) 5,693 mental impacts of business travel. Oil (m3) 30 Water (m ) 3 313,334 * Electricity from renewable sources. 5 HL Display’s employees HL Display strives to be a preferred employer, providing its employees with challenges and development opportunities in an international environment. This results in skilled and dedicated employees who create value for both HL Display and its customers. At the heart of HL Display’s employee development work is the online-based tool for performance appraisals, HL Plus 2.0, which was launched in 2011. With HL Plus, employees are given clear work objectives, which are followed up in the biannual performance appraisals. In addition,­a long-term development plan is drawn up jointly by the employee and his or her manager. HL Plus 2.0 was implemented around the world during 2012 and all managers have received training in use of the tool. The aim is that all administrative staff within HL Display will be covered by HL Plus 2.0 in 2013. These represent­ about 700 of the Company’s total employees (just over 1,100). In a few years’ time, HL Plus 2.0 should be introduced for all the Group’s employees. For the sales organisation, the HL Plus 2.0 targets are linked to key ratios showing­how work efficiency is performing. These key ratios are also used as a basis for the variable component of the salary in the new salary model that has been Employee facts 2012 2011 * Number of employees as of December 31 1,175 1,168 Gender structure, % Male 61 62 Female 39 38 Education level, % University 40 36 Upper secondary school 40 38 Compulsory school 20 26 Investment in staff training Total, MSEK 2 4 Per employee, KSEK 2 4 Costs related to health promotion activities Per employee, KSEK 1 1 Number of workplace accidents leading to absence or sick leave 33 n/a * The increase in the number of employees compared to 2011 is a result of a temporary double staffing related to the production move to Gliwice. 6 introduced for the sales force. The basic form of an annual employee review for all Improved recruitment quality salary is somewhat lower in the new staff at HL Display. This is partly based One priority area in 2012 was to increase model. However, the variable component on the information that emerges from the the quality of the recruitment process, provides opportunities for employees to HL Plus performance appraisals. In addithereby reducing the risk associated achieve higher salary levels than before. tion, each manager gives an assessment with recruitment for key positions. The model is being introduced gradually­ of the employee’s aspirations and ability The Company’s initiatives in this area and takes into account all the legal to take on new challenges and positions, included introducing new tools for testing requirements in each particular country. both in the short and long term. and evaluating candidates’ aptitude and personality. This provides extra support Annual employee review Nurturing talent to ensure that the candidates selected In 2012, HL Display has further strengthOne of the main reasons behind the have the right skills and qualities for the ened the process of working strategically annual employee review is to identify and position. The tests are used in all recruitwith the talent base within the Company. develop individuals who want to make a ment for senior positions, key account There is at present a well-structured career within the Company. They need to managers and the newly created role of programme led by the Group’s human know that there are clear development­ customer project manager. resources department, which takes the paths and opportunities to take on exciting­new assignments. Successful knowledge transfer This also strengthens the basis for interAs in the previous year, one of the major nal recruitment, which is a preferred form challenges for HL Display’s HR departof recruitment for HL Display. Maintaining ment concerned the expansion of a high proportion of internal recruitment production, logistics and development ensures a strong corporate culture and operations in the Polish city of Gliwice. reduces risks associated with recruitment. Ensuring that HL Display gets the right The fact that there are good interskills and that new employees are able to nal career opportunities also reinforces settle in quickly has presented a considthe image of HL Display as an attractive erable challenge for those involved in the employer, which is important in order to local recruitment process. attract the most competent staff. The skills transfer project was The second aspect of the work is about completed in 2012, which meant that ensuring that there is succession planformer employees at the Falun factory ning for the employees identified as key were working on site in Poland. They individuals in the Company. These are were contracted in connection with the not necessarily individuals in managetransfer­of production from Falun to ment positions; they may also be other Gliwice to ensure a smooth knowledge employees­with strategic skills that may transfer.­The successful project has been be difficult to replace. All the individuals­ a contributing­factor in the achievement in key positions are identified in the of a high level of production quality and annual employee review, and succession efficiency at an early stage. planning is then carried out. NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AGE DISTRIBUTION Women Asia Men Other Europe Sweden 69 317 18 289 52 157 74 5 438 200 0 1 84 13 206 68 7 104 105 13 72 0 39 19 Sweden Other Europe Asia <20 21-30 31-40 41-50 51-60 >60 7 HL DISPLAY • P.O. BOX 1118 • CYLINDERVÄGEN 18 • 131 26 NACKA STRAND • SWEDEN • TEL +46 8 683 73 00 • FAX +46 8 683 73 01 www.hl-display.com
