Statement from Manager: September 2013 As an active supporter of the United Nation’s Global Compact for the past several years, I would like to take this opportunity to restate Team People, LLC’s (“TeamPeople”) commitment to the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. By presenting our Communication on Progress, we seek to retain our Active level status in the Global Compact for the next year and beyond. With this communication, we emphasize that TeamPeople is committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our strategy, culture and the day-to-day operations of our company. TeamPeople will make our commitment visible to our community, stakeholders and the general public by displaying our Communication on Progress on our website. Susan K. Irvin Manager 180 South Washington Street, Suite 200, Falls Church, VA 22046 (p) 202.587.4111 (f) 202.454.0664 www.teampeople.tv United Nations Communication on Progress Human Right Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses TeamPeople is a staffing firm specializing in media production and A/V support personnel. We recruit, hire and manage creative and technical talent in all positions of media production and AV support – across the US and the UK. From its principals to its employees, TeamPeople depends not only upon the skills, abilities and commitment of all our talent, but also on our collective goodwill, judgment, self-discipline, common sense and integrity. We commit to and support the Human Rights Principles by doing the following: • Provide our clients with quality services; • Treat our clients and employees (“talent”) with respect and honesty; • Adhere to the policies and procedures established at the client site; • Act in an ethical manner as a responsible and responsive corporate citizen. TeamPeople’s Code of Conduct is designed to aid all of our members in conducting themselves in a professional and ethical manner. We have a great deal of experience working within multicultural environments. From domestic and international broadcast/cable networks like Discovery Communications and The Middle East Broadcasting Networks, to international corporations like Medtronic and Novartis Pharmaceuticals, to diverse organizations like The World Bank, The Inter-American Development Bank and The United Nations, we are interested in making every placement work for both our clients and our talent, and we offer support and guidance throughout all of our placements. In order to monitor and evaluate each dedicated staff member of TeamPeople, executive management performs performance reviews at the anniversary date of hire. Every employee is given the opportunity to meet with their manager(s) annually in a formal performance review meeting to discuss their performance over the past year. During the review, the employee is urged to speak with the manager(s) about their position as well as their place within the organization. TeamPeople works hard to build an environment which fosters open communication between employees and managers. The performance appraisal process is one important step in ensuring the communication gates stay open and that all employees are aware of their standing in the Company. The process is also a time for the employee to ensure that their personal goals, TeamPeople mission and job duties align. Our employee’s performance review dates normally occur within 30 days of their anniversary dates but can happen at other times. 180 South Washington Street, Suite 200, Falls Church, VA 22046 (p) 202.587.4111 (f) 202.454.0664 www.teampeople.tv Labor Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation TeamPeople is an Equal Employment Opportunity provider and does not discriminate. TeamPeople has a record of non-discrimination and provides equal employment opportunities to all employees and applicants for employment without regard to race, color, creed, religion, gender, sexual orientation, national origin, age, disability, marital status, family and medical leave status, ancestry or status as a covered veteran in accordance with applicable federal, state and local laws. We recognize the right of employees to collectively bargain and TeamPeople complies with all applicable state and local laws governing non-discrimination in employment in every location in which the company has facilities or is engaged. This policy applies to all terms and conditions of employment, including, but not limited to, hiring, placement, promotion, termination, layoff, transfer, leaves of absence, compensation and training. TeamPeople does not participate in any form of forced or compulsory labor, including child labor. As part of its equal employment opportunity policy, TeamPeople is committed to maintaining a work environment free of all forms of unlawful harassment. TeamPeople does not tolerate harassment of our employees by anyone, including any supervisor, co-worker, officer, director, vendor, client or visitor of TeamPeople. Likewise, we prohibit harassment by our employees of clients, guests, visitors or vendors. TeamPeople’s policy against harassment extends beyond the workplace to any work-related setting, such as business trips, business meetings or worksponsored social events. All TeamPeople employees are responsible for assuring that our workplaces are free from prohibited discrimination and harassment. Everyone is expected to avoid any behavior or conduct that could reasonably be interpreted as prohibited discrimination or harassment. No employees – not even the highest ranking people in the company – are exempt from the requirements of this policy. Any individual who violates this policy will be subject to corrective action, up to and including unpaid suspension or immediate termination of employment. This commitment also extends to all work-related settings, including TeamPeople or client sponsored events, such as business trips, training programs and social events. TeamPeople takes discrimination and harassment very seriously and takes immediate action. We ask that if any TeamPeople staff member has experienced or witnessed discrimination or harassment, to notify any TeamPeople Manager, Human Resources or Principal of TeamPeople. TeamPeople then investigates the conduct that is inconsistent with our policy thoroughly and promptly. If an investigation confirms that a violation of the policy or other inappropriate conduct has occurred, TeamPeople will take appropriate corrective action, including discipline up to and including immediate termination of employment as appropriate under the 180 South Washington Street, Suite 200, Falls Church, VA 22046 (p) 202.587.4111 (f) 202.454.0664 www.teampeople.tv circumstances. TeamPeople will discipline an employee, regardless of his or her job position, for any inappropriate conduct discovered during an investigation made under this policy, regardless of whether the conduct amounts to a violation of law or even a violation of this policy, and regardless of when the conduct occurred. If the person who engaged in conduct prohibited by this policy is not employed by TeamPeople, then TeamPeople will take whatever action is reasonable and appropriate under the circumstances. In investigating and imposing any discipline or corrective action, TeamPeople will attempt to preserve confidentiality to the extent that the needs of the situation permit. It is imperative that complaining parties and possible witnesses cooperate fully in any such investigation. TeamPeople forbids retaliation against anyone making a report, assisting in making a complaint, or cooperating in an investigation pursuant to this policy. If an employee feels that she/he has been retaliated against, they are to notify any TeamPeople Manager, Human Resources or any Principal TeamPeople. Concerns about retaliation or attempted retaliation should be raised and will be handled in the same manner as any other concern about harassment or discrimination. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies TeamPeople supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and takes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and sustainability. We believe in maximizing the positive impact of our office decisions on the health of ecosystems and people, which oftentimes can also positively impact the bottom line. Many of our clients’ sites where TeamPeople personnel are working have expansive programs, which we support and often supplement with our own contributions, and at our HQ, we advocate green practices wherever possible. As a small business, we pay attention to ways that we can improve our own carbon footprint and encourage our staff to do the same through our “greenpeople” initiative that started in 2007. TeamPeople’s greenpeople initiative includes recycling efforts for waste, use of recycled products, ride-sharing and public transit pre-tax programs and work-from-home schedules. These and other components show that we are aware of the growing and widespread magnitude of environmental challenges that are faced locally, regionally, nationally and globally. The threat of escalating energy costs, water restrictions, raw material shortages, polluted air and water, species extinction and global warming looms larger than ever. So there’s another reason for small businesses to green their operations: Not only does it make good business sense, it’s quite simply the right thing to do! TeamPeople takes progressive steps to make our business Earth-friendly. We realize no matter how small initial changes may be, over time the scope of this program will gradually increase, and we will be a proud part of the solution. TeamPeople promotes the following “greenpeople” initiatives at all of our client sites and headquarters. 180 South Washington Street, Suite 200, Falls Church, VA 22046 (p) 202.587.4111 (f) 202.454.0664 www.teampeople.tv Here are just a few of the initiatives we follow: • Recycling paper, ink & toner cartridges in office machines • Major printings including proposals done on dual-sided, recycled paper • Conducting electronic invoicing & reporting with clients • Conduct electronic sign-up with vendors • Operating office equipment in ‘energy efficient’ modes • Purchasing from other green businesses, using websites such as the local buying guides and the green pages. • Keeping lights turned off when not in use • Working with building management to install energy efficient florescent light bulbs • Exploring telecommuting (work-from-home) options and encouraging ride-sharing and mass transit incentives for employees • Replacing disposable kitchen items (paper plates, plastic wear, paper/plastic cups) with washable, reusable products • Recycling obsolete electronic equipment • Utilizing paperless and electronic systems whenever possible, including invoicing and reporting TeamPeople monitors these initiatives at all of our sites with the help of our higher level management and devoted staff. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery TeamPeople is committed to complying with all anti-corruption principles and laws at TeamPeople and client sites we operate in. This includes, but is not limited to, laws in the United States and international laws. TeamPeople continues its effort to institute the best practices to achieve the best possible standards in its ongoing compliance with the United Nations Anti-Corruption Principles and company-wide standards for ethical business conduct. There are many examples of this in practice. To protect our clients’ and TeamPeople’s proprietary business information, employees are required to sign Non-Disclosure Agreements that may be customized to the particular requirements of the client. Many of our governmentrelated clients have required security clearances. We also have a well-defined policy related to use of client equipment and IT infrastructures. Submitting a false timesheet, which could result in inappropriate billing by TeamPeople to its client is specifically prohibited. TeamPeople employees are specifically prohibited from accepting any form of gift in return for any form of consideration related to our company’s or clients’ business. We also prohibit support or promotion in any form of a particular party or cause within the workplace. All of these requirements are spelled out in the TeamPeople Employee Manual. Each employee receives a copy of the manual when hired and signs an acknowledgement of receipt. 180 South Washington Street, Suite 200, Falls Church, VA 22046 (p) 202.587.4111 (f) 202.454.0664 www.teampeople.tv Measurement of Outcomes In 2013, TeamPeople was able to achieve all performance targets to support the United Nations’ 10 Principles. Additionally, TeamPeople believes in honesty and integrity in all its business dealings with clients and employees. Some examples of how TeamPeople and its clients measure success include: • Clients consistently rank us highly in terms of the transparency of our pricing and accuracy of our billing. Our reporting to our clients ranks similarly high. We provide reporting customized to the needs of our clients. Each of these elements contributes to an unblemished record in client account audits. • Our employees work with TeamPeople for longer time periods. Across the organization, the average length of employee service is 5 years and our annual turnover rate is 15.2%. These are both impressive numbers for a staffing company. • In a recent survey of TeamPeople employees, 93% reported they were satisfied or extremely satisfied with the offering and array of their benefits as a part of their compensation package. Our healthcare benefits for medical, dental, vision, and ancillary benefits are competitive and in-line with the changes to healthcare law nationwide. • TeamPeople and its employees work in world-class companies and organizations. Our staff are vetted and selected to provide professional services to productions, Board rooms or conference rooms with dignitaries and heads of state. We cover news events and special events at the highest levels. There have been 0 reported incidents of breech of client confidentiality or protocols lodged against TeamPeople. We appreciate the opportunity to report our progress. TeamPeople, our employees and stakeholders, continue to seek new ways to support and promote the initiatives of the United Nations Global Compact. 180 South Washington Street, Suite 200, Falls Church, VA 22046 (p) 202.587.4111 (f) 202.454.0664 www.teampeople.tv
