20M1EN2T E D E V E L O P SUSTAINABL R E P O RT & ACTIV I T Y 2-3 THE roquette GROUP WHAT WE ARE... message from for five questions edouard roquette GUY TALBOURDET Roquette Frères celebrates its 80th anniversary in 2013 threatening the equilibrium of the planet. What in your opinion are the major advances made How do you raise – a rich history for a business that has been familyIn a competitive and stimulating global context, our by Roquette over the last five years in terms of awareness among your owned since its origin. Now in its fifth generation, the Group has considerable human and technological Sustainable Development? employees concerfamily shareholders have a common goal: to establish assets. Quality, reliability and innovation are part of the ning the multiple In the last five years, the Roquette Group has advanced aspects of Sustainable the Roquette Group among the top global starch DNA of the company, giving it access to a wide range along the road of Sustainable Development and this Development? companies in a sustainable way. The recent changes in of skills. The company must continue to translate these fifth report presents what we have achieved so far. the Group’s governance confirm this ambition. advantages into improved economic performance; to In terms of the environment, the Roquette Group has It is a challenge similar to that of Safety or Quality. Roquette Frères has benefited from the rapid evolution do this, it relies on a solid industrial base linked to an How do you turn working methods and practices into ambitious and sustainable investment policy. worked to reduce its consumption of energy and water, of consumer demand to accelerate its international reflexes? The company policy plays a major role. One its atmospheric emissions and noise pollution at its expansion, making it one of the five world leaders in In this way, each decision to establish an industrial site of the keys is to adapt to the context of each site: at sites. The Energy Plan deployed between 2009 and the starch industry. Today, the Nutrition-Health and is the result of extensive, long-term evaluation. The Beinheim (France), the advances in the geothermal 2011 has been a big success. Plant-Based Chemistry sectors present real growth availability of plant-based resources, water and energy project have played a clear role in raising awareness opportunities for our Group. Now, more than ever, we count as much in the analysis as the infrastructures for In human terms, we are committed to reinforcing the among employees about issues involving energy. must seize these opportunities with a clear awareness of transport or access to regional markets. We engage in Group’s international diversity, with a workforce made our social, economic and environmental responsibilities. these big industrial investments only after a precise, up of men and women from numerous different cultures. Do you plan to rely on specific indicators and in-depth study of the local and national context, the Our extended group of senior managers, which we call objectives? If so, why? Throughout its history, Roquette Frères has taken a the Leadership Team, is half French and half from other reasoned approach to its development. The creation economic potential and the societal challenges specific Indicators are at the same time a means to objectively to each country. nationalities. in 2013 of a Deontology & Sustainable Development measure the results of our efforts and a way to mobiIn addition, Roquette always seeks to develop close In economic terms, Roquette has invested heavily in Committee is a further indication of how the company lize the management around precise objectives. They ties with the local community, for example by favoring China and in Southeast Asia, and it became the No. 1 puts this approach into practice. are also useful in the areas in which we operate to local recruitment. This ambition to build a relationship of starch producer in India in 2012 with the acquisition of By producing, investing and communicate the facts about our industrial footprint to trust over the long term, between our Group, the area three corn-starch plants. innovating in the transformation the local population and their elected officials. This is and the people who inhabit it, is not just a point of pride We have progressed in our two main areas of devewhy we established three environmental performance of plant-based raw materials, but an integral part of the Roquette approach. lopment: in Nutrition, we have created dedicated teams indicators in 2013. They will be used as a basis for the company is today at the The acquisition of three sites in India illustrates the for projects such as microalgae or plant-based proteins, exchanges between the different sites, so that best very center of an exciting manner in which Roquette Frères progressively settles and in Plant-Based Chemistry, we have opened the practices identified at any one site can be adapted for global challenge: by the door to some tremendous opportunities, notably with middle of this century, into the local economic, human and geographic fabric. use at the other sites. By 2030, India is expected to have the largest population biopolymers and isosorbide. the human population is Since 2009, the Group has adhered to the UN expected to reach nine in the world, ahead of China. Its needs will increase, These developments contribute to reinforcing Roquette’s position in a competitive landscape that is Global Compact. How is that working out, and what billion people, and ways in volume as well as in the quality of the products it in full transformation. are your views on this initiative? must be found to consumes. On the strength of its skills, the Roquette feed them Group seeks to achieve sustainable growth by working What are the domains where the margins for We signed this agreement to commit to a dynamic and meet closely with its local partner, helping the latter maintain progress seem to you the most promising? of working together alongside the greatest possible their its position as India’s No. 1 starch manufacturer. number of partners. needs The Group’s approach to growth is thus fundamentally I would like to create “a Roquette skills university”. The Global Compact is the broadest and most pertiwithout based on the principles of Sustainable Development. The transfer of knowledge and skills remains verbal nent initiative that we have been able to identify in at Roquette, and we must improve the transmission this domain. In addition, it is highly demanding to the of our collective experience and expertise. It is necesextent that the Group must demonstrate its commitsary to retain a spirit of camaraderie while adapting ments and its progress each year. it to an enterprise of global dimension. We must also reinforce our essential connections with the players in the communities in which we operate. Our ties with the agricultural world, and with everything that is upstream Edouard ROQUETTE to our core biorefinery activities, are essential and must Guy TALBOURDET Chairman of the Roquette Group be strengthened. Chief Executive Officer of the Roquette Group Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette Roquette I Rapport d'Activité etDevelopment I Sustainable de Développement and Activity Durable Report 20122012 4-5 THE roquette GROUP WHAT WE ARE... European leader in raw materials for injectable products European leader in cationic S OUR KEY FIGURE starches World leader in polyols 2012 No. 2 world-wide in maltodextrins No. 1 No. 2 3.1 Billion euros of No. 5 in World starch industry in Indian starch industry in European starch industry worldwide 87% outside France (Group headquarters) turnover SOCIETAL CAPITAL IE L & IN D U STRIAL HUMAN CAPITAL M A T E R natural capital CAPITAL 4 Asia 6 th India (Excluding India) Asia 1,082 India (Excluding India) 1,355 More than America 3 614 year member of 7,800 Peas 21 Wheat America 6 Ethics Audits (2) Potatoes 0.1 1.9 2 Lestrem (France), Keokuk (USA), UN Global More than Compact 7.7 Lianyungang (Chine), Gokak, Europe Pantnagar and 1 Viramgam (India) Europe employees 4,766 Industrial Sites (1) Distribution of Group workforce by region Corn 10 million tons of raw A(Permanent and fixed term employment contracts at 31 Decembrer 2012) materials 4.8 Distribution of industrial site by region Distribution of processed raw material capacities Stable 3% (in million tons) More than TF1 : 2.4 A-2 Standard & Poors’ 500,000 of turnover devoted to Research & Development (3) ratings at 28 March 2013 tons of CO2 avoided (1) Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi non consolidated (2) Total, following adherence of different sites to SEDEX (3) Number of accidents with lost time per million hours worked Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette Roquette I Rapport d'Activité etDevelopment I Sustainable de Développement and Activity DurableReport 20122012 6-7 THE roquette GROUP WHAT WE ARE... A FEW WORDS OUR than Y ABOUT OUR STOR 0 More governance 2 0 e m bers ily Once upon a time, there were two bold brothers The evolution of our governance in 2012 M TE fa T m QUE Group’s e RO of th pose the base The adventure begins with two brothers, Dominique and Roquette Frères’ governance structure continues to evolve, in from the third generation, as its com reholder sha Germain ROQUETTE, at the time grain brokers in Lille line with best practices in corporate government. The componew Chairman. It reappointed Guy (France), whose daring, ingenuity and force of character sition of the Board of Directors, as well as its organization and TALBOURDET as the Chief Executive gave birth in 1933 to the company “ROQUETTE FRÈRES, method of operation must reflect an expanding family shareOfficer. Jean-Bernard LELEU and JeanTHE BIG POTATO STARCH PRODUCERS OF THE holder base with direct control over Roquette Frères. Marc WILLEFERT will also continue their functions as NORTH.” In 2012, the shareholders nominated or renominated 10 Deputy Chief Executive Officers. 3 Potatoes were the basis for the initial activity of the 3 Board members, who will hold their positions for three years. To adopt a mode of organization that will allow it to better 9 company, but soon other raw materials were brought in to The Board is composed now of five family members and five 1 IRTH accomplish its mission, the Board seeks to implement expand its product range. Corn made its appearance in the independent members, with diverse profiles and experience. specific rules of operation, transparency and objectivity to workshops in 1946, and the extraction of starch from wheat The family Board members, who come from the third and, improve its decision-making processes. Thus, the Strategy began in 1956. The transformation of protein peas was launched in 2005, and microalgae in 2008. The company expanded rapidly outside France from 1958 B a at wo ny th world uld HISTORY In 2013, the company for the first time, the fourth generation, can no longer simultaneously sit on the Board and work under contract within the Group. Committee and the Deontology & Sustainable Development Committee have been added to the two existing committees: the Audit Committee and the Appointments and m p e co f the The Board elected Edouard ROQUETTE, family shareholder Salaries Committee. to 2000. In Europe, it either acquired existing sites or built of th me one o e starch will celebrate its new ones, notably in Spain, Italy and England. be c o n t h 80th year of history, ers i lead industry innovation and global The Roquette Group continued its international expansion development. At the in the 1980s on the American continent and two decades Lestrem site (France), later passed another major milestone by establishing itself in Asia: in China, Korea, Japan and India. a museum retraces this exceptional adventure. The Board of Directors Nearly 80 years later, Roquette is still an independent family-owned business, in which the current shareholders continue the adventure begun by their forebears, through by putting into practice the mission it has embraced: innovation and dynamism. “To serve men and women and transform agricultural In terms of the future, Roquette has the ambition to rise raw materials into products that are used in food, health to the challenges, to rely on its human and technological and consumer and capital goods, with an approach assets to ensure its long-term viability and development based on the principles of sustainable development.” M onique DELVILLE « For me, the mos t important thin the relationship g is with others « Stéphane BASEDEN Fabienne DEGRAVE Denis DELLOYE Pierre-Emmanuel LEPERS Didier de MENONVILLE of ‘‘NIQUETTE’’ Reminiscences at tor Receptionist Telephone Opera tte France) by computer, my job has changed a lot! I rememmy job too much. Lestrem (Roque ber the time when, twice a year I’d have to come It allowed me to see and talk with so many in on a Sunday and go down to the basement to people. For me, the most important thing is the reset the clock on the switchboard when we switrelationship with others. To deprive myself of I worked two years in a small cooperative before ched between Standard Daylight and Daylight this would be like cutting the wings off a bird. joining, the “big company” Roquette, in October 1973, Savings times, because nothing was automated Furthermore, my biggest emotional shock at on the recommendations of several members of my back then. It was also a long time ago when the Roquette was the day when, returning from family who already worked there. I started as a teleentire list of internal telephone numbers would my summer vacation, I discovered that “my” phone switchboard operator back in the days when fit on just one page… The company has grown switchboard had disappeared. I could have you had to go through a big switchboard to be connecso much over these last years that, despite my cried! Fortunately, this was only temporary. ted with the party you wanted to reach. Over the 39 seniority as a receptionist, I don’t remember all But the greatest emotion I ever experienced years of my career at Roquette, I experienced firstthe names or faces! at Roquette was when I retired in November Pascal PAYET-GASPARD Jean-François RAMBICUR Christophe ROQUETTE Edouard ROQUETTE Marc ROQUETTE hand the evolution in telecommunications technoloI could have changed jobs during my career 2012: so many colleagues from all across the gies, not to mention their “revolution”: from the time of because the company offers plenty of possicompany came out to honor me on my last day, the telex, with its small strips of paper, to sending a fax bilities to do this, but I never wanted to: I loved and Mr. Philippe Roquette gave me a big hug. Roquette I Sustainable Roquette Development d'Activité et and I Rapport Activity Report 2012 de Développement Durable 2012 Roquette Roquette I Sustainable I Rapport de Développement and Activity d'Activité etDevelopment Durable Report 20122012 8-9 THE roquette GROUP WHAT WE ARE... our governance A MAJOR EVENT FOR THE SHAREHOLDERS Four committees to support the Board of The Appointments and Salaries Committee The Strategy Committee The visit to the industrial site at Cassano Spinola (Italy) in Directors Its main role is to: Its main missions are to: has sought in October 2012 allowed numerous -Ensure the future composition of authoritative executive shareholders to discover the activity -Analyze the major strategic orientations for the current 2012 to multiply bodies by making proposals to the Board: selection of new of the subsidiary and inspect the The four committees are charged with issuing opinions, and future development of the Roquette Group; the opportunities Board members and succession of executive directors; new investments. This moment of proposals and recommendations to the Board of Directors. for meetings and exchange and conviviality with -Make recommendations to the Board on compensation -Prepare the work for the Board of Directors on subjects of exchanges between They are not empowered to take decisions. Their purpose the site’s personnel and directors and benefits for mandated positions as well as on the major interest, notably financial strategies, opportunities the shareholders is to facilitate the Board’s mission and to provide effective was the occasion to celebrate remuneration policy for executive directors; for external growth, areas of development and possibilities and the operational support in the preparation of its decisions. the 50th anniversary of -Examine the rules of governance and monitor their application. for diversification. executive directors. the Italian subsidiary. The Appointments and Salaries Committee is composed This committee is composed of Stéphane BASEDEN, In addition to the annual The Audit Committee of Christophe ROQUETTE, Jean-Francois RAMBICUR, Denis DELLOYE, Pascal PAYET-GASPARD, Edouard General Shareholders Meeting Its main missions are to: Edouard ROQUETTE, Marc ROQUETTE and Pascal ROQUETTE and Jean-Francois RAMBICUR, who is the and the bi-annual information PAYET-GASPARD, who is the committee’s president. committee’s president. meetings, a number of major events are organized to allow -Ensure the pertinence and continuity of accounting each shareholder to participate in the Group’s development. methods adopted for the establishment of company or The Deontology & Sustainable Development Committee Visits and trainings organized around different themes, consolidated accounts as well as the appropriate treatThe relationship between shareholders and the such as strategy or raw materials for example, allow the ment of significant operations and major risks at the level Its main missions are to: of the Roquette Group; -Examine the Group’s policies and management systems company shareholders to better comprehend the Group’s evolution and the challenges related to the globalization of markets. -Verify that internal procedures are defined for the colon the Environment, Human Resources and Stakeholder The Roquette Group’s close relationship with the family In parallel, communication has also been reinforced with a lection and management of information in order to guaRelations; shareholders is one of the fundamental components of its restructuring of periodic information. In addition to financial rantee the reliability of the latter; -Study the cartography of major risks that are not directly identity. financial and the related action plans; results, a press review on developments involving the -Examine the Group’s internal audit plan and the Auditor’s With the arrival of each new generation and the ambition competition, the Nutrition-Health market and Plant-Based plan; -Ensure the Group’s capacity to put into practice and to reinforce the “Affectio Societatis”, the Board of Directors Chemistry is provided to shareholders. maintain the respect of rules of good conduct in terms of -Examine and monitor the rules governing the indecompetition, ethics, honesty, integrity and fairness. pendence and objectivity of the Auditor. The Deontology & Sustainable Development Committee is This committee is composed of Fabienne DEGRAVE, Didier composed of Stéphane BASEDEN, Denis DELLOYE, Pierrede MENONVILLE and Christophe ROQUETTE, who is the Emmanuel LEPERS and Marc ROQUETTE, who is the committee’s president. committee’s president. In foreground, from left to right: In background, from left to right: EXECUTIVE TEAM general management Thierry LAURENT BOARD MEMBERS GMU Plant-Based Solutions Marc DILLY PRESIDENT Director GMU Food, Nutrition SHAREHOLDERS Stéphane BASEDEN & Health Director Emmanuel de GEUSER Fabienne DEGRAVE Guy TALBOURDET Financial Director Dominique TARET Denis DELLOYE CEO Gianfranco PATRUCCO America Managing Director Pierre-Emmanuel LEPERS Europe Managing Director Guy TALBOURDET More than 200 Didier de MENONVILLE Jean-Bernard LELEU Jean-Bernard LELEU Edouard Deputy CEO CEO members of the Pascal PAYET-GASPARD Deputy CEO ROQUETTE Armand CHEN Roquette family Jean-François RAMBICUR Fabienne VAN ROBAEYS Asia Managing Director Human Resources Director Christophe ROQUETTE Jean-Marc WILLEFERT (excluding India) Edouard ROQUETTE Deputy CEO Ganpatraj CHOWDHARY Jean-Marc WILLEFERT Marc ROQUETTE India Managing Director Deputy CEO Meeting of the ExecutiveTeam at Lianyungang (China) Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette Roquette I Rapport d'Activité etDevelopment I Sustainable de Développement and Activity Durable Report 20122012 10-11 THE roquette GROUP WHAT WE ARE... tha n more 700 APPLICATIONS Fermentation and Fine Chemistry , our profession Proteins and Polyols UCTS Derivatives 5 % A few examples of functional 23% biorefiner PROoluDtions ofcfetiroinngal 9% properties: sensorial, organoleptic, resistance to humidity or drying out, barrier, surface Fibers and 12% s and ety of fun modification, processability... Oils i s a var propertie 22% Starches The Roquette Group is one of the top five starch manuSugars and facturers world-wide. Its activity is to transform renewable Soluble Fibers 29% raw materials, and one of its core strengths is its ability to These products are ubiquitous in the daily lives of consucontinually identify new sources of raw materials: first potamers. For example: toes, then corn and wheat, and in recent years peas and Sales by product range -In your bathroom, they enrich numerous cosmetics, toothmicroalgae. (excluding Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi) pastes and beauty creams; One of the main components extracted from these raw materials is starch, a remarkable source of energy made up of -In the medicine cabinet, they are used as excipients in gaglucose molecules, which can be transformed subsequently lenic formulations for numerous pharmaceutical products, Paper and Corrugated into a wide variety of derivative products. such as syrups and tablets; Cardboard Animal Nutrition to reduce consumption of energy (cogeneration, geother-If you catch a cold, the new biopolymers make tissue pa12% The Roquette Group’s industrial model 17% is that of a biorefinery: it intemal) and water (recycling and treatment) and, on the other per softer and more resistant; Pharmaceuticals grates, on the same industrial hand, to limit environmental impact (odor, noise, waste and and Cosmetics 12% -On your dinner table, they can be found in soups, sauces, site, the production of a range effluents), all by optimizing the use of raw materials. 10% Chemistry breaded products, cheese, jams and ice creams; and THE BIOREFINERY of different products, derived The Roquette Group’s know-how is based on its capacity Bioindustry -In school supplies, they improve the resistance of paper from biomass and designed to transform and generate value from all components of and print quality in books; for numerous markets. The plant-based raw materials. This allows it to offer its industrial The International Energy Agency production processes used customers more than 700 products and solutions that are -In your house, they are present in additives for concrete, Human 49% metal treatments or wall-paper glues, as well as in plastic Nutrition has defined biorefining as the in the biorefineries are also ever more innovative and designed for the food and nonsustainable processing of biomass designed, on the one hand, food markets. objects of everyday life. into a spectrum of bio-based Sales by sector of application products (food, feed, chemicals, (excluding Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi) materials) and/or bioenergy (biofuels, power and/or heat). Products & Innovation Solutions THE BIOREFINERY DESIGN Valuation as organic fertilizer Transformation Biomass The biorefinery design is based on the separation of components from the biomass in order to generate maximum value, first in intermediary products that are then transformed into finished or semi-finished products within the biorefinery or by other industrial users. Biorefinery processes can also produce energy from the biomass, which can in turn be used to reduce the net energy required for production. They can also generate value from by-products, such as nutriments that can be returned to the fields as fertilizer. Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette Roquette I Rapport d'Activité etDevelopment I Sustainable de Développement and Activity Durable Report 20122012 12-13 THE roquette GROUP WHAT WE ARE... INDIA, A LAND our global OF INVESTMENT presence In just a few years, India has become a strategic market offering significant business opportunities. Pursuing development in high-growth regions Over the last 10 years, the Indian economy has posted growth rates The Roquette Group took a major step forward in 2012 of 5% to 10% per year. Today, Currently present in more than 100 countries, the Roquette The Group’s growth policy also relies on a network of with the acquisition of the leading starch company in India, India is one of the most attractive Group continues its expansion in higher-growth markets application development centers, some 30 sales offices composed of three industrial sites. destinations for foreign investors, through an ambitious industrial policy. and more than 70 sales agents around the world. The new Indian company, Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi, in which with a growing range of All activities are divided into four regions defined by the Its world-wide presence is also reinforced by partnerships the Roquette Group is the majority shareholder, officially international customers. Roquette Group: Europe, America, Asia (excluding India) and established with recognized leaders in their area of began operations on 31 May 2012. This acquisition will India. The Group currently has 21 production sites in total. expertise. allow the Roquette Group to reinforce its global position in Nutrition-Health and Plant-Based Chemistry. It has also made Roquette the No. 1 international starch company in India. The Group has an ambitious investment Pantnagar plan to accompany the growth of this market, notably by increasing production capacity and developing new specialty products. Thus, Roquette continues its strategic development in high-growth markets. Viramgam Today, Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi has nearly Ahmedabad 1,100 employees distributed across India, at the three production sites – Gokak (Karnataka), Pantnagar (Uttarakhand) and Viramgam (Gujarat) – and at the new company’s headquarters located in Ahmedabad (Gujarat). ‘‘India will be the leading country in the world in terms of population by 2030 and benefits from a high annual growth rate of 15 to 20% in Nutrition-Health, Gokak a strategic channel for Roquette that represents twoRoquette-Riddhi Siddhi headquarters thirds of the Group’s sales.’’ Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi industrial sites Guy TALBOURDET CEO of the Group Countries where the Roquette Grou p is established APPLICATION « Providing innova tion to our cust omers oice « DEVELOPMEN T g them in the ch Sales by accompanyin DHI DHARY Production S -RIDDHItoSrsID CEN TE R (*) Siddharth CH OW Offices Headquarters Sites ROQUETTEentity’s direc talk of solutions Two of the new sites tion of the Indian Germany Indonesia about the integra view of logistics, the fact of being established What are the main industrial projects of Germany Japan China near our customers and benefiting from a Roquette-Siddhi Siddhi? China France China Malaysia USA broader geographic coverage in India is a key Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi is planning major Korea advantage. Korea Mexico France What benefits do customers expect from industrial developments in the coming years. Denmark Philippines Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi? This represents lower logistics costs, and We expect to increase production capacities at Spain India faster deliveries in case of urgent situations. existing sites (Pantnagar, Gokak) with a signifiSpain Russia Our customers will be able to benefit from USA Italy Secure sourcing for our customers is assucant increase in corn-grinding capacity. We are ROQUETTE FRERES USA Singapore a broader range of products, coming from improving our productive efficiency and develoFrance Japan different regions of the world. We provide red thanks to our factories being spread out ping more products with high added value, such 1, rue de la Haute Loge India Finland Taiwan innovation to our customers by accompanying across India. as polyols. 62136 LESTREM them in the choice of solutions, and no longer Siddharth CHOWDHARY, Amitabh TIRIAR, Italy France Thailand only in “traditional” products. From the point of Purchasing and Logistics Director Industrial Director FRANCE Romania India Turkey (*) The application laboratories were renamed “Application Development Tel: +33 3 21 63 36 00 United Kingdom Italy Vietnam Centers” (ADC) in 2012. Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette Rapport II Rapport Roquette Roquette Roquette d'Activité et I ISustainable Sustainable d'Activité etDevelopment de Développement Development de and Développement Durable Activity andActivity Durable 20122012 Report Report 2012 2012 Roquette I Rapport d'Activité et de Développement Durable 2012 14-15 THE roquette GROUP WHAT WE ARE... our approach ‘‘COMPLIANCE’’ to ethics “Compliance” is the activity that identifies, evaluates and manages risks related to non-compliance (which can result, for example, in a legal or administrative sanction or financial loss). The company formalized its commitments in Ethics and convictions, A roadmap to deploy the approach These risks can arise from a failure Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in 2009 with the responsibilities to respect the standards, measures, drafting and dissemination of the Ethics Charter and the and commitrules or practices specific to the To deploy an efficient and complete system on compliance, Code of Conduct to all of the Group’s sites. In Asia, the ments of the activities of the company, be they of the Code of Conduct and the related training sessions deployment of the ethics approach as a whole has been Group, as well as a legislative, regulatory, professional alone are not sufficient. Thus, certain key risks have been the object of an extensive training program and the the operational prinor deontological nature, or internal identified and preventive controls set up. The Asia region implementation of specific action plans. Below are the ciples and practices specifications or instructions. has drafted and put into practice new measures and procedifferent steps designed to make this region a reference to which all employees dures for internal control, notably covering the functions of in this field for the rest of the Group. must adhere in order to Finance and Human Resources. These result from a collawork at the company. The borative effort involving all the functions. Roquette Asia creates a new function dedicated two documents have been translaThe elements list the basic practices and principles ted into multiple languages, including Mandarin, Japanese of the Ethics Charter and the Code of Conduct and are to ‘‘compliance’’ and Korean. Helping employees fully understand these two adapted to the reality of the Asia region. Several training documents has become a priority in Asia. sessions have been organized for all parties concerned in Asia is a region in full expansion, both in the world economy With the help of the Asia Human Resources Management order to guarantee that the various directives are properly and for the Roquette Group, which must prepare for this and the support of the entire management, the “Compliance’’ understood. growth. This can only be achieved if all employees share a common corporate culture. The Roquette Group has function provided a complete training program on the Ethics All improvements achieved in Asia in the context of this therefore created a specific function in Asia to deploy and Charter and Code of Conduct at all the Asian sites throuethics approach have been presented at the Ethics highlight the Group’s Ethics and Compliance policies. ghout 2012. This initiative helped develop the reliability, effiCommittee meeting that was held at the Innovation Center ciency and credibility of the company as a whole. In addition, of Roquette America in Geneva (USA) in May 2012. The objective is to optimize internal processes and ensure this training was the occasion for the company to communithat employees share the same values and ambitions, thus The senior management team must now ensure that the cate its commitment and its expectations in terms of ethics collectively contributing to the long-term development of the employees fully respect the many new rules set up. With and listening to the concerns of employees. company. this in mind, a roadmap has been prepared, and its deployThe results of this training have been very encouraging. The ment is planned for 2013. An extensive training program on Ethics employees are more inclined to ask questions and make proposals, not only on daily operating procedures, but also The right balance and the right direction... In 2009, the Roquette Group formally published its Ethics on quality management, administrative procedures, internal Charter and its Code of Conduct, which clearly define the rules, etc. Promoting best ethics practices In the context of its Corporate Social Responsibility and Numerous positive points were to respond to customers’ demands, the Roquette Group highlighted, as well as areas became a member of SEDEX (Supplier Ethical Data for improvement (such as Exchange) in 2006. the creation of a Code of Conduct for suppliers, ‘‘The SEDEX SEDEX is a non profit making organization for businesses, « for example), which will audit has above all the objective of which is to promote best social, societal ning helped to give voice to areness and trai and environmental practices. It relies on a certification require developing « Both raising aw r action plans. more than 60 employees the fact that ou reference that contributes to the fluidity and transparency of are facilitated by interviewed at the Lestrem m e va lues exchanges between customers and suppliers. Joining this The implementation are the sa site on topics such as cathy eliManager, Roquette Asia employees all sh initiative means contributing to a platform for exchanging information (surveys, audit reports, etc.). of the SMETA working conditions, Complianc reference was also hygiene, safety, training, In 2012, four sites were the object of ethics audits: an opportunity working hours... all in strict translated into the different languages spoken that the approach can be properly adapted Keokuk (USA), Lestrem (France), Lianyungang (China) to review our confidentiality.’’ within the Group which make them understanto the other regions? and Viramgam (India). These audits were based on the fundamentals, in dable to everyone. In addition, raising awarePhilippe LIENART At the Ethics Committee meeting held in SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) reference terms of safety, Given that these documents were prepared ness and training linked to these two documents May 2012 at the Geneva site in the USA, we Quality Manager Lestrem primarily by Europeans, have you encountered is facilitated by the fact that our employees all developed by SEDEX members to coordinate the efforts security and the presented all of these actions to an outside of all stakeholders into supply chain. These four sites now environment, as well (Roquette France) any difficulties in the deployment of the Ethics share the same values. After receiving the traiexpert who specializes in this domain and was Charter or the Code of Conduct in Asia because ning, the employees have a clearer idea about brought in for this purpose. This expert presjoin the Pantnagar and Gokak sites in India, which have as our initiatives on of any cultural differences? the basic practices and principles to which they must adhere, and how they must adopt the ented to the committee the international best already successfully passed such audits. personnel management. The first time that I read these two documents, I practices on the integration of ethics within a said to myself that their deployment would pose no essential values stated in the Ethics Charter and company and the proactive management of problems. The texts are very concise, and the values the Code of Conduct. ethics issues. During these discussions and and missions are clear and explained in the context The Asia region’s extensive program on presentations, we received confirmation both of operational practices. I had no trouble understanethics and compliance will act as a pilot for on the pertinence of our approach and on the ding the themes of these two documents. They are the rest of the Group. How can you be sure way in which we are putting it into practice. Roquette Roquette I Rapport I Sustainable d'Activité etand Development de Développement Durable 2012 Activity Report 2012 Roquette Roquette I Sustainable I Rapport d'Activité etDevelopment and Activity de Développement Durable Report 20122012 16-17 THE roquette GROUP WHAT WE ARE... USA Group China Roquette America THE YEAR receives two trophies for safety performance at IN REVIEW its sites in Keokuk and Gurnee (see page 55). NUTRIOSE® soluble fiber blows out its 10th Inauguration of the new Quality Control birthday candle (see page 31). laboratory at Lianyungang (see page 38). India Reverdia™ – a joint venture of DSM and Roquette – has built the world’s first Group large-scale industrial Roquette receives an “Ecoinstallation for bioDesign” prize for GAIALENE® Group succinic acid, on at the JADDE trade fair in Lille the Roquette site at (France) (see page 35). Cassano Spinola (see page 40). According to Hindu tradition, Riddhi and Siddhi are two wives of the god Ganesh Roquette acquired the three production sites of India’s No. 1 starch producer and created a new Italy entity, Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi, in which it is the majority shareholder (see page 13). Edouard ROQUETTE Group is named Chairman by France the Roquette Board of Directors on 15 June 2012 (see page 7). Roquette participates as main sponsor of the European Congress on Obesity (see page 31). Sales teams move into spacious new offices in Singapore (photo), Istanbul Europe Roquette received 1st prize for Environmental Performance from the Nord-Pas-de-Calais and Beijing. Region. China Group France A member since Group 2009, Roquette renews its commitment to the UN Global Compact (see page 59). Inauguration of the first drilling well for the The sites of Keokuk (USA – photo), Lestrem (France), geothermal project at the Beinheim site The industrial site of Nanning obtains ISO22000 Lianyungang (China) and Viramgam (India) have been the (see page 39). certification (see page 42). object of ethics audits (see page 15). Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette Roquette I Rapport d'Activité etDevelopment I Sustainable de Développement and Activity Durable Report 20122012 41 NAT U R A L C A P I T A L Natural Capital includes the plant-based raw materials, the terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, natural resources such as water, air, etc. Our commitment is to preserve this Natural Capital by minimizing the impact of our activities on the local and global environment, throughout the value chain (upstream and downstream): water consumption, preserving soil quality, controlling effluents, reducing greenhouse gas emissions. 20-21 NATURAL CAPITAL E D R AW M AT E R IALS PLANT-BAS , production and The PEA SECTOR proximity a sustainable MICROALGAE agricultural resource Microalgae are single-cell algae. Discovered several centuries ago but used industrially only in recent years, they number several hundred thousand The Roquette Group’s factories buy renewable raw matefor the accredifferent species. Because of their richness A few years ago, the Roquette Group expanded its range of rials that are locally produced and marketed. ditation of new in proteins, vitamins, minerals and lipids, products by adding a new raw material, protein peas, which it Our long-term relationships with suppliers, thanks to outline silos at the heart microalgae can be a source of nutriments now transforms in addition to wheat, corn and potatoes. agreements, have allowed us to construct efficient transport of cereal-produfor human and animal nutrition. Inspired Since 2007, the factory of Vic-sur-Aisne (France) has been plans with numerous local collection points. Local sourcing cing areas. These by their “health” potential, the Roquette dedicated to protein peas, with annual capacity of 80,000 helps limit transport between storage points and loading diagnoses contriGroup has been developing a metric tons. The peas are sourced locally and relationships platforms. bute to the improvededicated microalgae activity with suppliers are kept very close. Through agricultural ment of infrastructures since 2008. Our sourcing approach seeks to strike an optimal balance cooperatives, the pea farmers have long known the quality between financial and environmental performance. For and over time allow for requirements of the Group. Numerous audits are performed example, the preferred mode of shipment for cereals is by efficient collection points to be each year to ensure the respect of specifications and train or barge, thus helping to reduce the carbon footprint optimally distributed throughout the guarantee the safety of food products. of transport for raw materials. In France, transport by truck area. These audits are also an opportunity to raise awarePeas present certain environmental and agricultural represents a minor share and is limited to a short radius ness among suppliers about reducing the use of phytosaniadvantages. For example, the plant can draw nitrogen from around the factories. At Group scale, sourcing of raw matetary storage products. the air, so it does not require fertilizer. Its relatively short cycle Wheat rials is done by the shortest path possible between the As part of its efforts to build strong ties with the agricultural and early harvest also mean peas consume less water, require Peas selected loading point and the factory. The transport plan sector, Roquette participates in actions for the varietal selecless work for cultivation, and use fewer pesticides than other 0.1 1.9 also seeks to minimize empty loads. tion which also contributes to the improvement of agricultural crops. The ecological footprint is therefore low. And thanks Potatoes Each year, the Roquette Group performs numerous audits practices and yields. 1 to the proximity of production, the Roquette Group seeks to support and generate local value for this energy-saving and economical crop. In addition, peas facilitate the cultivation of subsequent crops on the same land because the plant Corn restores some of the nitrogen it captures, thus improving the structure of the soil. Peas can provide higher yields for wheat or colza cultivated afterwards, with less need for fertilizer, 4.8 fungicides and herbicides. The integration of peas in crop rotation also helps stop the propagation of disease. Distribution of processed raw material capacities (in million tons) Roquette’s structuring and development of this channel have allowed it to increase the volumes transformed, thus offering a stable and sustainable opportunity for local farmers to cultivate this ecological and advantageous crop. Wheat Potatoes « Microalgae tural world with the agricul « We must work ble build a sustaina to successfully nel upstream chan FRANCctKorFOULON Plant Dire oquette France) phases: we started by producing proteins, but the future. Vic-sur-Aisne (R to obtain a sustainably profitable channel we However, there are challenges of national also had to find ways to generate value from the scale, such as access to the raw material and other components of peas: starch and fibers. the improvement of yields. These tend to be Cruising speed was reached in 2010. In 2012, more random, so many farmers prefer to cultiIn 2007, the Vic-sur-Aisne site switched from the the plant hit maximum capacity, which again vate other crops. We must work with the agritransformation of potatoes to protein peas. What required significant investments to produce cultural world to successfully build a sustaimajor changes did this engender? and deliver 100% of the proteins and fibers to nable upstream channel. Roquette works with First, the change was significant in organizational Nutrition-Health. seed producers and the official agencies to terms: the site went from a seasonal activity (by How do you see the pea sector evolving? identify the varieties that are most efficient for campaign) to a continuous activity. This had a big We have before us customers who demand cultivation and the most resistant to disease. impact on organizing the teams. We also had to products of plant-based origin. Pea protein is A government-supported research program develop new skills, because this was a completely non-GMO (Genetically Modified Organism), on this subject is currently being conducted, Peas Corn new sector. non-allergenic and possesses remarkable nutrinotably with the INRA (the French National Plant-based raw materials transformed in the Roquette Group’s biorefineries In technical terms, the change was implemented in tional and functional properties. It is a sector for Institute for Agricultural Research). Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette Roquette I Rapport d'Activité et Development I Sustainable and Activity de Développement Durable 20122012 Report Roquette I Rapport d'Activité et de Développement Durable 2012 22-23 NATURAL CAPITAL N M E N TA L A P P R OACH AN ENVIRO By setting up an ambitious reduction plan at the plantPRESERVING process level, the Benifayo site has achieved a 30% reduction in Chemical Oxygen Demand THE environment (COD) sent to the watertreatment station, limiting in turn the energy consumption for water-treatment. Controlling aqueous emissions into the natural environment Water, an essential resource to preserve SPAIN All the production sites of the Roquette Group share a priority objective: to control aqueous emissions from the workshops Water is an essential resource that must be preserved, both thus setting up the best to the natural environment. 30% in terms of quality and quantity. available technologies for For example, in collaboration with the Seine Normandy The processes for extraction and manufacturing at the regulation to treat effluent Water Agency (AESN), the Vic-sur-Aisne site has set up Roquette Group’s industrial units consume a lot of water. from manufacturing regular monitoring of emissions to obtain approval from the Certain sites have had to reduce their water-intake capacity processes. agency. This approach, initiated in 2010, has led to efforts to because of increasingly stringent regulations. In Romania, a new watero r g anic rationalize the collection of emissions from each workshop, less atter As a result, the Group continually seeks to anticipate and to consolidate an aerial network for the evacuation of treatment station was these emissions to the water-treatment station and to limit implement new ways of working. The actions around these initiatives focus on three main priorities: opened in 2012. The new station has a treatment m to th sent atment e aqueous emissions into the natural environment. In addition, qualitative and quantitative monitoring has been established -The treatment of pollution at the source, to reduce waterr-tre capacity four times higher wate tation and validated by an external agency. purification circuits, s than the old one, and has -The recycling of water without attenuating the quality or all the necessary technologies Preserving air quality modifying the characteristics of finished products, for the successful treatment of -The study of “new” water resources. emissions: basins for homogenization and preparation of The preservation of air quality is monitored at all of the This approach requires the active involvement of multi-disciwaters, oxidation basins with turbines, separation decanter Group’s sites. To avoid the olfactory discomfort of their plinary teams. Launched in 2012, these studies are ongoing, and concentrator for muds, etc. neighbors, certain sites have established plans to reduce with pilot tests to validate the approaches and qualify the odors, notably in Italy and Spain. For example, olfactory After several months of operation, this water-treatment results obtained. station is now fully functional. At the output, the pollution emissions have been cut by up to 99% thanks to the Biodiversity, vital for raw materials installation of regenerative thermal oxidization systems. is cut by half compared to that obtained by the old waterBiodiversity is essential to the long-term viability of any Internal water-treatment stations for the industrial treatment station. This result not only exceeds expectations business that transforms plant-based raw materials. units but also goes well beyond the regulations in application. Ecosystems serve as a primary resource, notably for water; 70% A series of corrective measures was set up at the Keokuk To complete this effort, a partnership with one of the Romanian they regulate, notably in terms of disease, and they provide site in the USA (for example, the measuring and monitoring site’s main suppliers for corn and straw is currently under support, notably on the water cycle. of emissions). In addition, best environmental practices and study for the possible field spreading of the concentrated Biodiversity is also a source of richness and innovation. improvements on the water-treatment station have been muds from the station. Biotechnologies are one example, and the Roquette Group’s fewerints applied. All these measures have researchers take inspiration from this each day to create new been implemented in the context la EUROPE products. comp s of an agreement negotiated Best practices are implemented to preserve this biodiverby Roquette America with the In 2012, the Group’s sity. For example, before each new European project, the US Department of Justice and dor European industrial sites Roquette Group performs an impact for o the Environmental Protection posted a 70% drop in the study on biodiversity to ensure its Agency, following the non-respect number of complaints for preservation. Another example: of emissions permits for the odors. during a review of the fieldMississippi River (runoff water spreading plan for muds and effluent from water-treatment from the water-treatment NATURA 2000 stations). station at the Lestrem Before this agreement was site (France), the The Natura 2000 network concluded, the company had Treating sources of noise impact on the natural covers nature sites within the already invested in several fauna was examined European Union that represent decisive improvements designed The Roquette Group takes into consideration the proximity in particular. The a major natural heritage to modernize the current plant, to of its industrial establishments to neighboring communities, study confirmed the because of their exceptional improve reliability and to ensure and sets up campaigns to regularly measure sonic levels. absence of incidence flora or fauna. the respect of all applicable To go beyond these observations, more extensive measures on the biological equienvironmental standards. For are under deployment at most sites. A precise mapping librium, notably around example, new decantation basins of major sonic sources is made. This is followed by sonic the zones covered by have been installed and aeration dispersion modelization to identify and treat the loudest the European Union’s systems have been improved, sources of noise. NATURA 2000 program. Water-treatment station Keokuk (USA) Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette Roquette I Rapport d'Activité et Development I Sustainable de Développement and Activity Durable Report 20122012 24-25 NATURAL CAPITAL N M E N T AL APPR OACH AN E N V IR O PRESERVING THE environment Responsible waste management At Lestrem (France), for example, paper and cardboard Because it uses all the components of its plant-based raw are collected each day in closed materials to generate value, the Roquette Group’s sites containers and compactor bins. produce relatively little waste overall. In 2012, 67 metric tons of paper The policy is to use “waste” to generate maximum value, and 71 metric tons of cardboard were notably by transforming it into energy (by methanization, recovered by a subcontractor specializing in the recycling for example; see page 39), by amending it (by composting of paper and cardboard. 6n7s and field-spreading) or by recycling it into new raw matec metri er rials (for example for paper and cardboard). All new products Packaging developed by the company are the object of a prior study on At Lestrem (France), the repackaging of pallets (sorting, p of pa e their waste management and recycling. This is the case for repairs) is handled by a workshop that mostly employs GAIALENE® granules (see page 35) for which specific recypeople with mental or physical challenges. This allows more cling channels have been developed. to 12 at th than 70% of pallets to be returned to use. 99% e d i n 20 ce) The Group’s Environmental Department has set up an IT ct ran Big Bags are also recycled. In 2012, more than 4,000 Big colle te (F database to finely manage waste engendered by induswere strem si cling Bags at French sites have been reused. L e ec y trial activities and to monitor the channels for their use to for r dous generate value or their elimination. This database is already In Asia, a channel is being set up at shared by the French sites and is being deployed at the the production sites for the elimination a z a r n-h of no wasstterem site other European sites. of hazardous waste, such as used batteFor its part, Roquette America works to reduce its waste and ries and energy-saving light bulbs. These products contain elements that can seriously contaminate the soil or aquifers, e d to develop channels to generate value from them. The latter t he L e and can pose a risk to human health if they end up in the from ce) is us ue effort presents several advantages: reducing the site’s envi(F r a n v a l rate REDUCING ronmental footprint by avoiding the need to send several natural environment. Their disposal through managed changene tons of waste from the site to landfill, and lowering operanels, which are often still not fully developed, is therefore CO2 EMISSIONS ting costs by generating financial value from waste. One indispensable. example is carbon black (a material resulting from incomplete combustion), which can be reused as a combustible for a boiler. Another example is scrap metal that can also be Participating in recycling channels used to generate value from recycling channels. Paper & cardboard In 2011, the recycling rate for paper in Europe attained 3.2 a world-wide record of 70.4% (source: the European % 14.5% Recovered Paper Council). The USA’s recycling rate Limiting greenhouse gas emissions is a major objective for this in a sustainable manner thanks to the results of various 5.3% reached 66.8%. Part of the used paper is exported to Asian the Roquette Group. To do this, the teams work to optimize investments: 100% countries, which leads to shortages in Europe and in the energy consumption at the plants and reduce the impact of -A biomass boiler at Beinheim (France), 7.5% USA. Because of this, certain manufacturers of paper and the Group’s logistics activities. -Improvements to cogeneration systems, VALUATED cardboard have set up local recycling channels, thus limi-Installations to produce biogas from effluents... ting the transport of used paper. Greenhouse Gas emissions in France As part of its Sustainable With rising recycling rates, and as a result of the increased Development strategy, the All the components of plant-based In 2012, under France’s Grenelle 2 law on the national envinumber of times that the paper fiber goes through the recyive raw materials transformed in the Roquette Group continues its t objec 69.5% ronmental commitment, the Roquette Group performed an biorefineries of the Roquette Group cling process (3.4 times on average in Europe and 2.4 times efforts to optimize energy +9% are used to generate value. Opposite, world-wide), the properties of the recycled fibers deterioevaluation of its greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions at its consumption. It plans to corn components used to generate French sites on the basis of 2011 data. value. rate progressively. Certain products made by the Roquette reduce emissions at its Group can help improve the recyclability of the paper. French sites by a further Starch: All applications, including For this first evaluation, overall GHG emissions were calculamore than 50% used for human food And when the fibers no longer respond to the quality criteted as the point of reference to measure progress over time. 9% by the end of 2013. n GHG Cellulosic Fraction: Animal feed ria of the market, they can be used to generate value as a The emissions avoided have also been evaluated to demonPart of this reduction will d u c tion i 013 at re 2 source of energy. be achieved thanks to the ional nd of Soluble Fraction: Substrate for strate the company’s efforts to reduce its environmental addit s by the e ch sites. The Roquette Group has set up various collection channels biomass boiler being run sion ren emis Group’s F fermentation or animal feed impact. Proteic Fraction: Animal feed in certain of its factories, and contributes to the recycling of at full capacity at Beinheim the Lipidic Fraction: Human food paper and cardboard. In 2011, nearly 18% of overall emissions were avoided, and (France). Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette Roquette I Rapport d'Activité et Development I Sustainable de Développement and Activity Durable Report 20122012 26-27 NATURAL CAPITAL approach an environmental reducing the impact of transport The Roquette Group contributes to reducing the enviOptimizing tank cleaning ronmental impact of its logistics activities by develo‘‘The new wagon ping modes of transport with lower CO2 emissions and Reducing the impact of transport also means reducing Since 2008, a study represents a big by seeking to optimize transport loads. waste emissions. The logistics teams have undertaken a has been conducimprovement in study on optimizing tank cleaning and have defined exempted on renewing performance. An tions under certain conditions. In France, these exemptions the wagon fleet. innovative mechanism Alternative solutions to road transport apply to products for the paper and cardboard industry. In Taking the longfor opening the roof the USA, the company has for the past two years estaterm view on In 2012, the Logistics Department continued its efforts to the rail transwill also contribute to blished an exemption agreement for tank cleaning with a develop alternative modes of transport other than road, such port chain, new improving safety and strategic customer in the food sector: 1,120 tank cleanings as waterway, rail and combined or “multi-modal” transport. have thus been avoided in 2012. equipment is working conditions.’’ The shipment of raw materials by rail has increased each clearly necesNathalie DEBAISIEUX year. In France more than 65% of raw materials are shipped sary to reduce the Cereal Railway by train to the biorefineries. This mode of transport reprethe speed of navigation in order to reduce considerably the Project for a new type of cereal wagon ecological footprint Logistics Manager sents a bit less than 20% of sourcing for the site of Cassano CO2 emissions. This means that the Roquette Group must and ensure safety. For the procurement of raw materials at the French plants Spinola in Italy, but this figure is already up significantly from anticipate longer delivery times. The new-wagon project of Lestrem and Beinheim and the Italian site of Cassano previous years. In order to continue this trend in Europe, the has mobilized the different Spinola, the Roquette Group manages and controls its own Roquette Group is investing in renewing its fleet of wagons Optimizing load rates for road transport rail logistics under two contracts: one contract for pulling players involved in the loading (see page opposite). and unloading of wagons, both within In terms of logistics, another major objective of the Group is and one contract for leasing cereal wagons from CTC Rail transport is also used for delivery to customers. At (Cereal Transport Company). To transport more than two the company and at suppliers, as well as the site’s safety to reduce the number of trucks on the road. This inevitably the start of the year, the Group took up the million metric tons of cereals per year, no fewer than 600 officer and the occupational physician. requires improving the load rates for trucks, in line with the challenge to deliver starch to Russia by rail wagons remain in circulation. regulations in application. The new wagon represents a big improvement in perfor2es less from China thanks to the joint efforts of For example, after integrating the new regulations on the Since 1970, the company has arranged to use a fleet of mance. The carrying capacity increases by 10%, making it the teams at Lianyungang (China), transport of packaged and bulk liquids, the Lestrem site wagons under long-term contract and, as needed, leases possible to reduce the number of wagons in circulation. An Lestrem (France) and Moscow (France) in 2012 launched a pilot project to maximize the additional wagons with more basic technology in order innovative mechanism for opening the roof will also contri(Russia). This represented the first weight transported in bulk powder. Initial results have been to meet the needs of the plants. The average age of the bute to improving safety and working conditions. delivery of a Roquette product by tim itted intercontinental rail. very positive, indicating the potential for a 7% reduction in wagons in the current fleet is 30 years. Damages and the In 2013, the first of 400 wagons will leave the production m the number of shipments necessary to transport the same resulting immobilizations reduce the availability of the fleet, line at TWA (Titagarh Wagons AFR) the project’s sole CO 2 e ort th an When 100% shipment by rail is not possible, the next preferred quantity of product. which increases the number of leased wagons. manufacturer, based near Lestrem (France). i l t r ansp ort choice is multi-modal transport by ra d transp E) (Rail/Road), which also contributes roa ADE M rce: to the reduction of CO2 emissions. ( ou s Thus, the industrial site in Benifayo (Spain) increased by 50% the use of this « type of transport. Shipments between France ansport and Italy also benefited from a net increase in bulk deliveries conological’’ tr This type of ‘‘e velopat sustainable de by multi-modal transport, and a project pilot was initiated to source the paper industry in the southwestern regions from Lestrem (France). Waterway transport witnessed similar growth. In 2012, some 100,000 metric tons of First Products (proteins, fibers and oil) were thus shipped from the Lestrem site (France) or from the GUILLAUME FICHE T Lestrem Site Dire (R oq ue tte Fr an ce ctor ) demonstrates th ment does not necessarily requ latest-generatio expected to be operational in early 2013. ire the n equipment « channelized Lys can be guaranteed by the public sector. This type of project fully demonstrates that The installation, which is fully financed by the river port of Bethune located nearby, to customers in Belgium company, can load a barge of 180 metric tons in Sustainable Development does not necessarily and the Netherlands. The Beinheim site (France) brought two hours, or the equivalent of six truck loads in require the latest-generation equipment: the barge three hours. This type of “econological” transport used is more than a half-century old and the Lys in 200,000 metric tons of corn and wheat by waterway and The Roquette Group contributes actively to helps to reduce the number of trucks on the road, was turned into a shipping channel some 230 shipped out bioethanol using this same mode. Sustainable Development by choosing alternative attenuate CO2 emissions and reduce logistics years ago! solutions to road transport. How is this translated costs. The Group also assists its transport partners in their In parallel, in discussion with the Artois Chamber of at the Lestrem site? In the future, the technical capacities of the Commerce and Industry and Voies Navigables de efforts to reduce their carbon footprint. This is the case for An example to illustrate this approach: 10 years after loading installation and the availability of ships will France, we plan to continue our efforts to develop maritime companies that use “Slow Steaming,” which limits investing in an installation to load raw materials for help to further increase the volume of products river traffic on the channelized Aire from the river animal feed for shipment to the Benelux by river, a liaishipped on the Lys River. In parallel, the company port of Bethune. The project will be used for the son for the delivery of unprocessed corn oil headed for has entered into a regular-usage agreement reception of cereals and deliveries of First Products Dunkirk (France) was set up thanks to a partnership with Voies Navigables de France, the French by barge, with much bigger tonnages, reaching as agreement concluded with one of our customers. It is waterways authority, so that the useful depth of the high as 2,200 metric tons! Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette Roquette I Rapport d'Activité et Development I Sustainable and Activity de Développement Durable 20122012 Report Roquette I Rapport d'Activité et de Développement Durable 2012 42 MATE R I A L & INDUS T R I A L C A P I T A L . no Spinola (Italy) Material & Industrial Capital covers all our industrial plant at the site of Cassa ccinic acid un der construction The installation to produce bio-su and equipment, our processes, our activities of research & development, and our capacity to invest. Our commitment is to develop and generate value from this capital by optimizing productivity and energy consumption of all units, and by innovation in new processes, new products and new solutions. 30-31 MATERIAL AND INDUSTRIAL CAPITAL daily innovation investing in research for the future The Roquette Group innovates constantly to create new Nutrition Health, creator of long-term solutions intermediaries (such as isosorbide) that present innovative and efficient products and solutions that are ever-more functional and technological properties. These products adapted to consumer needs. Research & Development The Group’s Nutrition-Health division seeks to create nutritioenable the creation of new high-performance materials and focuses on two strategic areas: Nutrition-Health and Plantnal solutions obtained from the full wealth of renewable raw sustainable alternatives to traditional compounds that can Based Chemistry. materials worked in the Group’s biorefineries: carbohydrates, be toxic. fibers, proteins, lipids and micro-nutriments. The latest developments in plant-based chemistry have also The Group’s main Research & Development Center, created The company thus offers its customers a range of ingredients allowed the Group to develop new and innovative production in 1951, is located at Lestrem (France). It employs about 300 designed to improve the nutritional, functional and technoloprocesses based on biotechnologies that are much more people from a very broad range of scientific disciplines. gical properties of finished products offered to consumers. respectful of the environment, such as the process for obtaiSince 1954, the beginning of the adventure with sorbitol, the The challenges are significant because consumer needs in ning succinic acid (see page 40). Research in plant-based Group has continued its innovative approach, both in terms different countries can be widely diverse: caloric or nutritional chemistry also contributes to the development of new bioof products (modified starches, polyols, fibers, chemical insufficiencies, disease related to obesity, the aging of popubased materials with a lower environmental footprint, such as intermediaries, plant-based resins, food ingredients, etc.) lations, etc. the GAIALENE® range of plant-based plastics (see page 35). 0 % and technologies (purification with continuous chromatograThe benefits of the solutions proposed by the Group’s 3 phy, biotechnology with enzymatic engineering or fermentaResearch & Development are demonstrable. All claims are tion processes, etc.). based on results validated by clinical studies and recognized experts in domains such as satiety, insulin resistance, and oral FOOD, Since 2006, the Group has resolutely GAR adopted an approach of open innovaand intestinal microbiota. S U H y nutrition, HEALT Nearl S 0 tion to accelerate the development LES 0 Plant-Based Chemistry, a sustainable alternative ENT and marketing of its products 5,0 CONT and solutions. Partnerships with industrial and scientific The Plant-Based Chemistry division offers industrial markets laboratories in private and a number of advantageous alternative solutions that are more NUTRIOSE® NTS public sectors have multiplied, respectful of the environment. AT E P e R rtfo rou tte G o p ’s in order to share skills, expertise and knowledge of markets. In its research programs dedicated to plant-based solutions, the Roquette Group develops bio-based chemical Balancing daily sugar content Jellied candy prepared with NUTRIOSE® benefit from 30% oque li th po less sugar content and 15% are in chnology te Products with reduced sugar content are the object of very less calories, without altering strong demand from consumers, and the strict controls the taste! imposed by health associations and agencies from around the world only serve to accentuate this trend. A survey conducted in France in 2001 by CREDOC (Research center for the study and observation of living conditions) asked 300 people about the eating habits and opinions of « French consumers regarding products containing sugar. The NUTRIOSE® at the European Congress on perts ing together ex « The ability to br results showed that consumers want sweetened products Obesity a time when that have both a pleasant taste and a balanced nutritional is a key asset at l dge is essentia profile with lower sugar content, primarily in dairy products, In 2012, the Roquette Group was the main sponsor of the sharing knowle Thierry marcel t Director lopmen beverages, cookies and candy. European Congress on Obesity (ECO), a globally recognized event in the domain of research to fight obesity. Research & Deve In this context, the NUTRIOSE® food fiber not only helps Roquette Group which each year reinjects 3% of its turnover into What is open maintain an optimal taste, but also improves the nutritional research. innovation? profile of products by reducing their sugar content, and Each year, the event brings together numerous experts who Is innovation a determining factor in a global therefore also their calories, thanks to its 2 kcal/g (compared come to present the latest advances in their research to an When it comes to research and innovation, no approach to Sustainable Development? single player today can dominate the entire with 4 kcal/g for sugar). An additional advantage is that audience of clinicians and researchers, from the academic What role does research play in the Roquette world as well as from the food or pharmaceuticals industries. Group strategy? A company such as ours has significant needs, so chain, from fundamental research to industrial NUTRIOSE® is an ingredient made at Lestrem (France) it has a considerable impact on various resources. production. Open innovation means working When it was founded, Roquette concentrated Innovation is therefore essential within the Group, from wheat or corn that has not been genetically modified For the 2012 event, the Roquette Group organized a with partners, both upstream and downstream, exclusively on the production of starch. But the for example to optimize its energy consumption within the context of common research (non-GMO). symposium with five renowned European experts as guest ambition to build a dedicated structure for research and reduce its environmental footprint, or to adapt programs. This type of cross-fertilization is all All these characteristics combine to give NUTRIOSE® a speakers. and innovation quickly emerged: the research center to regulatory changes. At another level, the techthe more promising given that the researchers at Lestrem was created in 1951. Over time, the nologies developed for plant-based raw materials are now used to working this way in networks. major role to play in balanced nutrition: less sugar, less fat, The conference on recent clinical studies showing the advances with chemistry then biochemistry allowed promote innovative processes that pollute less Roquette has always had the ability to bring less calories, more fiber, all while respecting the taste of food impact of NUTRIOSE® on satiety and weight management the Group to broaden its range and differentiate than the traditional processes. This allows our together experts from around the world and products. was particularly appreciated by the attending public. it from that of its competitors. Today, the work of customers to bring to market products with real from very different disciplines, which is a key researchers and of the application development environmental advantages (recyclable, longer life advantage at a time when sharing knowledge centers serves the strategic goals set by the Group, cycle, very low carbon footprint, etc.). is essential. Roquette Roquette Roquette I Rapport Sustainable II Sustainable Development de Développement d'Activité etand Development and Activity Activity Report Durable 2012 Report 2012 2012 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 32-33 MATERIAL AND INDUSTRIAL CAPITAL N DAILY INNOVATIO FOOD, H NUTRITION, HEALT Maltodextrins for instant nutrition A research program dedicated to plant-based proteins For many years, the Roquette Group has produced maltodextrins (mix of different sugars obtained from the partial Animal proteins represent about a third of world-wide hydrolysis of starch) and dehydrated glucose syrups for protein consumption. To accompany the growth in global several highly demanding markets: baby food, clinical demand for proteins, plant-based raw materials have a key diets and pharmaceuticals. role to play, both in providing high-quality proteins for direct A special range of maltodextrins was developed to human consumption and also in feeding livestock and pets. respond to the quality demands of these industries, which require very high food-safety levels. For example, the For these reasons, the Roquette Group launched in 2011 maltodextrins are incorporated “as such” in infant formula the PROTEOV® research program dedicated to the developpowders, which will undergo no further additional transment of protein solutions with high nutritional and functional Brioche bread buns made using microalgae flour value. The objective is to offer customers a range of plantformation before being ingested by the infant. Roquette must therefore provide a level of food safety comparable based proteins responding to their needs in terms of to that which our customers themselves guarantee on functional and nutritional benefits, as alternatives to animal proteins. The program benefits from than More their markets to their end users. 50 % financial, technical and human means in line The infant formula market is evolving significantly. To An innovative flour made from microalgae with the ambitions of the Group: multi-discirespond to these developments, the Roquette Group plinary teams, laboratories, pilot workshops, already has production sites in France and India. In 2012, A unique and innovative ingredient, the wholemeal flour application development centers and a new industrial site in China has begun providing custoderived from microalgae significantly improves the nutriUTeEmN preindustrial units. mers with safe, local sourcing of these products, with tional profile of foods in multiple applications, notably N G L COR at Lestr production close to growth markets. cereals, fine pastries, beverages or frozen desserts. With Among recent successes, the pea sector a mix of lipids, proteins and fibers and no trans fatty acids, this wholemeal flour reduces calories and fat in finished offers a range of NUTRALYS® proteins. Similar successes are expected over time, such as proteins from wheat, corn, potatoes of uced stine prod ce) is de od (Fran the pet fo d PET FOOD The percentage of corn products. for et and even microalgae. mark gluten produced by the This new ingredient, for example, lets you replace the Lestrem factory (France) butter and eggs in a brioche recipe. The nutritional qualithat is sold for pet food ties are clearly improved, without altering taste or mouth The success of plant-based proteins in pet food applications has gone feel. from 10% in the 1990s, to Nutrition for dogs and cats has made significant progress more than 50% in 2012. and the consensus is growing that certain plant-based proteins are among the most easily digested. The most commonly used plant-based proteins are: -Corn gluten in dry pet food (dry nuggets and bites), -Wheat gluten in wet pet food (meat morsels in sauce and patés). 1 % These proteins offer nutritional and functional properties In coordination with the Group’s technical experts, the +1 primary role of this communication unit is to draft articles WORLD that are highly complementary to those of animal proteins. and chapters for publications, and also to hold confeDespite their status as domesticated carnivores, pets today rences or prepare scientific posters and other displays wth consume more and more plant-based proteins derived from l g r o While the market for infant biorefineries. These plant-based proteins have earned on the results of the research at international scientific an nua arket for globa lm the formula remains flat in mature regions such as Western a reputation for good digestibility and their production congresses. The information thus distributed to international organiover methods have less impact on the environment. in the formula ars Europe and North America, zations involved in nutrition, bringing together experts, t infan st five ye growth in Asia has exceeded la 15% per year. customers and competitors, provides the Roquette Group Scientific publications with significant visibility along with the latest information on subjects of interest in this domain. In addition, the Since 2005, a unit dedicated to scientific communicacommunication unit’s mission extends to supporting the tion has promoted the nutritional studies by the Roquette Roquette Group’s sales activities, thanks to the synergies Group’s Nutrition teams, in response to markets that have created between all the players throughout the company become increasingly demanding. around the theme of nutrition. Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 34-35 MATERIAL AND INDUSTRIAL CAPITAL N DAILY INNOVATIO PLANT-BASED IFMAS CHEMISTRY With a label created in 2012, IFMAS (French Institute for Agro-Based Materials) has helped implement a sustainable channel for eco-designed materials from plantA new binder of plant-based origin for the insuPlant-based plastics with low environmental based resources. It has become the institute for research, value-generation lation market footprint and training on these themes in France. Today, it counts 11 partners, including Efficient thermal insulation for buildings is necessary to Launched in 2011, the GAIALENE® range of plant-based to the touch, and Roquette, with a balanced and solid control energy expenditures and ensure the comfort of public-private shareholder base that plastics was eco-designed by the Roquette Group. It is a recyclability at creates synergies between public inhabitants. All the leaders in this sector have developed sustainable plant-based alternative in response to dwindling the end-of-life by and private research. new technologies in line with market demands for improvefossil resources. mechanical means, in ments in volatile compound emissions, fire resistance and the polyolefin channels. It The renewable raw material retained to develop these acoustic properties. presents an advantageous plant-based plastics comes from traditional farms located The Roquette Group assists in the global deployment Mineral wool environmental performance, less than 200 km from the Lestrem factory (France). The of these new solutions by facilitating the substitution of certified by an external agency. material is wheat, and the component used is starch. The phenol-formaldehyde resins with non-toxic plant-based other components from the wheat are subsequently used for These plant-based plastics are already used in multiple binders, derived from starch. food products. applications: plastic bags, packaging films, thermoThanks to these plant-based binders, new generations of retractable films, paint buckets, waste baskets for the office, Today, new polycarbonates have been developed that The starch is modified by grafting carbon chains to render it toys, hangers, mudguards for bicycles, soles for footwear mineral wool insulation contribute to the improvement of contain up to 70% isosorbide. Thanks to its rigid structure, at the same time thermoplastic and insensitive to water. The 100% made in France, etc. indoor air quality by reducing or eliminating the emission the isosorbide molecule improves the resistance of these resulting material can be used directly in existing equipment of free formaldehyde. Their use can provide a solution with Elected already in 2011 as “Biomaterial of the Year”, a prize new polycarbonates to heat, ultraviolet (UV) light and to and processes used for traditional plastics, thus avoiding regard to certain criteria required for LEED certification attributed by the Nova Institute at the Biowerkstoff congress chemical products, while conferring excellent mechanical expensive investments to adapt the latter. (see page 38). on bio-based materials in Cologne (Germany), GAIALENE® and optical properties. The range presents unique and innovative technical won the Eco-Design Trophy at the JADDE (Companies and These new mineral wool fibers have been very favorably received by the market for new construction and renovation. For example, a large international industrial group in Japan properties, such as good resistance to impact, good Sustainable Development Annual Days) in Lille (France) in in 2012 launched a new industrial unit to produce a new printability, natural antistatic properties, exceptional softness October 2012. polycarbonate product made from POLYSORB® isosorbide. New isosorbide-based polycarbonates These new polycarbonates, which have no bisphenol A, are destined primarily for the automobile, construction and Thermo-retractable packaging CEISA PACKAGING Isosorbide, a bio-based diol obtained through the dehydrahigh-tech industries. 65% tion of sorbitol (a derivative of glucose) can be used for the Over the past several years, the Roquette Group has devemanufacturing of specialty polymers, such as polyesters, loped and improved the technologies used in its processes polycarbonates or polyurethanes. to obtain the grades of isosorbide demanded by customers. A new solution for the treatment of effluents CO 2 The Roquette Group has developed a new solution from modified starch for use in water treatment, in particular for LESS industrial effluents. The technology is based on the capacity of flocculation (phenomena of aggregation of materials in suspension) of REDUCED amylase products. In partnership with the Vecquemont site (France), the Group’s research teams have developed a CARBON solution to attain the quality objectives for effluent at the output of water-treatment stations. FOOTPRINT The solution offers multiple advantages. In ecological The carbon footprint of terms, the new solution reduces the production of muds GAIALENE® plantbased plastics is 65% inherent to water-treatment, and limits metallic salts and lower than that of Foam packaging SAPRONIT derivatives of petroleum distillates. In terms of safety, polypropylene derived Waste basket ElisebyStarck handling is facilitated since the product is classified as from fossil resources. non-hazardous. Fewer deposits on downstream filters and improved cleaning of installations also represent economic Polycarbonate made from isosorbide for the automobile market advantages. A few examples of applications for GAIALENE® Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 36-37 MATERIAL AND INDUSTRIAL CAPITAL ormance improving perf continuous improving IMPROVEMENT energy efficiency ‘‘ENERGY’’ DAYS Since 2011, the Roquette Group has participated in the “C.R.E.E. Days” (Boilers-Networks & Energy Savings). Organized by the C.E.R.E.N. (French In 2010, the Roquette Group initiated a program on indusBy working on the energy efficiency of all its sites, the Using highCenter for Economic Research on trial performance under the name ANTARES. The program Roquette Group reduces its CO2 emissions into the atmosperformance Energy), these events provide an seeks to anchor a professionalized approach to continuous phere and its energy consumption. opportunity for industrial users and improvement at all of the Group’s sites. Initially applied at technologies others to share experience and the European production sites, the program extended its innovative practices. international deployment in 2012 (notably to the USA and Energy efficiency, a major objective The optimization of existing tools is one major Asia), and to all types of functions. A few examples below area for improving energy Dominique BAUMANN, Damon AZINGER, Shayne WRIGHT and Ron One of the major global challenges for the coming decades illustrate this deployment. SCHMITT Keokuk (USA). The best idea for continuous improvement efficiency. But even more so, involves energy. It will be necessary to cover the needs The main objective of the ANTARES approach is to deveis rewarded. of growing populations with longer life expectancy. Energy the creation of a new operating unit lop a common industrial culture based on the continuous needs are expected to double by 2050, at the same time is a tremendous opportunity to boost energy efficiency: improvement of performance. This approach is aligned with that fossil resources will have become increasingly scarce. by rethinking the processes and using new technologies, concerned participated actively in the program, by proposing the Group’s SQES policy (Safety, Quality, Environment, Meanwhile, CO2 emissions must be cut in half to limit the big energy savings can be achieved. These avenues of improvements and putting them into practice, notably in Security). It includes: risks of climate change. To respond to these challenges, optimization are not always feasible on existing processes terms of working conditions and safety. In technical terms, -Seeking ways to control costs and anchoring them in a better management of equipment led to a drop in the number solutions must be implemented to improve energy because of insufficient returns on investment. Recourse sustainable manner, of breakdowns. In terms of organization, the times for efficiency and to allow us to do more, better, and with fewer to Best Available Technologies (BAT) is systematic in the -The commitment of all industrial organizations and job maintenance tasks have been reduced and the changes of resources. utilities domain. sectors with the Group, product for bagging have been optimized. All these actions In scientific terms, energy efficiency is represented by the -Making available the means necessary at all levels of the have contributed to improve the economic performance of ratio between energy consumed and energy produced. Cogeneration, an efficient technology organization to take the actions needed to continuously the workshop. For many years, the Roquette Group has worked to limit improve performance. its energy consumption by continuously improving the The industrial site at Benifayo (Spain) needed to replace The ANTARES program in Asia energy efficiency of its industrial sites. These efforts rely one of its cogeneration installations, which had become To succeed, the approach must be accompanied by a The ANTARES working group at the Lianyungang plant on three axes: the optimization of energy consumption, obsolete. The technical study concluded that the old turbine transformation of work relationships and the relationship (China) set up action plans for two pilot programs in 2012. the use of high-performance technologies system with gas/steam boiler should be replaced with to work. It involves everyone throughout the company, and These included: and the recovery of thermal energy. a new motor system with gas/hot water production. This consists in finding solutions around the four areas of TSOE: Many teams within the Group 0 -The definition of performance indicators, technology not only achieves a very high yield in electri0 Technical, Social, Organizational and Economic. It relies on 0 actively participate in improving city but also generates value with thermal production at low , tools such as the 5S method, AIM (Accelerated Integrative -The establishment of daily discussion meetings to check 34 saved performance, energy efficiency, notably from temperature, which further guarantees improved overall Method), and SMED (Single Minute Exchange of Die). -The implementation of required training. the functions of Purchasing, yields. The integration of this new equipment in the factoThe ANTARES program in Italy Operations and Industrial ry’s processes has thus contributed to reduce energy loss As with the Italian site, the deployment of the ANTARES toe,0*00 metricedtoenascoh yesaart fC O Development. at the site and, as a result, has helped cut CO2 emissions. In 2012, the ANTARES program began its deployment program will continue in 2013 in an intensive manner at 2 at the site of Cassano Spinola with the starch bagging the Lianyungang site and will be 7 id n and 5 ions avo ergy pla es station as a pilot workshop. The teams were thus able to extended to the other sites of the s n emis s to the e ropean s it u “attempt their first steps” with this approach. All employees Asia region. thank roup’s E q u ivale nt the G il e s of o * toe = ton Efficient energy « plans « allow us to provement will Continuous im ance Over the past 10 years, the Roquette Group onomic perform develop our ec has implemented recurrent energy plans at its K MORADiLY FRANCEx major sites. cellence rector Industrial The objective of these plans is to reduce the thermal and electric consumption of industrial Roquette Group On what is the ANTARES program primarily improving skills installations. based, and what are the benefits? and working conditions. Seeking energy savings means raising The ANTARES program is primarily based You have been responsible for the on changing the way we work as a whole, awareness among employees, from workshop ANTARES program since its launch. What What are the next steps for ANTARES? designers to plant maintenance technicians, and not only on the technical aspects. The are some of the objectives of this approach involvement of operators and managers is Since the end of June 2012, the approach as well as the employees in charge of running for the Group? the cornerstone of its success. Implementing has accelerated and now requires us to the installations. Continuous improvement is an approach that is continuous improvement via ANTARES is a be even more dynamic, and this at Group tending to become more generally applied, both real opportunity for the Roquette Group. It will scale. What remains for us to do is essential: It is important that everyone knows how among our customers and our competitors. help us to maintain and develop our economic we must anchor the approach, it must be their action and behavior can impact energy The Roquette Group has been engaged in this performance by providing the means for replicated throughout the Group, so that the efficiency. approach for more than two years now, and the action at all levels of the organization, not idea of continuous improvement becomes implementation of the ANTARES program will only on technical aspects, but also economic, a “Roquette Practice”, a common way of Gas turbine cogeneration Lestrem (France) enable us to stay competitive. organizational and social, for example by working at all the units of the Group. Roquette RoquetteIISustainable SustainableDevelopment Developmentand andActivity ActivityReport Report2012 2012 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette I Rapport d'Activité et de Développement Durable 2012 38-39 MATERIAL AND INDUSTRIAL CAPITAL ormance improving perf improving PROMOTING THE GEOTHERMAL energy efficiency NEW SOURCES PROJECT IN A FEW KEY FIGURES OF ENERGY Temperature expected: 170°C Two wells drilled at a depth of The advantages of recovering steam For several years, the Roquette Group has diversified its Planned to come on 2,500 to 3,000 meters energy sources by favoring renewable energy sources such line in early 2015, Water flow of 250 m3/h Consumption of steam and odor emissions are constant as geothermal, biomass and biogas. geothermal producchallenges that starch plants must address for reasons of tion will help reduce Water circuit of 17 km linking the drilling site to the competitive advantage and Sustainable Development. the Beinheim site’s Biomass, a new source of energy dependence on natural gas Beinheim factory The Lianyungang site (China) has implemented solutions adopted successfully in Europe in recent years: the recoby supplying 24 megawatts of The vast wood resources of the Alsace region’s forests have very of humid gaseous effluents in order to save energy energy (the annual equivalent of enabled the Roquette Group to install a new boiler at its site and reduce odor emissions. Until recently, the steep-water 16,000 toe) and will avoid the capture of in Beinheim (France) that uses wood for its energy. This evaporator consumed live steam in order to function. The 39,000 metric tons of fossil CO2 per year. investment, made with support from the ADEME (Agency new evaporator installed in 2012 was sized to generate Recovery of steam from dryers Lianyungang (China) for the Environment and Management of Energy), began in value from gaseous effluents exiting dryers for First Products December 2011. The installation provides more than 50% of (proteins, fibers and oil). Now, the humid gaseous effluents the site’s steam requirements, or 43 megawatts of energy are condensed on exchange surfaces, whereas before they (the annual equivalent of 29,000 toe (tons oil equivalent)), were directly released into the air. and avoids the capture of 75,000 metric tons of fossil CO2 This investment provides advantages in terms of energy Constructing sustainable buildings per year. In parallel, a wood-energy supply chain has been savings and reduction of olfactory emissions. set up. With the help of BIOVAE (BIOmass Valorisation For the second time within the Roquette Group, a new builEnergie), a company specializing in the organization and ding has been fully designed, built and managed according to management of biomass sourcing, Roquette Group has Recovering and generating value from thermal the LEED certification. After the Innovation Center at Geneva secured the 145,000 metric tons of wood it needs per year energy (USA), it is the central laboratory of the Lianyungang factory to feed its boiler. The channels include forest management, in China that was constructed according to this methodology. sawmills and recycling (wood from packaging, pallets, etc.) “Residual energy” refers to the quantity of thermal energy This is the first building to meet the criteria for LEED certifilocated within a radius of no more than 100 kilometers from not used to generate value in an industrial process and that cation in the city of Lianyungang. the Beinheim site. sometimes can be partially recovered and/or used elsewhere LEED evaluates a building according to five major areas: the At the Calafat site in Romania, a straw boiler was put into to generate value. efficient management of water, energy efficiency, quality of operation in September 2012, after a few delays due to a Several biorefinery processes produce thermal energy. This indoor environments, the choice of materials and the enviparticularly hard winter and some necessary adjustments is the case, for example, with systems used to rapidly cool ronmental impact of the work sites. to optimize the process. Today, the installation provides products or steam condensates (so-called “flash” systems) more than 50% of the steam needed for the site. Here, too, For the central laboratory of Lianyungang, for example, that generate significant quantities of steam at low pressure, a local and sustainable sourcing channel has been found: innovative sanitary systems help reduce the consumption This is also the case for dryers where the evaporation capatwo farmers, who already supply corn to the site, will provide of water; efficient insulation materials and a highly efficient city is high and the saturation temperature of the smoke is straw from the 10,000 hectares of land that they manage air-conditioning system have also superior to 60°C. within a few dozen kilometers of the Calafat site. been set up. Lastly, ecological construction materials and wood decorations The high-temperature geothermal project, a have been chosen to ensure a healLEED CERTIFICATION world first First drilling of the geothermal project thy interior environment, with In 2011, the Roquette Group, the Groupe Electricité de LEED certification (Leadership in Strasbourg and the Caisse de Dépôts launched the ECOGI low content in Energy and Environmental Design) Biogas, increasingly used at the sites Volatile Organic project (Exploitation of Heat of Geothermal Origin for Industry) promotes sustainable buildings that are Compounds comfortable to live in and offer good at Rittershoffen (France). This project concerns “geothermal high energy”, i.e. the temperature of the geothermal water For several years, methanization units have been used to (VOC). environmental performance. is superior to 150°C. Supported by the ADEME, the Alsace help reduce emissions from water-treatment stations and Inaugurated The certification was developed in 1994 by the U.S. Green Building Council, an region and SAF Environment, this ambitious project constimaximize the use of renewable energy at the Group’s sites. in March 2012, tutes a world first for the industry. American association. Following a study conducted at the Vecquemont site this building fully respects the The first phase of the project, to drill the initial well, was (France), the methanization unit now functions in a perfectrequirements of a completed in December 2012. The well reached a depth of ly controlled and stabilized manner throughout the potato sustainable construction, 2,580 meters. The first measures confirm that the geothercampaign. Thanks to this success, support missions to both for the interior and mal fluid will attain a temperature of 170°C, in line with the other Group sites have enabled a sharing of skills and expeInauguration of the central laboratory Lianyungang (China) exterior environments. expectations of ECOGI. riences, accelerating the development of new installations. Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 40-41 MATERIAL AND INDUSTRIAL CAPITAL G P E R F ORMAN CE IM P R O V IN INNOVATIVE measuring TECHNOLOGIES PERFORMANCE Transport A new economical process in energy Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) Transformation & Packaging Use Reverdia™, a joint venture of the Dutch company DSM The Roquette Group participated in a study led by the AAF LIFE CYCLE and the Roquette Group, was formally approved by the (European Starch Association) with the help of an outside ANALYSIS competent regulatory authorities on competition in 2012. specialist in Life Cycle Analysis. This new company now seeks to reinforce its position as the Published in August 2012, this study used the latest metholeader in bio-succinic acid through its exclusive production dologies and databases, making the European starch technology and by guaranteeing reliable sourcing to respond industry one of the very first sectors to undertake a study of to the evolution of market demand. It joins DSM’s expertise such scale on such a large number of products at European Raw materials in materials and biotechnology sciences to the Roquette level. This study defines the precise methodology shared End of life Group’s know-how in the transformation of plant-based raw among European professionals and confirms that dry matter materials. mass allocation is the most appropriate allocation method In development since 2008, bio-succinic acid is derived from for the products of the European starch industry. Innovation non-fossil resources and produced with sustainable producThe conclusions of this study are available on the AAF site: tion technologies. It represents an essential intermediary of raw materials derived from starch, production combined www.aaf-eu.org that can be used in the manufacturing of polymers, resins with steam and energy, and internal water treatment. and numerous other products. Among the principal applicaReverdia™ has developed a unique and patented low-pH, tions are coatings, plastics, packaging and paints. yeast-based technology to convert the sugars in bio-succiReverdia™ is the first company in the world with a large-scale nic acid. This new process is simple, stable, highly energyThree new indicators to measure performance installation for the production of a bio-succinic acid, markeefficient, and produces less waste and impurities than the bacteria-based technologies currently in use to produce bioThe Roquette Group has published social and environmen(DM) produced by the installation concerned (m3/tDM). ted under the name BIOSUCCINIUM™. This new installasuccinic acid. tal indicators since 2008 (see pages 64-65). At the end of The ratio obtained is not based on a particular unit, and the tion has a capacity of several thousand metric tons and is 2012, the decision was taken to establish three new perforobjective is to be inferior to 1. located on the Roquette site at Cassano Spinola (Italy). Its All these advantages confer onto BIOSUCCINIUM™ a mance indicators at Group level (excluding India in 2012). For example, a drop of 0.1 m3/tDM in specific consumption proximity with the port of Genoa guarantees efficient global reduced carbon footprint and allow customers to improve logistics. When totally operational, the installation will benefit the characteristics of their products in terms of Life Cycle These indicators measure progress at all the industrial sites. of process water for a starch plant means a reduction in from complete upstream integration with on-site production Analysis (LCA). Energy Indicator: water usage of 650,000 m3 per year, or the equivalent of 260 Olympic-sized swimming pools. This indicator is based on the performance of centralized tools for the production of heat. It is expressed as the ratio Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Indicator: between the real average operational yield for all industrial This is defined as the sum of benefits from an entire set of installations and an average target yield, corresponding to a actions designed to reduce the CO2-equivalent emissions European reference in Directive 2004/8/CE. of the Group’s industrial installations (examples: speed The ratio obtained is not based on a particular unit and the variators installed on motors, traditional boilers with high objective is to be superior to 1. yield, cogeneration, the use of bio-combustibles, the use of For example, for a boiler with 43 MW of thermal power (equigeothermal heat, etc.). valent of the biomass boiler at the Beinheim site in France) This indicator is expressed as the sum of CO2 avoided by ‘‘BIOSUCCINIUM™ a ratio of 1.01 means avoiding: the industrial sites. The target by 2017 is 620,000 metric is a unique, high-With natural gas as combustible: 836 t CO2eq/year, or tons of CO2 avoided per year. quality, bio-succinic acid more than 80 times around the world by car; 507,147 -With coal as combustible: 1,445 t CO2eq/year, or more 500,000 produced using the latest than 140 times around the world by car (source: ADEME and most sustainable Carbon footprint: 0.256 kg CO2eq/km). 480,000 technologies.’’ 460,000 465,252 465,374 Water Indicator: Will VAN DEN TWEEL This is based on the water performance of starch plants. 440,000 General Manager of Reverdia™ The indicator is expressed as the ratio between the speci420,000 fic average consumption of process water for the starch plant and a specific target average consumption, defined 400,000 by the technical teams and based on the experience of the 2010 2011 2012 Roquette Group. The specific consumption of a starch plant is GHG Indicator (metric tons of CO2 avoided) expressed in cubic meters per metric ton of starch dry matter for the Roquette Group (excluding India) Installation for bio-succinic acid Cassano Spinola (Italy) Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 42-43 MATERIAL AND INDUSTRIAL CAPITAL approach a progressive quality, protecting the interests a priority and assets of the GROUP To comply with regulatory requirements and respond to the In order to control the risks related to foreign travel, to loss or expectations of its customers, the Roquette Group has for theft, to fraud or bioterrorism, the Roquette Group works to many years relied on methodologies and tools designed to maintain a strong dynamic of global protection at each entity. ensure the quality and safety of all its products: This protection is based on four themes: -A Quality Management System, certified ISO 9001, -Understanding and anticipating the risks in a country in -An internal Best Hygiene Practices guide, applicable to order to limit the impact on the personnel when traveling. the production and storage units, -A method for assessing and managing risks, -Physically protecting the factories, offices and application -An efficient, internal tracking system. ‘‘Food safety is development centers; the objective of physical protection is to protect assets, equipment and products with approThe Group has extended this approach with the development a priority at all times priate security systems and procedures. This means idenof a Safety Management System for food products that is for which we need to tifying security needs and evaluating internal and external certified ISO 22000, with FSSC 22000 certification at most of its production sites for products be effective and meet threats in order to control them. aimed at the food industries, and the expectations of our -Protecting informational assets: information is a very important asset for the Roquette Group. It is an essential 88% EFISC certification for products customers.’’ destined for animal feed from the element of its activity and requires adequate protection. This meeting European sites. served to define, Philippe OLIVIER -Raising awareness among the personnel: given that a maFood safety is essential, and in a homogeReliability & Sustainable jority of risks are directly related to human behavior, the ette principles have been defined neous manner for Development Corporate Director company regularly raises awareness among employees o q u to ensure it is controlled. These the entire Roquette about essential best practices for protecting the compaof R p sites principles apply to all products Group, the roles and ny’s people and assets. Grou for the food, pharmaceuticals responsibilities of these In 2012, a security manager was designated at each site. 2000 and animal feed industries. e d ISO 2 teams at each production Meetings of security managers have been organized to define ifi risk c e r t A “Food Safety” network has site. Numerous presentations and guidelines and objectives and to harmonize and share best ar e been established and, for the first workshops were run during the seminar to share best pracpractices. time in 2012, an inter-site meeting tices and experiences. Following the success of this first was held to bring together the meeting, the members unanimously decided to keep the In addition, an IS Risk, Security & Compliance unit was established within the IT Department, for the purposes of management QUALITY food safety teams from throughout the Group. new network running and maintain this particularly enriching dynamic of exchange. Information Systems (IS) security. One of the first objectives of this unit was to develop an Information Systems Security Policy (ISSP) for the Group, based on the ISO/CEI 27002 The Roquette Group seeks to extend the standard. The ISSP defines the guiding principles for the certification of its Since 2006, a framework has been established for risk protection of information and lists the guidelines to be respecsites to the FSSC assessment within the management units and other enti22000 food safety ted by all entities of the Group. It contributes to managing ties of the Roquette Group, based on annual evaluations reference, for which operational risks and is integrated into the Group’s global of processes. This important step of taking inventory of the « 53% of its sites are system of internal control. already certified. control environment and the associated risks is only possible mitment strated its com « s de m on thanks to the involvement of each process manager and risk Roque tte ha ality of improve the qu owner. Through interviews, risk maps are prepared, evaluato continuously er s to GSK ted then consolidated before being analyzed during manaat it deliv stout GSK the products th gement reviews (Functions, Regions and Group) within the beverley ua lity M anager framework of an integrated management system. Supplier Q The Roquette Group’s stated objective is to enter a phase of maturity in terms of risk management, thus concluding the with Roquette over the past 12 months, they participating in regular meetings organized first phase of identification and evaluation that allowed the remedied the situation and demonstrated their by the two companies on the issue of quality, Group to map out with a certain precision the strengths and commitment to continuously improve the qualiby organizing training sessions on proactive How was 2012 for GSK and Roquette in terms ty of the numerous excipients that the Group quality, conducted on site by GSK, and by areas of improvement of its organizations. of quality? delivers to GSK. proposing factory visits in order to better In recent years, for example, the company has been the In the pharmaceuticals industry, regardless of understand the company, its processes, its target of numerous attempts to defraud the company finanthe actions that we take, (our suppliers) can Do you think that the Roquette Group products and its objectives. have a direct or indirect influence on the quality properly handles quality issues and that it cially. Malevolent attacks have been thwarted in the last two These commitments have helped to reinforce of the products that we manufacture. Each party is able to satisfy the needs of GSK? our confidence in the products delivered by years on the different sites. The internal control practices in holds in its hands the life of the patient, even Roquette has a good knowledge of the Roquette, which will contribute to helping GSK place have helped ensure a good control of this risk. the suppliers of excipients used in the manupharmaceuticals industry and its needs, build and maintain its reputation as a supplier Guardhouse at the site of Cassano Spinola (Italy) facturing of pharmaceutical products. While and it has devoted a lot of time and energy of quality pharmaceuticals and consumer GSK has encountered a few quality problems to improving its relationship with GSK, by products. Roquette Roquette I Rapport I Sustainable d'Activité et and de Développement Development Durable 2012 Activity Report 2012 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 3 H U M A I N C A P I T A L ette Group. t sites of the Roqu from the differen together experts s, Nutrition an d Health brought Food Application Human Capital is made up of all the women and men who The Seminar on bring to life our company and contribute to its adaptability, its performance and its dynamism. Our commitment is to develop the skills and deploy the conditions to promote employee engagement in the corporate strategy through collaborative work. 46-47 HUMAN CAPITAL A S H A R E D PASS ION ES S IO N , A GROUP, A PROF listening TRANSFERRING and dialogue KNOW-HOW The initiative launched in 2011 to promote listening to communication in order to analyze the wide range of expecThe development, transmission and capitalization of knowemployees continued in 2012 with the production of two tations in this domain. The results derived from this barohow and skills compose the human wealth of the company internal surveys within the Group, as well as various specific meter reveal several areas for improvement, including the and contribute strongly to its expansion. actions set up at the sites. restructuring of the communication network, the development of managerial communication and the optimization of ‘‘Passing the torch’’ from generation to generation ‘‘Pulse’’: taking the pulse of the company the existing communication tools. Internship: The Roquette Group seeks to develop internships “Pulse” is a survey that serves to regularly identify employee Original initiatives at the sites to train young people in the jobs of today and tomorrow. To do concerns and opportunities for improvement. this, it reaches out to the younger generations in numerous Discussion lunches at Lianyungang (China) At the end of 2012, a representative sample of 804 countries by developing close and privileged relations with employees, chosen randomly from throughout the Group, The Director of the Lianyungang site, In Jae Song, has estalocal, national and international educational establishments. was invited to respond to the third “Pulse” survey. blished lunch discussions where he regularly invites seven In France, for example, a dozen interns have thus been José MARTI DONAT and José Maria ALBINANA ANGEL Benifayo (Espagne) to eight operators. These lunches allow the employees to posted to the Lestrem site in 2012. This approach represents 100% Since the first survey, express their views freely on all matters involving their daily improvements have been a double benefit. On the one hand, it allows young interns to work. Over the course of 2013, Mr. Song plans to invite every acquire knowledge and skills towards obtaining their diploma, 75 76.9 made concerning employee employee at the site. These lunches are highly anticipated responsibility and empowerwhile also facilitating their integration into the professional and appreciated, notably among young employees. DEVELOPING 50 54.6 56 ment, cooperation among environment. On the other, it allows the company to prepare teams, and raising awareDiscussion forum at the American sites for the transfer of knowledge and know-how. 25 0% ness about the customer relationship. However, progress remains to be Senior managers at the Keokuk plant (USA) have set up an “Operations Open Forum” to promote dialogue and Integrating young people into the company: Various initiatives are conducted regularly to promote intergenerational exchanges and sharing between SKILLS communication with employees. Each month, a subject is Asia Europe America made in the management of employees. These can take different forms, depending on (Excluding India) addressed and opens a session for questions and answers. priorities and in clarifying the the sites and the sectors. In 2012, for example, the Research Over the four weeks, the Keokuk employees can learn and Training, an accelerator of skills Rate of participation in “Pulse” objectives of the company. & Development Department implemented a sponsorship ask all types of questions, anonymously if they choose. This program for new recruits integrated into the R&D structure, forum helps remove barriers and generates direct dialogue The Roquette Group devotes significant human and finanwith senior employees volunteering to accompany and help among employees from all hierarchical levels. cial means to training its employees in various aspects Internal communication barometer the new arrivals. of their professional and personal development, such as Developing partnerships: In Asia, two partnerships An internal communication barometer was set up in 2012. managerial skills. On average, employees each participated have been signed with Chinese universities, Shenyang Based on a sample of 1,500 employees from throughout in nearly 27 hours of training in 2012. Pharmaceutical University and Nanjing China the Group, it serves to evaluate their perception of internal The training program relies on a network of internal trainers Pharmaceutical. The objective is to build relationships for long-term cooperation, with the creation of an academic with expertise in the various job sectors. In France, some research program, for example, to help develop the talents 50 employees regularly offer training sessions to other « colleagues. In Asia, there are more than 30 such trainers. « of tomorrow and anticipate future recruitment needs in the ams versity of our te The growing di Asia region. In addition, training sessions are regularly shared between r our Group is a strength fo the Group’s departments or between its sales agents, in BAEYS FABIENNE VAN RO order to develop best business practices. One such example is the joint initiative of the Turkish and Russian Sales teams, s Director Human Resource What are Roquette’s strengths in terms of its this context, who got together to share their experiences and Roquette Group ly best practices. Near people? Roquette 27 The employees are overall very attached to the worked in complete transparency with all the company and proud to work here, notably in personnel and, thanks to constructive social Raising awareness about the Customer TRAINING France and in Europe, the historic region of the dialogue, succeeded in reaching agreement Culture In your view, what does Roquette’s Human Group. I also believe that the growing diversity of with the vast majority of the employees concerned. In 2012, the “Customer Relationship on ng Capital represent? our teams is a strength for our Group. This year, traini Roquette added nearly 1,100 new employees In addition, for several years now we have In Europe, the average is 23 hours the Move” program was implemented of Our Human Capital is a key asset for the company: in India. This diversity is a source of new ideas, engaged in fundamental work to make the of training per employee; nearly 45 to raise awareness among the Group’s hours our performance, our dynamism, our capacity to take new approaches and skills. company more open to dialogue, between and up the challenges with the women and men who departments, between employees, with hours in Asia (excluding India) and p e r year oup, employees about developing a Customer e r Can you give us a few examples of challenges 18 hours in America. erag the G i Culture. Nearly 1,700 people from all on av ployee of tte-Riddh compose it and bring it to life on a daily basis. our stakeholders. Indeed, it is together – The Group’s values of ‘‘Respect, Trust and Solidarity” you face? shareholders, directors and employees – that m e u the regions and sites learned about the are the cement that binds us. It is also all the We are present in regions where the economic we must build Roquette today and prepare for per e ding Roq ndia) know-how and expertise of our employees, their and social context confronts us with difficult the future. exclu Siddhi (I challenges of the customer relationship, commitment and their motivation that represent the situations. In Wuhan (China), for example, we were In terms of safety, even if we continue to make through some 30 training sessions. real strength of our Group. It is what allows us to obliged between 2011 and 2012 to downsize our progress, we still face challenges in our primary continue to grow, in particular in an uncertain global organization. This meant we had to implement a objective to preserve the health and the physical environment. severance plan concerning about 120 people. In and moral integrity of all our employees. Roquette Roquette I Rapport I Sustainable d'Activité et and de Développement Development Durable 2012 Activity Report 2012 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 48-49 HUMAN CAPITAL A S H A R E D PASS ION E S S IO N , A GROUP, A PROF DEVELOPING SKILLS Raising awareness about the Group’s approach to ethics total of about 1,400 employees. On the French sites, 150 The company also mobilized to raise awareness on ethics. employees on average each year have the opportunity to This is a structural element of the integration programs for change jobs and/or be promoted. Throughout the Group, new employees throughout the Group. In the USA, actions some 20 employees per year have the opportunity to take have been conducted to explain ethics issues in areas such a post outside their home country as part of an international mobility framework. as Purchasing or Anti-trust policy. In Asia, a specific training ‘‘It was a great program on the Roquette Group’s Ethics Charter and Code Such movements between the different sites continue to opportunity for me of Conduct was provided to all employees (see page 14). multiply as the Group’s expansion program moves forward, to participate in the notably with the reinforcement of its presence in India and Intercultural training the creation of joint-venture partnerships. kickoff meeting on the Multiple nationalities cohabit within the Group, each with their integration of Riddhi own ways of thinking and behaving. Training on the interculSiddhi within Roquette. tural dimension has been offered to employees in all parts During this seminar, I could of the world, notably during the integration of Riddhi Siddhi. THE SPIRIT OF understand Roquette’s This type of training, which has already been deployed within INNOVATION strategy and their the Group for many years, serves to better understand the expectations from the cultural diversity of employees throughout the company and A “Spirit of Innovation” campaign was promoting Riddhi Siddhi team.’’ the ways it can influence professional relations. Professional mobility, a powerful asset initiated within the application development centers in 2012. “Ambassadors” were designated to work closely with the teams, diversity Viren THAKKAR Financial Director Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi and an initial training session helped share Mobility constitutes an essential part of the Human Resources tools on creativity. This initiative dedicated to management policy. It serves to reconcile the Group’s needs innovation also included a competition to related to organizational change with the professional and reward the best ideas in the The integration of Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi, a personal aspirations of employees. The Roquette Group actively conducts a policy that promotes “Spirit of Innovation’’. cultural and human challenge the development of skills and responsibilities entrusted to The creation of Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi in May 2012 repreintegration was the first step, which had to be accomplished the employees. For example, 261 promotions and transfers sented a challenge, for the business, for the organization and in a spirit of mutual respect and enrichment. To address have taken place over the last two years in Asia, out of a for Human Resources. The merger of nearly 1,100 Riddhi this challenge, several actions of communication and traiSiddhi employees with 6,800 employees from the Roquette ning were undertaken on both sides to better understand Group was indeed a big cultural and human challenge. The the diversity of cultures, practices and operating methods of each entity, and to design and implement the new organization. A special integration program was launched with kickoff events « in India and France that enabled the direces, cultural differenc tors of Roquette and Riddhi Siddhi to better « To understand be yo nd get to know each other and come together you have to look around the Roquette Group’s challenges, in g th e language ROWAN tioCnAanFU N unders ta nd strategy, values, activities and rules of d HR operation. The integration of RoquetteCommunica Riddhi Siddhi was completed in the respect anager Development M we have to learn to respect and reconcile our nor do I want to (R oq ue tte America) cultural differences in order to fully appreciate disrespect them, so it’s important to me to get of the Group’s fundamental principles and Keokuk them. the application of its Human Resources clarification if needed before responding, and to After this session, did anything change in be mindful of how I respond. policies and procedures. You participated in an intercultural session your professional relationships with your What do you think of the interest of ‘Interbetween the internal communication managers colleagues from other countries? Cultural training’ for employees? A Human Resources manual was devefor the Group and each of the regions. What did The exercise where we each assessed our As a growing, global organization, we will loped for Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi. It lists the you learn, and what did you personally apprebehaviors and then compared these to other encounter customers, colleagues and other Group’s commitments to human rights, the ciate during the session? region’s common behaviors was extremely stakeholders with different cultural backgrounds. principles of the UN Global Compact and During the intercultural session I was very surprised useful in helping illuminate how our different Offering an intercultural training course to to learn that I did not know as much as I thought I cultures affects our behaviors, habits and employees will help us better understand and the rules set forth in the Ethics Charter and did about different cultures. I learned that in order common practices. Since completing this exerappreciate other cultures. This course will be Launch of Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi in India the Code of Conduct. to understand and appreciate cultural differences, cise I have learned to practice being patient and particularly beneficial to all potential expatriates I have to look beyond understanding the language cognizant of what I say and how I say it (whether who are planning on engaging in a work assignand behavioral differences. The session taught that verbal or written). I don’t want to offend anyone, ment outside of their home country. Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 50-51 HUMAN CAPITAL , A S H A R E D PAS SION ESSIO N A GROUP, A PROF promoting diversity An evaluation of the Group’s application of policies on remuRetirement, a step that needs to be prepared neration, training, career development by job sector is done each year in order to measure progress. At the European sites, more than 195 employees were age Gender equality A specific indicator has been set up to monitor the proportion 60 or older in 2012, indicating as many retirements in the of women named to positions of management responsibility. years to come, a step that must be prepared both for the In France, a three-year agreement on professional gender benefit of the company and for the employee. Here is one equality was signed between the Group’s senior manageexample. ment and the labor unions. Managing the careers of seniors At the beginning of 2012, the Vecquemont site (France) The Roquette Group committed to reinforce parity among A management policy for seniors is essential when the signed a partnership agreement with CARSAT (French men and women and defined the lines of conduct to follow average of age of employees at the French sites is 43 years retirement and worker’s health fund). Employees were in order to help achieve this balance: old, and 14% of this workforce is over age 55. After an invited to a collective meeting to provide them with -Encourage more women to take jobs in sectors in which initial action plan set up in 2010-2011, the French Human information on retirement and opportunities for individual men have been traditionally more active, and vice-versa Resources Management established a new three-year interviews. This operation was highly to ensure a true balance; action plan for seniors, in collaboration with the trade unions. appreciated by the employees of the Implement the actions necessary to develop a Michela ZERBO, Claudio PASCON and Cristian PARODI Cassano This new plan is based on several major areas of action: factory aged 55 to 60 years old. As non-segregated professional mix; Spinola (Italia) a result, the interested parties -Anticipating the evolution of professional careers, % Change the socio-cultural represenhave been better informed 3 -Development of skills and qualifications, 41 years tations that, in production, technical, about the conditions, the 2 -Adaptation measures at end-of-career, and particularly the tertiary or laboratory jobs, tend to -Promote a good balance between private and professional terms and their eligibility for transition between the job and retirement, promote a stereotypical image of life, to ensure that family responsibilities can, to the extent retirement. They were able EN oup “masculine” or “feminine” jobs; possible, be taken into consideration in the organization -Transmission of know-how and skills, notably with the deees to discuss with the Human ploy W O M Increase the share of women of work. velopment of mentorship. Resources Management age ag e o f em oup tte G r OF the Roqeueintt2e012 Gr dh i in positions of responsibility and management; Concrete actions have been set up to help achieve gender equality, as illustrated by the following examples. As of age 45, any employee can request an interview with Human Resources on their professional career, desire to about anticipating a date for their retirement, in order Aver e Roque of t h e t Roqu dia) t e Rid d hi Sid dhi de rc -Rid ding insi workfo oquette change jobs (mobility) and skill development. exclu (In Implement policies and practices on With educational establishments (schools, universities and to start preparing as early g R hi ludin Sidd ) In addition, reaffirming its ambition to pursue a management as possible. This represents (exc ia remuneration, training and career deveprofessional training institutions), the Group implements (Ind lopment that are based on the principle of initiatives to encourage young women to consider technipolicy for seniors, the Roquette Group is committed to setting a good way to improve the equal opportunity for women and men and, in cal and industrial jobs (presentation of jobs at Roquette to up initiatives to maintain the employment and promote the management of skills and future general, respect the principle of equal treatment; schools and universities, partnerships, etc.). recruitment of seniors. needs. SOCIAL The average of age of employees of the Roquette Group is 43 years old in Europe, 34 years old in Asia (excluding India) and 44 years old in America. A GEAMAN MIHAELEn U « The spirit of he lping one anothe real and does no r is t rely on wheth I am a woman or er a man « 50% 40 30 47 gineer Production 30 Romania) Calafat (Roquette 20 is not especially difficult physically, even if or women. The spirit of helping one another is working with three shifts is not always easy to real between us, and does not rely on whether 15 15 manage. My main assets are my theoretical I am a woman or a man. You win esteem and 10 knowledge and my practical sense. This helps respect by proving your professional and me a lot to coordinate my team, which happens relational capacities. You do a job that has traditionally tended to 0% to be composed of men and women. I have other female colleagues who occupy be done by a man; why this choice? Ages less-conventional positions, for example in < 30 Ages > 55 years Personally, I do not consider my work as How do your colleagues generally react? years old 30 to 44 45 to 54 Logistics or Quality, and I find that very positive. particularly masculine. It is the logical result of I’m not the only woman at our factory to hold this The opinions that they usually express is that my training as an engineer in the food industry. type of position, so there’s a good relationship it is preferable in general to have mixed teams This was my choice and my ambition, and not between male and female colleagues. I never so that relationships remain good and the work Distribution of Group workforce by age range any sort of obligation. The position that I occupy felt mocked by my colleagues, neither by men environment stays serene! Dominique DEGHESELLE Lestrem (France) en 2012 (excluding Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi (India)) Roquette RoquetteI IRapport d'Activité Sustainable et de Développement Development Durable and Activity Report 2012 2012 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 52-53 HUMAN CAPITAL A S H A R E D PASS ION ES S IO N , A GROUP, A PROF promoting diversity Demystifying handicaps with SACHa Raising awareness among employees about handicaps An action can only be effective if it has been properly explained. Under the initiative of the Reliability & Sustainable This is the idea behind the sub-group on “Raising Awareness Development Management and the Human Resources and Communication.” function at Lestrem (France), a study group was formed in 2009 under the name SACHa, Savoir Accompagner Chaque In addition to all the information put on line on the Roquette Handicap (accompanying each type of handicap). Group’s intranet site throughout the year, such as communications on the Handicap Week, the “Handibasket” match or This working group, composed of 15 employees from 4.6% the role of the Departmental Home for the Handicapped, the different sectors and hierarchical levels of the company, members of the sub-group worked on the production of a flier meets four to five times a year to reflect on issues involsent out to each employee at the Lestrem site (France). This ving the handicapped and define the objectives and initiate document highlighted the orientations of the SACHa group, actions. The SACHa working group includes a director of an Operation for cleaning cars entrusted t men the definition of “handicap”, the types of handicaps, and Game for people who are visually challenged during the Handicap operating unit, a department head, a laboratory technician, a to an “adapted” company. e m ploy le Week at Lestrem (France). f e o ed peo p practical information and explanations on the status known manager from the Purchasing Department, a member of the e rat is th ndicapp ites. The in France as RQTH (French official recognition of status as a CHSCT (Committee on hygiene, safety and working condia of h French s rate in e l handicapped worker), as well as some key figures. tions), company health representatives and two employees at th lega i n i mum is 6%. officially recognized as handicapped workers. m ce Fran Two examples of raising awareness in Europe A competition, in the form of a questionnaire, was also At the start of 2012, the SACHa group established four suborganized, to share information and raise awareness about Developing relationships with the At Lestrem (France), with the help of SACHa, the company groups to work on different themes: recruitment, the relathe handicapped. Beyond the sports, fun and professional “adapted” sector again participated in the French national week dedicated to tionship with the “protected” sector, maintaining employment aspects of these encounters, each employee was able to the employment of handicapped workers. for the handicapped and raising awareness. For many years, the company has developed relationships engage in enriching exchanges with the partners present with what are known in France as “adapted” or “protected” The Handicap Week began with a friendly game of during the week. companies, which employ mostly handicapped workers. Handibasket, during which two regional women’s teams faced Open recruitment to all off, displaying their amazing skill and speed. Employees from Annual contracts and temporary services are established In Spain, the Benifayo site has for many years taken action At the beginning of 2012, the company decided to further with these companies, while respecting the rule of competithe company, as well as inhabitants of Lestrem, watched the to raise awareness among its employees about the handiopen its recruitment of the handicapped at its French sites. tive fairness with other suppliers. match organized in partnership with the mayor’s office. capped. At the end of 2012, during the National Day of the All job offers are now communicated to “CAP EMPLOI”, the Over the last two years, the annual turnover for companies in The week continued with lunch-time activities to raise awareHandicapped, the site’s employees shared some powernational network of job-placement organizathe “adapted” sector has risen by nearly 9%. Consultations ness among employees, as sports and games took over the ful moments with people who were handicapped and who tions specialized in helping the handiare indeed more and more frequent, in domains as company canteen. The employees had opportunities to meet expressed their vision of the world through different activicapped and employers. varied as dry cleaning, the delivery of meal platpeople with handicaps, some of whom were world chamties (creating and exhibiting floral arrangements, sketches, ters, the production of signs and displays, as pions in their sport, and also to participate in sports activities messages of solidarity, etc.). This moment of sharing was The company also seeks to well as more industrial areas (sorting and or play various games. very beneficial for everyone. promote internships for the handicapped. To this end, ‘‘When we repairing pallets, etc.). it has joined with the created SACHa, we Maintaining employment at adapted « AGEFIPH (Association were planting a seed in « workstations Roquette for the management of example of the funds for the Insertion infertile soil. We had to start Maintaining employment is one of I’m the perfect ped people by making it fertile, by raising grate handicap ambition to inte of the handicapped) to the main objectives of this approach. Each year, workstations are adapted STEPHAatNLeEstrem encourage the insertion and maintain the awareness among for use by the handicapped. In addiemployment of the the employees.’’ tion, if adaptation is not possible, a Employee ) handicapped in private different type of job is proposed. The (Roquette France it was no longer possible for me to drive During my period of hospitalization, a few companies. latter is often accompanied by a training a forklift truck… I therefore joined the IT colleagues took a vacation day to visit me. Thierry LEROY Co-Initiator of the SACHa group program and requires acceptance from Department as a computer room operator. These are the kinds of things you don’t This approach seeks to My boss very quickly recognized my abilities forget and that help keep your spirits up! the employee (see interview, opposite). Testimony of Stéphane (who wishes to promote the employment of remain anonymous) and soon entrusted me with other missions. I returned to the IT Department six months laboratory technicians under a In 2002, my cancer returned. I was later with new functions, which led me little one-year professional contract. The ‘‘If the job is adapted to the handicap, I joined Roquette in 1996 as a forklift truck hospitalized at Villejuif where I had two by little to the job I do today: e-business driver at the Lestrem site. major surgical operations. I was able to stay functional analyst. implementation of a training action of there are no differences with colleagues.’’ In 1999, I was diagnosed with a soft-tissue in contact with my colleagues and my family Thanks to the men and women who were this type requires the association of companies cancer in the leg. After a year away from my thanks to my telephone, my laptop computer able to see my personal and professional with similar needs. Anne LAMBIN, Co-Initiator of the SACHa group job, with chemotherapy, radiation treatment and a secured access key that the head of qualities, I now consider that my handicap and major surgery, I returned to work. But my department had arranged for me. was an asset in my career at Roquette Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette II Sustainable Roquette Sustainable Development and Activity Development and Activity Report Report 2012 2012 Roquette I Rapport d'Activité et de Développement Durable 2012 54-55 HUMAN CAPITAL safety first group a safety network Offering a healthy and safe work environment is one of In 2012, the plants of Gurnee and Keokuk each received a the priorities of the Roquette Group. An accident is never prize from an external agency for their safety performance unavoidable, and the primary objective is to protect each (respectively, from the Iowa Safety Board and the Corn and every person who enters the site, with an ultimate target Refiners Association). Gurnee was recognized for achieof “zero accidents”. ving an accident rate inferior to the national average, and Since the end of 2011, the company has set up a Group Keokuk for operating a full 12 months without a single day Safety Network that holds regular meetings with safety of work lost and without any accident involving an employee managers from each region. The main mission of this or subcontractor. network is to establish the common rules and principles to be shared throughout the Group. In Europe, “Safety first: No accident today!” In 2012, nine general safety principles were validated and The European Safety Management Committee brings distributed to the entire company. These principles will be Fire drill at the Lianyungang site (China) together members from all local Safety Committees at each completed by a series of “cardinal rules” and by a procedure entity in order to jointly develop a roadmap describing the for internal communication in the event of a serious accident. priority actions to deploy in 2013 and the following years. This The network also benefits from exchanges between its the workshops, interactive activities, a safety display and program seeks to develop an integrated safety culture and members to share best practices, review the evaluations of reinforced communication, and a system for recognizing to ensure that the nine general safety principles are applied. any serious accidents that may have occurred during the employees who are the most active on the subject. This For the implementation of this program, the European Safety latest period, and set up actions to avoid the repetition of “safety culture” will require the involvement of all. Management Committee relies on its European Safety any such accidents. Expert Network, composed of all the safety officers from the In addition, numerous training sessions were provided to the European entities. In 2012, the Group frequency rate for accidents with lost personnel of the industrial sites in 2012. The program will be time (TF1) took a turn for the worse. This degradation was extended to the sales teams and administrative personnel The Safety Management Committees in Europe have been due primarily to very poor results at a few French sites. In in 2013. structured so that the monthly meetings are efficient and that addition, two fatal accidents occurred at two of the Group’s information is properly shared among each of the European Numerous fire drills are performed each year. In 2012, the entities. sites. These accidents concerned employees from external site of Wuhan (China) trained in best practices to adopt in the companies. event of a fire, notably with the help of a video made during a In Europe, more than 40% of accidents declared involve In the meantime, eight production sites (in China, Korea, big fire drill performed the previous year at the Lianyungang the hands. A campaign to raise awareness on hand safety Spain, the USA, France, Italy and the United Kingdom) site (China). was run in 2012 with each employee receiving a “Two hands had a frequency rate for accidents with lost time equal to for life” communication kit, with individual cards highlighting zero, proving that the ultimate target of “zero accidents” is In the USA, “Safety first, in all activities ... Nobody gets important information and practical advice. This campaign attainable. In 2013, action plans are being set up throughout hurt today!” concluded with a competition in which 34% of the workforce the Group to develop an “integrated safety culture”. at all European sites participate. For several years, with the support of Dupont Sustainable Solutions, Roquette America has set up a “Safety Management Process” to promote a safety culture. This safety actions 2.4 program is based on four key elements: the culture, compliance with the regulations, prevention and skills. This in each region “SMP” is supervised by a directors committee that meets 5 5.20 monthly to define the priorities and monitor progress in terms of results and culture change. Thanks to these efforts, all 4 employees at the American sites recognize that they are responsible not only for 3.70 i n 2 012 FREQUENCY 3 TF1 l sites of thpe 3.10 To attain a fully integrated safety culture, each region is their own safety but also for that of 0 ents establishing programs with specific actions adapted to that their colleagues. l u for a ette Gro 2.38 RATE 2 country. Slogans such as “Safety first!” are designed to In three years, the results have Roqu 2.02 support the approach and facilitate integration. improved remarkably, since 1 the TF1 rate declined by 67% The TF1 frequency rate corresponds to i d In Asia, “Safety first: no compromise!” c (number of accidents with lost the number of accidents with lost time In order to improve its safety results, Roquette Asia has set up a program designed to establish a “safety culture” for the long term. This relies on five points: managing safety time per million hours worked) and the TF2 by 46% (number of accidents declared per million c a ith lost tiomveerat 2008 2009 2010 2011 Evolution of the frequency rate for accidents 2012 per million hours worked. The Roquette Group has adopted a safety approach designed to reach its objective of TF1 w uk inferior to 1 by 2016, with an ultimate with improved procedures, regular safety meetings in hours worked). Keok onths with lost time for the whole Roquette Group target of “zero accidents”. 12 m Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 4 SO C I E T A L C A P I T A L agascar), shed children, as shown above in Antsirabe (Mad Societal Capital is represented by the society that s to help malnouri e Gr ou p supports the AN TENNA associatio de n’s effort fro m Spirulina. surrounds us, and in particular the stakeholders specifically The Ro qu ett stin g mi x ma lpin g the m to de velop a better-ta concerned by our activity. by he Our commitment is to reinforce dialogue with customers, suppliers, industrial partners, organizations of civil society and the territorial collectives with which our company develops its activities. 58-59 SOCIETAL CAPITAL engagement rse csr commitment notre constructing supporting the csr approach the global compact ‘‘This will be essential to making corporate sustainability a significant Since 2008, the Roquette Group has progressively construcSince 2009, the Roquette Group has supported the UN ted its approach and its commitment to Corporate Social Global Compact, a global initiative of corporate citizenship, force in achieving a shared, Responsibility (CSR). in which the main objective is to promote ethical and secure and sustainable Two years ago, the Group adopted an ambitious generesponsible business practices. ral development strategy in line with its big transformation By adhering to this pact, businesses commit to align their future.” program. The latter is being implemented to address the operations and their strategies with 10 universally accepted Excerpt from the speech by Ban Ki-Moon challenges the Group must face in terms of “sustainability”: principles, on the respect of human rights and labor at the Board Meeting of the -Limit the environmental impact of the Group’s activity, standards, the preservation of the environment and the fight UN Global Compact THE WORLD against corruption. By respecting the 10 principles of the on 14 December 2012 -Optimize the profitability and solidity of the company, FORUM LILLE Global Compact, the Roquette Group acts as a responsible -Respond to the expectations of stakeholders (shareholcorporate citizen. ders, employees, customers, suppliers, etc.), which seeks to Each year, the Roquette Group -Develop skills and adapt them to the Group’s strategic take into account actively supports the World Forum Lille ambitions for international development. (WFL) for a Responsible Economy, a the major chalcolloquium that brings together people The Roquette Group’s approach to Sustainable Development lenges facing from all over the world to share their best 7 businesses, 1 was developed following a collaborative study, with the contripractices in response to the challenges bution of the Group’s various departments and led by Bruno both internal and of Sustainable Development. Businesses should support Businesses should support Rebelle, CEO of Transitions (see box below). It takes into external (such as Marc Roquette (on right in photo), and respect the protection a precautionary approach to account the different challenges listed above and translates population growth Board member of the Roquette of internationally proclaimed environmental challenges. 5 its commitment into four types of capital: Natural, Material and food demand, Group, expressed his views on human rights & Industrial, Human, and Societal. Certain of these types of climate change and renewable energy at Pages 14, 15 Businesses should support Pages 22 to 25 capital are limited, in the sense that all resources on which increased energy the WFL 2012. the effective abolition of child they are founded are by nature “finite”. This is the case for needs). labor Natural Capital and Material & Industrial Capital. However, In line with the Roquette 8 Human Capital and Societal Capital are, in essence, unliGroup’s values of “Respect, Trust, Pages 14, 15 mited: there are no limits to the development of human relaSolidarity,” the ultimate goal of its Sustainable Development Businesses should undertake tions, just as there are no limits to individual fulfillment, no approach is the long-term viability of the company. This 2 initiatives to promote greater limits to the increase of knowledge or to the artistic creation long-term viability is based on the preservation and developenvironmental responsibility. that forms the culture of a society. ment of these four types of capital on which its equilibrium is Businesses should make sure This representation of CSR in four types of capital is inspibased. This Sustainable Development & Activity Report was that they are not complicit in Pages 21 to 27, 37 to 40 red from the work of the Finnish researcher, Anti Hautamäki, developed according to these four types of capital. human rights abuses. Pages 14, 15 « 9 Businesses should encourage Capital ion of Societal the development and diffusion « The considerat en pany to strength of environmentally friendly 3 pushes the com oring technologies. territorial anch Businesses should uphold the rebelle brunoAN its thinking on freedom of association and Pages 37 to 40 SITIONS CEO of TR the effective recognition of the and gy, Engineering Agency for Strate 6 in Sustainable Deve lopment right to collective bargaining. Comm un ica tio n and then identified the activities of the company Development into the Group’s investment stratethat would correspond to these four types of capital. gies. The latter involves the use of performance Businesses should support Pages 14, 15, 46, 61 Testimony on the Sustainable Development Upstream agriculture represents the Natural indicators to evaluate the industrial and environthe elimination of approach in the Roquette Group strategy Capital for Roquette. The buyers will thus be mental performance of production processes. discrimination in respect of invited to switch from an approach previously Taking into account the Human Capital allows employment and occupation. 4 10 To establish this strategy based on the four types centered on quality/price on the spot market to for both the reinforcement of the social dialogue of capital, we organized three half-day semione based on the construction of partnerships and investment in training and skill development. Pages 14, 15, 49 to 53 nars with the seven members of the Sustainable with suppliers. In this way, the commitment Lastly, the consideration of Societal Capital Businesses should support Businesses should work Development Committee, followed by a presenwill be shared to reduce the environmenagainst corruption in all its tal impact of the production chain for plantpushes the company to strengthen its thinthe elimination of all forms of tation to the Group’s Executive Committee. We king on the territorial anchoring of its different forms, including extortion and discussed their understanding of Sustainable based raw materials transformed by Roquette. forced and compulsory labor. establishments, on the nature of its commitDevelopment and the perceived limits. From these Under the same logic, we have identified the ments in terms of international solidarity and bribery. observations, we studied the interest of an “altercontours of the Material & Industrial Capital and the sharing of knowledge developed from Pages 14, 15 Pages 14, 15 native” representation with the four types of capital, the need to integrate the criteria for Sustainable these activities of research and development. Roquette Roquette I Rapport I Sustainable Development Développement de Activity d'Activité etand Durable 2012 Report 2012 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 60-61 SOCIETAL CAPITAL C O M M IT engagement M E N rse T un CS R The Innovation Center at Geneva, a showDialogue with Upstream relationships, a spirit of partnership case for our business the trade unions LISTENING TO ‘‘Founded in 2006, the labor union STAKEHOLDERS The Roquette America Innovation Center at Geneva The 2012-2013 potato-starch campaign was the first since the end of the Lianyungang site plays a very (USA) is a showcase that highlights the Roquette Group’s collaborative role, contributing to the mainof European measures to support the potato-starch industry under strategy of innovation. Customers, delegates from tenance of harmonious working relations the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP). Quotas, minimum prices government, students, and members of the local commubetween the company and the employees. and specific subsinity have all participated in different events organized at The dialogue between the company and dies have all been the Innovation Center. For the labor union seeks to establish a win-win eliminated. example, a partnership relationship. The labor union is not only The Roquette Group Stakeholders are individuals or was set up with the local a friend with whom employees can open works in collaboragroups of individuals who influence their hearts, it is also a reliable partner municipal authorities in tion with its agricultural or are influenced by the activities of for the employer, walking along the the context of the “Fox partners to construct an the company. same road with the same mission Valley Food for Health” economically viable potaThe Roquette Group has identiproject, which involved on the horizon: Offering the best of nature.‘’ to-starch sector. With the fied all its stakeholders: custoteenage volunteers and two cooperatives that supply mers, suppliers, employees and cancer patients. The local the plant of Vecquemont shareholders, public and private high school students Testimony of Fenny LIU, Member (France), it shares a vision of partners. used the professional of the Labor Committee at the site the sector in which both sides By taking into account their expeccooking equipment at of Roquette Lianyungang (China). of the partnership, upstream tations, the Group can adapt the the Innovation Center to and downstream, can contimode of dialogue with each stakeprepare balanced meals nue to develop a profitable holder, as illustrated by the following that they then delivered to and sustainable activity. examples. patients in the region. THE ROQUETTE GROUP Dial ogue stakeholders Shareholders, Employees, Social Partners, Customers, Partner of local communities Suppliers, Associations, Financial Institutions, At the inauguration of the first drilling well for the Geothermal project at the Beinheim site (France), Mr. Philippe Richert, President of the Alsace Regional Council and Public Authorities, Industrial and Scientific former minister, gave a speech extolling the partnership between the different Partners, Media... The shareholder visit, parties involved in the project. Here are a few excerpts: a privileged moment [...] “The ECOGI project represents the first time in France that deep geothermal energy sources are being developed for industrial use... If this The relationship between the company project succeeds, and and its shareholders is a determinant factor. « we all believe in its « In addition to regular informational meetings, success, the ECOGI clude ensuring visits to sites are organized upon request and irements will in project will have Our future requ d responsible e sustainable an represent real opportunities for dialogue and provided the proof r re so ur ce s ar exchange between the various stakeholders that ou AJOR INTERVIEWING A M of the company. In October 2012, the site of that an industrial unit can switch from fossil Cassano Spinola (Italy) hosted a group of L shareholders belonging to the second, energy to an energy mix PLAYER IN ANIMA third and fourth generations of the NUTRITION that generates little CO2. Roquette family. It will be a world first... We feel like a valued customer, whereas with What are the objectives in your relation with [...] The Regional Council has other suppliers we sometimes have the feeling the Roquette Group? chosen to bet on this success. we’re more a nuisance than anything else. Our future requirements will not be limited only Your company is one of the world leaders We have chosen the camp of in pet foods. What image do you have of If we encounter a problem, we know that it will to quality criteria. They will include ensuring that Roquette, which supplies several of your be handled properly, and that a response and a our resources are sustainable and responsible. innovation and daring. The Alsace It’s not just a question of buying products from production sites? solution will be provided to us. Region has chosen to be a partner for Roquette but also knowing how it bought its this project of the future. First, because Roquette Frères, a major consumer of energy, has Roquette has set up excellent procedures and In addition, thanks to its big research center, raw materials, where the wheat or corn comes respects them, which is something we appreciate. Roquette always brings to us something from. Roquette is one of the top-of-the-range already shown with the installation of a biomass boiler that it can lead by example... It is a trusted and competent supplier, open to new. It helps us to grow by supplying us with suppliers, and it must work hard to keep this […] If the ECOGI project succeeds, we will have inaugurated this deep geothermal channel dialogue, and when it says something, it keeps new products that we use in our recipes after position. I think this is the challenge to which for Alsace and the entire Rhine basin [...] its word. rigorous testing. Roquette needs to respond in the future. Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 62-63 SOCIETAL CAPITAL L O C A L C O communautes M M U N ITlocales IES SUPPORTINles soutenir G India Spain China For the second consecutive year, France Roquette Spain has organized the “Roquette Cultural Week”. Activities such as music lessons, poetry, theatre, painting as well as concerts, The employees of Roquette Asia are massively conferences and invested in the “Boxes of love” operation via exhibitions have been the Chinese association MiFanMaMa, a nonorganized for this governmental organization that seeks to improve Cultural Week. the lives of orphans in China. The personnel of Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi supports YUVA UNSTOPPABLE, the Shanghai office deployed all their creativity to an NGO that works to promote schooling for children, by prepare 250 boxes then fill them with treats offered helping to finance the creation of schools. In the context by the company. of the launching ceremonies for Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi, the team of directors visited one of these schools. The cover photo for this Sustainable Development & Activity Report shows one of the main events during Group this encounter. The association LET’S DO IT France has organized the first edition of the “World Clean Up” operation for France. With the help of volunteers, the operation cleans up litter and other waste dumped United Kingdom illegally in the natural environment in France. The France Roquette Group supports the operation by offering its GAIALENE® plant-based plastics to make trash bags, and by mobilizing a group of volunteer employees from the Lestrem site who participated in the clean-up operation. The employees of the Beinheim site again participated in the 6th Brumath race for the benefit Germany of the French telethon to finance research on genetic and neuro-muscular disease. USA Roquette America sponsors the “Gingerbread House” event that takes place at Keokuk during the year-end holidays. For a year, the Roquette Group has been working with The municipal council of Corby, a During this event, ANTENNA, an association that fights malnutrition in the hundred volunteers and several local nearly 150 children world by developing farms to grow Spirulina microalgae, businesses worked tirelessly to restore from the region make which is highly rich in nutriments. Roquette provided the the old woods of the town. Roquette U.K. Roquette Germany provided financial gingerbread houses association with technical skills and human support to participated in the project by financing support to the LAZARUS charity by using cookies and perform a test with 50 malnourished children in the House the signing: panels to indicate paths, organization, which helps the homeless candy that contain of Nutrition at Antsirabe (Madagascar). The test consisted of points of interest, the history of the site, in Frankfurt. The company’s employees ingredients produced mixing Spirulina with a glucose-fructose syrup produced by and information about the plants and also mobilized to collect a lot of warm by the company. Roquette, in order to make the mix more pleasing to the taste. trees, as well as activities planned clothing for associations that help the The studies continue to improve the flavor even further, for on the site. disadvantaged. example with the development of recipes for fruit jellies mixed with Spirulina. Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 64-65 SOCIETAL CAPITAL N A etN D per P E fR F ormanceO R MANCE EVALUATIO evaluation ENVIRONMENTAL(1) SOCIAL INDICATORS 2012 2011 GRI (2) INDICATORS 2012 2011 GRI (1) (except Joint-Ventures Permanent employment contracts Energy Energy consumed Workforce(2) and Fixed term contracts at 31 December) 8,000 Electricity GWh(3) 2,247 2,063 EN3 Breakdown of the workforce by geographic zone 6,000 Natural gas GWh 7,249 7,451 EN3 Europe 4,766 4,598 LA1 2 G Wh 20 ral gas Heavy fuel ton 5,120 5,110 EN3 4,000 America 614 602 LA1 Domestic fuel m3 792 881 EN3 Asia 1,355 1,462 LA1 atu d 2,000 e s s n me Coal + Pet Coke 312 345 EN3 l kt (4) GROUP 6,735 6,662 LA1 co n s u Wood kt 132 16 EN3 0 India (integration of Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi 1,082 LA1 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 in the course of 2012) Ton of oil equivalent t/kt of starch 234 243 EN3 Europe America (Permanent employment contracts Asia India Professional equality(3) enrolled at 31 December) Energy Energy produced (Excluding India) Men workforce 5,187 5,006 LA13 Evolution of the Group’s workforce The consumption of Electricity GWh 1,280 1,414 EN3 natural gas fell by (Key figures for India not consolidated) including % managers 12% 13.5% LA13 about 3%. Biogas GWh 55 59 EN3 Training: hours/employee 22.4 31.3 LA13 500 Water 461 Women workforce 1,548 1,468 LA13 400 Pumping Rivers 10 m3 3 61,736 64,172 EN8 including % managers 12% 14.2% LA13 3 Aquifers 103 m3 12,847 12,470 EN8 300 Training: hours/employee 27.4 29.7 LA13 l l i o nm 3 i Urban network 10 m3 3 12,233 12,314 EN8 Ratio Women/Men 29.8% 29.3% LA13 m 200 s s w ater Water restored 10 m3 3 29,559 29,022 EN10 New hires/departures(3) le 100 123 med 122 COD emissions t/kt of starch 1.84 2.25 EN21 co n s u 0 50 56 18 New hires 473 661 LA2 Air Europe Asia America Resignations 307 334 LA2 (Excluding India) t eq.(5) CO2 /kt Terminations 64 110 LA2 CO2 emissions 553 597 EN16 Men Women of starch Distribution of managers by region Deceased 11 7 LA2 Improvements on cooling SO2 emissions t/kt of starch 0.35 0.31 EN20 and by gender circuits have helped to reduce Retirees 67 77 LA2 (Workforce with permanent employment contract the consumption of water NOx emissions t/kt of starch 0.34 0.58 EN20 from rivers by nearly 4%. at 31 December 2012, excluding India) Other departures 85 LA2 Dusts t/kt of starch 0.21 0.25 EN20 Insertion of disabled workers(4) Waste 400 Disabled workers 152 146 LA13 tha n Dangerous t/kt of starch 1.41 0.87 EN22 300 324 Absenteeism(5) m o r e Non dangerous t/kt of starch 35 58 EN22 tons Absenteeism (illness) 3.0% 3.0% LA7 0 200 216 0 4 q. CO , 0 0 Revaluated (except field spreading) Field spreading t/kt of starch t eq. 100% 24 48 19 28 EN22 EN22 100 170 134 87 76 Conditions of Hygiene and Safety Frequency of accidents at work DS(6)/kt e 2 0 Accidents with lost time(6) 2.4 2.0 LA7 ed avoid Asia Performance indicators (see page 41) Europe (Excluding India) America New Hires Departures Accidents with or without lost time (7) 8.6 6.8 LA7 Energy indicator ratio 1.010 1.019 Gravity Water indicator ratio 1.27 1.33 Movement of personnel by region in 2012 A series of actions to reduce Lost days 2,070 1,141 LA7 (Workforce with permanent employment contract, CO2 emissions have helped t eq. CO2 excluding India) to avoid releasing into the GES indicator 507,147 465,374 EN18 Rate of gravity(8) 0.14 0.10 LA7 avoided atmosphere the equivalent of 40,000 metric tons of CO2. (1) Key figures for Group, excluding India Region (4) kt: 10 metric ton 3 (1) See page 66 (5) Key figures for France (2) See page 66 (5) eq.: equivalent (2) Key figures for Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi included but not consolidated (6) Number of accidents with lost time per million hours worked (3) GWh: Giga Watt per hour (6) DS: Dry Substance (3) Key figures for Roquette-Riddhi Siddhi not included (7) Number of accidents declared per million hours worked (4) Key figures for Europe (8) Number of lost days (not including the day of the accident) per thousand hours worked Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 66-67 SOCIETAL CAPITAL A N D performance evaluation THE reporting MY READING OF INDICATORS NOTES The reports in the Sustainable Development & Activity Report For the second consecutive year, the Roquette Group’s Sustainable Development & Activity Report was prepared using the “G3 Guidelines” of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI was created in 1997 by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) and the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES). Its goal is to provide a framework for reporting on Sustainable Development with a view to promoting greater transparency in the preparation of reports on the environment, societal responsibility and governance. It is the most widely used network organization in the world on this subject. our thanks to Legal information The information contained in this document is accurate, the contributors to the best of our knowledge; however, all indications, recommendations or suggestions are provided without any guarantees, stated or implied. In addition, none of the information provided in this document may be considered as permission or incitement to We thank all the employees and stakeholders who have infringe on any patent. contributed to the preparation of this 2012 Sustainable Any partial or total reproduction of the contents of this Development and Activity Report. document is stricty forbidden unless prior written authorization has been provided by Roquette Frères. ® and ™ are protected trademarks submitted and recorded Teamwork by Roquette Frères. Anne LAMBIN, Marie-Gabrielle BAILLY Your opinion matters to us! The editors from each of the Roquette Group’s sites Marie ANWAR (NEKTARINE) Please feel free to write to us at the following address: Emmanuelle BRISSE (TRANSITIONS) Roquette Frères Jean-Christophe PIOT (LUNA CREATION) Reliability & Sustainable Development Management 1, rue Haute Loge Photographic Credits 62136 LESTREM France Jean-Bernard LELEU, David TRINH, Gonzague DIERS, Tel: + 33.3.21.63.36.00 Mélanie SERGHERAERT and the Photo library of the D3C e-mail: developpementdurable@roquette.com The internal Communication Correspondents of the Group External photography: Patrick JAMES, Christophe JUMEZ For further information Printing and Paper .com www.roquette Printing Department of the Lestrem site (France) The paper used in this report comes from sustainably managed forests. Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette I Sustainable Development and Activity Report 2012 Roquette Frères S.A. 06/2013 (EN1) mote that works to pro ppable, an NGO dh i (In dia ) su pports Yuva Unsto blic sch oo l in Ah medabad. Sid Roquette-Riddhi the Memnagar pu en, here shown at schooling for childr
