Corporate mind Product reach Planet aware People care Corporate responsibility Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Community touch Introduction Corporate mind Product reach For more than 30 years, Promega has consistently integrated the values of corporate responsibility and sustainable business practices into all aspects of our corporate culture and activity. We realize that our success depends upon the sustainable connections we forge among our people, the natural environment and the Planet aware communities where we work. We take pride in creating products and solutions that allow scientists to ask new questions, address emerging problems in global health, and respond to changing environments. In addition to supporting the scientific community with our innovaPeople care tive products, technologies and service, we also support our local communities in the areas of education, wellness and the arts. At Promega we realize that while sustained business growth supports communities economically, being a responsible corporate citizen Community touch requires more than being responsive to the bottom line. It requires an ethic of care for the community, the people and the natural environment in which we live. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 2 Statement from the CEO Corporate mind In 2012, Promega reduced its carbon footprint by 1%. We consider the value of this 1% in tons of carbon emissions not emitted and find it to be “significant”…but how exactly? What is it that makes these reductions “significant”? For whom and how will they be significant? The naturalist John Muir once commented, “When one tugs at a single thing in Product reach nature, he finds it attached to the rest of the world.” So, when we tug at carbon emissions, reducing them by 1%, that small change may well have far reaching effects. The tiniest incidents are often the start of dramatic events and creations—calcium ions are released when a sperm cell contacts the outer layer of an egg initiating a series of events, ultimately leading to fusion of genetic material to create a new organism; a microorganism changes a single protein on its surface and a new disease emerges, scientists isolate the organism and study its biology, and a future population is vaccinated and protected; two gas clouds collide to produce a star, and the first stars in a galaxy are formed. Each of these futures begins with small happenings, followed Planet aware by incremental steps and understanding until the new future is realized. Yesterday, today and tomorrow are connected. What we do today, even the smallest things, will affect tomorrow. “Yesterday, today and tomorrow are connected. What we do today, even the smallest things, will affect tomorrow.” People care At Promega, we believe that as a result of being mindful today, this 1% reduction will help future generations. Although we cannot know for certain what the future will bring, we can imagine how our reduction in carbon footprint will improve it. Here is where our imagination and curiosity become so essential in appreciating how our actions today may impact the future. It’s our responsibility to ensure the effect of our actions is a positive one. Community touch William A. Linton, Chairman and CEO Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 3 Corporate mind Product reach Planet aware People care Community touch Corporate mind Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Corporate mind Product reach Planet aware Corporate mind Overview People care Promega Corporation (corporate headquarters located in Our business and employee presence globally is critical to Madison, Wisconsin, USA) has a large global presence our success. Over 50% of our revenue comes from outside including branch offices in 15 different countries as well as North America. Our international colleagues and customers manufacturing facilities in San Luis Obispo and Sunnyvale, help us understand the importance of thinking globally California, USA; Shanghai, China; and Seoul, South Korea. in everything we do at Promega, from supporting our Over the last year we experienced substantial growth, products and customers as it relates to global packaging, with revenues up more than 12% to 318 million dollars to designing marketing materials and providing technical Community touch (US) and a headcount increase of 2%. Promega has support. Each market has unique needs, and we are 1,223 full-time positions worldwide, and 46% of full-time mindful of where do we need to customize and where employees are women. we want to have a common look and feel. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 5 Corporate mind Product reach Planet aware People care “Our corporate colleagues in Madison ensure that the views and needs of Promega’s international branches are taken into consideration when developing plans in key areas of the company’s operation. This gives Promega a Community touch truly global outlook and fosters strong working relationships with colleagues around the globe.” —Ghislaine Samways, General Manager Promega Australia Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 6 Corporate mind Corporate mind Future Investments Promega continues to invest in research and development to strengthen the new product pipeline and expand tech“This recent investment in the new nical capabilities, increasing the ability to meet customer needs and generate long-term growth. In 2012, investShanghai cGMP manufacturing facility ment in research increased 8% over the prior year. These Product reach represents Promega’s continued investments in research and development resulted in 31 new products in 2012 commitment to life science in China.” including a novel luciferase, NanoLuc® luciferase, which The Scientist named as —Promega CEO Bill Linton a 2012 Top 10 Innovation. New products are driving strong growth in our cellular analysis, genetic identity and integrated solutions product lines. Corporate Governance Planet aware In 2012, Promega also made significant investments in infrastructure and additional capabilities. Implementation Promega is governed by a Board of Directors, the Corof SAP continues globally with key distribution branches in porate Leadership Team and global Branch Managers. the UK and Germany online and initiation of all European As the guiding force of the company, these groups are sales branches in process. With global implementation, responsible for setting company strategy and providing Promega will have a fully integrated efficient system to organizational oversight. This group in total comprises 32 allow continued growth. individuals; 28% of which are women. People care Construction continues on a state-of-the-art cGMP facility on the Madison campus that will provide the ability to manufacture high-quality IVD products. This building is scheduled to be completed in the fall of 2013. In November, Promega celebrated the opening of a new facility for its China operations. It will provide additional research, development and cGMP manufacturing capabilities for Community touch molecular diagnostics products for the Chinese market. These are just a few of the investments that keep Promega poised for sustainable success far into the future. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 7 Corporate mind Corporate mind Promega Corporate Mission Statement. To provide the most innovative biological reagents and integrated systems used in research and applied technology worldwide. Product reach Our Values. In carrying out our mission, we strive to preserve and pursue these core values: • H  onesty, integrity and respect for all employees, • Balance of work and life activities customers and suppliers Planet aware • Adaptability and flexibility in the workplace • Open access to information for all employees • C  ontribution to the advancement of science and • R  ecognition and reward of achievement through to the improvement of life in the world community creativity, risk taking, process improvements and innovation People care Promega is an equal opportunity employer and is richly benefited by the diversity of its workforce. We follow a global code of conduct, and employees are reminded annually of this commitment. This code of conduct is also always available and accessible on the corporate intranet site and can be read in detail there. Community touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 8 Corporate mind Corporate mind Product reach Planet aware Creative Approach Although meticulous and rational, scientists must also maintain imagination in their work if they are to unravel the mysteries of the unknown. In response to the needs of such individualists, we People care have a long and creative tradition of doing what is best versus what is expected. In an environment where acquisition is the norm, we have maintained independence and instead forged selective global partnerships. Our independent spirit and determination has led Community touch to a number of firsts that continue for Promega in each of its multiple roles as a business, a member of the community and an employer. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 9 Corporate mind Corporate mind Product reach Supply Chain Management Promega values suppliers of goods and services who adhere to the highest social, ethical and environmental standards. Planet aware Promega recognizes the impact and importance that our suppliers have in the scope of our Corporate Responsibility and strives to work with companies that have similar commitments. Based on survey results, over 50% of our suppliers have sustainability or corporate responsibility programs that align with the values of Promega’s program. 50 OVER % of our suppliers have sustainability or corporate People care responsibility programs that align with the values of Promega’s program Sourcing from local suppliers is also a focus to support local communities and reduce impacts from shipping. Community touch In the coming year Promega will update documents and communications shared with our suppliers to align with the principles of sustainability and corporate responsibility. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 10 Corporate mind Product reach Planet aware People care Community touch Product reach Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Corporate mind Product reach Product reach Overview Every advance in science or medicine requires a host of tools, products and services to support the work of researchers, technicians and clinicians. Promega products CellTox™ Green Assay play a pivotal role in basic and applied life science, clinical, and forensics research, Planet aware and they are cited in the methods sections of thousands of peer-reviewed scientific and medical research papers every year. Furthermore, our scientists collaborate with their peers in pharmaceutical, university and forensics laboratories to create solutions, tools and new technologies to improve research and workflow. Research and Development at Promega Viable Cell Nonviable Cell Drug Discovery. The search for new pharmaceuticals requires reliable tools for screening hundreds of thousands of compounds to identify the few truly promising 10887MA People care Low Fluorescence High Fluorescence therapeutic candidates. Drug failures during clinical trials or post market are not only expensive but also dangerous. Sensitive reagents, like the Promega platform The CellTox™ Green Assay is a new tool that can help improve of cell-based and biochemical assays, allow scientists to screen compounds the accuracy of early drug discovery processes by providing quickly and improve the sensitivity and accuracy of early drug discovery processes, accurate cytotoxicity data out to 72 hours. reducing the failure of compounds late in development. For instance, the CellTox™ Green Assay is a new tool that allows researchers to capture cytotoxicity data Community touch accurately out to 72 hours while also simultaneously investigating the mechanisms of compound action, providing more information about a test compound from a single screen. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 12 Corporate mind Forensics and Paternity Testing. DNA analysts create genetic “fingerprints” (DNA profiles using short tandem repeats or STRs) to identify both victims and suspects during a criminal investigation as well as to identify victims of natural disasters. Promega’s STR technology has become established globally as the foundation to human identification. As the world becomes increasingly connected, authorities now see benefit in a larger combined panel of loci for sharing across borders. A system that includes STRs commonly used throughout Product reach the world would build more inclusive databases and allow more profile information to be exchanged. The Promega PowerPlex® Fusion System includes the current core CODIS STR loci (US) and the European Standard Set (ESS), supporting compatibility with present databases across multiple regions and encompassing an expanded set of loci to address future growth of global forensics. PowerPlex™ Fusion System Planet aware A* D3S1358 D1S1656 D2S441 D10S1248 D13S317 Penta E D16S539 D18S51 D2S1338 CSF1PO Penta D TH01 vWA D21S11 D7S820 D5S818 TPOX DYS391 D8S1179 D12S391 D19S433 FGA D22S1045 10910MA 60 100 200 300 400 500 *Amelogenin People care The Promega PowerPlex® Fusion System includes the current core CODIS STR loci (US) and the European Standard Set (ESS). Molecular Diagnostics. Medical technicians and clinical pathologists prepare DNA samples before performing diagnostic tests for organ transplants, infectious diseases and genetic screening. We have over 30 years of expertise delivering reagents to life science researchers, and we bring that collective expertise to the growing field molecular diagnostics. We offer GPRand GPLE-labeled products, including instruments and reagents for DNA and RNA Community touch extraction, PCR, STR analysis, genetic analysis and mutation detection. Additionally, the completion of the new current good manufacturing process (cGMP) facility, the Feynman Center, will allow us to further expand our capabilities to supply high-quality instruments and The Maxwell® CSC Instrument is one of our products reagents for the IVD medical device market. manufactured for the IVD medical device market. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 13 Product reach Corporate mind Applied Life Sciences. Life science research is key to developing tools for the applied sciences including industrial and environmental monitoring, veterinary sciences, agriculture and others. From DNA isolation to luminescent ATP detection, the tools Product reach that scientists use in the basic research laboratory can also be found in the applied science setting. For instance, Wizard® DNA Purification Kits have been used to extract DNA from beef stored under a variety of conditions to determine the best storage conditions to prevent spoilage. The BacTiter-Glo™ Microbial Cell Viability Assay has been used to look at biofilm formation during water treatment and to investigate the Wizard® DNA Purification Kits use of nonthermal plasmas for disinfecting multidrug-resistant microbes. Basic Research. Life science researchers use Promega products to uncover fundaPlanet aware mental principles of biology. Promega continues to offer improved technologies for routine DNA and RNA isolation, analysis and amplification as well as tools for cell and protein biology. One area of basic research that is now finding application in clinical research is epigenetics, the study of DNA modifications. Several of our products are furthering our understanding epigenetics, including the HDAC-Glo™ I/II and SIRT-Glo™ Assays and the Wizard® DNA Clean-Up System. Promega Products in the World: Case Studies Determining Sea Water Biodegradability with BacTiter-Glo™ Assay. Biochemical oxygen People care demand (BOD) is useful for determining water biodegradability, and the application of BOD allows researchers to analyze the efficiency of a water treatment process. BOD protocols are well established for freshwater and wastewater, but not for seawater and saltwater. The Promega BacTiter-Glo™ Microbial Cell Viability Assay was used to develop SPAIN a BOD protocol for Mediterranean seawater using raw seawater collected from the Mediterranean Sea at the desalination plant at El Prat de Llobregat (Spain). Community touch Dr. Xavier Simón operating the Glomax® instrument at the desalination facility in El Prat, Spain. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 14 Product reach Corporate mind Giving closure to families of missing persons: The Cleveland Strangler Case. In 2009, police officers went to a residence to arrest a man who had raped and assaulted a woman, and in the Product reach process, they made a gruesome discovery: the remains of eleven additional unidentified victims. The Promega PowerPlex® 16 System was used to obtain robust DNA profiles from long bone and teeth samples. Because of the sensitivity of this system, the forensics lab was able to obtain DNA profiles that could be matched to those of the relatives who had reported missing family members. The Cleveland Strangler Case. All eleven victims were identified. All eleven victims were identified, giving a name, face and voice to these victims who otherwise would have remained anonymous. Planet aware Monitoring Chronic Myeloid Leukemia Begins with High-Quality RNA. Chronic Myeloid Leukemia is a blood cancer that is caused by the presence of the Philadelphia chromosome, a translocation between chromosomes 9 and 22. Several techniques can be used to monitor the disease during treatment, including qPCR from RNA samples. For reliable qPCR, at least 10,000 copies of the gene must be present in the RNA sample. Promega scientists worked with scientists from the LabNET group in Italy, and used the simplyRNA Blood Kit combined with automated purification on the Maxwell® People care Instrument to extract RNA with a minimum of 20,000 copies of the gene. Using this system, the LabNET group was able to obtain results from samples in which all other methods of RNA purification failed to provide minimal ITALYgene copy number. This improvement in RNA isolation means that fewer individuals will need to undergo second blood draws for a given monitoring point during treatment. Community touch The simplyRNA Blood Kit combined with the Maxwell® Instrument provided reliable RNA extraction with a minimum of 20,000 copies of the gene. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 15 Product reach Investments for the Future Corporate mind In order to continue to contribute to scientific exploPatents (Issued & Pending Applications) ration and application, Promega must continue to Cellular Analysis 323 invest in the development and discovery of new Genomics 112 Product reach technologies. In 2012, over $33 million (US) was Genetic Identity and Other 63 invested in research and development, and 49 new Proteomics 28 patent applications were filed. Because of continued Total 526 global investment in research and development, P atents and patent applications were audited in 2011 with many patents and Promega has extensive intellectual property. applications abandoned that were outdated. We also work with academic institutions and other entities to license and develop promising technologies. As a member of the Wisconsin Alumni Research Foundation Research Tool Subscription Program, Promega has the opportunity to take a first look at new technologies from the university. Planet aware Quality Process and Product Promega Madison was first certified to international standards for quality management systems in 1998 and, along with the European distribution headquarters, is currently certified to the ISO13485 standard, required for the development, manufacture, testing and delivery of medical devices around the world. Currently 15 Promega locations meet various ISO standards. Promega takes great pride in the products it produces and in ensuring that customers receive safety data as well as comprehensive People care technical data sheets on the use of Promega products. A high level of integrity is applied in all product claims and product use information as the incident table below demonstrates. Product Responsibility and Non-Compliance 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Incidents regarding product health and safety codes 0 0 0 0 0 Incidents regarding product information and labeling 0 0 0 0 0 Incidents with marketing communication regulations 0 0 0 0 0 Community touch Breaches of customer privacy and loss of customer data 0 0 0 0 0 Incidents concerning provision and use of products or services 0 0 0 0 0 The incidents noted above have resulted in fines or warnings. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 16 Product reach Corporate mind Product reach New cGMP Facility Planet aware The Feynman Center, our new cGMP manufacturing facility, emphasizes features that balance the needs of customers, employees and community. One of the most important considerations is the ability for high-quality IVD manufacturing. There are a number of specific regulations for a manufacturing People care facility of this calibre. In some cases, those specifications were exceeded to create work environments that are more pleasant, spacious and flexible. The building has a walkable interstitial space for easy and contained maintenance around highly regulated areas. Community touch Work spaces are designed for growth and easy access to break zones with plenty of daylight and areas to relax. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 17 Corporate mind Product reach Planet aware People care Community touch Planet aware Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Corporate mind Product reach Planet aware Planet aware Overview Sustainability is not a novel idea but something that has All Promega locations worldwide are committed to operPeople care been practiced and perfected in nature for many years. ating sustainably by investing in improving resource Nature uses resources with maximum efficiency and only efficiency, limiting greenhouse gas emissions, reducing produces useful wastes. At Promega, we are constantly waste, and leaving a positive impact. We look beyond our working to infuse the biological and ecological principles buildings to enact the principles of environmental found in nature into our business to help us operate in ways sustainability and support efforts with that are better for the environment and future generations. similar consciousness by funding Our current society faces unprecedented environmental reforestation efforts, supporting Community touch challenges, and we are addressing these issues with the renewable energy, restoring native same commitment we put into developing innovative prairies, purchasing carbon offsets, and products to help improve global health and wellness. supporting environmental organizations. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 19 Planet aware Corporate mind Product reach “The chief lesson of Planet aware natural history is that life has learned the art of sustainability and People care that this art has stood the test of time. It is an art, moreover, that can be learned, adapted Community touch and put into conscious practice by us.” —Bill Linton, CEO Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 20 Planet aware Corporate mind In 2012 Promega continued to grow at a significant rate but still managed to reduce overall greenhouse gas emissions. In the last year we saw greenhouse gas emissions decrease by 11% as indexed to revenue because of the time and resources Product reach dedicated to improving company-wide operational efficiencies and creating increased awareness of our environmental impacts. Our journey toward sustainability incorporates all aspects of our business and requires employees to make more environmentally conscious decisions on a daily basis. Promega has achieved all but one environmental target after only two years working toward our four-year goals. Promega has achieved all but one environmental target after only two years of working toward our four-year goals. However, we will not be setting new goals because significant new buildings will come online that may affect our overall Planet aware progress. We are encouraged by the commitment to environmental sustainability by individuals worldwide and look to continual improvement on this journey. Growth brings new opportunities and challenges to operating in an environmentally sensitive manner, and Promega is committed to looking for ways to design, build, and operate in a sustainable manner. “Environment has such an impact on our life that you would not want People care FRANCE to be held responsible for its degradation! By sharing clear goals and values, we take a greater pride in our small daily achievements.” Community touch —Patrice Pasquier, General Manager Promega France Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 21 Corporate mind Product reach Planet aware People care Community touch 22 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Planet aware Corporate mind Global Carbon Footprint Global Carbon Footprint 2012 Goal Status Tons of C02 Per Million in Revenue 93 11% Reduction Responding to Climate Change 83 80 75 in CO2 Use 67 72 72 67 Scientific evidence has demonstrated the increased threat of climate change, which Product reach drives a need for reduction in carbon dioxide and other contributing greenhouse gases. 11550MA Promega supports the move to limit anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions with our internal goal to reduce emissions by 10% as indexed to revenue by 2014 (Figure 1). We 2008 2012 2014 GOAL actively track contributors to climate change from all operations globally and take into Figure 1. Status toward 2014 greenhouse account direct emissions from fuel combustion and indirect emissions from purchased gas emissions reduction goal. electricity, outgoing distribution and business travel. Because of improved awareness and focused action since 2008, Promega greenhouse gas emissions have decreased Global Carbon Footprint 2012 28% as indexed to revenue. During a year of significant growth in headcount, operational Global Carbon Footprint 2012 footprint, and sales actual greenhouse gas emissions decreased 1%. 20% 52% Planet aware 1% Energy Consumption. Emissions from generation of energy are the largest contributor to the Promega carbon footprint accounting for over 65% of total emissions (Figure 2). 3% Electrical Usage Energy is a focal point for all Promega employees from facilities managers to scientists as Natural Gas 10% Air Travel we recognize the opportunity to do more with less. With investments in time and resources Automobile Travel Paper to improving efficiency, overall energy consumption decreased by 5% in 2012 (Figure 3). Distribution 10551MA 14% 5 Figure 2. Key contributors to the Promega carbon footprint. People care In 2012, overall energy % Global Energy Usage consumption decreased by Global Energy Usage 59 57 56 57 51 15% NATURAL GAS Indexed /Million 508 in Revenue Million BTUs of Gross 468 432 Electricity. Promega strives to minimize impacts from energy using a two-pronged 398 Community touch 338 approach. First we focus on reducing actual energy usage through improved ELECTRICITY efficiencies in facilities whenever possible. Secondly, we also work to generate 54 52 10552MA electricity or purchase it from renewable sources. With significant focus in both 56 56 57 2008 2012 Figure 3. Global energy composition and usage indexed to revenue. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 23 Planet aware Corporate mind these areas, emissions from electricity were reduced by 10% as indexed to Global Global Electricity Electricity Usage Usage revenue in the last year. Energy is a primary focus at corporate headquarters in Kilowat Hours Used per Million in Revenue Madison, Wisconsin, where over 90% of total global electricity is consumed. Product reach 8% In 2012 cooling demand was 28% greater at our corporate headquarters from 70 Decline in Electricity Usage 65 62 one of the warmest years on record, but we held electricity usage to 1% growth 62 56 56 57 over 2011 (Figure 4). In 2012 we placed significant focus on increasing employee awareness of energy 10553MA consumption at all global locations. An energy campaign was completed in 2008 2012 2014 GOAL August that resulted in a 6% reduction in energy consumption during the months of August and September at our headquarters, despite a warmer than usual Figure 4. Electricity usage indexed to summer. Energy efficiency projects that contributed to this reduction include: revenue in relation to our 2014 Goal. Planet aware • I n December 2012, we completed a transition from metal halide to more efficient T8 fluorescent lighting in the Agora parking garage. Over 129 units were replaced with an estimated savings of over 100,000 kWh each year. That is equivalent to saving 46 tons of CO2, the amount sequestered from six acres of reforested land. People care Transition to T8 fluorescent lighting in the Agora parking garage should save the Community touch equivalendt of 46 tons of CO2. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 24 Planet aware Corporate mind •  ata center air handling enhancements were made in June 2012 to incorporate more efficient water cooled D Product reach equipment and design for energy efficiency. We strategically moved air handling equipment outside our building to eliminate internal release of heat waste and the need to run compressors during winter months. • P  romega Euro Hub in Germany installed motion detection for lighting in their warehouse GERMANY and restrooms to conserve energy, transitioned to more efficient lighting at employee desks, and purchased a new warehouse gate with a separate door to reduce cooling requirements in the summer and heating in the winter. Initiatives to reduce future consumption: Planet aware • T  he addition of a building automation system across all primary buildings will allow intelligent controlling of mechanical equipment and lighting to eliminate wasted energy. This effort started in 2012 and will continue in 2013. • T  he IT team has purchased the power management software for scheduled shutdown and wakeup of workstations. This software will be rolled out to all Promega locations globally, allowing us to reduce energy consumption during off peak hours and to track energy consumption of machines. People care •  romega Biotech Iberica in Madrid, Spain, is currently implementing more efficient P LED lighting in their office space and expects to see savings in 2013. SPAIN •  e are implementing enhancements to improve the efficiency of air handling W systems that are primary energy consumers. Community touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 25 Planet aware Corporate mind Product reach Planet aware The 250 photovoltaic panels on the Aviation People care Operations building in Madison, Wisconsin, have generated over 180,000 kWh since installation, preventing Community touch over 130 tons of CO2 from being generated. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 26 Planet aware Corporate mind In 2012, adoption of renewable energy use continued to increase. Promega recognizes that using renewable energy eliminates greenhouse gas emissions that otherwise would have been emitted during energy production. Product reach •  he 250 photovoltaic panels on the Aviation Operations building in Madison, Wisconsin, have generated T over 180,000 kWh since installation, preventing over 130 tons of CO2 from being generated. To see the current production of this system, please visit this live dashboard. ›› Any additional energy needs at this facility come from 100% renewable energy sources. • Branch locations throughout the world continue to switch to 100% renewable energy sources: ›› Promega Euro Hub in Mannheim, Germany (September 2011) Planet aware EUROPE ·· In 2012 the Euro Hub was the largest purchaser of renewable energy at over 290,000 kWh. ›› Promega Brazil in Sao Paulo (since opening in 2011) ›› Promega Italia in Milan (November 2010) ›› Promega Biotech Ibérica in Alcobendas, Spain (since 2008) BRAZIL People care ›› P  romega Biotech AB in Stockholm, Sweden (since opening in 2007) Promega is committed to investing in training specifically related to energy efficiency and renewable energy. A number of facilities specialists in the headquarters have been trained in energy efficiency through Wisconsin’s Focus on Energy and help lead efforts to identify opportunities for improvement. Community touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 27 Planet aware Corporate mind Natural Gas. Natural gas is used primarily at our manufacturing sites for heating and production-related processes, but some branch offices use natural gas for Global Natural Gas Usage Global Natural Gas Usage heating. Natural gas is the largest source of direct air emissions and second Therms Used per Million in Revenue in overall emissions for Promega. Through equipment improvements and Product reach 27 9% 25 better management of our heating requirements, dependency on this resource 22 Less Natural Gas Used 22 decreased substantially during periods of growth (Figure 5). 1 199 20 In 2012 natural gas usage was reduced by 10% thanks to FRANCE lower heating demand during a milder than usual winter. 10554MA Contributing to this reduction in 2012 was a new heat pump 2008 2012 2014 GOAL added at Promega France to avoid using the central heating during the spring and summer. This will prevent natural gas consumption Figure 5. Natural gas usage as indexed to revenue compared to 2014 goal. Planet aware with effects expected to be seen in 2013. Since 2008, natural gas usage has decreased 40% indexed to revenue. We are encouraged by theses trends and continually look to further reduce impacts from natural gas use by investing in upgrades to our equipment. Since 2008, natural gas usage has decreased 40% indexed to revenue We also use renewable energy sources to reduce impacts from heating: People care •  eothermal heating and cooling continues to minimize the natural gas G dependency of Aviation Operations building in Madison, Wisconsin. •  o reduce impacts from heating and cooling, geothermal heating and solar T Community touch hot water systems were installed in the Feynman Center, our new GMP facility opening in 2013. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 28 Planet aware Corporate mind D  irect air emissions outlined below are from fuel purchased for heating and emergency generators in North America. All of these emissions are below threshold levels set by local and federal organizations. We continue to evaluate options Product reach to further reduce direct emissions globally. Direct Air Emissions from North American Operations Nox N2O CO CO2 SO2 PM VOC Pb HAP 2012 2.30 0.05 1.93 2,765 0.01 0.17 0.17 0.00 0.14 2011 2.23 0.05 1.87 2,673 0.01 0.17 1.00 0.00 0.14 2010 2.30 0.05 1.87 2,649 0.01 0.17 1.00 0.00 0.14 2009 2.54 0.04 2.05 2,237 0.01 0.17 1.13 0.00 0.19 2008 2.54 0.04 2.11 2,329 0.01 0.17 1.37 0.00 0.16 Planet aware Distribution. Much effort is invested to ensure that our products get to customers quickly and safely. We have also focused on reducing air emissions by using more efficient modes of transport when possible and reducing the weight of packaging materials. Because of product requirements for temperature regulation and customer expectations, roughly People care 90% of our shipments are sent via air. Our logistics teams are committed to finding ways to reduce emissions from distribution while assuring the same high level of service to our customers. To understand the indirect emissions from outgoing shipments, data were collected from Promega-owned global distribution hubs on weight, distance and mode of transportation in 2012. In previous years where data were unavailable, Community touch emissions related to outgoing logistics have been estimated based on revenue growth. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 29 Planet aware Corporate mind Promega Helix. To further reduce emissions from distribuworkflow for our customers tion, Promega offers a state-of-the-art, on-site inventory while having less impact on Product reach management system called Helix. Helix “Smart” capabilities our planet. provide real-time product monitoring and manage Helix invenCarbon offsets are also used to compensate for emistory based on product usage to provide consolidated bulk sions that are unavoidable by supporting projects like replenishment shipments. This allows more products to be reforestation or renewable energy projects in developing sent with less shipping and materials. The automated Helix countries. Promega continues a campaign started in inventory management system not only ensures uninterrupted 2010 of purchasing carbon credits to offset the greensupplies, but consolidates shipments to ensure uninterrupted house gas emissions from energy use of all Helix units. In addition, emissions from initial unit shipPlanet aware ment and product distribution through this channel are also offset. People care In 2012, Helix offset over 640 tons of emissions worldwide Community touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 30 Planet aware Corporate mind In 2012, Helix offset over 640 tons of emissions worldwide by supporting the Product reach following projects: •  URUS Protection of P Tropical Rainforest and Bio-diversity Project BRAZIL • S  abah Rainforest Rehabilitation Project Malaysia (shown left) Planet aware To see more information and learn how to participate, please visit: www.promega.com/helix People care Community touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 31 Planet aware Corporate mind Business Travel. As a global company, travel is essential to building strong customer relations and general business operations. Reducing travel to customer sites is difficult, Business Travel Carbon Footprint Business Travel Carbon Footprint but with the global availability of video conferencing, we are working to minimize our 2,097 1,691 2,090 2,880 2,813 10% Product reach Indexed /Million travel emissions. Business travel via air, automobile, and rail make up about 12% of the 55 45 in Revenue 29 Promega current carbon footprint (Figure 6). 10 Million BTUs of Gross RAIL 9 52 9 40 686 8 7 681 576 Air Travel. Emissions from air travel have been one of the most significant chalAUTO 855 607 lenges for Promega in the last few years. During this period emissions have increased due to emphasis on growth globally and the addition of the Promega AIR 1,213 1,044 1,463 2,139 2,087 10555MA 2008 2012 Aviation Operations program in 2010. The Promega Aviation Operations Program provides unique opportunities for development of stronger connections with Figure 6. Sources of gross travel emissions customers and collaborators as well as supporting global operations internally. and emissions indexed to revenue. Planet aware Despite these trends, in the last year we saw air travel emissions decrease by 13% as indexed to revenue thanks to more Promega branches using efficient high-speed rail in lieu of air travel. Because of its efficiency, rail travel contributes only a small portion to our carbon footprint from travel. When travel is necessary, efforts are made to use the most fuel-efficient mode. Emission Sales Branches with Largest Travel Emissions Reduction Since 2008 Reduction People care Australia 47% Spain 36% Japan 14% Sweden 6% Community touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 32 Planet aware Corporate mind Automobile Travel. To reduce environmental Automobile Travel impacts of automobile travel we are actively Carbon Automobile Footprint Travel Carbon Footprint encouraging use of fuel-efficient vehicles. Name of Organization: PROMEGA Certified Period: January 1, 2012 – December 31, 2012 The certified organization has measured greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and reduced them to net zero through internal change and/or externally, through carbon 1% Promega Benelux, Promega UK, Promega Tons of CO2 per Million in Revenue offsetting in accordance with the requirements of the EMKAY goGreen Protocol for the stated activity. 855 Reduction GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS ASSESSMENT An emissions assessment/audit has been undertaken by an independent third party in in CO2 Use Italia, Promega AG in Switzerland, and Promega 4 Product reach accordance with the WBCSD-WRI GHG Protocol. 686 Emission reduced through carbon offsetting:324 TONS 681 81 607 KK in Japan are some of the locations that have 2012PR113 576 3 2 moved to a more efficient and ecologically 2 2 sound fleet. In the United States, enrollment 10556MA Since 2009, Promega has offset over 1,300 in Emkay’s “GoGreen” fleet program enables tons of CO2 by planting trees as members of 2012 2008 the “Go Green” program. increased use of high-efficiency vehicles, and this program plants trees each year to offset any unavoidable greenhouse gas Figure 7. Net emissions from automobile travel emissions generated from Promega fleet travel in the United States. Since 2009, and indexed to revenue. Promega has offset over 1,300 tons of CO2 by planting trees as members of the Planet aware “Go Green” program. To reduce the environmental impact of employee commuting, alternate transportation programs have been implemented in a number of locations worldwide. The goal is to encourage use of public transportation, ridesharing or biking to work. Also to encourage the adoption of electric vehicles, Promega is in the process of installing electric vehicle charging stations in parking garages. People care All buildings at corporate headquarters in Madison have bikes for employees to use and resources to support UK cyclists such as pumps and bike repair kits. Many locations worldwide have similar programs in place to encourage employees to bike to work, use public transport, or rideshare. Promega Biosciences in California and Promega UK were specific locations that expanded their Community touch programs to encourage cycling or alternative transportation use by employees. The net reduction in automobile travel carbon footprint is shown in Figure 7. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 33 Planet aware Corporate mind Preserving Natural Capital Global Non-Hazardous Waste Global Non-Hazardous Waste “Environmental stewardship is important to Promega because 134 136 142 131 130 120 117 it helps protect the planet while improving our efficiency and 114 Cubic Feet in Thousands 104 13% Product reach 99 Reduction/Revenue in 3 yrs. ability to do business in the future. Our teams are always on the 542 GOAL Waste / Recycling 501 471 502 40 409 09 4 452 lookout for new opportunities to conserve resources and mini10557MA mize the impacts of our operations.” 2008 2012 2014 —Dan Motl, Director of Facilities, Madison, WI USA Figure 8. Composition of non-hazardous solid waste and progress toward 2014 goal. Waste. We strive to live the mantra “Reduce, Reuse, Recycle” and have seen greater Planet aware adoption of recycling at Promega locations globally. As a result of these efforts, we are recycling more than we are sending to the landfill. Since 2008, recycling efforts globally have increased by 37% as a result of improved awareness and convenience for recycling at all Promega locations (Figure 8). Since 2008, recycling efforts globally have increased by 37 % People care Key areas of focus that have contributed to waste reduction include: • C  ommunication campaigns to increase awareness and understanding of what can be recycled. Community touch • L  ooking at our waste stream to identify materials that can be segregated and handled more responsibly. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 34 Planet aware Corporate mind ›› W  e continued a pipette tip box recycling program that started in 2010. Over 4,000 pounds of pipette tip boxes, approximately 20,000 boxes, were recycled that would be Product reach have previously been sent to the landfill. Over 4,000 lbs of pippette tip boxes and 750 lbs of Maxwell® trays were recycled ›› In 2012 we started recycling Maxwell® trays, with over Over 4,000 lbs of pippette tip boxes were recycled. 750 pounds being recycled, roughly 17,000 boxes. Planet aware • Use of permanent ware, compostable and recyclable materials in cafeterias and kitchenettes: ›› P  olystyrene materials have been removed and replaced ›› R  eusable tumblers were provided to all Promega employwith recyclable or compostable alternatives at corporate ees worldwide. headquarters. ›› In 2012 Promega BioSystems in California initiated ›› S  election of a new caterer Promega Europe Training and composting programs in their community and has seen People care Applications Lab who uses recyclable cardboard boxes, waste reduce by 75% percent. Since 2010 over 80% preventing over 350 plastic trays from going to the landfill. of waste has been diverted from the landfill through extensive recycling and composting efforts. FRANCE In December 2012 Promega France joined Recylum to ensure that all electrical equipment sold in France by Promega can be recycled according to the local regulations free of charge. Community touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 35 Planet aware Corporate mind  he construction of the FeynT man Center has recycled 97% Global Hazardous Waste Product reach Global Hazardous Waste of its waste to date and is 42 36 1% Reduction 40 Pounds of Waste Per Million in Revenue designed to use more sus656 618 681 32 40 582 tainable materials such as 565 cross laminated timbers that CHEMICAL BIOLOGICAL are more energy efficient and weigh 1/6 of concrete or steel 11558MA supports. Cross laminated 2008 2012 timbers are commonly used Planet aware in Europe and offer a much Figure 9. Hazardous wastes as indexed more inviting environment. To date, the construction of the Feynman Center has recycled 97% of its waste. to revenue. Biotech manufacturing processes often require work with potentially hazardous substances. Promega takes the responsibility that comes with the use of these products seriously as well as the obligation to reduce waste and ensure responsible disposal. In 2012 Promega Biosciences transitioned into a new partnership with a hazardous waste People care handler that provides more environmentally friendly disposal options. Previously 99% of hazardous was incinerated but now only 10% is incinerated, with remaining waste being treated for reuse, reused as fuel or recycled (Figure 9). Promega Biosciences was recognized by the San Luis Obispo Chamber of Commerce with a Green Award in 2012 for voluntary efforts to reduce pollution and improve resource conservation and sustainability. We recognize the value of absolute reduction in waste stream and will continue to regularly analyze hazardous waste reduction opportunities. Community touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 36 Planet aware Corporate mind Water Usage. Clean water is a vital yet scarce resource, and billions of people each year Global Global Water Water Usage Usage go without it every day. Many Promega locations worldwide incorporate design features 3% to conserve and insure proper disposal of water. Our offices in Sydney, Less Water Used Australia, use rain water collected for cleaning, toilets and irrigation of Gallons Per Million in Revenue AUSTRALIA 64 66 64 58 62 60 6 0 Product reach plants. Similarly, our Madison-based global headquarters building uses rainwater collection, allowing runoff to drain to prairie and rain gardens for natural filtration. 10559MA 2008 2012 2014 GOAL Water use decreased by 3% last year, Figure 10. Waste usage indexed to revenue as indexed to revenue and progress toward 2012 target. Planet aware Promega actively measures water and evaluates initiatives to save water in activities from manufacturing, landscaping and daily office activity. Water is a challenge with water-intensive manufacturing processes being increasingly needed. In 2012 we also saw extreme weather in the summer, and water was used to supplement cooling systems that were stressed. Despite these challenges, we saw water usage decrease by 3% as indexed to revenue in the last year (Figure 10). Recent efforts to conserve water include: People care • Our new GMP facility, the Feynman Center, will incorporate sustainable aspects such as grey water flushing in restrooms, bio retention ponds for storm water runoff and prairie restoration. • Promega Biosciences’ “Green Team” in San Luis Obispo, CA has pushed water conservation projects and has seen water usage decrease by 38% since 2008. One of the most significant projects was a water recirculating system for Community touch distilled water where water is reused rather than sent down the sewer, saving over 350,000 gallons of water a year. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 37 Planet aware Corporate mind Product reach Planet aware Restored Natural Prairie People care Promega has supported numerous restoration projects, started 20 years ago and continuing today with over 25 acres Community touch restored around the Promega campus in Madison, WI. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 38 Planet aware Corporate mind Paper Usage. Thanks to the adoption of emerging media channels we have enhanced Global Paper Usage Global Paper Usage communication with our customers and reduced the need for printed materials by using Product reach electronic documents. Other electronic media including iPhone®/iPad® and Android™ Reams per Million in Revenue 574 applications, blogs, electronic catalogs, online support, and social media have also improved communication efficiency with our customers. 8% In 2008, aggressive commitments were made to move away from printing. With significant Below Goal efforts and investment Promega transitioned from mostly paper catalogs, instruction 98 107 65 88 96 96 10560MA manuals, print marketing, and corporate communications to electronic formats. Since 2008 2012 2014 GOAL 2008 paper usage has decreased 78% (Figure 11). Figure 11. Global paper usage indexed to 78 Planet aware revenue since 2008. Since 2008, paper % usage has decreased People care Some additional efforts to reduce paper and impacts from paper use include: • U  sing Recycled Paper and Duplex Printing. Many global locations have transitioned to use recycled paper and duplex printing. These efforts provide value to the environment by reducing air emissions, combating deforestation, and limiting waste. Community touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 39 Planet aware Corporate mind • Electronic documents. Product reach ›› F  ield Application Specialists in North America along with branches in Europe and Asia have adopted iPads® to better serve customers while reducing the use of printed resources. ›› P  romega sends electronic copies of various documents to customers instead of printed copies, resulting in a savings of over 5,000 pieces of paper Planet aware a month. ›› E  uropean branches offer electronic invoices to customers as another way to reduce unnecessary printing and paper usage. People care Community touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 40 Planet aware Corporate mind Packaging. Promega faces unique challenges in packing our products. Many products are temperature regulated and require shipment using dry ice and foam coolers. Despite these challenges, we are committed to searching for innovative ways to reduce packaging, Product reach use environmentally friendly materials, and design for recycling or reuse. Environmental sustainability, product protection, and quality are all key priorities for our packaging. Over 25 years ago we were one of the first companies to fund a program for customers to return polystyrene foam coolers for reuse. This program has since been adopted by many other companies as a way to divert waste from the landfill. In the last two years we also have moved to unbleached shipping boxes, started using sustainably harvested materials in shipping boxes, and used biodegradable and recyclable air pouches to offer product protection with the least environmental impact. Planet aware Capturing environmental metrics for all product and shipment packaging is a challenge on which we are beginning to make progress. Using a newly implemented ERP system, we have greater capabilities for capturing packaging weights and material types to help us better understand the environmental impacts of our packaging. This focus will continue over the next few years to help us understand and prioritize packaging opportunities for material reduction. Shipping boxes now use unbleached People care corregate and more recycled content. Community touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 41 Corporate mind Product reach Planet aware People care Community touch People care Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Corporate mind Product reach People care Overview Planet aware Our people are our most valuable asset. The Promega differences are respected. We encourage employees to work culture and environment allow our employees to be creative where they are inspired and support employee understand their own strengths and purpose, to live passions in their work, personal interests and community People care happy, healthy work and personal lives and to understand involvement. how they contribute to the company vision. We employ more than 1,200 people in 18 branches worldwide. Each The Promega Culture Promega location embraces these guiding principles to As with all activities in a business, the over-arching prinsupport employees in ways that meet the individual needs ciples that guide the culture and daily values to provide of the region. We invest in the personal and professional context for decision-making need to be clearly articulated. growth of all employees and provide a work environment Organizations are as unique as individual people, with Community touch where individuals can be challenged and innovative and personalities, values, and direction. Understanding the achieve a work-life balance. Employees have flexibility in psychology of the organization – its “DNA” – is critical to how they work and the freedom to act where individual Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 43 People care predicting the course of actions that the organization is likely to take in maintaining the Corporate mind integrity of its operations. For Promega, these include the following principles: • The  organization exists to support the personal aspirations of its employees and others that work with us in meeting our goals. Product reach •  he underlying structures should support the primary goal of personal developT ment, including: ›› Organizational reporting and decision-making ›› P  hysical work environments which include design, lighting, communication systems, and access to information ›› Giving priority to the things people need in order to do their best work Planet aware ›› C  apital structure that supports the primary organizational goals and values. Economic metrics give us guidance on sustainable business practice, but are not the primary drivers for business decisions. ›› S  election and support of employees entering the organization who reflect the higher values of the enterprise. • T  he nature of our work is based on the premise that life science research and related discoveries have been and will continue to be important to society and People care human development. Promega’s contribution to this field is to design and supply products, systems and procedures that simplify this research and give more reliable and accurate results. Surveys of employees indicate that their greatest satisfaction comes from the people they work with and the nature of the work they are doing, which aligns with the contribution to society resulting from our products and services. While personal economics are important, Community touch they are not the drivers for excellent performance and job commitment. There will always be individual exceptions, but the organizational core values support the preponderance of purpose that employees hold. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 44 People care Corporate mind Working Environment We support our people by creating workspaces with feaBenefits. Promega offers comprehensive benefits protures such as original art, third spaces to evolve thinking, grams at all global locations based on country norms. Product reach and restored prairies and woodland trails. Additionally, Benefits programs include medical, dental, and vision employees work in similar, nonhierarchical space to foster coverage available to all full time employees and their collaboration and teamwork. Significant time and investfamilies. Employees are also offered shortand long-term ment has been focused on providing an environment disability insurance, life insurance, tuition assistance, and that is nurturing, stimulating, and supportive. An onsite paid time off. These benefits are a significant investment to curator maintains a library of rotating art installations that ensure the wellbeing of our employees and their families. enhance the campus and build community via ongoing cultural events. The Promega culture is considered in the design of buildings, and services offered. The Wellness Center has had over Planet aware The corporate campus is expanding with the addition of 4,500 patient visits & administered the Feynman Center, scheduled to open in the fall of 2013. over 700 immunizations It is designed to be a healthy and engaging environment for employees. Situated between numerous buildings on campus, this facility also serves as a natural “crossroads” Wellness Center. An onsite Wellness Center, staffed by for employees to meet and collaborate. As such, there are a nurse practitioner, offers convenient care services and dedicated spaces for all employees that aim to bring the People care wellness consultations to Promega employees, spouses, outside in and provide different types of places to gather, and partners. Since opening in June 2010 the Promega socialize, think, exercise, and work. Wellness Center has had over 4,500 patient visits and Employee Health administered over 700 immunizations in Madison, WI. Well-being extends beyond physical health. Our hope is Promega Corporate headquarters is a nonsmoking for our employees to experience the richness of life with campus to prevent the health hazards associated with work, family and personal growth. That kind of lifestyle secondhand smoke. Community touch is a part of how we are able to achieve the innovative progress that makes Promega a rewarding place to work. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 45 People care Corporate mind Product reach Planet aware We support our people People care by creating workspaces with features such as original art, third spaces to evolve thinking, and Community touch restored prairies and woodland trails. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 46 People care Corporate mind Employee Safety The Promega Environmental Health and Safety programs are committed to establishing, maintaining and continuously improving our working environment to be safe and healthy for all of our employees and the communities in which we operate. Promega is proud to Product reach have accident rates that are well below the industry average and be recognized for our commitment to safety at many locations. Promoting Wellness through Healthy and Active Lifestyles Wellness, both mental and physical, is an important part of the culture at Promega. Our Promega Wellness Team promotes a variety of activities each year to encourage healthy and active lifestyles at all global locations. Planet aware • P  romega Singapore “Green One” 5K. Employees at Promega Singapore participated in the Green One 5K walkathon to encourage environmentally friendly activities such as walking instead of driving. This was the largest sustainable lifestyle event in Singapore with over 20,000 participants. • B  ike to Work. Promega supports avid Employees at Promega Singapore SINGAPORE People care employee “Bike to Work” groups worldwide participated in the Green One 5K walkathon the largest sustainable from Wisconsin to the United Kingdom. lifestyle event in Singapore. Bike racks and repair kits are available at every building in Madison and at several locations globally. Additionally, Promega offers bicycle commuter benefits providing $20 per month tax free for cycling related expenses in the United States. Community touch ›› I n 2012 the team at Promega Biosciences in California won the San Luis Obispo Bicycle Month Challenge with over fifty percent of employees biking to work functions during the month of May. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 47 People care Corporate mind • A  nnual Promega Fun 5K Walk/Run. Each fall • Relaxed Body and Mind. Promega locations in Promega sponsors a fun walk/run for our employees Mannheim, Germany, offer free massages to employees each and their families. This year 185 people participated in month, and Promega Sweden has a massage chair onsite Product reach the run, and in addition to promoting healthy and active for employees. lifestyles, 152 pounds of food and monetary donations • On-site Amenities. All North American locations offer were provided to The Second Harvest Food Pantry. onsite facilities and programs to support employee wellness. Global locations that are smaller offer health club reimbursements and financial support for participation in sports if the facility does not offer an onsite fitness room. ›› O  ur corporate campus offers basketball and volPlanet aware leyball courts, fully-equipped fitness rooms, as well as walking, jogging, and biking paths and groomed ski trails in the winter. To promote health in body, mind and spirit a Zen Zone Runners line up for the Annual Promega Fun 5K Walk/Run . is available on our corporate campus with a • O  utdoor Activities in Switzerland. SWITZERLAND steeping pool, steam Promega AG in Switzerland holds room, and sauna. social events encouraging an active People care lifestyle with a skiing or snow shoeing day in winter and a hiking day in the mountain in the summer. “Promega enables employees to design accountable roles for themselves Community touch in a healthy balance with their lifestyles and personal wellness.” —Patrick Van de Velde, General Manager Promega Biotech AB, Sweden Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 48 • Wellness Education. Promega values health education and regularly offers programs Corporate mind and campaigns throughout the year. Campaigns in 2012 aimed to educate employees and promote actions like healthy eating, increased physical activity, and weight management. Past communications have covered wellness topics such as advanced directives, nutrition for children, snacking smart, healthy recipes, smoking cessation, financial Product reach planning, stress relief, back care, knowing your pet, and trigger point therapy. Each year we sponsor a Wellness & Safety Fair in Madison with approximately 30 vendors and 200 employees attending this year. • C  ommunity and Culinary Garden. The Promega culinary garden was expanded in 2012 to more than one acre, and a greenhouse was added for additional growing opportunities. Our community garden provides plots for Promega employees to use to produce their own food and promotes the sharing of gardening skills. Planet aware People care “With dozens of vegetables grown in our garden and the ability to compost food waste we are able to be sustainable in our offerings.” —Nate Herndon, Culinary Experience Manager At the promega headquarters in Fitchburg, Wisconsin our cafeterias and catering operCommunity touch ations provide local, seasonal foods to our employees and customers. Working with a network of dozens of local farms and using our onsite garden and hoop house, which is about 1 acre of land total, we are able to serve healthy organic menus across our campus. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 49 People care Employee Development Corporate mind Education, Training and Advancement. Promega training equipment, scientists and trainers are able to participate and development programs are designed to keep employees from offsite locations. abreast of the latest technologies, scientific trends and customer needs in order to stay competitive in the marketplace. Product reach We are committed to the personal and professional growth 2,300 individuals participated of all employees throughout the many phases of their career. Our people determine the quality of our products and services. in virtual or scientific training Investing in employees is an investment in the future. opportunities at Promega In 2012, $850,000 (USD) was devoted to continuing education, development, and training of our employees, globally. A significant amount of training is focused on maintaining our Human Rights and Diversity high standards in Quality System Regulated (QSR) areas, Planet aware Human Rights. As a member to the UN Global Compact, including providing automated and just-in-time visibility into Promega follows all regulations regarding employment and the training status by individual employee as well as by training has zero tolerance for violations of human rights. At Promega, requirements. we are committed to upholding and advancing The Universal Scientific Training is an area of significant Declaration of Human Rights in how our business develops productive relationships around the world and works coopFRANCE emphasis at Promega. Our Scientific Training Department designs, develops, and impleeratively among different customs and cultures. Issues that ments scientific training for employees we take very seriously include: People care around the globe, which is delivered in live and virtual class• Protection of children from exploitation rooms. In 2012, the number of attendees of live courses and webcasts increased by 20% over the previous year from 1,965 • Protection of all workers from compulsory labor course attendees to 2,300 course attendees. A total of 53 • Payment of at least minimum wages Webcast Courses, and 11 Live Classroom courses offered In • Safe working conditions Madison, and Lyon, France, at PETAL, the Promega Europe Training and Applications Lab. PETAL training continues Community touch Promega complies with all local workplace regulations and to address the training needs of European, Middle Eastern insures that our employees and community members are and African employees. PETAL helps reduce travel due to treated with respect and dignity. its central location in Europe, and with video conferencing Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 50 Corporate mind Product reach Planet aware People care Community touch 51 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 People care Corporate mind Diversity. Promega has globally diverse teams with corporate office Product reach and branch departments reflecting the demographics of the country in which they are located. As such, our global organization reflects over 15 cultures around the world. Women represent approximately 46% of the worldwide workforce and 39% of global management positions. Promega Biotech Planet aware Ibérica in Spain has been recognized by the city of Alcobendas with the Municipal Award SPAIN for Reconciliation and Equal Opportunities. People care Women represent approximately 46% of Promega’s workforce Community touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 52 Corporate mind Product reach Planet aware People care Community touch Community touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Corporate mind Product reach Community touch Planet aware Overview Science tells us that any action produces a reaction. As such, we know Promega is not an entity unto itself, but it exists in part because of the action and reaction from our surrounding communities. We value the support of these communities, and we make it our business to give back and foster the inspiration and energy that only come with community. As a life science company, we’re fortunate. It’s our job to examine, and help others examine, the workings of life. While we may see life at the molecular level, life lessons seem to hold true at any size. The community of a cell includes both People care group and individual dynamics. Cells exhibit both flexibility and continuity. We include this understanding in our values of community engagement and support. Promega incorporates a level of internal autonomy that allows meaningful support of communities at a local level around the world. In working to make a meaningful contribution to our surrounding communities each year, Promega has both established community organizations as well as contributed to additional groups and initiatives. We support areas which can, like life science, foster discovery and enrich our lives, centering most of our community engagement and support around education/knowledge, community wellness and creativity. Community touch Supporting Education/Knowledge Promega embraces the perspective that shared knowledge across global networks ensures that scientists and science can fulfill their potential. Education brings growth, discovery, and rich context for the future. Each year we support Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 54 Community touch Corporate mind established educational efforts as well as the individual options for visiting Promega facilities in Shanghai or efforts of Promega scientists who volunteer to teach Madison, WI. We believe that this award will have positive throughout the community (over 1,250 hours in 2012). influence on stimulating innovation in the life sciences Promega also offers classes for our staff and customers research community in China. Product reach who need to learn more about molecular biology tools Promega locations worldwide strive to support education and applications. and create interest in science. A few examples of efforts In 2012, over 35% of overall philanthropic contributions in 2012 include: were geared toward educational efforts. Initiatives sup• P  romega Australia supports The ported by Promega include: AUSTRALIA Smith Family “Learning for Life The Human Genome Exhibition. In 2012 we began Program” that aids disadvantaged supporting curriculum development around DNA analysis children to develop vital life skills and Planet aware with the Smithsonian and FNIH (Foundation of National stay engaged in education. Institutes for Health) as part of the 10 Year Anniversary of • P romega GMBH in Germany GERMANY the sequencing of the human genome. We are proud to sponsors the international learnsupport increased education and awareness about the far ing platform “Honey Bee Online reaching effects of the Human Genome Project through Studies” (HOBOS). The project of the high tech exhibition opening in 2013 at the National the University Wuerzburg is centered Museum of Natural History in Washington, D.C., USA. around a honey bee stock and designed to stimulate People care Promega Innovation Award in China. In 2012 Promega the students’ urge to pursue research worldwide. announced sponsorship of an Innovation Award for young scientists in China. This Award is in support of the newly opened University of Wisconsin-Madison Innovation Office Promega scientists volunteered in Shanghai, China. Over the next 5 years, Promega will 1,250 teaching hours in 2012 work with several life science societies in China to select and award young • P  romega Biosciences chemists frequently make preCommunity touch CHINA talents whose innovations significantly sentations at schools and provide onsite tours of the advance life science research. The organic chemistry labs and manufacturing facilities award will feature a cash prize and in California. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 55 Community touch Corporate mind BioPharmaceutical Technology Center Institute. Product reach In partnership with many other community organizations, students) and summer and winter vacation offerings of the BioPharmaceutical Technology Center Institute (BTC a Science Research Class for elementary and middle Institute) provides educational opportunities that support school students. PH-BTCI also provided activities for scientific understanding, contributing to the continued public programs associated with the Korea Basic Science success of the biotechnology industry. Focusing on the Institute and the National Science Museum. Promega life sciences, programs are designed for a wide range donates all lab supplies requested from the company of learners – from upper elementary school students to catalog to PH-BTCI and also offers a 50% discount on scientists in academia and industry, as well as the general instrument purchase. public. Engaged participation is emphasized and many Planet aware activities are laboratory-based. Since 2005, the BTC Institute has been assisting the development of Promega-Hannam BTCI (PH-BTCI) at Hannam University in Daejeon, South Korea. Modifying programs to accommodate the Korean school system, PH-BTCI shares the BTC Institute’s mission and SOUTH KOREA offered several well-attended programs People care in 2012. These included a one-day 2012 Science Leadership Camp for More than 1,100 parents and students attended a one-day science leadership over 1,100 participants (parents and camp sponsored by the Promeag-Hannam BTCI in South Korea. “The BTCI helps bridge the mission of science through education.” Community touch —William A. Linton, CEO Promega Corporation Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 56 Community touch Corporate mind Product reach Planet aware AMAZ/Botanical Dimensions Digital Herbarium Project. We initiated support of this key initiative in 2010 to preserve and share the knowledge of one of the largest extant flora collections in Northern Peru. The AMAZ/ Botanical Dimensions Digital Herbarium Project is a three-year effort to create People care a digital database of over 100,000 species that had been collected in the Peruvian Amazon rainforest (shown left) since 1972. Appreciating that 25 percent of medicines today come from rainforest botanicals, there is a real need to preserve and share the rich Community touch knowledge of the Amazon with scientists working around the globe. The information is being databased at the Universidad Nacional de la Amazonia Peruana (UNAP). Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 57 Corporate mind Educational Resources. Appreciating that teachers Product reach are always looking for news ideas and the latest information for their classes, Promega offers educational resources such as complementary lectures and lab teaching guides on topics ranging form DNA purification to emerging infectious diseases. The Training Support Program, allows instructors teaching courses using DNA, RNA, protein or cell-based techniques at high school, undergraduate or graduate universities to receive 50% off Promega products. For more information please Planet aware visit www.promega.com/resources/teaching-and-training. Promega Webinar Series. The Promega Webinar Series is a program that provides noncommercial live webinars to scientists around the world free of charge. Scientific topics range from basic science concepts to highly technical research presentations. This channel of communication allows unique interactions between young and senior scientists in the areas of genomics, proteomics, genetic identity, and cellular analysis. Woods Hollow Children’s Center. Promega is a People care significant supporter of the Woods Hollow Children’s Center, which was developed to provide affordable and vital early childhood education and care for the community surrounding our headquarters in Madison, Wisconsin. With gold-standard accreditation, Woods Hollow offers a rich experience with diverse curriculum Community touch and a setting that allows children to explore and create. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 58 Community touch Corporate mind Community Wellness Promega defines community wellness in a broad sense activities, matching donations and encouraging volProduct reach from strengthening the physical and mental needs of the unteering. individual to addressing a multitude of social needs in ›› In 2012 funds donated by employees were the community. matched by Promega Biosciences to support In support of the diverse interests of our employees and The United Way, local Firefighters, Big Brothers/ the diverse needs of the community, each year Promega Big Sisters and Hurricane Sandy Relief. matches employee giving in the annual United Way and Community Shares campaigns that are offered on the Madison campus. Similar programs are also offered at Planet aware Promega branches to encourage contributions and volunteering: • P  romega UK operates an annual UK program to support local charities that has recently included ‘Naomi House’ for terminally ill children, ‘Guide Dogs for the Blind’ and In 2012 Promega employees contributed to Hurricane Sandy Relief efforts. ‘MacMillan Nurses’ supporting cancer patients at home. People care • P  romega corporate headquarters also supports an • In 2012, Promega Australia raised in-house aluminum can recycling program to benefit AUSTRALIA funds to support disadvantaged young adults with special needs in Wisconsin. AdamCan children through World Vision AusRecycling is a start-up business that will enable these tralia, supported The Salvation young adults to be self-employed and active members Army, and cancer research. of society. • P  romega also provides opportunities to individuals Community touch • In California at Promega Biosciences, an employee with disabilities in the United Kingdom and Madison, led “Community Action Team” works to support local Wisconsin, assembling and reusing packaging. organizations by involving employees in fundraising Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 59 Community touch Corporate mind Creativity Product reach By its very nature, science is creative. The need to think of things that don’t exist is simply a part of the job. The ability to think creatively and be comfortable forming ideas that have no specific roadmap is an important characteristic to reinforce. As a result, Promega has a long history of supporting creativity within the company and surrounding community. Planet aware Established Creative Venues. Promega supports numerous cultural venues in the community such as the Madison Contemporary Art Museum and the American Player’s Theatre (APT.) Specifically with the nationally recognized APT, Promega supports the education program of this Shakespearean theater that travels to schools around the state bringing new experiences from theater to thousands of students. People care We are also proud to announce sponsorship of the Overture Center for the Arts in 2012. Overture Center for the Arts is a venue in the heart of Madison’s thriving cultural arts district presenting more than 200 performances, The Overture Center for the Arts a Promega sponsored art exhibitions, and educational and community events each year. venue in 2012. Community touch Mycoplasma Cell Molecular Artistry by David S. Goodsell © 2011 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 60 Community touch Corporate mind Quarterly Art Exhibits. Quarterly public art exhibits on the Promega campus serve a dual purpose of sharing the creativity of featured artists while introducing the community to international perspectives. Throughout the years, exhibits have featured work of artists Product reach from around the world. This year, numerous local artists were featured in their works around food, light, landscape, everyday objects and the abstract. In addition, historic photographs marking significant moments in the Arizona territory including a visit by Theodore Roosevelt were displayed in the fall show. As always, employees throughout the company participated in the annual employee art show. This year, for those who do not create their own art regularly, they had the option of using lab coats for their medium. Supporting the arts is common at many global locations. Promega UK supports local artists through a local gallery company called ‘Little Van Planet aware Gogh’. Financial support of the gallery provides art for the office walls UK that rotates every 6 weeks and is available for purchase. People care Promega employees and local residents can view art in the BTC quarterly art show openings often feature local BTC gallery quarterly art shows. musical talent. Community touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 61 Report Parameters Corporate mind 2012 Report Parameters Reporting on Promega Corporate Responsibility progress is completed on a calendar year basis with information in this report covering January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012. This is the fifth Promega report in this area following the initial report released in July of 2009. This process of reporting will continue on an annual basis. Corporate Responsibility reporting attempts to focus on the environmental and social impacts of Promega operations worldwide using Product reach the framework established by the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3.1 Guidlelines and the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. By establishing more timely processes for gathering information worldwide, Promega has seen improved accuracy and trasparency in its key indicators for environmental and social impacts. Increases in the scope, materiality, and comprehensiveness have been experienced but Promega recognizes that there is still significant room for growth. Information has been gathered from all 21 Promega branch and subsidiary locations worldwide. In 2012 some instances, additional or more accurate information has been gathered resulting in variations from reported indicators in previous reports. Estimations for previous years’ indicators has been made where information was unavailable using revenue as a factor. Planet aware Areas that have not been measured in this report due to lack of current information are: • P  ackaging Material Usage: By implementing a new • Staff Commute system for gathering and tracking data, Promega • Effluents to Water will have a better understanding of gross packaging material usage by type and the impacts from • Supply Chain Analysis these activities. People care Carbon footprint calculations have been made using the emission factors provided by the World Resources Institute Greenhouse Gas Protocol on energy and business travel. In the 2012 we used recently updated emission factors for electricity generation causing changes for previously reported emissions in certain regions. The reported emissions from distribution were calculated with the conversion factors provided by Defra’s 2012 Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors. Lastly, the Environmental Defense Fund’s Paper Calculator has been used for calculating the life cycle impacts due to paper usage. Current and previous years’ carbon footprints have been calculated using the most Community touch updated information and emission factors from the resources above. Please contact sustainability@promega.com with any questions on the Promega Corporate Responsibility Report. Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 62 Key Indicators Corporate mind Key Indicators Economic 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Product reach Revenue (US Dollars) $221,650,835 $233,888,141 $260,201,139 $284,453,280 $318,919,508 Number of Employees 63 983 1,024 1,163 1,180 Environmental Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Tons of CO2) 20,708 19,429 20,797 21,430 21,257 Emissions Per Million in Revenue (Tons of CO2) 3.4 83.1 79.9 75.3 66.7 Energy Consumption: Planet aware Electricity (kWh) 15,742,438 15,255,183 16,363,009 16,446,339 16,649,880 Natural Gas (Therms) 589,034 573,652 564,715 569,454 508,964 Water Consumption (Gallons) 14,241,376 13,678,029 17,104,304 18,235,195 19,741,084 Total Paper (Reams) 127,240 22,894 27,798 18,522 28,141 Solid Non-Hazardous Waste (Cubic Feet) 223,642 215,826 245,029 270,299 271,941 Incinerated (Cubic Feet) 7,854 5,797 6,511 6,580 6,571 People care Land filled (Cubic Feet) 112,227 111,336 124,178 127,396 123,767 Recycled (Cubic Feet) 103,561 98,693 114,340 136,323 141,603 Chemical Waste (Pounds) 145,395 144,449 177,238 165,679 180,231 Infectious Waste (Pounds) 9,316 9,431 9,261 9,164 12,779 Community touch Styrofoam Boxes Returned 16,718 18,172 16,743 12,193 10,438 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 63 Index Corporate mind GRI Index The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is the world’s most widely recognized sustainability framework for organizations to use when measuring and reporting on economic, environmental, and social performance. The 2012 Promega Corporate Product reach Responsibility Report is based on the GRI G3.1 Guidelines and the following table has been developed to help users locate specific information in the report. Content GRI Section # Page # Introduction 1.2 2 CEO Letter 1.1 3 Corporate Mind Planet aware Overview 2.1, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, EC 1 5 Future Investments 2.10 7 Corporate Governance 2.3, 4.1, 4.2, 4.2, 4.5, LA 13 7 Corporate Value 4.8 8 Corporate Vision 4.8 8 Creative Approach 9 Supply Chain Management EC 6 10 People care Product Reach Overview 12 Research and Development at Promega 2.2, 2.7 12 Promega in the Real World 14 Investments in the Future 16 Community touch Quality Process and Product PR 2, PR 4, PR 5, PR 7, PR 8, PR 9 16 New cGMP Facility 17 Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 64 Index Corporate mind Planet Aware Overview 19 Responding to Climate Change EN 16, EN 17, EN 18 23 Product reach Energy Consumption EN 3, EN 4, EN 5 23 Natural Gas EN 19, EN 20 28 Distribution EN 26, EN 29 29 Business Travel 32 Preserving Natural Capital EN 13 34 Waste 2.10, EN 8, EN 22 34 Water Usage 37 Paper Usage 39 Planet aware Packaging EN 27 41 People Care Overview LA 1 43 The Promega Culture 43 Working Environment 45 Employee Health EC 3, LA 3 45 People care Employee Safety 47 Promoting Wellness through Healthy and Active Lifestyles 47 Employee Development 50 Human Rights and Diversity 4.12, HR 6, HR 7 50 Community touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 65 Index Corporate mind Community Touch Overview SO 1 54 Supporting Education/Knowledge 54 Product reach Community Wellness 59 Creativity 60 Report Parameters 2.8, 2.9, 3.1-3.11 62 Key Indicators 63 Index 64 Planet aware Some sections of the GRI that were not covered in the report will be addressed below. In 2012 we had no incidents or issues in the following areas: • Fines for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations (EN 28) • Incidents of discrimination and action taken. (HR 4) • Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. (HR 9) • Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices ant their outcome. (SO 7) People care • Fines and non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. (SO 8) Community touch Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 66 Figure Index Corporate mind Global Carbon Footprint Global Carbon Footprint Goal Status2012 Product reach Tons of C02 Per Million in Revenue 93 11% Reduction in CO2 Use 83 80 75 72 72 67 67 Planet aware 11550MA 2008 2012 2014 GOAL People care Figure 1. Status toward 2014 greenhouse gas emissions reduction goal. Community touch Return to pg. 23: Responding to Climate Change Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 67 Figure Index Corporate mind Global Carbon Footprint 2012 Global Carbon Footprint 2012 Product reach 20% 52% 1% 3% Electrical Usage Planet aware Natural Gas 10% Air Travel Automobile Travel Paper 10551MA Distribution 14% People care Figure 2. Key contributors to the Promega carbon footprint. Community touch Return to pg. 23: Energy Consumption Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 68 Figure Index Corporate mind Global Energy Usage Global Energy Usage 59 57 56 57 51 Product reach 15% NATURAL GAS Indexed /Million 508 in Revenue Million BTUs of Gross 468 432 398 Planet aware 338 ELECTRICITY 54 52 56 56 57 10552MA People care 2008 2012 Figure 3. Global energy composition and usage indexed to revenue. Community touch Return to pg. 23: Energy Consumption Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 69 Figure Index Corporate mind Global Electricity Usage Global Electricity Usage Kilowat Hours Used per Million in Revenue 8% Product reach 70 Decline in 65 Electricity Usage 62 62 56 56 57 Planet aware 10553MA People care 2008 2012 2014 GOAL Figure 4. Electricity usage indexed to revenue in relation to our 2014 Goal. Community touch Return to pg. 24: Electricity Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 70 Figure Index Corporate mind Global Natural Gas Usage Global Natural Gas Usage Product reach Therms Used per Million in Revenue 27 9% 25 Less Natural 22 Gas Used 22 1 199 20 Planet aware 10554MA 2008 2012 2014 GOAL People care Figure 5. Natural gas usage as indexed to revenue to 2014 goal. Community touch Return to pg. 28: Natural Gas Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 71 Figure Index Corporate mind Business Travel Carbon Footprint Business Travel Carbon Footprint Product reach 2,097 1,691 2,090 2,880 2,813 10% Indexed /Million in Revenue 55 45 29 10 Million BTUs of Gross RAIL 9 52 9 40 686 8 Planet aware 7 681 576 AUTO 855 607 AIR 1,213 1,044 1,463 2,139 2,087 10555MA People care 2008 2012 Figure 6. Sources of gross travel emissions and emissions indexed to revenue. Community touch Return to pg. 32: Business Travel Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 72 Figure Index Corporate mind Automobile Travel Carbon Footprint Automobile Travel Carbon Footprint Product reach 1% Tons of CO2 per Million in Revenue 855 Reduction in CO2 Use 4 686 681 81 607 576 3 Planet aware 2 2 2 10556MA 2008 2012 People care Figure 7. Net emissions from automobile travel and indexed to revenue. Community touch Return to pg. 33: Automobile Travel Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 73 Figure Index Corporate mind Global Non-Hazardous Waste Global Non-Hazardous Waste Product reach 142 131 134 136 130 120 117 114 Cubic Feet in Thousands 104 99 13% Reduction/Revenue in 3 yrs. GOAL Planet aware 542 Waste / Recycling 501 471 502 409 40 09 4 452 10557MA 2008 2012 2014 People care Figure 8. Composition of non-hazardous solid waste and progress toward 2014 goal. Community touch Return to pg. 34: Waste Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 74 Figure Index Corporate mind Global Hazardous Waste Global Hazardous Waste Product reach 42 36 1% Reduction 40 Pounds of Waste Per Million in Revenue 656 681 32 40 618 582 565 CHEMICAL BIOLOGICAL Planet aware 11558MA People care 2008 2012 Figure 9. Hazardous wastes as indexed to revenue. Community touch Return to pg. 36: Waste Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 75 Figure Index Corporate mind Global Water Usage Global Water Usage Product reach 3% Less Water Used Gallons Per Million in Revenue 64 66 64 58 62 60 6 0 Planet aware 10559MA 2008 2012 2014 GOAL People care Figure 10. Waste usage indexed to revenue and progress toward 2012 target. Community touch Return to pg. 37: Water Usage Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 76 Figure Index Corporate mind Global Paper Usage Global Paper Usage Product reach Reams per Million in Revenue 574 Planet aware 8% Below Goal 98 107 88 96 96 10560MA 65 2008 2012 2014 GOAL People care Figure 11. Global paper usage indexed to revenue since 2008. Community touch Return to pg. 39: Paper Usage Promega Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 77 Corporate mind Product reach Planet aware People care Community touch PROMEGA CORPORATION • 2800 WOODS HOLLOW ROAD • MADISON, WI 53711-5399 USA • TELEPHONE 608-274-4330 www.promega.com • © 2013 PROMEGA CORPORATION • ALL RIGHTS RESERVED • PRICES AND SPECIFICATIONS SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT PRIOR NOTICE • PRINTED IN USA 05/13 • 22414-4695
