Duratex 2012 annual and sustainability report 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex After six decades as a symbol of quality and design, Duratex’s logo of the traditional rhinoceros has evolved. The Company’s new logo reiterates the values of reliability, experience, and innovation in all its segments, and to the discerning eye, reveals traces of solid operation and experience. The redesigning of the logo introduces a contemporary look, evoking credibility created over the years. The combination of light and fluid lines gives the idea of a drop or leaf, a clear association with Duratex’s commitment to sustainability. The new design also resembles the letter “D”, which recalls the tradition, solidity and ethical approach with which the name of Duratex is permanently connected. 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex How to read this report GRI 2.9 | 3.7 | 3.8 | 3.9 | 3.10 For the sixth year running, Duratex is publishing its The accounting data comply with International FiAnnual and Sustainability Report following the dinancial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and current Brazilian rectives of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), in its accounting standards. There has been no alteration in the G3.1 version. This report highlights the main events scope, limit or method of measuring the indicators, neither and results of 2012, from the period from January 1 has there been any need to re-formulate the information to December 31, for the main segments in which the provided in previous years. Tablemac’s participation in Company operates: wood, vitreous chinaware and metal Duratex’s financial statements for 2012 has been included bathroom fittings. The report refers to the Brazilian using the equity income result method. GRI 3.11 operations unless otherwise indicated. No information The information in the report has been compiled by on Tablemac, in which a significant stake of 37 % was teams from Duratex’s various departments, under the acquired by Duratex in 2012, has been included in the coordination of the Investor Relations Department. The responses to the GRI indicators. GRI 3.1 | 3.3 | 3.6 quantitative environmental indicators are compiled monThe publication has the application level of A+ chethly by the teams in the production plants and the forescked according to the GRI and its content has been given try units using the SAP management system, monitored assurance for the second year running by PwC, which by the Sustainability Department, and consolidated at also audited the Financial Statements. As in the previous the end of the period both for the report and the monitoedition, published in 2012 referring to the year 2011, this ring of environmental performance targets. document is only available in electronic format, and in For more information, please contact the Investor the English and Portuguese languages. GRI 3.2 | 3.13 Relations Department on the following e-mail address: investidores@duratex.com.br. GRI 3.4 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Materiality Matrix GRI 3.5 | 4.15 | 4.17 Duratex’s 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report has update its long-term sustainability strategy. Besides sebeen conceived based on themes of significance identinior management, two groups were heard that the Comfied by the materiality matrix in 2010 (see figure on page pany believes to be essential to this strategy: employees 5). The Company has been working on the management and experts from various sectors such as sustainability, of these themes during the year in order to be able to capital markets, communication, the third sector, environreport the progress achieved. This publication also covers ment, and governance. subjects relating to the Criticality Matrix in the area of As a consequence, five themes were identified as being Sustainability, such as the supply chain, staff manageof priority in Duratex’s sustainability strategy: Governance ment, and the impact of the Company’s products. and Strategy, Staff Management, Risk Management, InteFor more information on the materiality matrix that gration of Accounting and Sustainability, Natural Resourhas been developed and improved over the last two ces, and Raw Materials. These aspects are being incorpoyears, readers should refer to the 2010 and 2011 Annual rated into the operation of the Company’s Sustainability and Sustainability Reports: www.duratex.com.br/ri. Committee, while contributions from employees are being As part of a continuous process of engagement and used by the Human Resources Executive Board to improve improvement in management and reporting, in 2012 Duratex’s staff management practices. The consequences Duratex held the second stakeholders meeting, at which of this work will be presented in Duratex’s subsequent it consulted the public audiences concerned in order to annual and sustainability reports. 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Material themes for 2010 Strategy and management (number 6, in the table below) Economic-financial performance (9) Share performance (13) Investments in the business (17) Environmental policy (18) Water resources and reuse (22) Environmental impact from product use (27) Definition of targets (38) Combating corruption (52) Code of conduct (55) Customer health and safety in the use of products (61) Product information (access and quality of information) (62) Quality of products (66) Customer service (pre and post sale) (69) 27 24 29 relevance of the topics for the public of interest 51 18 20 65 57 61 62 22 69 66 47 46 17 40 21 54 30 23 52 25 15 31 38 44 32 06 50 19 41 55 09 13 07 02 45 26 37 01 05 28 59 34 67 48 08 12 03 04 10 53 33 43 68 35 56 64 36 63 16 49 42 58 14 60 39 11 relevance of the topics for the Company Social topics Economical Topics Environmental Topics Corporate Governance Topics 2012 Relatório Annual anual ande de Sustainability sustentabilidade Report2012 Duratex Table of Contents Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors p.7 Message from the Chief Executive Officer p.10 01 The Company p.13 02 Strategy for 03 socio-environmental Profile p.13 Growth and New responsibility p.36 Our History p.15 Businesses p.18 Relationship with Corporate Directives p.16 Corporate Governance p.19 Stakeholders p.39 Main Indicators p.17 Code of Ethics and Conduct p.20 Governance Structure p.23 Risk Management p.30 Intangible Assets p.32 Awards and Recognitions Obtained during the Year p.34 04 05 DURATEX ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT p.83 performance of Ibase + NBCT 15 Social the business p.64 Balance Sheets p.78 GRI Reporting Index p.159 Consolidated Results Analysis p.64 Corporate Deca Division p.72 Information p.168 Wood Division p.75 credits p.169 6 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors GRI 1.1 Themes 6 and 17 of the Materiality Matrix: Management Strategy and Investments in the Business The year 2012 saw a significant improvement in Duratex’s performance. We overcame the adversities of the economic situation and strengthened our presence in the Brazilian market through investment in expansion and making acquisitions that have synergy with our core businesses (Mipel and Thermosystem) which will permit diversification in the industrial valve, electronic shower and solar heating system segments. We also went beyond this, diversifying our geographical presence through the acquisition of a stake of 37% in Tablemac, a leading company in Colombia’s wood panel segment. 7 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex The figures shown in this report, therefore, reflect our high level of corporate governance, associated with our capacity to implement a We continued with substantial percentage of our strategic planning, as well as our operaour mission of tional excellence and the talent of our employees. There were innumerable achievements in 2012. We gained market constant development, recognition, receiving 12 prizes, of which the most important were: Best remaining faithful Company in the Construction Materials and Decorations Segment (Isto to the strategy of É Dinheiro and Valor Econômico), Best Company in the Wood and Pulp Sector (Exame Magazine), Best Case of Value Creation (Abrasca), ECO growing organically in Award (Brazil-USA American Chamber of Commerce), Outstanding in our existing sectors, Good in Environmental Practices (Época Negócios), Ethical Business while also entering into Award – Sustainability Category (Brazilian Institute for Business Ethics). new businesses and In addition to these awards, we also accomplished two other important milestones. The first was Duratex’s inclusion in the Dow Jones geographical areas Sustainability World Index (DJSI). Duratex is one of nine Brazilian companies included in the DJSWI, and the only Latin American company to be included in the construction materials sector part of this index. The second of these achievements was the listing of the Company’s shares on another important corporate sustainability index, the BM&FBovespa ISE, for which the selection criteria include the adoption of differentiated socio-environmental sustainability practices. We achieved a new record in terms of net sales and operational cash generation. Our growth is even more impressive, when we compare it to the difficult year experienced by the Brazilian economy, with GDP growth of just 0.9 %, and a retraction in the Transformation Industry of 2.5 %. This means that we have raised the bar and today we conduct our business to a much higher standard, with increasingly challenging goals. We continued with our mission of constant development, remaining faithful to the strategy of growing organically in our existing sectors, while also entering into new businesses and geographical areas. Our investment in expanding operational capacity, with the introduction of a major new medium density fiber (MDF) production line in Itapetininga (SP) and the expansion to medium density particleboard (MDP) production capacity in Taquari (RS), will make a great contribution to growth in the Wood Division. By the same token, the new vitreous chinaware plant in Queimados (RJ) and the ongoing investments in the metal bathroom fittings plants in São Paulo and Jundiaí will ensure the continued expansion of the Deca Division. 8 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex We have a vocation for innovation, in how we plan our growth, but we are also perceived by the market as a company that is in tune with its consumers, and which achieves its growth respecting social and environmental values. To portray this notion and to strengthen the Duratex brand-name, in 2012 we developed a new logo, which now further emphasises these aspects. It is a modern and unifying symbol which demonstrates our positioning in the segments in which we operate. Also in 2012 we hosted two important stakeholder engagement panels, promoting dialogue and permitting the identification of priority themes for our long-term strategy. The proposals arising from these meetings go beyond the inclusion of external viewpoints in our annual report; we are placing ourselves in a position to listen to what the market and our employees have to say. In this way, we are discovering how we can become an even better company. Duratex has a team of excellent, dedicated and inspired people and we are strengthening our efforts to achieve a closer relationship with them, improving staff management practices and transparency in relationships. In view of the fantastic advances of this year, is with great pleasure that I mention the process of choosing a successor to our current CEO, who has reached the retirement age established in the Company Bylaws. Two executives from the Company’s workforce have been identified to participate in this process, which the Committee for Staff, Governance and Nomination has been working on for the last 18 months, with great seriousness and transparency. We are happy and proud to have been able to appoint a successor from within our ranks to fill the Company’s highest management position. In ending the year with a feeling of duty fulfilled, we would like to express our profound thanks and sincere homage to our retiring CEO, Henri Penchas. Under his management, we have acquired more confidence in our work, enabling us to dream of greater things, strive after more aggressive goals and discover new roads ahead. In summary, in 2012 we managed to achieve exceptional results, honouring our mission “to meet the demands of our customers with excellence, through the development and offering of products and services that contribute to an improvement in people’s quality of life, and generating wealth in a sustainable manner.” Salo Seibel Chairman of the Board of Directors 9 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Message from the Chief Executive Officer GRI 1.1 Themes 6 and 17 of the Materiality Matrix: Management Strategy and Investments in the Business Our Company’s success in a scenario of Brazilian economic growth lower than initially expected is without doubt a reflection of our successful investments and strategic long-term planning. We have started to re-gain market share in the Wood Division with the upturn seen in the furniture industry. Deca and Hydra, despite being in a more challenging market, both achieved growth above the average for the construction materials industry. We reported net revenue of R$3,394.4 million, 14.3% higher than in the previous year. EBITDA amounted to R$1,021.4 million, with Ebitda margin of 30.1%, while net earnings came to R$459.7 million. We managed to achieve our targets despite the adverse economic scenario. 10 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex During the year, R$832 million has been allocated to organic expansion and strategic acquisitions. In 2012 alone, we spent R$207.3 We have started to million on two acquisitions: Metalúrgica Ipê Mipel and Tablemac, this re-gain market share latter in Colombia – an important step in terms of internationalization. As part of our strategy, we are continuing our growth program both in the Wood Division, through mergers and acquisitions, and organically. We will be inveswith the upturn seen in ting still more, and in 2013 we have an expenditure budget of R$660 the furniture industry. million for acquisitions to generate value for our shareholders. Over the four years during which I have been at the head of Deca and Hydra, Duratex, we have worked to create a governance system based on despite being in a more synergy between the different areas of the Company. We have created challenging market, commissions to seek out and apply best practice in innovation and both achieved growth human resources, among other areas. We have more than doubled our investment in staff. We have created processes that are better strucabove the average tured to measure the individual performance of our leaders in terms for the construction of socio-environmental criteria, including this aspect in the variable materials industry remuneration package for our executives. We have kept these and other initiatives in line with the principles of the Global Compact, which provides direction for management improvements and strengthens our commitment to sustainability. In 2012 we created a new directorship to help us find new business opportunities. We will be following the strategy which led us to acquire Thermosystem at the beginning of 2013, which introduced a complete line of electronic showers into Duratex’s portfolio, and provided an entry into markets related to those in which we already operate today. In this way, consolidating our leadership, we continue to examine and assess where we can develop still further. We are today at a level which enables us to generate profit for our investors without compromising our strategy for growth and value creation. 11 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex In April 2013, having reached retirement age, I will not be standing for re-election as part of the management body. A selection program has been ongoing over the last two years or so for the training and preparation of a replacement to be recruited from within the Company’s existing management, in a clear demonstration of our belief in the talented team of professionals that is part of Duratex today. This team has been fundamental in achieving the results obtained. We are in a better position than we were four years ago, and on the right track to grow still further. To build a company like ours a lot of entrepreneurial spirit is needed, as well as courage, daring, work and the ability to dream. Dreams such as those of Alfredo Egydio de Souza Aranha, Dr. Eudoro Villela, Dr. Olavo Setúbal, of Itaúsa, and those of Bernard Seibel, of the Ligna Group; work such as that developed by former CEOs of the companies that today make up the Duratex group, Salo Seibel and Paulo Setúbal Neto. These businessmen, with an ambitious vision, have expanded the frontiers of industry and commerce in Brazil. Over this long track record of more than 60 years, Duratex’s growth has always been characterised by ethical behaviour and a profound sense of social and environmental responsibility. I would like to take the opportunity in this message to gratefully acknowledge the support received from the Company’s excellent team of professional staff, and that of the shareholders, without whom none of this would have been possible. I am certain that the Company, without succumbing to the temptations of easy gains, will continue on its path of expansion and value creation for all its stakeholders, employees, government and shareholders. I wish the new CEO, Antonio Joaquim de Oliveira, who has up to now occupied the post of Executive Director of the Panel Division, and the Company, every success, in the knowledge that they will continue on the path of growth and continual improvement. Henri Penchas Chief Executive Officer 12 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex 01 The Company Duratex is a company of Brazilian origin with more than 60 years, that operates in the construction and furniture sector with the brand names Deca, Hydra, Durafloor and Duratex Profile GRI 2.5 | 2.7 | 2.8 Duratex is a Brazilian company that for more than six decades has served the building and furniture markets. Through the brand names Deca, Hydra, Durafloor and Duratex, the Company produces metal bathroom fittings and vitreous chinaware, laminated flooring, MDP, high density fiber (HDF) panels and MDF, as well as fibreboard sheets. GRI 2.1 | 2.2 Although Duratex concentrates its operations in Brazil, the Company also exports its products to more than 30 countries, and has a portfolio of more than 30,000 clients. The Company is among the world’s ten largest in its operational sector, and the leader in the production of wooden panels, vitreous chinaware and bathroom fittings, not just in the Brazilian market, but in the southern hemisphere as a whole. 13 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex 18.2 million of itens its a capacity of metal bathroom fitting, in addition to 9.8 million vitreous chinaware pieces, 4 million cubic meters of wood panels and 12 million square meters of laminated flooring 14 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Duratex has 10,600 employees distributed over 16 Our History industrial units located in the states of São Paulo, Rio Grande do Sul, Minas Gerais, Pernambuco, Paraíba, Rio de 1951 Janeiro and Santa Catarina, as well as its headquarters The first machinery and equipment was purchased based in the city of São Paulo. Outside Brazil, Duratex for the founding of Duratex S.A. Indústria e Comércio by has a plant in Argentina, and recently acquired a 37 % businessmen Eudoro Villela and Nivaldo Coimbra de Ulhoa stake in Tablemac, the leader in the Colombian wood Cintra, with the support of Alfredo Egydio de Souza Aranha. panel market. The Company also has subsidiaries in the United States (Duratex North America) and in Europe 1954 to 1961 (Duratex Europe). GRI 2.3 | 2.4 | 2.5 The first Duratex industrial plant began operations at JunWith this structure, Duratex has an annual producdiaí (SP). By the beginning of the 60s, the Company had begun tion capacity of approximately 4 million cubic meters to export wood-based fibreboard. In 1961, a second producof wood panels, 12 million square meters of laminated tion line was brought into service at the plant at Jundiaí. flooring, 18.2 million metal bathroom fitting pieces and 9.8 million vitreous chinaware pieces. 1972 The land that the Company owns and leases totals Deca, which at that time was the leader in Brazil`s 230,000 hectares, of which 140,000 hectares consist of metal bathroom fitting segment, was incorporated into planted forest, spread across seven forestry units in the Duratex, making the Company stronger. states of São Paulo, Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul. Of these, five units carry forestry management certifica1981 to 1995 tion (Agudos, Botucatu, Itapetininga, Lençóis Paulista and During this period Duratex acquired Louças Sul Uberlândia). In addition to this, forestry management at (1981), the Itapetininga unit of the Peixoto de Castro Botucatu carries ISO 14001 certification, as do the metal group (1984), the Agudos unit of the Freudenberg group bathroom fitting plants in São Paulo and Jundiaí, Louças (1988) and the Argentinian metal bathroom fittings comSul, Agudos and Uberaba. All the industrial units of the pany Piazza Hermanos (1995). Wood Division carry ISO 9001 certification. The shares of Duratex S.A. are traded on the Novo 1997 Mercado section of the BM&FBovespa under the ticker The Company started up its first MDF plant in Brazil, code DTEX3. The Company is controlled by Itaúsa – in Agudos (SP), as well as the first unit for the production Investimentos Itaú S.A. and Companhia Ligna de Invesof Durafloor laminated flooring. timentos, which together with the respective controlling shareholders, hold 40 % and 20 % of the share capital. 2002 Looking at the Company’s principal results in 2012, A new MDF/HDF/SDF plant was built in Botucatu (SP), the noteworthy aspects were net sales of R$3.4 billion, with leading-edge technology and an annual production recurring Ebitda of R$1,005.0 million (equivalent to a capacity of 400,000 cubic meters, allowing the expanrecurring Ebitda margin of 29.6 %) and recurring net sion of the product mix and strengthening the Duratex earnings of R$437.4 million. Duratex ended the year with brand name in the wood sector. a market capitalization of R$8.2 billion. GRI 2.6 2005 Duratex strengthened its commitment to transparency and equity in the disclosure of information by joining Level 1 of Bovespa Corporate Governance. Its corporate governance structure was further strengthened by the creation of new internal committees. 15 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex 2008 2012 This year saw the acquisition of Ideal Standard, with Duratex became part of the Dow Jones Sustainability plants in Jundiaí (SP) and Queimados (RJ), and Cerâmica Index, being the first construction materials company in Monte Carlo, located in Cabo de Santo Agostinho (PE). Latin America with this distinction. During the year, the With this, the Company achieved a market share of one Company also expanded its operations with the acquisithird of Brazil’s vitreous chinaware production, and becation of Metalúrgica Ipê Mipel from Thermosystem and a me one of the world’s top ten companies in this field. stake in Tablemac (subscription to 37 % of the shares), while also expanding its operational capacity at the MDF 2009 plant in Itapetininga (SP), the MDP plant in Taquari (RS), Duratex became the largest wood panel company in vitreous chinaware production in Queimados (RJ) and the the Southern Hemisphere as a result of its merger with production of metal bathroom fittings in Jundiaí (SP). Satipel, which at that time ranked in second place in this segment. This Company, founded in 1970, was controlled Corporate Directives by Companhia Ligna de Investimentos which became part GRI 4.8 of Duratex’s controlling block of shareholders. In the same year, the Company joined the BM&FBovespa Novo MercaMission do and expanded its production capacity in Taquari (RS). To meet customer demands in an excellent manner, through the development and offering of products and 2010 services that contribute to improving people’s quality of The acquisition of around 9,000 hectares of planted life, and generating wealth in a sustainable manner. forest in São Paulo was done to provide support for future expansion in the region. In the same year a new resin Vision plant began operations to supply the panel production To be a company that is a benchmark for the quality units in the state of São Paulo. of our products, services and relationships, recognized as the best option for clients, employees, the community, 2011 suppliers and investors. To commemorate its 60th anniversary Duratex sponsored a series of concerts conducted by João Carlos Values Martins with the Bachiana Philharmonic Orchestra, proIntegrity moting the Rhino Mania project. In that same year the Commitment Company also acquired Elizabeth Louças Sanitárias, as Appreciation of human worth well as announcing investments in two new MDF plants Excelling in results with effective production capacities of 520,000 m3 and Continuous improvement 680,000 m3 a year, to be inaugurated, respectively, in Innovation 2013 and 2015. Sustainability 16 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Main Indicators Principais indicadores 2012 2011 2010 (R$ mil, exceto onde indicado) shipments (m3) Wood (m3) 2,635,084 2,268,822 2,312,177 Deca (thousands of pieces) 25,772 25,505 21,639 Results Net revenue 3,394,399 2,970,365 2,741,810 Domestic market 3,245,573 2,835,969 2,629,069 Export market 148,826 134,396 112,741 Recurring Ebitda 1,005,019 839,349 893,002 Recurring net earnings 437,410 374,860 467,247 Recurring earnings per share* (R$) 0.83 0.68 0.85 Value added 1,841,928 1,694,756 1,571,236 Profitability Gross margin ( %) 34.9 34.1 40.8 Recurring Ebitda margin ( %) 29.6 28.3 32.6 Recurring net margin ( %) 12.9 12.6 17.0 Return on net equity (ROE) ( %) 11.9 10.5 14.1 Investments Programs for education, training and development 1,826.40 956 1,378 Environment 27,679 26,680 17,574 Research and development 19,118 19,322 23,341 Plan for the application of funds 832,214 635,846 459,564 No. of employees 10,601 10,668 9,690 * Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the shareholders of the Company, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding ordinary shares bought back by the Company to be held in treasury. 17 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex 02 Strategy for Growth and New Business Themes 6 and 17 of the Materiality Matrix: Management Strategy and Investments in the Business The year 2012 was characterised by growth, particularly through acquisitions, in line with Duratex’s expansion strategy. The purchase of the bronze valve unit from Indústria Metalúrgica Jacareí Ltda. (Mipel), up to that time a subsidiary of Lupatech S.A., with investment of R$46.3 million, enabled the Deca division to expand the range of products that it offers, as well as adding an annual production capacity equivalent to 780,000 pieces. A second acquisition during the year represented an important step in Duratex’s internationalization process, with the purchase of 25% of Tablemac, Colombia’s leading panel company. The total value of this investment amounted to R$161 million, including the increase in Duratex’s stake in this company to 37% in November 2012, through participation in a public share offering. 18 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex 660 petininga (SP), with an annual panel capacity of 520,000 R$ cubic meters. In Taquari (RS), an improvement in the production process will increase MDP production capacity millions by 230,000 cubic meters to 670,000 cubic meters. In order to provide this strategy with additional will be invested strength, capturing and taking advantage of opportuin Duratex in 2013 nities, in 2012 the Company created the New Business Directorship. Part of this team’s main project for 2013 is investment of approximately R$660 million, with priority being given to the payment for the acquisition of Thermosystem, the implementation of the new MDF unit in Itapetininga (SP), improvements to be made at the MDP Finally, at the end of the year a proposal was signed unit at Taquari (RS), expansion of vitreous chinaware and for the acquisition of Thermosystem Indústria Elemetal bathroom fittings capacity at Queimados (RJ) and tro Eletrônica Ltda., acquired on January 2, 2013, for Jundiaí (SP), in addition to ongoing maintenance. R$58 million, which expanded Duratex’s portfolio in the electronic shower and solar heating system segment. Corporate Governance Thermosystem shares Duratex’s innovative profile in the GRI 4.5 development of products with a higher added value, Sustainability is being increasingly incorporated into generating a substantial degree of synergy through this Duratex’s corporate governance strategy. In keeping with deal. The acquisition was also a way of expanding Deca’s the trends in the market, this move aims to improve the range of products. At the time of the acquisition, TherCompany’s corporate governance model and structure, already mosystem had a market share of 7 % in this segment. currently based on the principles of transparency, equity, renAll these moves are in line with Duratex’s strategy to dering of accounts and corporate responsibility recommended expand its activities in its traditional segments of opeby the Brazilian Corporate Governance Institute (IBGC). ration, as well as in new segments, bringing it still closer This year the Company was included in the DJSI, one to consumer markets. In 2012 the Company invested of the most prestigious and selective sustainability indices R$19.1 million in research and development. in the market. This is the first global index to monitor both In addition to acquisitions, Duratex has an extensive economic and socio-environmental performance, selecongoing organic growth plan. At the Deca Division, the Comting companies that are outstanding in their respective pany is making improvements to the plant at Jundiaí (SP) to operational sectors, based on rigorous analysis. Duratex is expand production capacity of metal bathroom fittings by the only Latin American company in the construction ma1.2 million pieces a year. A new unit in the vitreous chinaterials sector that is part of this index. In addition to this, ware segment is to be inaugurated at the beginning of the the Company was once again selected, for the fifth year quarter in Queimados (RJ), adding 2.4 million additional pierunning, to be part of the BM&FBoverspa ISE. ces to the Company’s annual production capacity. With this, Another distinction which emphasizes the maturity of the Deca Division will reach an annual vitreous chinaware Duratex’s corporate governance was the Company’s incorpoand metal bathroom fittings production capacity of 32.3 ration as part of the Company Pro-Ethics Registry, an initiative million pieces, which represents an increase of approximateby the General Control Department of the Union and the Ethos ly 20 % compared to the previous year. Institute. This registry currently includes 14 companies that Investment is also being carried out in the Wood Divihave voluntarily engaged in the building of an environment of sion. In 2013, a new MDF plant will be inaugurated in Itaintegrity and reliability in their commercial relationships. 19 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex The Remuneration Policy, drawn up by the Board of DirecHuman Rights tors and the Executive Board, is defined and updated based The Company’s efforts in the defence of human rights on market research. This periodic updating has the aim of and the combating of corruption are formalised in a transguaranteeing competitiveness in relation to the best compaparent and public manner, based on respect for the legislanies in the market. One of the most significant aspects of this tion and the adoption of practice, principles and sustainabiliarea in 2012 was the start of a process to include targets ty initiatives recognised by all employees. GRI 4.12 linked to socio-environmental variables in the evaluation of Duratex adopts a social policy which reaffirms the the Executive Board’s performance. The fixed and variable Company’s commitment to a socially responsible stance, remuneration model for executives is in the process of being while establishing conduct guidelines and principles: reviewed, and should be finalised in 2013. This work is being • To adopt policies and practices that are aimed at carried out by the new Human Resources Directorship under preventing, combating and eradicating degrading work, the direct supervision of the Board of Directors. GRI 4.5 discrimination in all its forms, moral and sexual harassHuman resources management at the level of top mament, and the exploitation of children and adolescents. nagement also saw the start of another important process • To value diversity. in 2012: the choosing of a successor for the Company’s • To fulfil the ten principles of the United Nations Global CEO. For the first time at Duratex, this succession process Compact, the United Nations Principles for the Protecwas carried out with candidates from within the Company, tion and Defence of Human Rights and the fundamenreinforcing a spirit of meritocracy. Pursued in a transparent tal conventions of the International Labour Organisamanner, both with the candidates themselves and other tion, ratified by Brazilian legislation. employees, this selection process has been monitored • To ensure that employees have integrated ethical and closely by the Company’s principal leaders. In this way, in transparent management, respecting freedom of union addition to choosing a new CEO for Duratex, this initiative association and the right to collective bargaining. also sets an example for all employees, showing that any • To ensure an ethical and transparent relationship with person may have the opportunity of one day occupying all interested parties. the Company’s highest management position. • To participate in discussions on the drawing-up of public social policies relating to Duratex’s operational Code of Ethics and Conduct sectors and regions. GRI 4.6 Combating Corruption GRI SO2 | SO3 | SO4 Theme 55 of the Materiality Matrix: Code of Conduct Theme 52 of the Materiality Matrix: Combating Corruption Duratex’s Code of Ethics and Conduct is based on general principles – ethics, legality, respect for human Duratex’s directives for the combating of corruption beings, repudiation of any form of discrimination, encouraare contained in in three corporate documents: its Code of gement for personal and professional development, social, Ethics and Conduct, in its Corporate Policy for the Preenvironmental and cultural responsibility – in addition vention and Combating of Illicit Acts and in its policy for to establishing directives for employee conduct, and the Receiving and Dealing with Denouncements, besides the Company’s positioning with respect to its public audiences. Standard for Internal Application of Disciplinary Measures. The Code of Ethics and Conduct can be accessed In addition to these, guidelines relating to the theme through the following website link: www.duratex.com.br/ri. are to be found in other documents, such as the Purcha20 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex sing Policy, which applied to the management of supIn partnership with Fundação Getulio Vargas in Rio pliers, in compliance with the conventions of the Internade Janeiro, Duratex included, in 2012, aspects of ethical tional Labour Organisation and the ten principles of the conduct in business and personal relationships in the Global Compact. All these documents are available on crate training your average high and Managements, as the Company’s website (www.duratex.com.br). the “Program Lead”, which registered 255 holdings. For The Code of Ethics and Conduct applies to all persons employees, the theme was touched on in the Somos working in Duratex and is signed at the time of recruitAssim (“how we are”) program (to learn more about this, ment. In May 2012, an Ombudsman was created with the see the chapter on Socio-Environmental Responsibility) goal of creating additional dialogue between the Company through the presentation of the edicts of continuous and its stakeholders (employees, former employees and improvement, innovation and responsibility. Specific suppliers), through the receipt of suggestions, queries, meetings were also held for the presentation of all these criticisms and compliments. On May 25, 2012, the Ombuvalues to new employees. dsman conducted a training session for the entire staff of the Supply Chain, in which the themes were: Ombudsman Ombudsman Service (Employees and Suppliers) and compliance with the Code In 2012 the Company created the Duratex Ombudsof Ethics and Guidelines for Duratex Practice Guidelines for man Service. Communications can be made anonymouthe Purchasing Professional. On the occasion, 52 employesly, and all contacts are treated in a confidential manner. es participated and all signed the annex to the Purchasing The ombudsman service reports directly to the CEO’s Policy that determines the guidelines on the professional office, and reports on work carried out by the Executive area, as well as conflicts of interest. Board and the Committee for Staff, Governance and Other corporate controls that contribute to combating Nominations. It also renders accounts of its operations to corruption include Internal Audit, which reports to Audit and the Committee for Auditing and Risk Management, and Risk Management, which assesses internal controls and risk whenever asked, to the Board of Directors. management. There is still an External Audit, responsible for reviewing and evaluating the Financial Statements. Total number of communications Continuing the work started in 2011, Duratex is updareceived by the ombudsman service (by public audience) ting the assessment of the main risks of the Company. Employees 569 This review covers all business units and business processes through the participation of directors and manaSuppliers 8 gers responsible for them . The evaluation questionnaire Total* 577 provides an analysis of the potential risk of fraud and * Figures refer to the period from January to December 2012. The Ombudsman service was formally opened on May 23, 2012. Before its opening, unethical conduct, currently rated as average, because denouncements received were handled and dealt with by the Internal the mechanisms of internal controls, corporate governanAudit department. ce and risk management. All operating units are subject to Duratex audit with respect to issues of corruption. Duratex received no communication, either internal or external, relating to cases of corruption during the year. 21 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Metal Tube with Soap Dish – Cuba LC.1272 22 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex During the year, of the 569 communications received from employees, 434 were sent to the relevant management areas for assessment and solution. The rest were Ombudsman Service contact channels not dealt with due to a lack of detail and clear informaE-mail: ouvidoria@duratex.com.br tion making it impossible to proceed further. Internet: Please complete the electronic form The themes touched on relate, in the main, to stanon the website link www.duratex.com.br, Duratex dards and policies, processes, procedures and infrastrucOmbudsman Service ture (63 %). The other reports (37 %) referred to questions Electronic response (voicemail): relating to behaviour and relationships. 0800 55 75 77 By Post: Av. Paulista, 1938 – 6th floor – A/C Ouvidoria Nature of complaints Duratex – São Paulo – SP – CEP 01310-942 received by the ombudsman (%) For employees, the following contact Compliment Complaint and unethical behavior channels are also available: 3 9 Intranet: completion of the electronic form on Inquiry 6 the Duratex Ombudsman Service website link Suggestion Suggestion boxes provided in all the Company’s 8 units. Personal meetings can be requested, with Criticism 74 appointments being made with prior notice. Of the eight complaints received from suppliers, three did not contain sufficient information, and five were dealt Governance Structure with by the Ombudsman service. More than anything, GRI 4.1 these referred to criticisms of behaviour by employees or partners. 90 contacts were also received from companies General Shareholders Meetings requesting registration as Duratex suppliers. It is the responsibility of the General Shareholders Additionally, the Ombudsman service received 233 Meeting to define the annual remuneration of members declarations from other public audiences as yet not serof the Board of Directors, the Executive Board and the ved by this channel. These reports were directed to the Board of Auditors, when in operation, and decide on formal channels already established, or rerouted interissues at Duratex of a shareholding nature, such as call nally to the areas responsible. options, the Company’s participation in capital markets, In 2013, Duratex will be clarifying the role of its and future mergers and acquisitions. Ombudsman service by reinforcing communication with Should a shareholder have a conflict of interest on any regard to criteria and scope of operation. theme to be deliberated on at the General Shareholders Meeting, he should abstain from voting. If this premise, pursuant to Brazilian Corporation Law, is not complied with, and a vote is taken under these circumstances, the decision must be annulled, with the shareholder being held responsible for any damage caused, transferring any advantages gained to the Company. GRI 4.6 23 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Board of Directors Members of the board Supervision of the top management, as well as busiof directors in 2012 ness decisions involving sustainable development, are the Salo Davi Seibel Chairman of the Board responsibility of the Board of Directors, which meets on a A  lfredo Egydio Arruda Vice-President Villela Filho of the Board routine basis every two months and on an extraordinary basis whenever necessary. All the information needed for Vice-President Ricardo Egydio Setubal of the Board decision-making by this body is contained in the Portal of Independent the Board, an on-line platform with access restricted to Alcides Lopes Tápias Board Member members of this body, providing important information Álvaro Antonio Independent about Duratex, the market and other themes. GRI 4.9 Cardoso de Souza Board Member The Board of Directors consists of a minimum of five Independent and a maximum of ten full-time members, with the posFabio Schvartsman Board Member sibility of there being alternative members, of a number Andrea Laserna Seibel Board Member determined at the General Shareholders Meeting. In 2012, Paulo Setubal Neto Board Member the Company had nine full-time board members, one of Rodolfo Villela Marino Board Member whom is a woman. Of these, three are independent, of Helio Seibel Alternative Member whom one is nominated by minority shareholders, in addiOlavo Egydio Setubal Júnior Alternative Member tion to three alternative members. Pursuant to the ComRicardo Villela Marino Alternative Member pany Bylaws, the Chairman of this body does not exercise an executive function within the Company. GRI 4.2 | 4.3 Rovere Camerino – Essencial Wood Line Panel 24 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Aspects inherent to sustainability are incorporaMembers of the Committee for ted in the evaluation process of the Board Members, Staff, Governance and Nominations which includes peer evaluation on a 360° model. The Alvaro Antonio Cardoso de Souza* President recommendations, criticism or inquiries of shareholAlfredo Egydio Arruda Villela Filho Member ders can be addressed to the Board of Directors via Andrea Laserna Seibel Member the following e-mail: governanca.corporativa@duratex. Helio Seibel Member Ricardo Egydio Setubal Member com.br GRI 4.4 | 4.10 Rodolfo Villela Marino Member To provide advice to the Board of Directors in Betania Tanure de Barros Specialist its deliberations on strategic matters, Duratex has * Independent member five committees, made up of members of the Board itself and external specialists, with a mandate of one year and the right to re-election. Within these Committee for Sustainability forums is carried out detailed evaluation of themes Responsibilities: encourages and develops mechanisrelevant to the Company, such as sustainability, ms to integrate sustainability into Duratex’s managestaff, risks, disclosure of information and transacment processes. This Committee includes the CEO and tions with related parties. the Chairman of the Board on a permanently invited basis, involving other executives whenever necessary. Committee for Staff, Principal events during the year: the Committee Governance and Nominations for Sustainability had its structure altered in 2012, with Responsibilities: evaluates and approves the succesthe nomination of Alvaro Antônio Cardoso de Souza, an sion process for the Company’s managers, remuneration independent member of the Board of Directors, as its policy, employee development and corporate goverpresident, with the inclusion of an external specialist, as nance structure, as well as monitoring and revising the approved in the Company Bylaws. During the year, it also Company’s Mission, Vision and Values. began to be monitored by the Executive Directors of the Principal events during the year: the Committee for business units and the Wood Panel and Deca divisions, Staff, Governance and Nominations met 11 times during which met five times, while consulting with the Committhe year. It acted together with the Company’s Executive tee for Sustainability to analyse the current stage of the Board in the formulation and approval of Human ResourCompany with respect to aspects of sustainability (envices Strategy, a program which defined the operation of ronmental, economic and social), establishing a positiothe Human Resources Department for the next few years. ning to be reached by 2016, and defining priority themes In addition to this, it introduced the Balanced Scorecard for the next three years. It also monitored the work on as a tool for the dissemination of strategy and target the definition of policies in the social area and the results monitoring, discussed the plan for reducing staff turnover, of the second Stakeholders Meeting (to learn more about carried out climate research for the executive group and this, see the chapter How to Read This Report). the coordinator/leaders of the area, and reviewed the Company’s medical assistance plans. An external speciaMembers of the Committee for Sustainability Álvaro Antonio Cardoso de Souza* President list was also appointed to the committee. Fabio Schvartsman* Member Andrea Laserna Seibel Member Olavo Egydio Setubal Junior Member Rodolfo Villela Marino Member Tarcila Reis Ursini* Specialist * Independent members 25 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Committee for Auditing and Risk Management Members of the Committee Responsibilities: supervises internal control processes for Disclosure and Trading and the management of risks inherent in the Company’s Flavio Marassi Donatelli President activities, and the work carried out by the Internal and Antonio Massinelli Member Henri Penchas Member External Auditors. It also evaluates the quality and inteRaul Penteado de Oliveira Neto Member grity of the Financial Statements. Ricardo Egydio Setubal Member Principal events during the year: at 11 meetings Salo Davi Seibel Member during the year, the Committee for Auditing and Risk Management evaluated the Financial Statements, supervised the work of the Internal and External Auditors and directed its efforts to the evaluation of risks, with greater Committee for the Evaluation emphasis on financial and environmental risks, and conof Transactions with Related Parties trols for their respective mitigation. During the year an Responsibilities: ensures that transactions carried out external specialist was appointed to the committee. between related parties take into consideration the interests of the Company in an independent, transparent and ethical manner and in accordance with the legislation Members of the Committee for Auditing and Risk Management in force. It consists only of independent members of the Alcides Lopes Tápias* President Board of Directors. Tereza Cristina Grossi Togni* Specialist Principal events during the year: at four meetings Andrea Laserna Seibel Member during 2012, the Committee for the Evaluation of TranRicardo Egydio Setúbal Member sactions with Related Parties dedicated itself to drawing Rodolfo Villela Marino Member up the Policy for the Evaluation of Transactions with * Independent members Related Parties, and analysed the transactions carried out during the period. Committee for Disclosures and Trading Members of the Committee for Responsibilities: analyses and discusses documents the Evaluation of Transactions with Related Parties that will be published in the market, monitors the trading of shares, and ensures compliance with the Policy Alcides Lopes Tápias* President Álvaro Antonio Cardoso de Souza* Member for Trading and Disclosure. Fábio Schvartsman* Member Principal events during the year: at four meetings * Independent members during the year, the committee acquainted itself with shareholding movements by the main shareholders, as well as assessing and deliberating on material for the publication of the Company’s results. 26 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Executive Board ments in which the Company operates, as well as being The Executive Board, which consists of 14 statutory responsible for new investment programs for Duratex’s directors, is the body responsible for the execution of the expansion and modernisation. To this end, it meets once business action plan based on strategy defined by the a week or more frequently whenever necessary. All the Board of Directors, ensuring that the Company is in aligmembers of the Executive Board are submitted annually nment with the plan. The Executive Board also allocates to a performance evaluation by the Board of Directors, funding and evaluates the performance of the segtheir peers and direct subordinates. Members of the Executive Board in 2012 Henri Penchas Chief Executive Officer Antonio Joaquim de Oliveira Executive Director for Panels Alexandre Coelho Neto do Nascimento Executive Director for Wood Sales Antonio Massinelli Executive Legal Director Flavio Marassi Donatelli Elective Director for Finance and Investor Relations João Jacó Hazarabedian Executive Director for the Supply Chain, Investments and IT Mônica Ramos Pinto Executive Director of Human Resources Raul Penteado de Oliveira Neto Executive Director for the Deca division Renato Aguiar Coelho Executive Director for the Wood Industry Roberto Szachnowicz Executive Director for New Business Flávio Dias Soares Director for Development and Marketing at Deca Francisco de Assis Guimarães Director for Innovation and Technology Outsourcing Roney Rotenberg Sales Director for Deca Marco Antonio Milleo Industrial Director for Deca Commissions Executive Commission In 2011 Duratex created a series of commissions to Responsibilities: analyses and discusses all Duratex’s straassist in the decision-making process of the Executive tegic and operational aspects, defining general directives. Board, helping to perfect management and strengthen synergy between the businesses. These bodies strengPrincipal events during the year: in the weekly methen integration within the Company, bringing together etings, it deals with the alignment and execution of the specialists from different areas, allowing discussion on strategic plan defined at Board level. significant themes, and their influence on the operational segments, from a systemic perspective and integraInvestment Commission ting these into the goals of the business. It also ensures Responsibilities: analyses the competition and competianalysis of themes debated by the committees from a tiveness of Duratex, in addition to monitoring and approving company operational standpoint. investments by the Company in fixed assets. The commission consists of one coordinator and ten members. 27 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Noce Mare – “Essencial” Line Panel Principal Events during the Year: In 2012, the comleaders of the area. In addition to this, it provided support mission held 11 monthly meetings, which contributed to the for the work of the Ombudsman service. supervision and control of Duratex’s Investment Plan, covering hundreds of projects, the most important of which are Commission for New Business the expansion to the MDP unit at Taquari (RS), a new MDF Responsibilities: proposes the development of new plant at Itapetininga and the new vitreous chinaware plant businesses which indicate competitive advantages and at Queimados (RJ). It also supervised Duratex’s investment increased value generation for Duratex. It consists of one plan for 2013, approved by the Board of Directors. coordinator and seven members. Principal events during the year: it evaluated 21 stuCommission for Personnel dies in the most diverse segments of the construction secResponsibilities: proposes and monitors the implementator, of which three were actually realized: Tablemac, Mipel tion of staff management policies and practices, focused on and Thermosystem. The commission also has a portfolio attracting, developing and retaining the talent which has led of 45 other studies in different stages of development. Duratex to be recognised as one of the best companies to work for. It consists of one coordinator and seven members. Commission for Social Investment Principal events during the year: it provided support Responsibilities: prioritizes investments in social profor the work of the Committee for Personnel in the drajects that have a long-lasting impact on the community, wing up and approval of the Human Resources Strategy, reaffirming Duratex’s commitment to being recognized as Balanced Scorecard, the company medical assistance a socially responsible company. It consists of 12 members. plan, the definition and buying of a new human resources Principal events during the year: during the year, this management system (SAP) and the carrying out of cliCommission met 15 times, with the objective of making a mate research for the executive group and coordinators/ start on drawing up a Policy for Social Investment and the 28 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex standardization of the Company’s sponsorship of educational alterations to the tax and shareholding legislation, and the initiatives. Duratex is also looking at the possibility of social monitoring of federal, state and municipal tax inspections, action on projects focused on sport and culture. The commisas well as legislation of interest to the Company. sion approved the Standard for Donations and Sponsorship (criteria and procedures), plus Duratex’s Social Policy and Commission for marketing Social Investment Policy. It also nominated 25 local represenResponsibilities: proposes policies for the strengthetatives to offer support for the Company’s relationship with ning of Duratex’s corporate brand name through attributhe communities, and has analysed more than 450 proposals tes such as quality, ethical behaviour, reliability, design, for the support of cultural, sporting and social projects. innovation and sustainability, generating satisfaction for consumers and value for shareholders. It consists of one Commission for Sustainability coordinator and six members. Responsibilities: adds value to the management and Principal events during the year: it participated in governance process, based on the principles of sustainathe revitalisation of the Duratex brand name and the bility, proposing the development of actions, programs Company’s websites, as well as discussing the drawing and policies in accordance with best market practice. It up of the Communication Policy. consists of one coordinator and 11 members. Principal events during the year: it has formalised Commission for Risks the standards and programs relating to the environment, Responsibilities: consists of one coordinator and six memsupply chain, employees and governance. It has also bers, evaluates the risks involved in the Company’s operations discussed Duratex’s sustainability strategy for the next few and recommends appropriate policies to management. years, bringing the Sustainability Committee more in touch, Principal events during the year: nine meetings were and involving itself in the second Stakeholders Meeting. held, the main results of which were the publication of the Risk Management Policy for the whole company, the draCommission for Innovation wing up and monitoring of action plans with the objective Responsibilities: aims to ensure the Company’s of eliminating/mitigating the principal risks identified in the differentiated growth, competitiveness and profitability. mapping exercise carried out in 2011, reporting on proIt consists of one coordinator and 14 members from gress to the introduction of these plans to the Committee different business areas. for Auditing and Risk Management and the Board of DirecPrincipal events during the year: it set up the Imagine tors and the introduction of the process for updating the Program, which encourages the creation of multidisciplinary risk map (2012 period) through self-assessment, involving relationships and multiple skills (internal and external) among all Duratex’s business units and the persons responsible employees, for the suggestion of innovations. The program for their operation, directors and managers. offers financial rewards, and through its internal communication channels received 459 ideas during the year. For more information about the members of the Commission for Shareholding and Tax Matters Board of Directors, Committees, Executive Board Responsibilities: consists of one coordinator and five memand Commissions, including their experiences bers, and develops solutions which contribute to the improvewith respect to socio-environmental questions, ment of the Company’s shareholding and tax structure. readers should access the Reference Form avaiPrincipal events during the year: the commission lable on the website www.cvm.gov.br or on the met 11 times, and its principal activity was deliberation Company website www.duratex.com.br/ri. GRI 4.7 on the introduction of procedures as a consequence of 29 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Risk Management Risk to Cash Flow or Fair Value GRI 1.2 | 4.11 Associated with Interest Rates Duratex has a rigid risk management policy that The risk of the Company suffering economic losses identifies, assesses, prioritises and deals with possidue to adverse in the exchange rate is continuously ble risks to the business. This control process aims to monitored with the aim of evaluating the necessity of guarantee sustainability and the creation of value for contracting derivative operations to provide protection the shareholders. Based on the mapping of risks caragainst volatility, while the Company’s indebtedness ried out in 2011, risk management has been provided policy defines those risks which are acceptable. Under with more structure, with the definition of actions for this policy, the ratio of Net Debt to EBITDA must be risk mitigation and Risk Norms, published at the end less than three, while the ratio of net short-term debt of 2011. In its risk management, Duratex integrates to EBITDA must be lower than 0.5. technology, processes and staff, as well as observing the best corporate governance practices possible. Credit risk Each risk is continuously evaluated with respect The Company has adopted a sales policy associated to its likelihood of occurrence and financial impact on with the level of credit risks to which it is exposed, acthe businesses in order to permit its prioritisation. As cording to business. The diversification of its receivables necessary, the Company communicates the results of portfolio, the selection of its clients, and the monitoring the various stages of the risk management process in of financing periods for sales, and individual limits, are a clear and objective manner, to all the interested parall procedures that are adopted for the minimization ties, contributing to the understanding of the current of bad debts or losses. With respect to financial applisituation and the efficiency of the action plans. cations, and other investments, Duratex has an InvestThe risk management structure consists of the ment Policy which defines the institutions with which it Board of Directors, the Committee for Auditing and may have a business relationship, and directives with Risk Management and the Risk Commission of the respect to level of concentration. Duratex, through its Executive Board. Analyses of the potential risks are Indebtedness Policy, defines limits and parameters so as carried out by representatives from various areas of to guarantee its solvency. Control of its liquidity posithe Company, and follow the Principle of Precaution, tion takes place daily through the monitoring of its cash established at the United Nations Conference on the flows. The balance of payments past-due for more than Environment and Development. 31 days, at the end of 2012 was R$34.3 million, or 1 % of net sales for the year. Exchange Rate Risk Volatility in foreign exchange flows can influence asset and liability balances in foreign currency. Duratex seeks to ensure that the currency fluctuations to which the Company’s liabilities are subject, do not affect its results or cash flow. For this purpose, there is an internal policy which sets out the various forms of mitigating exchange-rate risks, while no derivatives of an “exotic” nature are permitted. As a consequence, the loans in foreign currency are swapped into Reais and the contracting of Non-Deliverable Forwards (NDFs) is used to cover possible exposure. 30 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Duratex´s Eucalyptus forest 31 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Risks and Opportunities with Geographical Diversification Respect to Climate Changes Duratex has a presence in various locations in Brazil, GRI EC2 which allows it to offer better quality of customer service Risks linked to climate change exist due to possible and reduce its logistics costs. The Company increased its changes in the regulatory environment and consequent international presence in 2012, with the acquisition of a demands with respect to the reduction of greenhouse gas 37 % stake in Tablemac, in Colombia, as well as investing (GHG) emissions, or the development of products with in the expansion of its production capacity, giving priority superior performance. Among the impacts predicted is a to the South and Southeast of the country. reduction in the level of forestry productivity in the event of irregular rainfall patterns and an increase in investment Brand Names in the research and development of eco-efficient products, Duratex’s principal brand names include the name Duforestry cultivation and improvements to reduce emissions. ratex itself, Deca and Hydra in the metal bathroom fittings However, as the leading company in the segments segment, and Durafloor in the panel segment. In 2012 it in which it operates, Duratex has the capacity to adapt introduced a refreshing new logo, strengthening the union itself to more challenging scenarios and lead movement between its operational segments and portraying qualities for change, with the possible capturing of additional such as innovation, design, quality and sophistication. market share. Innovation Innovation is an important characteristic of Duratex and is a determining factor in ensuring the Company’s To learn more about the complete risk matrix, longevity. To this end, it invests continually in products readers should access the Reference Form and solutions which provide it with a greater competitive on the website www.cvm.gov.br or on the edge in its operational markets. In 2012, Duratex invesCompany’s website www.duratex.com.br/ri. ted R$19.1 million in research and development. During this period the Company launched 27 new bathroom fitting lines, 32 vitreous chinaware lines, 32 new wood panel patterns and six new Durafloor floor types. Intangible Assets Quality The adoption of a long-term strategy and the Duratex’s quality standard is a benchmark reference allocation of its investments guarantee Duratex an in the market and is widely recognised by customers and important competitive advantage, principally with resconsumers alike. In addition to the training of its workforce, pect to the raw material that comes from its forests. and the national coverage of its technical assistance, the This advantage adds value to the Company and for its Company guarantees the credibility of its brand names and shareholders, increasing the productivity of its operatransmits a sense of confidence and reliability to its users tions and consolidating its relationship with the public through its Customer Service Centre (SAC). The SAC contact audiences concerned, as well as improving its environdetails are provided on product packaging, and on the follomental performance with the efficient use of funds. wing websites: www.deca.com.br, www.duratex-madeira. com.br and www.durafloor.com.br. 32 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Eco-efficiency Personnel In working with important natural resources, Duratex Duratex understands that its employees play a understands its significant role in preserving biomes and incentral role in the success of its businesses. For this vests in eco-efficient processes which include the consumpreason, it encourages the development of human capital tion of clean energy, the reuse of materials, and the saving and promotes activities that help to maintain a healthy of water and electricity. In its metal bathroom fittings plants, working environment. An important move carried out in 100 % of the metallic residue is reused. Reduction in energy 2012 was the restructuring of the Human Resources consumption is obtained through the thermal installation of Directorship, which will be focusing its activities on the equipment, the use of natural illumination, the installation retention of talent, organizational culture, internal climaof solar heaters, and the use of more efficient lamps. te, training and meritocracy, among other aspects. In the Wood Division, all the production of boards and panels uses wood that comes from reforestation activities. Information Technology (IT) Some of the plantations also carry Forest Stewardship In order to guarantee the security of its database, Council (FSC) and ISO 14001 certification. In addition to Duratex has a Business Continuity Plan. This system this, the construction of new buildings takes into account replicates the database every 30 minutes and stoaspects such as rainwater storage and the use of water res it in a safe environment, outside the Company’s from showers and basins from the changing rooms which installations. The Company’s IT infrastructure uses is used to water the gardens, solar water heating, natural leading-edge technology based on an SAP platform. illumination of the administration areas, and the installaThe production processes use advanced resources, intion of metal bathroom fittings and vitreous chinaware cluding robotised processes, in addition to undergoing that are designed for low water consumption. regular maintenance. Metal Deca Wish Gold – Cuba L.87 Black Matte 33 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex The area is run by the Directorship for Information Product Mix Diversity Technology, Standards and Investment Management, Duratex’s product mix is principally based on the created two years ago with the objective of improving needs of the sectors in which it operates. With the acthe Company’s IT systems. This is fundamental in quisition of Thermosystem and Mipel, the Company has improving risk management, planning, and the monitoentered into markets that have synergy with its existing ring of investments, and increases the Company’s exbusiness, diversifying the range of solutions that it offers posure on the internet, with various websites targeted in terms of industrial valves, electronic showers, and at specific public audiences. solar heating systems. The products are conceived based on principles of sustainability and the aim is to achieve Gains in Scale eco-efficiency not only in terms of their production, but Duratex’s production scale, thanks to its extensive also in their use. The eco-efficiency program, specifically size and constant investment, results in cost savings. focused on the development of products with low water The Company has a market share of about 40 % in its consumption, today has a range of more than 300 items. two Divisions (Duratex’s estimate) in Brazil. In 2012, it acquired two companies in Brazil and a 37 % stake Integration of Operations in Tablemac, a producer of wood panels in Colombia. The forestry reserves guarantee supplies to the Investments were also made in organic growth in the plants, mitigating the risk of future wood price increaDeca and Wood divisions. These, in addition to adding ses. This is a self-sustaining operation, with 140,000 extra revenue for the Company, will contribute to gains hectares of planted forest in an area of approximain scale when operating at full capacity, diluting the tely 230,000 hectares, integrated with the industrial portion of fixed costs linked to industrial activity and complexes through a supply network, providing a high enriching the mix of products offered, with increased degree of self-sufficiency in terms of wood supply. The potential for the creation of differentiated products, Company continues to look at businesses that have when compared to its competitors. synergy with its current operations. Cost Management The scale of operation, the integrated wood supply system and the verticalization of its production, are all Over 140,000 hectares important factors in keeping operational costs low. In of planted forests in an addition to this, the Company also reuses inputs and uses biomass for the heating of its boilers. area of 230,000​​ hectares to ensure Duratex selfAwards and Recognitions sustainability in the during the year supply of plants GRI 2.10 Awards Valor 1000: champion of the Construction Materials and Decoration sector (for the second time) as well as listed as outstanding in the categories of Sustainable Growth, Net Revenue, Value Generation and Business Margin. 34 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Top of Mind Award from Casa & Mercado magaAbrasca Annual Report Award: the Duratex 2011 zine: the brand names Deca and Durafloor were the most Annual Report received an honourable mention in the remembered by the public in their operational segments. Risk Management category. Top Móbile Award: ranked in first place in the categoRecognitions ries of MDP panels and MDF panels, in the Suppliers to Duratex won recognition in terms of two important Industry segment. Carbon Information Reports under the Carbon Disclosure Project (CPD). Abrasca Award for Value Creation: winner in the The shares of the Company were chosen for the first category Outstanding in the Sector in 2012 – Paper and time to be part of the Dow Jones Sustainability World Pulp as the best case of value creation in 2011. Index. Launched in 1999, this was the first global index that monitored companies with a focus on the creation Época Negócios 360º Yearbook: best company in of long-term value. For the 2012/2013 period, only 340 the Construction Materials and Decoration segment. companies were selected to form part of the index, of which only nine were from Brazil. Thirty four criteria were Best in Money Terms for 2012: best company in evaluated from environmental, economic and social the Construction Materials and Decoration segment. In perspectives. In the evaluation process the Company obaddition to ranking in first place in the sector, Duratex tained an absolute score of 79, which places it in the top was also listed as outstanding in the categories of Best 10, with an average of 93 % and the best score in terms Company in Corporate Governance Management, Best of 5 criteria, the most important of which were Crisis and Company in Environmental Management, Best Company Risk Management, Engagement with Stakeholders and in Human Resources Management and Best Company in International Production Standards. Duratex was the first the Management of Social Responsibility. Latin American company in the construction materials sector to be included in this index. Biggest and Best 2012/Exame: in the Forestry area Duratex was elected as the best company in the wood and pulp sector. Greenbest Award 2012: finalist with the Decalux For the fifth year running, Duratex’s shares were Save tap, launched by Deca, in the category of Products included in the BM&FBovespa Corporate Sustainability for Construction and Refurbishment. Index (ISE). Época Green Company Award 2012: outstanding in Good Environmental Practices. Eco Award: winner in the category of Sustainability in Duratex was listed as outstanding in the Brazilian Products, with the Hydra Duo valve. ranking for renewable energy, classified in eighth position. This ranking was compiled for the first time by BloomÉtica in Business Award: the Piatan Environmental berg Energy Finance (Bnef) in its Corporate Renewable Living Area (AVAP), situated at the Agudos Forestry Unit Index research, an index which provides information on (SP), and the Buriti Centre for Socio-Environmental Eduthe renewable energy used by companies. cation (CESA), located at the forestry unit in Estrela do Sul (MG), both won the Sustainability category. 35 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex 03 Socio-environmental Responsibility GRI 4.12 Theme 18 of the Materiality Matrix: Environmental Policy Work on the building of the Materiality Matrix and the definition of priority themes began in 2010, and in 2012 Duratex held its 2nd Stakeholders Meeting in order to determine the most significant themes to be developed and included as part of the Company’s strategy and long-term management. The consultation process involved 25 market specialists, 47 employees, and members of top management. The themes prioritized, based on the cross-referencing of evaluations by specialists and top management, are being incorporated into the Company’s sustainability strategy by the Committee for Sustainability, while the contributions of the panel of employees will contribute to improving staff management policies and practices of the Human Resources Directorship. Initiatives to improve Duratex’s environmental management use market references, such as the following indicators: Ethos, GRI, CDP, ISE and the DJWSI. Duratex is one of the companies that has been invited to complete responses for the BM&FBovespa Carbon Efficiency Index (ICO2), after having contributed to discussions on the creation of this index. In addition to this, it is a signatory of the Global Compact, and one of the founding members of the Brazilian Green Building Council. 36 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex 4% to 7% was the increase in the level of reporting in 2011 and 2012 Carbon Disclosure Project in Brazil, reaching the highest note of reports of their initiatives to r reduce the emission of greenhouse since 2007 37 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Advances in Environmental location with respect to demand, current availaManagement in 2012 bility and availability in the future, enabling the CPD: Duratex was cited as outstanding in the categoCompany to trace out those areas that best fit its ries of Governance and Emission Reduction Initiatives projects. The results are being compiled, and the in the CPD report for 2012. The Company obtained a project is to be extended to the plants in the norC in terms of performance level, with an increase from theast in 2013. This year the identification of the 49 % to 75 % in the level of reporting from 2011 to water footprint for one of its main products, MDF, 2012, and achieved a higher score with respect to its is being planned, taking into account direct water initiatives for reducing GHG emissions than it has since consumption and the generation of effluent in the it began responding to the questionnaire in 2007. production process. GRI EN9 | EN25 ISO 14001: the environmental management sysDefinition of environmental targets: based on tems were certified in five of Duratex’s plants, two in the criteria defined by the Commission for Sustainathe Wood Division (Uberaba and Agudos) and three in bility in 2011, Duratex has established targets for the the Deca division (Louças Sul, Metais Jundiaí and Mevarious environmental aspects of its operation: tais São Paulo). The ISO 14001 standard establishes • Electric power: 1 % reduction in consumption by directives for environmental management with the the Deca Division by the end of 2013. For the object of improving the systematization of processes Wood Division, targets will be established once and efficiency of training, and widening the coverage the two new production lines have been brouof environmental awareness initiatives. ght into operation, seeing that they will affect the rate of energy efficiency during their initial Corporate Renewables Index: the Company fearamp-up period. tured in the renewable energy Brazilian rankings com• Water: the panel, vitreous chinaware and metal piled by Bnef. This mention was primarily due to the bathroom fittings units all have specific targets volume of renewable sources used for the generation to reduce water consumption (4 %, 3 % and 2 %, of electricity during the year. Duratex consumed more respectively) and effluent generation (6 %, 5 % and than 1,000 GWh of biomass, which also places it in a 2 %, respectively) by the end of 2013. differentiated position in a global context. • Residues: the panel, vitreous chinaware and metal bathroom fittings units must reduce their residue Diagnoses of water availability: initially generation by 3 %, 14 % and 1 %, respectively, by carried out for Duratex’s units in the state of São the end of 2013. These targets will be redefined Paulo, this diagnosis cites the availability of water to take into account the equity stake in Tablemac resources in the context of the rest of the world and the recently acquired operations of the Deca world, Brazil, and the state, where most of the Division in Jacareí (SP) and Tubarão (SC). Company’s production capacity is based and from • Emissions: 0.7 % of Duratex’s emission reductions which most of its revenue derives. The objective under Scope 1 of the GHG Protocol by 2014, of the project is to define the water risk at each taking into account changes in its energy matrix. 38 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Relationship with Stakeholders GRI: 4.14 | 4.15 | 4.16 | 4.17 Duratex values its transparent and close relationship with its stakeholders, maintaining open dialogue through various channels, including especially targeted channels. Guidelines on relationships with stakeholders are listed in the Code of Conduct of the Company. Table of Interactions Interested party Communication channels Principal actions Quarterly conference calls on the results; roadshows in Brazil and abroad; individual and group meetings and analyst visits to P ublication on the website of financial, social, plants; public meetings for analysts in Brazil; environmental and cultural information; quarannual report; website channel of the investor terly reports containing discussion of results Shareholders relations department, with personal contact and socio-environmental performance; Code of and investors for communications/alerts by e-mail for the Ethics and Conduct; Committee for Disclosure publication of events of interest; electronic and Trading; Security Trading Policy and Discloinformation bulletin about sustainability and sure Policy for Material Events and Facts. relationship channel on the environmental theme (sustentabilidade@duratex.com.br). Toll-free telephone service for customers; corporate website, websites of Deca and Wood Customer service and technical assistance; divisions; annual report; electronic information product advertising in accordance with ethical Clients and bulletin on sustainability and relationship chanstandards; development of eco-efficient consumers nel on the environmental theme. Presence of the products; Credit Committee and Code of Ethics Company at trade fairs and events, with its own and Conduct. stand and participation by company executives. Website; annual report; electronic information Policy for the Supply of Goods and Services, Suppliers bulletin with respect to sustainability and relaand Code of Ethics and Conduct. tionship channel on the environmental theme.  onfidential channels for denouncements; C Education and training programs; calendar electronic information bulletin on sustainabilievents, such as secretary day, Mother’s Day ty; relationship channel on the environmental Employees and year-end celebrations; Code of Ethics and theme; HR listens; internal noticeboards; intraConduct and the Committee for Staff, Governet; website, annual report and 2nd Stakeholnance and Succession. ders Meeting – Panel of Employees Committee for Sustainability and the sponsoring  nnual report; website, relationship channel on A of cultural and social events. Factory visits proCommunity the environmental theme and availability of the gram and investments of an educational nature “speak to us” tool on the website. in regions where the Company is present. Code of Ethics and Conduct; Policy for the Reception and Treatment of Denouncements; Government A  nnual report; website and relationship Environmental Policy; contribution to assoand society channel on the environmental theme. ciations, entities and sustainability initiatives, such as the Ethos Institute, the Mão Certa Program and ISO and FSC certifications. A  nnual report; press relations; website, Code of Ethics and Conduct; Press e-mail alerts and press conferences. Committee for Trading and Disclosure. 39 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Clients and Consumers respect and ethical behaviour. As a result, its brandGRI PR5 names and products are recognised by customers and consumers alike, as references for quality, design, innovation and sustainability. Themes 61, 62, 66 and 69 of the In the Wood Division, the support service is segMateriality Matrix: Customer Health mented into two structures, one directed to industry and Safety in the Use of Products, (particularly the finance sector) and the other to retail Product Information (access and wood merchants and construction material outlets. quality of information), Product Quality The support for these structures is provided by teams and Customer Service (pre-and post sale) specialised in communication, product development, technical assistance and customer relationships. While at the Deca Division, there is an ongoing drive Duratex offers convenience and flexibility through to emphasise the outstanding qualities of its products its service channels and extensive technical assistance and the value of the brand-name with architectural network, in addition to investing continuously in the firms and construction companies, with visits by the training of its professional staff and promoting marpre-sales team. The Division also has sales affiliates, keting and relationship initiatives, all characterised by focused on the construction industry and retail outlets. Consumer Advice 2012 2011 2010 2009 Service – Durafloor Total number of calls received by call center 27,131 32,364 25,452 29,451 % of complaints as a proportion of total calls taken 12.11 11.60 9.00 11.74 % of complaints not dealt with by call centre 0 0 0 0 Average call waiting time before call is answered 6s 7s 7s 6s To learn more about consumer opinion with respect network of Deca Hydra. The satisfaction level in these to the quality of service provided, Deca’s SAC carries out audits carried out in 2012 was 94.5 %, demonstrating monthly auditing, based on sampling, of the service orthe high degree of confidence that consumers have with ders received and implemented by the authorised service respect to the Division’s products and services. Consumer advice 2012 2011 2010 2009 service – Deca Division Total number of calls received by call center 68,695 78,841 100,722 98,594 % of complaints as a proportion of total calls taken 1.20 1.10 0.19 0.06 % of complaints not dealt with by call centre 0 0 0.01 0.01 Average call waiting time before call is answered 50s 47s 48s 49s 40 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Drying Machine 41 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Relationship Activities In the same way, the Panel Unit’s stand was created Duratex’s relationship with its customers, and its by the architect Maurício Queiroz and prioritises the reputation, are reinforced by a series of initiatives. use of Duratex’s products. In addition to walls of Duna Among these, of particular note are: the Duratex LoyalBranco Diamante, the stand uses one of the flooring ty Program, the holding of concourse competitions such products launched during the year; Durafloor Trend, the as the Deca Dream Bathroom Award, the Deca Baonly one in the country with two widths of floorboard throom Project competition, and participation at events. available which can be installed together or separately, In 2012, Deca was present at the 3rd Brazilian Green providing a personalised look. Building, the 5th Brazilian Congress for the Development Also in 2012, Duratex and its Deca, Durafloor and of Hospital Buildings, the Beauty Fair, the 6th São Carlos Painel business units, became part of the main social Engineering, Architecture and Agronomy week and the media networks. 54th National Hotel Congress, in addition to sponsoring Casa Cor, the largest architectural and decoration event Suppliers in the Americas, held in various Brazilian states, such In keeping with its Mission, Vision and Values, as Rio de Janeiro, São Paulo, Rio Grande do Sul, Minas the Company maintains a focus on ensuring that its Gerais, Goiás and others. partners are qualified and authorised with respect to In the Wood Division, various events are held to interrupt socio-environmental practices, exposure to improve customer relationships. Among these, of risks, technological evolution and responsibility for particular note are the workshops, in which a selection customers, suppliers and employees. of promotional partners and specialists are invited to Duratex made improvements to its Buying Policy seminar sessions on products and themes of interest; in 2012, with the aim of creating an even more solid and the Meeting of Friends, which in 2012 saw the relationship with its suppliers and greater transpaparticipation of around 1,240 clients, and which through rency in relation to its competitive processes. In addicombined action with Duratex collected 2,440 Kg of tion to this, it also took steps to ensure a posture of non-perishable foodstuffs, donated to charitable bodies mutual cooperation, allowing socio-environmental in the communities where the Company is present. projects to be developed for a sustainable future. As In addition to this, the Deca and Panel business part of Duratex’s Supplier Program (GFD), in 2012 units represented Duratex at Exporevestir 2012, from an Ombudsman service was introduced for suppliers, March 6 to 9, at the Transamérica Expo Center, in São which over the next few months will be launched on Paulo. The event, held annually, anticipates trends and the Supplier Portal. solutions for the building finishing sector, focused on In its quest to continually improve its processes, architects, interior designers, builders, construction maDuratex is seeking to replace non-renewable inputs terial retailers and international buyers. with more economic and sustainable alternatives. For With a stand of approximately 400m², Deca recei2013, the start of a project is planned for the unit at ves the public at its concept hall, sited at the entrance Itapetininga (SP) with the replacement some of the of the pavilion, and replete with technology and design. fuel oil supplying power to the plant with biomass Neutral colours, characterised by the use of wood in from the residue of the manufacturing process. Anoflooring, and cement plaques on walls, lend a sophisther noteworthy item is the largest plant of the Panel ticated tone to the space, which is complemented by Unit, located in the municipality of Agudos (SP), wheimages of the current branding campaign. re fuel oil is being replaced with natural gas. 42 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Employees GRI 4.4 One of Duratex’s major differentials is its human Staff management: highlights capital. Its more 10,000 employees are committed to and outlook for the future the excellency of its products and services and focused on customer satisfaction. The Company invests in its Achievements in 2012: development through policies and processes which value • Purchase of Human Resources SAP system diversity, the attraction and retention of talent, quality of • Creation of the For Everyone Program life, and safety in the workplace. The main achievements (see more in the item on Diversity) in 2012 and the priorities for 2013 in terms of staff ma• Institution of development platform for managers nagement are highlighted in the figure below. • Completion of organizational climate research At the end of 2012, Duratex had 10,514 employees, • Publication of Duratex Magazine consisting of 10,353 in Brazil (in addition to 87 student trainees and 1,822 outsourced staff) and 161 in foreign Priorities for 2013: countries. Compared to 2011, there was a slight drop of • Consolidation of the operational model for the 0.4 % in the number of direct employees. Human Resources Department • Strengthening of human resources management through the implementation of control indicators • Dissemination of corporate culture (Somos Assim – How We Are) and promotion of diversity in the working environment, among other aspects Employees at Agudos unit, Durafloor packaging 43 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Employees by labour contract and region Diversity Indicators 2012 2011 2010 Total Brazil Employees 10,353 10,390 9,368 Directors 15 13 13 Interns 87 107 148 Outsourced staff 1,822 1,929 1,682 Total in foreign countries Employees 161 171 174 In 2012 the Company launched the For Everyone ProDirectors 0 0 0 gram, aimed at attracting the disabled into the Company. Interns 0 0 0 This is the first step in a strategy of strengthening Duratex’s Outsourced staff 0 0 0 diversity, reaffirming the Company’s values and compleBrazil menting other social responsibility initiatives. The program Employees (total) 10,353 10,390 9,368 has had wide mobilization within the Company, with the South 926 907 968 definition and training of facilitators who disseminate the Southeast 8,077 8,148 7,885 initiative to all Duratex’s public audiences. These employees Midwest 0 0 0 receive the mission to identify opportunities for the hiring of Northeast 1,350 1,335 515 disabled staff, acting in conjunction with the Human ResourNorth 0 0 0 ces department in the implementation of improvements Directors (total) 15 13 13 to the program, and sharing experiences with other work South 0 0 0 colleagues. During the year, efforts have already resulted in Southeast 15 13 13 internal and regulatory targets being reached, in terms of Midwest 0 0 0 the number of disabled employees, and the expectation for Northeast 0 0 0 North 0 0 0 the next few years is for this type of hiring to increase. Student trainees (total) 87 107 148 In addition to this, since 2008, Duratex has had its South 2 5 11 Social Inclusion Program at the Nursery Unit in Lençóis Southeast 85 102 136 Paulista, which hires staff to work in the cultivation of Midwest 0 0 0 saplings. This initiative also includes the offering of Northeast 0 0 1 courses related to forestry activities in partnership with North 0 0 0 associations for the support of the physically and mentally Outsourced staff (total) 1,822 1,929 1,682 challenged, the municipal authority and technical colleges. South 218 229 400 The number of women working at the Company has Southeast 1,550 1,652 1,241 increased gradually over the last few years, representing Midwest 0 0 0 9.5 % of the total number of employees in 2009, and Northeast 54 48 41 rising to 10.8 % in 2012. The Company also has an inNorth 0 0 0 creasing number of professionally experienced staff, with Abroad the number of employees between the ages of 30 and Employees (total) 161 171 174 35, and over 45, having shown an increase. There was Argentina 156 163 166 also a significant increase in the percentage of employeBelgium 0 2 2 es of the people of colour and people of African heritage, United States 5 6 6 which up to 2009 represented a little over 20 % of the workforce, and which now represents 28 %. 44 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Employees by Gender Employees by Age Bracket Men Up to 30 years of age Women Between 31 and Over 45 years of age 45 years of age 826 927 1,109 1,117 1,242 1,330 1,387 1,460 9.52 % 9.90 % 10.67 % 10.79 % 14.31 % 14.20 % 13.35 % 14.10 % 3,655 3,990 4,438 4,525 42.10 % 42.59 % 42.71 % 43.71 % 7,855 8,441 9,281 9,236 3,784 4,048 4,565 4,368 90.48 % 90.10 % 89.33 % 89.21 % 43.59 % 43.21 % 43.94 % 42.19 % 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Seedling nursery 45 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex 7,226 employees were trained, between 2011 and 2012, the Somos Assim program, that spreads the culture of the company for the internal public Somos Assim Publicizing the Somos Assim Program was carriedone The Somos Assim (How We Are) program, created in in 2012 through presentations and the distribution of 2010, is an initiative to disseminate Duratex’s corporaleaflets. Between 2011 and 2012, an average of 7,226 te culture among its internal stakeholders, including the employees were trained. In 2013, a summary of all the Company’s Values, beliefs, Mission and Vision. In this way, initiatives carried out in the previous year will be shared the Company keeps itself in alignment with its core essenwith employees, in addition to stressing the significance of ce and ideas, reaching towards its strategy for the future. each of the Company’s values, and how to apply them on a day-to-day basis. Number of participations in Somos Assim training programs Deca Forestry Wood Central offices 7,853 8,183 7,927 534 544 562 7,081 6,937 6,964 6,762 527 927 805 541 504 589 573 6,104 676 752 730 626 524 2,116 2,415 2,224 593 2,095 2,094 1,998 1,823 1,973 4,676 4,297 4,336 3,662 3,694 3,647 3,740 3,014 Mission and values Integrity Commitment Human worth Achieving results Continuous improvement Innovation Sustainability 46 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Production of metal fittings, São Paulo unit Panel of Employees Examples of this are the changes already planned Duratex’s 2nd Stakeholders Meeting, held in 2012, for 2013, with a new healthcare model being introduincluded a specific panel for employees. On that occaced for all employees, and the leadership development sion, 47 participants spoke openly about their percepplatform, as well as the development of core and busition of the Company’s personnel management. ness skills, initially developed for management level, to The event was an important step in bringing the be subsequently introduced for other employees. Company increasingly closer to its internal stakeholders, and improving the management of its staff. Climate Research Among the positive points raised by employees was Duratex carries out research to evaluate its orgathe direction of ethical behaviour among Duratex’s nisational climate, drawing attention to aspects that management and through its activities, as well as the need improvement. In combination with the employee infrastructure provided in the work environment. As panel, the climate research reflects the opinion of the points cited for improvement, the internal stakeholders internal stakeholders, and therefore represents an raised questions such as career planning, benefits and important engagement tool. internal recruitment. All these themes are being evaIn the first phase of the climate research, carried out luated by the Human Resources Directorship, and are in October 2012, 333 directors, managers, coordinators being worked on within the Company. and division chiefs were invited. Of these, 87.9 % responded to the research, being 88.05 % male and 11.95 %, female. This research will be continued in 2013. 47 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Definition of Targets Climate Research themes GRI LA12 covered in 2012 • Organizational Climate: exposure to stress • Harmony of environment Theme 38 of the Materiality Matrix: • Cooperation between employees Definition of Targets • Careers and development • Working conditions • Job positions Since 1995, Duratex has had an Employee Profit-Sha• Leadership ring Program, which provides for the variable remunera• Benefits, among others tion of its employees throughout all its units, based on the meeting of two targets in terms of Local Performance, and another three in terms of Degree of Employee Commitment to the Company. Staff Turnover Duratex’s staff turnover rates by gender and age group were lower in 2012 than in the previous year, Aspects analysed under Employee Profit Sharing Program except for among staff of over 56 years of age. Performance Degree of employee’s of the unit commitment to the Company Productivity Accidents in the workplace Value added Staff turnover rates – % Absence or cost 2012 2011 2010 Product quality Gender Men 21.3 23.1 22.1 Women 29.0 33.1 21.2 All the employees at the Operational level and Age bracket at the first leadership levels (supervisors and coordiUp to 20 years old 81.5 93.1 85.1 21 to 25 years old 35.7 38.8 36.3 nators), are evaluated in a collective and individual 26 to 30 years old 23.5 25.3 24.6 manner, in accordance with these criteria, and given 31 to 35 years old 16.8 19.7 18.1 recognition based on this evaluation. 36 to 40 years old 12.1 15.1 13.2 At the Management and Director level, a Compe41 to 45 years old 8.5 10.8 8.6 tences Model aligns management performance with 46 to 50 years old 7.6 7.8 5.2 Duratex’s future challenges. The process includes 360° 51 to 55 years old 8.5 8.3 6.0 valuation of the executives and the measurement of cor56 and over 14.4 11.5 8.1 porate targets, agreed at the beginning of each year for Region the unit as well as individually, including socio-environNortheast 40.8 60.4 38.3 mental aspects. Based on this the annual variable remuSoutheast 18.7 20.7 20.8 neration is defined, as well as the program for individual South 24.9 24.1 23.5 development, and the succession plan for key positions Brazil 22.1 24.2 22.0 within the Company’s structure. The target management model uses the Balanced Scorecard tool, making it easier to standardize this process in new operations. 48 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex 331 Duratex is a sponsor of private pension plans of the R$ .8 million Defined Contribution Type (Plan PAI-CD) and the defined benefit type (Plan BD) which are managed by Fundação Itaúsa Industrial, a non-profit organisation. Plan PAI-CD, open to new employees, involves contributions by the was the total Company of amounts between 50 % and 100 % of the compensation paid amount contributed by participants; there are 5,248 active contributors to, 206 supported by, and 705 conto employees nected to the plan. Plan BD, on the other hand, is closed by Duratex to new members, and in 2012 had 59 active contributors to, 491 supported by and 26 connected to the plan. For more information on these by the pension plans, please consult Explanatory Note 27 of the financial Remuneration and Benefits statements. GRI EC3 The total remuneration paid by Duratex to its 10,601 As set out in its Bylaws, the Company has a share employees in 2012 was R$ 331,8 million. The Company’s option plan in place with the objective of integrating Salary Policy is based on market references in its opexecutives into the Company’s development over the erational segments, and takes into account attributions, medium and long terms. The options provide their ownresponsibilities, results and employee performance. The ers with the right, observing the conditions established Company periodically carries out research to keep its in the plan, to subscribe to the ordinary shares of Durapolicy up to date. In addition to fixed remuneration, it also tex’s authorized capital. Conditions for being part of the offers variable remuneration and benefits. The lowest anoption plan are coordinated by the Committee for Staff, nual salary paid by the Company in 2012 was 2.9 % higher Governance and Nominations under the supervision of than the national minimum salary. the Board of Directors. Production of metal fittings 49 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Training and Education these, is the constant guidance provided with respect Duratex invests continually in the training of its to the safe operation of machinery, Internal Weeks for professional staff through programs focused on technical the Prevention of Accidents at Work organised by the improvement and the development of behavioural and Internal Commission for Accident Prevention, medical leadership skills. In 2012, R$1.99 million was spent on centres in the units equipped to carry out routine exasubsidies for graduate, postgraduate, language courses minations, cater to emergencies and organise annual flu and training programs. Duratex recorded 78,586 insvaccination campaigns. In 2012, 93.8 % of employees tances of participation and an average of 20.6 training were represented on formal health and safety comhours per employee. mittees, consisting of professional staff from different During 2013, the Management Development Plahierarchical levels of the Company. tform will be introduced, which consists of development All the Company’s vehicles, including the bus which actions for managers to undertake, which are aligned to is used to transport employees, undergo constant Duratex’s business strategy. The objective is to guarantee maintenance, while the drivers receive guidance on safe the development of the skills expected for the manager’s driving. The Company also invests in training its emcurrent position, and help in preparing the employee for ployees in the avoidance of accidents in the workplace. assuming new responsibilities in the future. In 2012 there were 235 accidents, 145 which involved time off work. In 2010, there was a significant improHealth, Safety and Well-Being vement in the indicators, despite an increased level of Duratex implements a series of initiatives to ensure business activity, which demonstrates the effectiveness the health and well-being of its employees. Among of the initiatives adopted. Variation Variation Health and safety indicators 2012 2011 2012/2011 2010 2011/2010 –% –% Accidents involving time off work 145 140 3.6 142 (1.4) Accidents and not involving time off work 90 101 (10.9) 230 (60.1) Days lost through time off work 1,208 1,174 2.9 1,802 (33.0) Days lost through transport 2,062 2,296 (10.2) 3,957 (47.9) Days computed and debited 300 0 400 (25.0) Total days 3,570 3,470 2.9 6,159 (42.0) Absenteeism – supported by a doctor's certificate – % 1.63 0.92 2.39 Absenteeism – accidents – % 0.12 0.10 0.19 Work-related deaths 0 0 21 Accident frequency rate 2 (days lost/man hours worked) 5.5 5.1 5.8 Accident severity rate 3 (accidents involving time 174.5 172.8 325.8 off work (doctor's certificate)/man hours worked) 1. The deaths that occurred in 2010 were due to road accidents. There were no deaths directly related to work. 2. Calculated by days lost over man hours worked. 3. Calculated by number of accidents involving time off work supported by a doctor’s certificate over man-hours worked. 50 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Monitoring center, Agudos Health and Accidents Accidents Days Absenteeism safety indicators involving not involving lost TFA1 TGA2 by region time off work time off work 2012 South 14 13 153 1.62 5.66 86.61 Southeast 116 77 2,963 1.62 5.49 184.87 Northeast 15 0 454 2.60 5.62 170.14 Brazil 145 90 3,570 1.75 5.52 174.46 2011 South 22 13 388 0.80 8.98 205.03 Southeast 104 77 2,991 0.92 4.29 178.10 Northeast 14 11 91 2.27 10.04 65.25 Brazil 140 101 3,470 1.01 5.13 172.80 2010 South 14 12 1,225 8.26 5.46 668.32 Southeast 109 53 4,449 1.92 5.05 302.60 Northeast 19 165 85 1.60 18.11 81.02 Brazil 142 230 5,759 2.58 5.82 325.76 1. TFA: accident frequency rate. 2. TGA: accident severity rate. 51 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Community Another channel for measuring and keeping up to date GRI SO1 with impacts on the community is the register of DemanIn 2012 Duratex continued with its Community ds by Interested Parties (DIP), as required by Duratex’s Dialogue Project, working on the treatment of inforEnvironmental Policy, the corporate directives of Itaúsa mation obtained through consultation in 2010. The Industrial and the ISO 14001 and Forest Stewardship initiative consists of consultation by sampling, with Council certification. In 2012, 367 entries were registered neighbours, customers and suppliers of the forestry in the DIP, most of which were related to the disseminafarms in the regions of Minas Gerais and São Paution of information, of which 88 % were dealt with. lo to identify their perception with respect to the impact of the Company’s activities. Public consultaProjects Supported in 2012 tion will be carried out again in 2014. The operations Based on the directives established by the Commission in Rio Grande do Sul are not yet part of the project, for Social Investment, Duratex supports a series of social seeing that the Environmental Impact Study was only projects in different areas, prioritising the training of the concluded last year, the results of which were filed youngsters and environmental education. In many of these with the State Environmental Protection Federation. initiatives, employees work on a voluntary basis. In 2012, the Company’s external social investment came to a total of R$ 9.3 million, 121 % more than the previous year. Project Formare, Students from Taquari and Uberaba units 52 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Line Name What it is Where Tide Setúbal Offers professional training to adolescents from Municipal School low-income families, with courses in joinery, Agudos (SP) of Joinery marquetry, and microcomputer operation. Contributes to the professional training of young people in a situation of social risk, placing at their disposal technical Escola Formare professionalization courses to train them as Sales Agents Taquari (RS) and Program and Service Agents as well as Wood Processing OperaUberaba (MG) tives. The course lasts ten months, and this certificate is recognised by the Ministry of Education.  imed at the wives, mothers and children of employees, A Income Agudos (SP) and it trains participants in activities that complement family Generation Botucatu (SP) income (culinary activity, arts and crafts etc.). Professional training  ires disabled persons to work in the cultivation of H Program for this saplings. The Company also holds a series of forestrySocial Inclusion -related courses, in partnership with associations that Lençóis Paulista (SP) of the Disabled provide support for the learning disabledand physically at Viveiro disabled, the municipal authority, and technical colleges.  ffers monitored visits to the production plants for O students in their last year of high school in the public Looking to education network, and exercises to awake the interest All units the Future of adolescents with respect to the professions of the employees at the units, helping these youngsters decide how to join the labour market.  lients and pupils of teaching institutions offer courses C Technical Visits compatible with the production of wood panel unit visit Taquari (RS) for visitors to learn about the manufacturing processes. 53 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Line Name What it is Where Combines storytellers, theatre presentations and workshops, to teach about the recycling of materials. The  gudos (SP), Botucatu A Theatre in shows are free, and are held on stages mounted in contai(SP), Jundiaí (SP) and the Town Square ners, set up in town squares, covering a variety of themes Itapetininga (SP) of popular Brazilian culture, investing in the tradition of storytelling to preserve legends, folklore and customs.  ini library with 500 works of literature for children and M adults, national and foreign. This cultural space was built with wood panels manufactured by the Company, Knowledge and with re-used milk cartons. It is also known as Lençóis Paulista (SP) Corner Ecoteca, an ecological library based on three important Culture elements – formal education, environmental education and reading. Mobile video show that is part of the Festival do Minuto A  gudos (SP), Botucatu collection, created in 1991 to bring together amateur and (SP), Itapetininga (SP), Mobile Minute professional videos of up to one minute duration. It is consiJundiaí (SP) and Lençóis dered to be the largest video festival in Latin America. Paulista (SP) Duratex has installed Ler é Preciso libraries in five comEstrela do Sul (MG), UbeLer é Preciso munities. The objective of the project is to provide the raba (MG), Cabo de Santo (The Need to Read) population with access to quality books, contributing to Agostinho (PE), Taquari Community Library the development of their reading, writing, critical reaso(RS) and Botucatu (SP) ning and citizenship skills. A  VAP is a space organised for the development of environmental educational activities for students, employees and other public audiences living around the unit, interested in getting to learn about forestry plantation AVAP Agudos (SP) management. Through the use of audio-visual resourEnvironmental ces, an exhibition centre and forest trails, this promotes Education awareness among the community with respect to the environmental questions of forestry activity. CESA promote socio-environmental education activities CESA through didactic and pedagogical courses, fostering Estrela do Sul (MG) awareness in individuals. The PAF, in partnership with Sesi, promotes the practice of sports such as football and judo for 230 children and youngsters between the ages of seven and 17. The pro thlete of the A Agudos (SP), Botucatu ject is aimed at developing motor skills and interaction, Sport Future Program (SP), Itapetininga (SP) at their initiation into specific sports, and at increasing (PAF) and Jundiaí (SP) ability within the sport chosen. It touches on themes such as ethics, cultural plurality, the environment, sexual orientation and health. 54 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Government and Society Conservation, Biodiversity and Forestry Protection Duratex has a relationship with various entities in In 2012 the environmental management systems of the sector and in Brazilian industry, such as the Brazilian five of Duratex’s plants were certified – two in the Wood Association of Wood Panel Industries, the Brazilian AssoDivision (Uberaba and Agudos) three in the Deca Division ciation of High Resistance Laminated Flooring Industries, (Louças Sul, Metais Jundiaí and Metais São Paulo). In the Brazilian Association of Planted Forest Producers, the addition to this, the Company has also carried FSC certifiBrazilian Association of Listed Companies, the Centre for cation since the 1990s. Industries in the State of São Paulo, the Federation of Certification, aligned with biodiversity monitoring Industries in the State of São Paulo, the Brazilian Instiwork, is an important pursuit that enables Duratex to tute for Finance Executives and the Institute for Forestry become acquainted with the levels of diversity in its flora Research. GRI 4.13 and fauna. All the environmental management work is In 2012, the Company donated R$180,000 to politipart of the Company’s long-term strategy, and includes cal parties and candidates. the management of risks with formal governance structures which include a Committee and a Commission for The Environment Sustainability and Environmental Policy, identifying and For Duratex, the preservation of natural resources and mapping out all the associated risks. the environment, in addition to being a principle to be Duratex carries out the containment of erosion and followed, is fundamental to the longevity of its businessilting, as well as revitalising soil fertility. In this way, it ses, because a large part of the raw materials used in favours the natural regeneration of native vegetation. In the manufacture of its products is of forestry origin. addition to this, it demarcates and protects permanent In 2012 the Company invested a total of R$27.9 preservation areas and conserves areas of native vegemillion in environmental protection measures, 4 % higher tation, when they exist. than in the previous year. Duratex invests in preservation areas, as well as research on the environmental impacts of the farms that it controls. No significant impacts were observed on biodiversity during the Company’s various projects or the research Principal investments carried out up to now. Research into fauna indicates that in the environment in 2012 (R$) species have remained in the areas studied, while new Disposal of residues 12,666,414 species have been located in these areas as a result of Treatment of emissions 1,354,164 the surveys. Outside the protection areas, research and Prevention 2,766,175 monitoring has not indicated any significant impacts. Environmental management 11,060,723 ISO 14001 certifications 91,455 Fines* 41,480 * Amount paid as a consequence of signing three Conduct Adjustment Terms, in Fazenda Umuarama (Botucatu. SP), Fazenda Cambará (Itapetininga, SP) and Taquari (RS) 55 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Among the protected habitats that form part of ration. Areas with pilot studies and expedite research have Duratex’s structure, are the Legal Reserve, and the Olavo been monitored, with the conclusion that restoration through Egydio Setubal Nature Reserve, located in the town of Lennatural regeneration of flora has been taking place in these çóis Paulista. In these environments, areas in initial, medium areas. The species that can be found in these conservation and advanced stages of regeneration are to be found, in areas (permanent preservation areas and legal reserves), which there are no degeneration processes. The permanent are maintained in accordance with legal restrictions, and the preservation and legal reserve areas are protected and are operations are conducted in such a way as not to have an undergoing a process of restoration through natural regeneimpact on flora and fauna. Total areas and conservation areas Land occupied in 2012 Land ocupied in 2011 Land ocupied in 2010 Total ConservaTotal ConservaTotal ConservaState area (ha) tion (ha)* area (ha) tion (ha)* area (ha) tion (ha)* Leased 17,356 3,776 17,355.23 3,761.82 17,130.85 3,726.20 Foment 3,205 5,606.85 5,606.85 São Paulo Owned 112,795 27,257 112,834.35 26,987.01 112,982.61 26,511.45 Subtotal 133,356 31,033 135,796.43 30,748.83 135,720.31 30,237.65 Leased 71,937 16,875 70,228.87 15,735.67 65,955.60 13,925.57 Fomentation 2,606 2,704.03 2,704.03 Minas Gerais Owned Subtotal 74,542 16,875 72,932.90 15,735.67 68,659.63 13,925.57 Leased 3,629 1,227 3,627.83 1,274.38 3,627.88 1,280.89 Rio Grande Fomentation 14,249 14,748.78 13,765.20 do Sul Owned 4,165 1,737 4,583.20 1,861.90 3,772.76 1,481.17 Subtotal 22,043 2,964 22,959.81 3,136.28 21,165.84 2,762.06 TOTAL 229,941 50,872 231,689.14 49,620.78 225,545.78 46,925.28 * Conservation and Permanent Preservation areas, Legal Reserve etc. Species threatened by Minas Rio Grande IUCN São Paulo Federal level of risk and region Gerais do Sul red list Fauna Critically threatened (CR) 4 1 4 Threatened (EN) 9 6 5 3 3 Vulnerable (VU) 18 11 11 14 9 Almost threatened (NT) 11 1 12 Insufficient data (DD) 2 Total 42 19 16 21 26 Flora Threatened (EN) 1 Vulnerable (VU) 2 5 2 Total 2 6 2 56 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Duratex´s Eucalyptus forest 57 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex The Company carries out flora-and fauna-related Materials research in pilot areas, through sampling, with researchers In 2012, the Company consumed 4,332,323.46 tons of from associated universities. These surveys have not idenraw materials, chemicals, fertiliser and associated materials tified any significant impacts, so no targets or objectives in the production and cultivation processes, 12 % more than have been defined for corrective action or mitigation. in the previous year. This increase was the result of a 14 % increase in production. The Deca Division used 185,237 tons, while the Wood Division consumed 4,147,086 tons. Materials used (tons) 2012 2011 2010 NPK fertilizer, Borax, dolomitic lime, etc. 55,312.46 51,107 45,785 Raw materials Processed wood 1 3,731,582 3,214,766 3,399,222 Clay, kaolin, feldspar, quartz, plaster of Paris and others 170,744 177,239 112,302 Re-bars 4,811 4,613 2,069 Brass tube 491 454 427 Brass discs and tapes 386 423 246 Zamac 55 39 24 Brass castings 1,972 1,806 1,745 Bronze 5,033 5,109 4,661 Plastic 1,745 1,438 1,247 Associated materials Lubricants (production process) 502 993 656 Resins and other materials acquired from third parties 2 289,882 291,640 283,147 Aluminium sulphate 4,215 2,764 1,838 Paper acquired from third parties 11,952 11,147 10,349 Caustic soda (concentration of 50 %) 927 365 368 Sawn material (packaging) 7,150 6,311 6,007 Methanol 45,005 40,610 20,606 Acetic acid 4 34 27 Sulphuric acid 69 7 14 Di-ethylene glycol (DEG) 426 264 8 Termite pesticide 27 18 4 Caprolactam 33 12 1 TOTAL 4,332,323.46 3,811,169 3,890,754 1. Damp processed wood 2. Resin, formaldehyde, urea, concentrated urea formaldehyde, melamine, paraffin, humocer, ammonium sulphate, paints and varnishes Deca has carried out important work in the reuse of brass, 13.33 % for ABS, 27.55 % or polyethylene, 2.46 % materials, resulting in the reuse of 185 tons. In the metal for polyacetate, 5.92 % for nylon and 4.42 % for polybathroom fittings sector, inputs from recycling, (pre-and propylene. In the manufacture of metals, 100 % of the post-consumption) amount to 98.8 % for bronze, 86 % for metallic residue (shavings) generated by Deca, is reused. 58 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Indirect energy consumption in 2012 (GJ) The energy matrix is formed by Duratex Deca Wood Administrative renewable natural Division Division area resources, such as biomass 390,706.62 2,489,796.52 5,860.62 Total Energy 2,886,363.75 In 2012, Duratex consumed 11,235,688.15 GJ, of energy, a reduction of approximately 3 % compared to the 11,549,235.75 GJ consumed in 2011. The Deca Division consumed 1,755,306.82 GJ, the Wood Division, including Wood, Forestry and DRI consumed 9,474,504.19 GJ. The Initiatives to reduce energy administration area consumed another 5,877.15 GJ. Of the consumption at Deca’s plants total consumed, indirect energy represented 2,886,363.75 • Thermal installation of equipment GJ, being obtained from the utility companies. in the plastic manufacturing process Duratex’s energy matrix consists of renewable natural • Translucent roof tiles to make resources, such as biomass. In 2012, approximately 65 % use of natural illumination of the energy used was generated based from this source, • Replacement of external 400W mercury with the other 35 % being from natural gas, BPF oil, gasolivapour lamps with new 250W metallic ne, diesel and LPG. vapour lamps (more efficient) The energy index per unit produced for the Deca Division • Photo-cellular switches to control 2012 was 46.04, while for the Panel Division it was 3.4. lighting in the plant and at the port • Replacement of electric heaters used in the changing rooms and the restaurant with solar powered heaters Direct energy consumption in 2012 (GJ) At the Wood Division, the construction of new buildings took into account the Deca Wood Administrative following principles: Division Division area • Solar water heating for use in changing room showers • Use of natural illumination for the administrative areas 1,364,600.20 6,984,707.67 16.53 Total 8,349,324.4 59 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Water Also in 2013, Duratex will be developing the water GRI EN8 | EN9 | EN10 footprint for one of its main products, MDF, which will evaluate the direct water consumption, taking into account volumes of evaporation, as well as the generation Theme 22 of Materiality Matrix: of effluents in the various manufacturing processes, in Water Resources and Reuse accordance with the different geographical regions. In 2012 the volume of water consumed in Duratex’s operations amounted to 6,247,238.85 m3, equivalent to In 2012 Duratex carried out a study entitled “Diagan increase of a little over 18 % compared to the previous nosis of water availability at the units in São Paulo Stayear. Of this total, 91 % was consumed by the Wood Dite”, seeking to the place the water situation into context vision and 9 % by the Deca Division. The Company reuses in Brazil, in the state of São Paulo and in the world. the equivalent of 40.41 % of the total water captured, of The Company decided to initiate a study of these units, a total of 2,524,498.33 m3. The Deca Division, responsible seeing that most of Duratex’s production and revenue is for the reuse of 208,805.53 m3, achieved a water reuse concentrated in this area. rate of 39 %. Duratex’s operations comply with all environThe project has the objective of defining water risk mental requirements to preserve the hydrographic basins for each unit in the state of São Paulo with regard to in the regions where it is present. demand for water now and in the future, enabling the The water consumption indicator per unit produced by Company to project the scenarios that best fit its future the Deca Division in 2012 amounted to 13.96, while for projects. The final results are in the process of being the Panel Division it was 1.9. compiled. In 2013, this project will be expanded to include the plants located in the Northeast. Total water drawn off, by source (m³) – 2012 Public utility Artesian and Local Rainwater concessionaires semi-artesian wells watercourses 755,963.64 1,574,248.63 3,904,256.98 12,769.60 Total 6,247,238.85 60 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Effluents and Residues Total weight of residues, GRI EN21 | EN23 by type and disposal 2012 method (tons) Duratex had no significant incidences of spillage in Wood 141,955.85 any of its divisions in 2012. The Company controls and Deca 66,686.57 treats all its effluents in accordance with the enviCentral Office 161.70 ronmental legislation and the standards established Class I 3,349.81 by Conama No. 357/05 through various procedures, Class II A 176,604.92 which include physical-chemical processes. The ComClass II B 28,849.38 Re-utilization, recycling and recuperation 35,652.58 pany invests in Effluent Treatment Stations so that its Incineration and co-processing 7,434.89 effluents can be reused in the operations and mainteForming of compost 27,830.20 nance of its units. No Duratex effluent was reused by Sanitary landfill 28,969.61 other companies, and no effluent was consumed from Industrial landfill 25,848.00 other companies. Others (returned to supplier, external In 2012 the total effluents generated amounted to effluent treatment, biomass for third 83,068.83 parties, etc.) 3,213,159.31 m3, a volume of approximately 10 % less than in 2011 (3,592,506.10 m3). Of this total, 67 % was discharged in the irrigation of fields for the production The Company neither imports or exports dangerous of various types of grass used as biomass for the generesidue, under the terms of the Basel Convention. All the ration of thermal energy. dangerous residues generated by Duratex (1.60 % of the In terms of residue generation, Duratex disposed of total) are transported to treatment locations by companies 208,804.12 tons of solid residue, down approximately regulated for that purpose, and authorised in advance by 5 % compared to the total generated in 2011, which the Company, taking into consideration technical criteria amounted to 219,982.89 tons. GRI EN22 and the main environmental risk situations. GRI EN24 Total water discharge, by quality and destination (m³) – 2012 Irrigation of fields for the production Discharged through Discharged into Discharged into of grass used as biomass in the the public network water resources septic tanks generation of thermal energy 2,149,351 999,683.06 60,225.25 3,900.00 Total 3,213,159.31 61 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex 109,000 litres less of diesel is consumed in the eucalyptus processing operation Inventory of Emissions Emissions measured during 2012, and audited by an GRI EN16 | EN17 | EN18 | EN19 | EN20 independent company, came to a total of 378,940 tons of In 2012, all Duratex’s forestry harvest machines were CO2 equivalent (tCO2e), an increase of 17.19 % compared equipped with diesel engines with emission class TIER 3/ to the previous year, with 264,376 tons or 70 % of this EURO III A. These new engines emit less pollutants than total being direct, coming under Scope 1 of the GHG Prothe previous ones, particularly carbon monoxide (CO), tocol. Emissions connected to electricity purchased, Scope nitrous oxide (NOx) and particles. In 2012, the Company 2, totalled 56,918 tCO2e, or 15 % of total emissions,. began to change the harvesting system, replacing the Emissions under Scope 2 underwent a significant increase large equipment for the processing of eucalyptus trees due to the need for the use of thermoelectric power stawith tracer claws which consume 22 % less diesel. With tions by the National Grid , seeing that the water levels in this, 109,000 litres less of diesel is consumed in the the reservoirs of Brazil’s hydroelectric power stations had eucalyptus-processing operation. become very low due to the prolonged drought in 2012. This alteration to the harvesting system meant Indirect emissions, Scope 3, represented 15 % of total that the three large-sized processors were converted emissions, or 57,646 tCO2e. Under this Scope is included into feller-bunchers, large equipment used for knocking outsourced transport of various types, residue disposal, down trees. In bringing this new equipment into service, commercial travel and transfers between factories. Duratex is able to deactivate its small feller-bunchers, Emissions of substances that have an impact on the enabling a reduction of 19 % in diesel consumption. ozone layer, controlled by the Montreal Protocol, totalled 2,214.94 tCO2e in 2012, while in 2011 emissions of this type amounted to 2,893.91 tCO2e. 62 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Duratex monitors the emissions of gas derived from ponding emissions amounted to 1,139.74 tons of SOx nitrogen (NOx – NO, NO2) and sulphur-based substanand 2,404.28 tons of NOx. ces (SOx – SO2, SO3, H2SO4). In 2012, these emissions The index for the emission of GHG per unit produced totalled 3,250.18 tCO2e, being 2,026 tons of NOx and by the Deca Division in 2012 amounted to 2.37, while 1,224.18 tons of SOx – in the previous year, the corresthat of the Panel Division amounted to 0.08. Inventory of emissions (tCO2e) Year 2012 2011* 2010 Scope 1 264,376 224,425 218,534 Scope 2 56,918 22,273 39,267 Scope 3 57,646 75,936 38,468 Total 378,940 322,634 296,269 * Figures for 2011 were altered as a result of external verification of the inventory. Agudos Factory 63 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex 04 Performance of the Businesses Theme 9 of the Materiality Matrix: Financial-Economic Performance Duratex’s debt and risk management policies are tools used by the Company that contribute to its financial health. Robust cash levels and the monitoring of risks, in particularly those related to interest rates and exchange rates, allow strategic investment in projects for expansion and modernization. Since 2010, the Company has adopted IFRS for the drawing up of its Financial Statements. Analysis of Consolidated Results Net Revenue Net revenue showed an increase of 14.3%, reaching a record level of R$3.4 billion. This growth was due to the increase of 16.1% in volume shipped at the Wood Division and the improvement in net revenue per unit at both the Deca and Wood divisions. The domestic market continued to account for the lion’s share of net sales, with a participation of 96.0%. 64 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Net Revenue (R$ million) 3.394,4 In 2012, the Company 2.970,4 achieved record net 2.741,8 income of R$3.4 billion 2010 2011 2012 Cost of Goods Sold (COGS) and Gross Margin Compared to 2010, the increase in the cost of The COGS net of depreciation, amortization and inputs caused a rise of 29.4 % in the cash cost. Also, exhaustion and the net variation in the fair value of investments made during the period contributed to inthe biological asset – in other words, the cash cost– creasing the level in the depreciation and amortization amounted to an accumulated total of R$1,891.4 account, while the increased production rate contributed million for the year, an increase of 10.2 % compared to a higher exhaustion rate, so eroding gross margin. to 2011, this increase being less than the expansion Duratex works on controlling these costs by, for in volume shipped. This performance was achieved example, having a self-sustainable wood supply systhrough the greater utilization of installed capacity, tem. The Company makes an effort to integrate econoand an improvement in productivity, with a consequent mic-financial and socio-environmental considerations in dilution of fixed costs. its businesses, which is becoming increasingly common. Cost of Goods Sold (R$’000) 2012 2011 2010 Cash COGS (1,891,423) (1,715,874) (1,461,395) Variation in fair value of biological asset 144,574 154,009 183,765 Depletion tranche of biological asset (162,778) (137,898) (132,173) Depreciation, amortisation and depletion 1 (301,631) (258,671) (214,547) Gross profit 1,183,141 1,011,931 1,117,460 Gross margin – % 34.9 34.1 40.8 1. Events due to the amortisation of client portfolio, CPC 15 of IFRS, of Satipel and Elizabeth and the more valuable assets, for an amount of approximately R$5.3 million per quarter. 65 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Sanitary Ware´s oven Sales Expenses General and administrative expenses Sales expenses amounted to R$378.3 million, up 2012 2011 2010 10.0 % year-on-year as a consequence of higher freight Total (R$'000) (110,535) (106,763) (109,330) expenses, which were due to the increase in volume % of net revenue 3.3 3.6 4.0 shipped. However, this type of expense is being diluted in relation to net revenue over the years. Ebitda Recurring EBITDA for the year amounted to a record Sales expenses total of R$1,005.0 million, and was strongly influenced 2012 2011 2010 by important decisions to expand production capacity Total (R$'000) (378,278) (343,955) (308,354) taken at the end of the previous decade, and the begin% of net revenue 11.1 11.6 11.2 ning of the current one, as well as acquisitions made in the period. This figure corresponds to an EBITDA margin of 29.6 %, higher than the 26.9 % obtained in 2011. General and Administrative Expenses Compared to 2010, however, there was a slight narroWith a lower participation in the net revenue, genewing in margin as a result of cost pressure, basically due ral and administrative expenses amounted to R$110.5 to real increases in payroll costs. million in 2012, compared to R$109.3 million in 2010. 66 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex So as to provide more transparency in the calculation excluded from the calculation of this indicator are other of this indicator, the following reconciliation table is proevents of a non-cash nature: variation in the fair value of vided based on operating profit before financial results. In the biological asset, the exhaustion tranche associated addition to depreciation, amortization and exhaustion, also with the biological asset, and employee benefits. Ebitda re-conciliation (R$’000) 2012 2011 2010 Operating profit before financial result 692,566 576,366 715,555 Depreciation/amortization/exhaustion 319,937 290,400 240,003 Variation in fair value of biological asset (144,573) (154,009) (183,765) Depletion tranche of biological asset 162,778 137,898 132,173 Employee benefits (14,124) (11,306) (10,964) Others 1 4,830 EBITDA 1,021,414 839,349 893,002 EBITDA margin 30.1 % 28.3 % 32.6 % Extraordinary event 2 (16,395) (39,888) (42,448) Recurring EBITDA 1,005,019 799,461 850,554 Recurring EBITDA margin – % 29.6 26.9 31.0 1. In the last quarter of 2012 the loss in premium value was booked, referring to the option to subscribe to 15 % of new shares in Tablemac, of R$4,830,000. 2. 2012: Half-yearly PIS and reversion of tax contingencies. 2011: sale of fixed assets. Recurring Ebitda Net Earnings Net earnings amounted to R$459.7 million for the Recurring Ebitda (R$ million) year, higher than in the previous year, this increase being Ebitda Margin – % the result of operational improvements over the last few 31.0 years. Recurring net earnings for the year amounted to 29.6 26.9 R$437.4 million. Compared to 2010, this result remained 1,005.0 stable, due the increase in costs during the period. 850.5 799.5 Recurring Net Earnings (R$ million) 439.4 437.4 349.7 2010 2011 2012 Ebitda booked 2010: R$467.2 million/2011:R$374.9 million/2012: R$1,012.4 million 2010 2011 2012 Net earnings booked 2010: R$467.2 million/2011: R$374.9 million/2012: R$459.7 million 67 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex R$ 1,841.9 million Duratex’s Statement of Value-Added (DVA), in 2012, represented the generation of R$ 1,841.9 million of value, up 8.7% compared to 2011 Dividends Remuneration for labour was the second largest area In accordance with the Company Bylaws, shareholders to benefit, with R$559.1 million, up 4.1 %, As a result are guaranteed a minimum obligatory dividend of 30 % of the increase in the Company’s results, shareholders of adjusted net earnings. On July 26, 2012, provision was received R$459.7 million, up 22.6 % on the previous year, made for dividends of R$62.0 million, in the form of interest in line with the growth in earnings. Finally, the tranche on equity, distributed on August 15, 2012. allocated to financing of R$204.7 million, was 5.6 % Additionally, at a meeting of the Board of Directors held lower than in the previous year, as a consequence of the on November 30, 2012, subject to approval by the General reduction in interest rates in the period. Shareholders Meeting, it was decided to make an additional credit of interest on equity as part of the 2012 obligatory dividend, of R$0.1639/share, totalling R$90,0 million, distriDVA (%) buted on February 28, 2013. Finally, on December 31, 2012, an additional dividend Labour Financing of R$5.5 million was decided on, to be paid out on the Government Shareholders same date, February 28. As a consequence, total gross remuneration to shareholders, as at February 28, amounted 22.1 29.7 24.9 to R$95.5 million, bringing the total gross remuneration to 12.8 11.1 shareholders for 2012 to R$157.5 million, equivalent to an 9.6 increase of approximately 23 % on the previous year. 33.4 33.6 33.3 Distribution of Value-Added GRI EC1 31.7 30.4 27.4 Duratex’s Statement of Value Added (DVA), in 2012, represented the generation of R$1,841.9 million of 2010 2011 2012 value, up 8.7 % compared to 2011. The government was the main beneficiary of this distribution, with remuneration of R$618.4 million, up 9.1 % compared to that received in 2011, and equivalent to 33.6 % of the total value generated for the year. 68 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Carvalho Reno – Way Line Panel 69 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Indebtedness Net debt was equivalent to 1.34 times 1 EBITDA At the end of 2012, Duratex’s debt totalled and 34 % of Shareholders Equity, still a low level of R$2,401.8 million, equivalent to a net debt of indebtedness. During the year R$695.9 million in R$1,369.7 million, 15.2 % higher than at the end of new loans were taken out, in addition to the R$101.4 2011. This increase was basically due to ongoing million raised from a private debenture issue, while investment in the Deca and Wood divisions, and the R$484.2 million in loans was paid back. amounts paid for the acquisition of the 37 % stake in The financial result for the year was a negative Tablemac and the purchase of Metalúrgica Ipê Mipel. R$119.4 million, 2.5 % higher than that obtained in 2011, as a result of the increase in debt during the year. Debt profile (R$’000) 2012 2011 2010 Short-term debt 681,774 687,902 431,608 Long-term debt 1,720,013 1,227,588 1,162,354 Total debt 2,401,787 1,915,490 1,593,962 Cash and equivalents 1,032,077 726,159 616,549 Net debt 1,369,710 1,189,331 977,413 Net debt/ EBITDA 1.34 1.42 1.09 Net debt/Equity ( %) 34.0 32.2 28.3 Significant financial assistance owed amounted to R$9,793 thousand. Therefore, these received from the government two types of government assistance amounted to total GRI EC4 loans of R$149,642 thousand at the end of 2012, which Duratex’s total debt at the end of 2012 came to represents 6.5 % of the Company’s total debt. R$2,401.8 million. Two credit lines in particular (Fundiest and Fundopen), involve financial help from the governDebt Payback Schedule (R$‘000) ment, although this is not significant. Both of these credit lines were opened as the coun681,774 656,015 terpart to investment carried out in the municipalities of Taquari (RS) and Uberaba (MG). These units are already 626,775 contributing, and will continue to contribute in a direct manner, to the social and economic development of the 437,223 regions, through the direct and indirect creation of jobs and the increase in contribution and taxes levied at a municipal and state level. Fundiest, the line of financing provided by the Minas Gerais Development Bank, is in the process of being paid back. As at December 2012, the open balance amounted to R$139,849 thousand with final payback due in Decem2013 2014 2015 2016 awards ber 2020. The Fundopen credit line is still in the process of being freed up, and at the end of 2012 the balance 70 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Capital Markets equivalent to 30 % of adjusted net earnings, the fact that a third of its Board of Directors must consist of independent members, and the adoption of international Theme 13 of the Materiality Matrix: reporting standards in its annual reports (GRI, Level A). Share Performance In 2012, 415 meetings and conference calls were held with capital market specialists. In addition to this, representatives from this area of the Company particiThe shares of Duratex are listed on the BM&FBovespa pated in approximately 15 conferences and non-deal Novo Mercado, the segment of the market that lists the road shows in Brazil and abroad, in addition to a public shares of companies with the highest level of corporate meeting hosted by the Association of Capital Market governance. As a consequence, any conflict arising betweAnalysts and Professionals Associação (Apimec) in São en the Company, its shareholders and managers must be Paulo, in which approximately 105 investors participated. resolved through the intermediation of the BM&FBovespa Through the Company’s Investor Relations Site, there is a Novo Mercado Arbitration Chamber. communication channel which permits direct contact with The Company’s good corporate governance practices this area: investidores@duratex.com.br also include a differentiated dividend distribution policy, Duratex x Ibovespa Base 100 +66.5% 180 160 140 +7.8% 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 12/29/2011 01/29/2012 02/29/2012 03/31/2012 04/30/2012 05/31/2012 06/30/2012 07/31/2012 08/31/2012 09/30/2012 10/31/2012 11/30/2012 Base 100 DTEX3 Base 100 Ibovespa 71 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Deca Division the same level of protection as plastic tape. This gum consists of a type of corn starch, which is not harmful to the environment, as it can be easily removed with Themes 61, 62, 66 and 69 of the water, and is recyclable. GRI EN27 | PR3 Materiality Matrix: Customer Health The promotion of health and safety in the use and Safety in the Use of Products, of is products begins with product development, in Information about the Product accordance with the norms of the Brazilian Technical (access to and quality of information), Standards Association, through tests in the laboratory Quality of Product and Customer and in the field. After launching, periodic analyses Service (preand post-sale). are carried out to evaluate performance, and identify aspects that can be improved. GRI PR1 Through its Deca Division, Duratex is the leader in Location of the Plants the Brazilian metal bathroom fittings market and one The Deca Division has units for the manufacture of the world’s ten largest companies in this area. Its of metal bathroom fittings, one in São Paulo and the Deca and Hydra brands, recognised for the diversity other in Jundiaí (SP), as well as a unit in Argentina (Deca of their product lines, as well as their design and quaPiazza). The six vitreous chinaware plants are located in: lity, are sold and exported to more than 30 countries. João Pessoa (PB), Cabo de Santo Agostinho (PE), QueiThese products are widely accepted in all markets, mados (RJ), São Leopoldo (RS) and Jundiaí (SP), where with no restrictions on their sale. During the year, no there are two units. In 2012, the Company gained a cases were registered of non-compliance with volunnew plant in Jacareí (SP) and in 2013, will have another tary codes referring to customer and consumer health plant in Tubarão (SC). This diversification was achieved and safety, neither were there any cases relating to through the acquisition of Mipel and Thermosystem (see product labelling and the Company’s services, nor chapter on Growth Strategy and New Businesses). were there any complaints relating to violations of privacy or loss of client data. GRI PR2 | PR4 Performance Deca meets the legal requirements with respect The Deca Division reported a 1 % increase in voluto customer and consumer information on the packame shipped in 2012, with production amounting to a ging of its products. In the case of eco-efficient prototal of 25.8 million pieces. Performance was hampeducts, the differential with respect to water savings red by the slowdown in demand in the refurbishment is also highlighted on the label. Whenever necessary, segment, which is susceptible to short-term macroeinformation is included with respect to precautions to conomic conditions, which saw some deterioration in be taken for use of the product. In its instruction lea2012 as a consequence of the weak performance of flets, Deca encourages the correct disposal of its pathe economy. Compared to 2010, however, there was ckaging and recyclable products. For products sold in a sharp increase in the level of volumes shipped, the bulk, which are not packaged in individual cardboard equivalent of a rise of 19.1 %, which demonstrates boxes, Deca uses gum-based tape, which provides the new operational level of the business. 72 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Deca Shipments (‘000 pieces) This performance reflects the strength of the Deca brand name, and shows the benefit of the geographical diversification of its plants, which process was begun 25,506 25,772 in 2008, bringing the Company increasingly close to its 21,638 consumers. By the same token, another important move was made at the beginning of 2013, with the acquisition of Thermosystem, a manufacturer of electronic showers and solar heating systems. This operation resulted in significant diversification in the division’s line of products, from the first quarter of 2013 onwards. Operational performance, as measured by recurring EBITDA for the year, amounted to R$272.8 million, equivalent to an EBITDA margin of 23.2 %. Nominally, 2010 2011 2012 the result as measured by EBITDA improved compared to previous years, but there was some deterioration in margin. The combination of a larger percentage of products Net revenue saw an improvement, up 7.7 % on the prefocused at economy segments for the consumer and vious year, particularly significant when compared to the increased production costs contributed to a retraction in indicator for the sector, the ABRAMAT index, which measumargin from 29.7 % in 2010 to that reported in 2012. res the performance of sales in the domestic market, and which showed an increase of just 1.4 % for the year. Deca Division: Main Results 2012 2011 2010 Shipments ('000 pieces) Basic products 8,761 8,870 7,965 Finishing products 17,011 16,636 13,673 Total 25,772 25,506 21,638 Financial highlights (R$'000) Net revenue 1,178,304 1,094,386 911,525 Domestic market 1,131,788 1,054,987 873,877 Export market 46,516 39,399 37,648 Net revenue per unit (R$ per piece shipped) 45.72 42.91 42.13 Cash cost per unit (R$ per piece shipped) (26.45) (24.70) (21.99) Sales expenses (169,577) (155,568) (127,969) General and administrative expenses (48,445) (37,378) (35,047) Operating profit before financial result 235,740 222,792 257,039 Depreciation and amortisation 47,297 50,248 40,254 Employee benefits (4,143) (3,927) (3,639) EBITDA 278,894 269,113 293,654 Extraordinary event 1 (6,079) 0 (23,203) Recurring EBITDA 272,815 269,113 270,451 Recurring EBITDA margin (%) 23.2 24.6 29.7 1. 2012: Half-yearly PIS and revision of tax contingencies. 73 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Metal Deca Wish Gold – Cuba L.87 Black Matte Highlights Seven new vitreous chinaware projects were GRI EN26 launched in the period, with 32 separate product lines, of particular note being the Fosca line, and 12 new metal bathroom fittings projects, with 27 different Theme 27 Materiality Matrix: product lines, of particular note being the Hydra built-in Environmental Impacts from Product Use cistern, the Disco bathroom and kitchen line and the Deca Twin Spa shower. With respect to rationalisation projects for the reducIn order to strengthen its presence in the market, tion of raw materials consumption develop during the Deca took part in various events such as the third Brazilyear, in 2012 Deca managed to achieve savings of 185 ian Green Building Council, the fifth Brazilian Congress tons in terms of its consumption of bronze and brass. for the Development of Hospital Buildings, and the 54th National Hotel Congress. In 2012 the Deca Division celebrated the recommendation made by the Bureau Veritas Certification (BVC) for its metal bathroom fittings plant in São Paulo (SP), and the vitreous chinaware plant in São Leopoldo (RS), to receive ISO 14001 certification. 74 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Wood Division Location of the Plants GRI PR5 The Wood Division has five industrial units in Uberaba (MG), Taquari (RS), and Agudos, Botucatu and Itapetininga (SP). These units produce fibreboard sheThemes 61, 62, 66 and 69 of the ets, MDP (medium density particle panels), MDF, HDF Materiality Matrix: Customer and SDF panels, Durafloor laminated flooring, and Health and Safety in the Use of semi-finished components for furniture and industrial Products, Product Information resins. Since 2011, the Distribution Centre in the Nor(access to and quality of theast has facilitated logistics operations to serve the information), Product Quality and local market. In 2012, the Company acquired a 37 % Customer Service (pre-and post-sale). stake in Tablemac, the leading panel manufacturing company in the Colombian market. The Division differentiates itself by its high degree The Wood Division offers a line of complete and of self-sufficiency in the supply of wood, thanks differentiated products, with extensive standardisation to the sustainable maintenance of approximately and innovative solutions. Other differentials of the divi140,000 hectares planted forest, on 230,000 hecsion include its workforce, its assets, and its relationship tares of land spread over 422 farms, which include with customers and consumers. All activities relating to approximately 268 million trees. customer and consumer relations at the Wood Division are linked to the Marketing Department, which seeks to Performance build and reinforce its brand name, develop the market, The Wood Division’s performance was extremely and particularly promote techniques for the use and positive for the year. The increase in volume shipped application of its products, training professionals in the exceeded that for the industry as a whole. By way of building industry and providing technical advice for the comparison, while the Company reported an annual installation of panels and Durafloor products. Teams are increase in the level of shipments of 16.1 %, shipfocused on the division’s relationship with the furniments for the industry as a whole rose by only 11.4 % ture industry and with retail wood merchants. Annual according to figures from ABIPA, which includes data customer satisfaction research is also carried out, which from Duratex. Disregarding the Company’s perforincludes both the domestic and export markets. mance in the ABIPA data, shipment growth for the The Company’s products are widely accepted industry as a whole would have been just 8.9 %. This in all markets, with no restrictions on their sale. All performance reflects the measures taken in the past significant information is displayed on labels, packato expand production capacity and focus on results. ging, and provided through services offered. During the year, no cases were identified of non-compliance with voluntary codes relating to customer or consumer health and safety, nor with respect to the labelling of products and services, nor were there any complaints with respect to violations of privacy or loss of client data. GRI PR2 | PR3 | PR4 75 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Wood shipments (‘000 m3) financing periods offered in the furniture retail segment. The increase in net unit revenue and the combination of a reduction in costs, with gains in productivity as a 2,635 result of greater operational scale, resulted in a substantial increase in recurring EBITDA, which totalled R$732.2 2,312 2,269 million, with EBITDA margin of 33.0 %. This performance is substantially better than the result in 2010 of R$580.1 million, with EBITDA margin of 31.7 %, and R$530.3 million, with an EBITDA margin of 28.3 % in 2011. By the end of the first quarter of 2013, two important investments should be concluded which should result in a significant leap forward in operational terms for the Company. The first of these, in the unit at Taquari (RS), 2010 2011 2012 with the removal of the bottleneck on the MDP production line, will add additional production capacity of approximaTotal net revenue amounted to R$2,216.1 million for tely 230,000 cubic meters, raising the total capacity of the year, up approximately 20 % compared to both 2010 that unit to 670,000 cubic meters. The second investment and 2011. Contributing decisively to this result was the to be completed is the new MDF unit at Itapetininga (SP), record volume of residential units completed and deliwith an annual capacity of 520,000 cubic meters. vered during the year, incentive measures introduced for Tablemac’s performance was recognised using the the phone segment such as a zero level of IPI tax, which equity income result method in Duratex’s figures. At the equalized the competitive conditions with those for consuend of 2012, the Company’s stake in this Colombian mer durables, such as white goods, as well as longer credit company amounted to 37 % Wood division: Main Results 2012 2011 2010 Shipments (cubic metres) Basic products 1,577,830 1,364,833 1,408,248 Finishing products 1,057,255 903,989 903,929 Total 2,635,084 2,268,822 2,312,177 Financial highlights (R$ '000) Net revenue 2,216,095 1,875,979 1,830,285 Domestic market 2,113,785 1,780,982 1,755,192 Export market 102,310 94,997 75,093 Net revenue per unit (R$ per m3 shipped) 841.00 826.85 791.59 Cash cost per unit 1 (R$ per m3 shipped) (459.08) (478.65) (426.26) Sales expenses (208,701) (188,387) (180,385) General and administrative expenses (62,090) (69,386) (74,283) Operating profit before financial results 456,826 353,576 458,516 Variation in fair value of biological asset (144,573) (154,009) (183,765) Exhaustion tranche of biological asset 162,778 137,898 132,173 Depreciation and amortisation 272,640 240,152 199,749 Employee benefits (9,981) (7,379) (7,325) Others 4,830 EBITDA 742,520 570,236 599,348 Extraordinary event 2 (10,316) (39,888) (19,245) Recurring EBITDA 732,204 530,348 580,103 Recurring EBITDA margin (%) 33.0 28.3 31.7 1. The cash cost per unit is arrived at by dividing the cost of products sold, net of depreciation, amortization and exhaustion, by the volume shipped. 2. 2011: result, net of the sale of fixed assets. 2012: Half-yearly PIS and revision to tax contingencies 76 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Duratex Carvalho Reno – Way Line Panel Highlights The Wood Division also won the Top Mobile prize in the The variety of products offered in the market was MDF and MDP categories, as the most remembered brand increased by an additional 32 panel patterns, in addition for the fifth year running. In its line of laminated flooring, to six new types of Durafloor flooring, with innovations the Durafloor brand name was granted the Pini Top of Mind and design in keeping with international trends in their award, as well as the prize granted by Casa & Mercado matype of finishing. New products were launched at Formógazine. Exame Magazine’s ranking of the Biggest and Best bile, an important trade fair that brings together comrated Duratex as the best company in the wood pulp sector. panies in Brazil and abroad, representing various supply At the units, a Best Practice Program was implemensectors in the furniture industry. ted, introducing initiatives to reduce the consumption In the fourth quarter the Panel Business Unit celebrated of raw materials from non-renewable resources, such the recommendation by the BVC for all the plants at Uberaas resins, which use raw materials manufactured from ba (MG) and Agudos (SP) to receive ISO 14001 certification. natural gas and the petrochemical industry. 77 2012 Annual and Suistainability Report Duratex 05 Ibase + NBCT 15 Social Balance Sheet GRI 2.8 | EC1 1 – Calculation Base 2012 – R$‘000 2011 – R$‘000 Net Revenue (RL) 3,394,399 2,970,365 Operating Result (RO) 692,566 576,366 Gross payroll (FPB) 614,030 496,313 Total value added (VAT) 1,841,928 1,694,756 2  – Internal % of % of % of % of % of % of R$‘000 R$‘000 Social Indicators FPB RL VAT FPB RL VAT Nutrition 23,999 3.91 0.71 1.30 22,568 4.55 0.76 1.33 Compulsory social charges 180,295 29.36 5.31 9.79 180,472 36.36 6.08 10.65 Private pension scheme 6,765 1.10 0.20 0.37 6,177 1.24 0.21 0.36 Health 25,168 4.10 0.74 1.37 21,014 4.23 0.71 1.24 Occupational health and safety 12,311 2.00 0.36 0.67 11,098 2.24 0.37 0.65 Education 164 0.03 0.00 0.01 242 0.05 0.01 0.01 Culture 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 28 0.01 0.00 0.00 Training and 1,826 0.30 0.05 0.10 1,732 0.35 0.06 0.10 professional development Creche or creche assistance 104 0.02 0.00 0.01 63 0.01 0.00 0.00 Sport 146 0.02 0.00 0.01 204 0.04 0.01 0.01 Employee 30,649 4.99 0.90 1.66 34,071 6.86 1.15 2.01 profit sharing Transport 15,108 2.46 0.45 0.82 13,557 2.73 0.46 0.80 Others 2,296 0.37 0.07 0.12 2,073 0.42 0.07 0.12 Total internal 298,831 48.67 8.80 16.22 293,299 59.10 9.87 17.31 social indicators 78 2012 Annual and Suistainability Report Duratex  – External 3 % of % of % of % of % of % of R$‘000 R$‘000 social indicators RO RL VAT RO RL VAT Education 5,056 0.73 0.15 0.27 1,176 0.20 0.04 0.07 Culture 1,819 0.26 0.05 0.10 3,049 0.53 0.10 0.18 Health and sanitation 575 0.08 0.02 0.03 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 Sport 1,805 0.26 0.05 0.10 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 Combating hunger 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 and nutritional safety Sector indicator 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 Others 78 0.01 0.00 0.00 2 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total contributions 9,333 1.35 0.27 0.51 4,227 0.73 0.14 0.25 to society Taxes (excluding 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 social charges) Total External 9,333 1.35 0.27 0.51 4,227 0.73 0.14 0.25 social indicators 4 – Environmental % of % of % of % of % of % of R$‘000 R$‘000 indicators RO RL VAT RO RL VAT 4.1 – Investments related to production/company operation Expropriation of land 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 Environmental liabilities 169 0.02 0.00 0.01 385 0.07 0.01 0.02 and contingencies Program for technological 3,370 0.49 0.10 0.18 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 and industrial development Energy conservation 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 Environmental education 160 0.02 0.00 0.01 177 0.03 0.01 0.01 Sector indicator 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 Others 24,148 3.49 0.71 1.31 26,503 4.60 0.89 1.56 Total investment related to 27,847 4.02 0.82 1.51 27,065 4.70 0.91 1.60 production, company operation 4  .2 – Investment in programs and/or external projects Environmental education 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 14 0.00 0.00 0.00 projects in the community Preservation and/or revitalisation 41 0.01 0.00 0.00 49 0.01 0.00 0.00 of degraded environments Others 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 0 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total investment in programs and/all 41 0.01 0.00 0.00 63 0.01 0.00 0.00 external projects Total investment in the 27,888 4.03 0.82 1.51 27,128 4.71 0.91 1.60 environment (4.1 + 4.2) 79 2012 Annual and Suistainability Report Duratex Distribution of investin R$‘000 % of total in R$‘000 % of total ments in the environment Total investment in environmental 2,597 9.31 3,990 14.71 prevention actions Total investment in actions for 25,081 89.93 22,704 83.69 environmental maintenance Total investment in actions for 210 0.75 434 1.60 environmental compensation Quantity of environmental, administrative and legal cases,brought 5 3 against the organisation:  alue of fines and compensation V payments related to environmen241,280 49,762 tal matters, either judicial or administrative: With respect to the establishment ( ) does not have targets ( ) does not have targets of annual targets to minimise (X) fulfils 51 and 75 % (X) fulfils 51 and 75 % residues and general consumption in production/operation and increased efficiency through the use of ( ) fulfils 0 to 50 % ( ) fulfils 0 to 50 % natural resources, the company: ( ) fulfils 76 to 100 % ( ) fulfils 76 to 100 % 2012 2011 5 – Workforce indicators AT UNITS AT UNITS No. of employees at 10,353 10,390 the end of the period No. of admissions 2,220 2,647 during the period No. of employees leaving 2,399 2,128 during the period No. of outsourced 1,822 1,929 employees No. of student trainees 87 107 No. of employees 1,460 1,387 over 45 yearsof age N  umber of employees by age group: less than 18 years of age 115 99 between 18 and 35 6,192 6,362 between 36 and 45 2,586 2,542 between 46 and 60 1,140 1,334 over 60 years of age 50 53 N  umber of employees by level of schooling Illiterate 7 0 with elementary education 2,891 3,017 with high school/technical education 5,716 5,631 with higher education 1,467 1,491 Postgraduate 272 251 80 2012 Annual and Suistainability Report Duratex N  o. of women who work 1,117 1,109 at the company Percentage of management posi9.60 8.4 tions occupied by women No. of men who 9,236 9,281 work at the company Percentage of management 90.40 91.6 positions occupied by men N  o. of black people who 2,988 2,978 work at the company Percentage of management 10.40 10.9 positions occupied by black people No. of disabled or 302 283 special needs employees Gross remuneration broken down by: employees 331,761 315,498 administrators 12,837 13,581 D  ifference between lowest salary paid by the company and minimum salary (national regional)  ifference between lowest salary D paid by the company and mini2.90 0 % mum salary (national regional) Source Payroll/ National Payroll/ National  – relevant information 6 with respect to the exerci2012 2011 sing of corporate citizenship Ratio between highest and lowest 99.13 89.76 remuneration within the company Total number of accidents 235 241 in the workplace Social and environmental projects ( ) directors ( ) directors developed by the company were (X) directors and managers (X) directors and managers defined by: ( ) all employees ( ) all employees Standards of safety and clean( ) directors and managers ( ) directors and managers liness in the work environment ( ) all employees ( ) all employees were defined by: (X) all + CIPA (X) all + CIPA With respect to freedom to join a ( ) does not get involved ( ) does not get involved union, the right to collective wage (X) follows the norms of the ILO (X) follows the norms of the ILO bargaining and internal represen( ) incentivises and follows the ILO ( ) incentivises and follows the ILO tation for workers, the company: ( ) directors ( ) directors Private pension scheme includes: ( ) directors and management ( ) directors and management (X) all employees (X) all employees ( ) directors ( ) directors Employee profit ( ) directors and management ( ) directors and management sharing includes: (X) all employees (X) all employees 81 2012 Annual and Suistainability Report Duratex In the selection of suppliers, ( ) are not considered ( ) are not considered the same standards of ethics and ( ) are suggested ( ) are suggested social and environmental respon (X) are requird (X) are requird sibility adopted by the company: With regard to the participation of ( ) does not get involved ( ) does not get involved employees in voluntary work ( ) supports ( ) supports program, the company: (X) organizes and incentivates (X) organizes and incentivates at the company 39,022 at the company 51,515 Total number of consumer comwith Procon 54 with Procon 42 plaints and criticisms: in Court 105 in Court 62 at the company 100 at the company 100 Percentage of complaints and with Procon 100 with Procon 42 criticisms dealt with and resolved: in Court 13 in Court 18  uantity of fines and customer Q with Procon 0 with Procon 0 compensation payments determined by consumer protection bodies or the courts: in Court 66,508 in Court 69,433  ctions employed by the entity to A eliminate or minimise the causes of the complaints: Number of Labour related court cases: brought against the entity 375 341 ruled as having a case to answer 156 128 ruled as groundless 37 53 T otal amount of compensation and fines paid as determined by 4,500,955 2,894,529 the courts: T otal value added to be distribu1,841,928 1,694,756 ted (in R$‘000): % of % of Distribution of value added in R$‘000 in R$‘000 total total Government 618,393 33.57 566,449 33.42 Employees 559,077 30.35 536,658 31.67 Shareholders 157,951 8.58 128,848 7.60 Outsource Staff 204,747 11.12 216,789 12.79 Retained 301,760 16.38 246,012 14.52 7 – Other informations Note item 4.2 – “Preservation and/or revitalisation of degraded environments”: amount refers to the fulfilment of Terms of Conduct Adjustment (TACs). 82 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex SUMMARY MINUTES OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS´ MEETING HELD ON FEBRUARY 22, 2013 DATE, TIME AND PLACE: On February 22, 2013, at 8:00 pm, at Avenida Paulista, 1938 – 5th floor, in São Paulo (SP). PRESIDING: Henri Penchas – Executive President; and Flavio Marassi Donatelli – Secretary. QUORUM: The majority of elected the members. RESOLUTIONS TAKEN UNANIMOUSLY: After examination of the financial statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013, and the report of PricewaterhouseCoopers, the Board decided, unanimously and in compliance with the provisions of sections V and VI of Article 25 of Instruction Number 480/09 of the Securities Commission, declare that: a) reviewed, discussed and agree with the opinions expressed in the report issued by PricewaterhouseCoopers Independent Auditors; and, b) reviewed, discussed and agree with the financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013. CLOSURE: There being nothing further to discuss and anyone wishing to manifest, the work was closed, drawing up these minutes which were read, approved and signed by all. São Paulo (SP), February 22, 2013. (aa) Henri Penchas – Executive President; Alexandre Coelho Neto do Nascimento, Antonio Joaquim de Oliveira, Antonio Massinelli, Flavio Marassi Donatelli, João Jacó Hazarabedian, Monica Ramos Pinto, Raul Penteado de Oliveira Neto, Renato Aguiar Coelho and Roberto Szachnowicz – Executive Directors; Flavio Dias Soares, Marco Antonio Milleo and Roney Rotenberg – Executive Managers. FLAVIO MARASSI DONATELLI Director of Investor Relations Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex REPORT FROM THE COMMITTEE FOR AUDITING AND RISK MANAGEMENT Introduction The Audit and Risk Management of Duratex S.A., created in November 2009, has the following responsibilities: (i) oversee the internal controls and management of risks inherent to the activities of the Company and its subsidiaries, as well as the work performed by internal and external auditors, and (ii) to evaluate the quality and integrity of the financial statements. Responsabilities The Administration is responsible for the proper preparation of financial statements of Duratex S.A. and its subsidiaries and affiliates, as well as the implementation and maintenance of internal controls and risk management commensurate with the size and structure of the Company. It is also the Administration establish procedures to ensure the quality of the processes that generate the financial information. Internal Audit have responsibility to assess the risks of key processes and controls used to mitigate those risks, and verify compliance with the policies and procedures established by management, including those aimed at preparing the financial statements. The PricewaterhouseCoopers is responsible for auditing the financial statements and should ensure that they present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Duratex S.A. and its subsidiaries, which were prepared in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil, determined by the Brazilian Securities Commission – CVM. In fulfilling its responsibilities, the analyzes and assessments carried out by the Committee based on information received from management, internal audit, external auditors and executives responsible for risk management and internal controls in the various segments of the Organization. 84 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Committee Activities During the year 2012, the Audit and Risk Management Committee met on eleven occasions, with the following objectives: • Analysis of financial risks, operational and environmental key internal controls and mitigating risks, meetings with directors of the Organization. • Review of Risk Management Policies of Duratex S.A. and Internal Audit. • Discussion of points of attention or improvement observed during the work of external auditors regarding internal controls and accounting aspects through quarterly meetings with the audit firm. • Discussion and approval of the planning of the work of the external auditors for the year 2012. • Knowledge of Internal Control Report prepared by the external auditors to date as of 31.12.2011. • Planning Approval of the Internal Audit for the year 2012. • Analysis of the result of the work of Internal Audit. • Knowledge of major contingencies involving the Company, upon submission of the Chief Legal Officer. • Discussion and analysis of the significant accounting policies used in the preparation and drafting of quarterly financial statements. • Conducting the assessment of external and internal audit and self-evaluation of the Committee. At the second meeting of 2013, held on February 15, were discussed and analyzed the financial statements of 31.12.2012. Conclusion Thus, based on the activities during the year and considered the natural limitations of the scope of its activities, the Audit and Risk Management Committee understands that the financial statements of 31.Dec.2012 have been prepared in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil and recommends its adoption by the Board of Directors. São Paulo, February 22, 2013. The Audit and Risk Management Committee Alcides Lopes Tápias President Ricardo Egydio Setúbal Rodolfo Villela Marino Tereza Cristina Grossi Togni 85 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Independent auditor’s report on the financial statements To the Board of Directors and Shareholders Duratex S.A. We have audited the accompanying financial statements of Duratex S.A. (“Parent Company”), which comprise the balance sheet as at December 31, 2012 and the statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. We have also audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Duratex S.A. and its subsidiaries (“Consolidated”), which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 2012 and the Consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Management’s responsibility for the financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil, and for the Consolidated financial statements in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and accounting practices adopted in Brazil, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with Brazilian and International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. 86 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion on the Parent Company financial statements In our opinion, the Parent Company financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Duratex S.A. as at December 31, 2012, and its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended, in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil. Opinion on the Consolidated financial statements In our opinion, the Consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Duratex S.A. and its subsidiaries as at December 31, 2012, and their financial performance and their cash flows for the year then ended, in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and accounting practices adopted in Brazil. Emphasis of matter As discussed in Note 2.1 to these financial statements, the Parent Company financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting practices adopted in Brazil. In the case of Duratex S.A., these practices differ from IFRS applicable to separate financial statements only in relation to the measurement of investments in subsidiaries based on equity accounting, while IFRS requires measurement based on cost or fair value. Our opinion is not qualified in respect of this matter. Other matters – Supplementary information – statements of value added We also have audited the Parent Company and Consolidated statements of value added for the year ended December 31, 2012, which are the responsibility of the Company’s management. The presentation of these statements is required by the Brazilian corporate legislation for listed companies, but they are considered supplementary information for IFRS. These statements were subject to the same audit procedures described above and, in our opinion, are fairly presented, in all material respects, in relation to the financial statements taken as a whole. São Paulo, February 22, 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Carlos Alberto de Sousa Auditores Independentes Contador CRC RJ056561/O-0 “S” SP CRC 2SP000160/O-5 87 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex MANAGEMENT REPORT 4Q12 SCENARIO AND MARKET On the international front, ongoing developments in The year 2012 was marked by the expansion of GDP the Eurozone crisis continue to generate uncertainty in growth, according to market estimates, of approximately the markets, although there is a general feeling that the 1 %. The government has adopted measures such as monetary authorities in this economic bloc are continuing a reduction in the basic interest rate (Selic), to 7.25 % to make every effort to find a favourable solution. p.a., a reduction in the IPI tax rate (tax on industrialised For the year 2013, the company believes that the products) for certain sectors of the economy, including Brazilian economy, and particularly the markets in which it furniture, electrical appliances, automobiles and building operates, will continue to expand. This year we will benefit materials, or even a reduction in payroll tax contributions, from a reduction in payroll charges in the vitreous chinawhich were important to our industry. ware segment, as well as the lowering of electricity tariffs. Duratex’s performance was positively impacted particularly in the wood panel segment, which is sensitive to STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT credit conditions. According to figures from the Brazilian In 2012, Duratex took another important step towarPanel Industry Association (ABIPA), demand for panels ds its strategy, stating that i) the company’s growth will made from fibreboard, MDF and MDP, in the domestic be through organic expansion, acquisitions, and expanand export markets, saw an annual aggregate growth of sion in the markets in which it operates, both through 11.4 %, while Duratex’s shipments rose by 16.1 %, indicaregional expansion, and in new products linked to the ting better performance than the industry average, and construction industry, and ii) this growth will be carried the result of investments made in the past. out in a highly sustainable manner. In the construction segment, which is related to the In line with this strategy, Duratex invested R$832.2 Deca Division, the level of activity was lower, although million in 2012, equivalent to 83 % of its recurring EBIstill extremely positive compared to the performance of TDA, in the following areas: the industry as a whole. The Brazilian Association of the Panel Division: Industry of Construction Materials (ABRAMAT) index, which i) A new MDF plant which is in the implementation phase measures sales performance in the domestic construcat the unit in Itapetininga – SP, planned to be operation sector, recorded an annual expansion of 1.4 %, while tional in mid-2013, with an effective annual capacity Deca’s net domestic revenue was up 7.3 %. A combination of 520,000 m³ of investments in expanding existing operations and straii) Additional investment in the unit at Taquari-RS, to make tegic acquisitions contributed to this performance. it possible for the MDP production line to run at its full effective capacity, with completion forecast in mid-2013 88 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex iii) Acquisition of a 37 % stake in Tablemac, a producer of mosystem Indústria Eletro Eletrônica Ltda. for the price wood panels in Colombia, for R$ 161 million, through of R$58.1 million. Following this acquisition, Duratex a capital subscription and public share offering for the will have a production capacity of 1.5 million pieces acquisition of shares. per year, of electronic showers – representing a market Deca Division: share equivalent to 7 % for this segment. i) Acquisition of the bronze industrial valve manufactuBy way of recognition for the initiatives adopted to ring unit (Metalúrgica Ipê, Mipel) belonging to Lupatecreate value for shareholders in a sustainable manner, ch, located in Jacareí/SP for R$ 46.3 million, paid on of particular note was the inclusion of Duratex’s shares October 2, 2012. This unit has a production capacity in one of the most prestigious and selective sustainabiof 780,000 pieces a year lity indexes in the market, the Dow Jones Sustainability ii) A capacity increase at the unit in Jundiaí/SP, from World Index (DJSWI). Launched in 1999, this was the 17.0 million to 18.2 million metal bathroom fitting first global share index created to focus on the creation pieces of long-term value. In the 2012/2013 version of the iii) Investment in the unit at Queimados/RJ, with an index, 340 companies were selected for a portfolio of annual capacity of 2.4 million pieces a year, which shares, of which only nine were from Brazil. Duratex corresponds to a 25 % increase in vitreous chinaware was the only company in Latin America in the construcproduction capacity. tion materials sector to be included in this index. This recognition is in keeping with our Mission of In keeping with the company’s growth strategy for “meeting our customer’s requirements with excellence, segments which have synergy with its existing busiby developing and offering products and services that nesses, on January 2, 2013, Duratex signed a contract contribute to the improvement of people’s quality of for the acquisition of the entire share capital of Therlife, while generating wealth in a sustainable manner”. consolidated financial summary (in IFRS and R$ ‘000) 4Q12 3Q12 4Q11 2012 2011 HIGHLIGHTS Volume shipped: Deca (‘000 pieces) 6,606 6,917 6,729 25,772 25,505 Volume shipped: Panels (m3) 699,964 704,920 555,656 2,635,084 2,268,822 Consolidated net revenue 936,340 911,220 769,544 3,394,399 2,970,365 Gross profit 331,918 320,047 256,413 1,183,141 1,011,931 Gross margin 35.4 % 35.1 % 33.3 % 34.9 % 34.1 % Ebitda (1) 295,376 279,923 188,781 1,021,414 839,349 Ebitda margin 31.5 % 30.7 % 24.5 % 30.1 % 28.3 % Extraordinary events (2) 10,028 6,367 0 16,395 39,888 Recurring Ebitda 285,348 273,556 188,781 1,005,019 799,461 Recurring Ebitda margin 30.5 % 30.0 % 24.5 % 29.6 % 26.9 % Net earnings 149,400 125,663 79,387 459,711 374,860 Recurring net Income (*) 131,301 121,461 79,387 437,410 349,695 Recurring net margin (3) 14.0 % 13.3 % 10.3 % 12.9 % 11.8 % 89 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex (in IFRS and R$ ‘000) 4Q12 3Q12 4Q11 2012 2011 INDICATORS Current ratio (4) 1.86 1.63 1.69 1.86 1.69 Net Debt (5) 1,369,710 1,392,668 1,189,331 1,369,710 1,189,331 Net Debt/ Ebitda UDM 1.34 1.52 1.42 1.34 1.42 Average net equity 3,984,562 3,881,150 3,665,424 3,852,098 3,573,234 ROE (6) 15.0 % 13.0 % 8.7 % 11.9 % 10.5 % Recurring ROE 13.2 % 12.5 % 8.7 % 11.4 % 9.8 % SHARES Net earnings per share (R$) (7) 0.2719 0.2292 0.1448 0.8375 0.6833 Closing share price (R$) (8) 14.85 13.29 8.92 14.85 8.92 Net equity per share (R$) 7.31 7.17 6.71 7.31 6.71 Shares held in Treasury (shares) 828,677 1,769,993 1,889,486 828,677 1,889,486 Market value (R$1.000) (9) 8,155,997 7,286,688 4,889,460 8,155,997 4,889,460 (1) Ebitda (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization): a measure of operational performance. (2) Extraordinary events: in 2012 (-) R$16,395 thousand on Ebitda, equivalent to (-) R$10,028 thousand in 4Q12, referring to the reversion of tax contingencies, and in 3Q12 (-) R$6,367 thousand referring to the recovery of half-yearly PIS. In 2011, extraordinary events referred to the sale of real estate. (3) Net margin: result of dividing recurring net earnings by net revenue. (4) Current ratio: Current assets divided by current liabilities. Indicates the amount available in R$ to match each R$ of short-term obligations. (5) Net indebtedness: Total financial debt (–) Cash. (6) ROE (Return on Equity): a measure of performance obtained by dividing Net Earnings for the period, annualised for each quarter, by the average net equity. (7) Net earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to the shareholders of the company, by the average weighted quantity of ordinary shares issued during the period, excluding those ordinary shares held in treasury. (8) Market value was calculated based on the share price quote at the end of the period, multiplied by the quantity of shares (550,054,041 shares for 4Q12), net of the shares held in treasury. OPERATIONS Wood division HIGHLIGHTS 4Q12 3Q12 % 4Q11 % 2012 2011 % SHIPMENTS (in m3) Standard 426,192 428,622 -0.6 % 332,995 28.0 % 1,577,830 1,364,833 15.6 % Coated 273,773 276,298 -0.9 % 222,661 23.0 % 1,057,255 903,989 17.0 % Total 699,964 704,920 -0.7 % 555,656 26.0 % 2,635,084 2,268,822 16.1 % FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (R$1000) NET REVENUE 621,158 601,863 3.2 % 479,506 29.5 % 2,216,095 1,875,979 18.1 % Domestic market 595,848 573,404 3.9 % 452,682 31.6 % 2,113,785 1,780,982 18.7 % Export market 25,310 28,459 -11.1 % 26,824 -5.6 % 102,310 94,997 7.7 % Net Unit Revenue 887.41 853.80 3.9 % 862.95 2.8 % 841.00 826.85 1.7 % (in R$ per m3 shipped) Unit Cash Cost (469.79) (460.73) 2.0 % (517.75) -9.3 % (459.08) (478.65) -4.1 % (in R$ per m3 shipped) Sales Expenses (52,969) (57,201) -7.4 % (46,585) 13.7 % (208,701) (188,387) 10.8 % General and (15,550) (15,976) -2.7 % (18,076) -14.0 % (62,090) (69,386) -10.5 % Administrative Expenses 90 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex HIGHLIGHTS 4Q12 3Q12 % 4Q11 % 2012 2011 % Operating Profit 148,238 128,321 15.5 % 81,888 81.0 % 456,826 353,576 29.2 % before Financial Results Variation in the (39,933) (35,304) 13.1 % (53,519) -25.4 % (144,573) (154,009) -6.1 % Fair Value of Biological Assets Depletion Tranche of 47,121 39,976 17.9 % 32,517 44.9 % 162,778 137,898 18.0 % Biological Assets Depreciation. 72,078 75,433 -4.4 % 66,628 8.2 % 272,640 240,152 13.5 % Amortization and Depletion Employee Benefits (5,185) (4,098) 26.5 % (584) 787.8 % (9,981) (7,379) 35.3 % Other 4,830 4,830 Ebitda 227,149 204,328 11.2 % 126,930 79.0 % 742,520 570,236 30.2 % Extraordinary Event (¹) (6,224) (4,092) 0 (10,316) (39,888) Recurring Ebitda 220,925 200,236 10.3 % 126,930 74.1 % 732,204 530,348 38.1 % Recurring Ebitda margin 35.6 % 33.3 % 26,5 % 33.0 % 28,3 % (1) 2011: Net results of real estate sales 2012: in 3Q12: half-yearly PIS and in 4Q12: tax contingency revision The performance of the Wood Division was very tion of cost reductions, gains in productivity and increased positive throughout the year, maintaining this trend in the scale enabled a significant increase in recurring EBITDA fourth quarter. Net Revenue totalled R$621.2 million and in the last quarter of the year, at 10.3 % compared to the R$2,216.1 for 4Q12 and the year as a whole, respectively. preceding quarter, while showing an increase of 74.1 % These results represent respective increases of 29.5 % compared to the same period in 2011, to R$220.9 million. compared to the same quarter in the previous year, and Contributing to this performance were the gains in scale 18.1 % compared to the total revenue in 2011. In parand the reduction in General and Administrative Expenses, ticular, there was a combination of a record volume of on an annual basis. For the year as a whole, recurring EBIresidential units delivered during the year and incentive TDA was R$732.2 million, with EBITDA margin of 33.0 %. measures for the furniture segment. The latter included By the end of the first half of 2013, two major inthe reduction in the IPI tax rate to zero, more manageable vestments should be completed, which should enable the financing periods, as well as tax incentives, thus equalising company to take a significant leap forward in operational the competitive conditions between the furniture segment terms. The investment should be concluded at the unit and the consumer durables segment – which includes in Taquari/RS to remove the bottleneck in the MDP unit, white line goods. These measures contributed decisively to providing additional production capacity of approximately the performance of the Wood Division. 230,000 m³ and raising the available capacity to 670,000 Duratex’s performance in shipment terms was substanm³. The second investment due for completion is the new tially higher than that of the industry as a whole. Taking a MDF unit, which is being installed at the plant in Itapetinincomparison, while the company reported a 16.1 % increase ga/SP, with an annual capacity of 520,000 m³. in its level of shipments, the industry as a whole reported Tablemac’s performance was recognised in Duratex’s an increase in shipments of 11.4 %, according to the latest figures using the equity income result method. At the figures from ABIPA. This performance reflects the correctend of 2012, Duratex’s stake in the Colombian company ness of the decisions taken in the past to expand production amounted to 37 %. capacity and focus on results. As a way of building on the company’s competitive The increase in Net Unitary Revenue and the combinaadvantages, including the wide variety of products offered, 91 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex 18 new panel products were introduced, representing The Wood Division also was awarded the Top Mobile innovations and new finish designs in keeping with internaprize in the MDF and MDP categories, as the most recognitional trends. These product launches were displayed at zed brand name for the fifth year running. In the laminated Formóbile, a major trade fair which brings together comflooring segment, the Durafloor brand received the Top of panies from Brazil and the rest of the world, representing Mind prize at the Pini award, as well as a prize awarded by the various suppliers of sectors in the furniture industry. Casa & Mercado magazine. Under the “Biggest and Best” In the fourth quarter, the Panel Business Unit received categories cited by Exame Magazine, Duratex was voted a recommendation from BVC (Bureau Veritas Certificabest company in the Wood and Pulp sector. tion) for the plants at Uberaba/MG and Agudos/SP to receive ISO 14001 certification. Deca Division HIGHLIGHTS 4Q12 3Q12 % 4Q11 % 2012 2011 % PRODUCTS SHIPPED (in ‘000 pieces) Basic products 2,249 2,480 -9.3 % 2,347 -4.2 % 8,761 8,870 -1.2 % Finishing products 4,357 4,437 -1.8 % 4,382 -0.6 % 17,011 16,636 2.3 % Total 6,606 6,917 -4.5 % 6,729 -1.8 % 25,772 25,506 1.0 % FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (R$1000) NET REVENUE 315,182 309,357 1.9 % 290,038 8.7 % 1,178,304 1,094,386 7.7 % Domestic market 303,390 295,486 2.7 % 279,128 8.7 % 1,131,788 1,054,987 7.3 % Export market 11,792 13,871 -15.0 % 10,910 8.1 % 46,516 39,399 18.1 % Net Unit Revenue 47.71 44.72 6.7 % 43.1 10.7 % 45.72 42.91 6.5 % (in R$ per piece shipped) Unit Cash Cost (28.58) (25.78) 10.9 % (25.81) 10.7 % (26.45) (24.70) 7.1 % (in R$ per piece shipped) Sales Expenses (45,554) (43,727) 4.2 % (41,869) 8.8 % (169,577) (155,568) 9.0 % General and (13,544) (12,017) 12.7 % (9,997) 35.5 % (48,445) (37,378) 29.6 % Administrative Expenses Operating Profit before 68,370 61,937 10.4 % 49,332 38.6 % 235,740 222,792 5.8 % Financial Results Depreciation and Amortization 2,178 15,199 -85.7 % 12,770 -82.9 % 47,297 50,248 -5.9 % Employee benefits (2,321) (1,541) 50.6 % (251) 824.7 % (4,143) (3,927) 5.5 % Ebitda 68,227 75,595 -9.7 % 61,851 10.3 % 278,894 269,113 3.6 % Ebitda margin 21.6 % 24.4 % 21,3 % 23.7 % 24,6 % Extraordinary events (1) (3,804) (2,275) 0 (6,079) 0 Recurring Ebitda 64,423 73,320 -12.1 % 61,851 4.2 % 272,815 269,113 1.4 % Recurring Ebitda margin 20.4 % 23.7 % 21,3 % 23.2 % 24.6 % (1) 2012: half-yearly PIS and revision to tax contingency 92 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex After volume growth of 18 % in 2011, the Deca Unit reproduct lines in the Metal Bathroom Fittings segment, ported growth of 1 % in 2012, reaching a shipment volume of the most noteworthy being the Embutir Hydra, Disco 25.8 million pieces. Compared to the immediately preceding Btahroom and Kitchen line, and Shower Deca Twin Spa. quarter, shipments were down by 4.5 %. This performance can The Deca Division ended 2012 celebrating the BVC be explained by a slowdown in demand in the property refurrecommendation (Bureau Veritas Certification) that the bishment segment. This segment is particularly susceptible to metal bathroom fitting plants in São Paulo, and the short-term macroeconomic conditions, which deteriorated in vitreous chinaware plants in São Leopoldo/RS, should 2012 with the weakening of the Brazilian economy. receive ISO 14001 certification. However, the net revenue performance was positive, In addition to this, the Deca Division also received vaprincipally when compared with the indicator for the sector, rious market recognitions, of particular note being in 4Q12 the ABRAMAT index, which measures sales performance in the silver in three categories in the 7th MasterInstal Awards. the domestic market. While this indicator showed an increase of 1.4 % for the year for the industry as a whole, Deca’s VALUE ADDED sales were up 7.7 %. This performance reflects the strength Value Added for the year amounted to R$1,841.9 of the Deca brand and the rewards achieved through the million, 8.7 % higher than in the previous year. Of this geographical diversification of the company’s plants, begun amount, R$618.4 million, equivalent to 14.2 % of the rein 2008, bringing the company even closer to its consuvenue obtained and 33.6 % of the Total Value Added, was mers. In this regard, the company made another important destined for federal, state and municipal governments in move, at the beginning of 2013, with the acquisition of the form of taxes and contributions. Thermosystem, a manufacturer of electronic showers and solar heating systems. This transaction will allow significant Distribution of Value Added in 2012 diversification of the company’s product lines, even in 1Q13. Operational performance, as measured by recurRemuneration for Financing Remuneration to ring EBITDA, amounted to R$272.8 million for the year, 11.1% the Government equivalent to an EBITDA margin of 23.2 %. In the fourth 33.6% quarter there was a contraction of the EBITDA margin Remuneration due to the consolidation of the Mipel operation into the to Shareholders Remuneration Deca Division, with lower margins, and a provision, in 24.9% for Labor accordance with best accounting practice, of an amount 30.4% reflecting the extended guarantee provided on the company’s products, of R$ 5.3 million, as well as the DIVIDENDS/INTEREST ON OWN CAPITAL increase in General and Administrative expenses which Shareholders are statutorily guaranteed a minimum preceded the start-up of the new unit in Queimados/RJ. dividend of 30 % of adjusted net income. On July 26, As a way of strengthening its market presence, Deca 2012, a provision was made for dividends of R$ 62,032 participated in various events during the year, such as thousand, in the form of interest on capital, paid on the 3rd Green Building Council Brazil, as well as marking August 15, 2012. Additionally, a meeting of the Board of its presence at the 5th Brazilian Congress for the DeveloDirectors on November 30, 2012, ad referendum of the pment of Hospital Buildings and the 54th National Hotel General Assembly, approved credit interest on capital, Congress. As a way of keeping its product lines abreast because of the mandatory dividend for 2012, the value of new trends in the market, seven new projects were of R$0.1639/share totaling R$ 89,963 thousand to be launched in the period in the Vitreous Chinaware segpaid on February 28, 2013. Finally, we proposed on ment, of particular note being the Fosca line and 12 new December 31, 2012 an additional on R$ 5.501 thousand 93 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex to be paid on the same day, February 28, 2013. Thus the Another important recognition was the inclusion of total gross remuneration to be paid to shareholders on Duratex’s shares in the BM&FBovespa – ISE (Corporate February 28, 2013 is $ 95,464,000. Sustainability Index) index for the fifth year running. HaThe gross remuneration to shareholders for the fiscal ving a presence on the index lists since the 2008/2009 year 2012 will total R$ 157.496 million, which equates version, the company’s shares are part of the index that to an expansion of approximately 23 % compared to the came into force on January 7, 2013, and which will benefits distributed in 2011. remain valid until January 3, 2014. This index is composed of 51 shares of companies that are outstanding in CAPITAL MARKETS AND terms of the application of the international concept of CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Triple Bottom Line sustainability, which evaluates social, At the end of 2012, Duratex had a Market Capitaenvironmental and economic-financial aspects in an lization of R$ 8,155.9 million and an Enterprise Value integrated manner, incorporated into practices related to of R$ 9,525.6 million, based on a closing share price of corporate governance, business characteristics, product R$14.85. The shares appreciated by 66.5 % during the nature, as well as climate change. year, while the Bovespa Index appreciated by just 7.8 %, Duratex’s shares are also listed on the BM&FBovespa making Duratex one of the year’s best performing shares. Novo Mercado, a differentiated segment of the market whiIn the first quarter, 219,300 trades were recorded in ch includes those companies which have shown themselves Duratex’s shares on the spot market on BM&FBovespa, to be exceptional by voluntarily adopting the highest stanwith 80.6 million shares changing hands, representing dards of corporate governance. As part of this segment of a trading volume equivalent to R$1,143.8 million, or an the market, the Company is committed to accepting rulings average daily trading volume of R$18.8 million. This by the BM&FBovespa Novo Mercado arbitration chamber level of liquidity ensured the continuing presence of the for the resolution of any and every dispute which may arise company’s shares in the Ibovespa portfolio (Bovespa between the Company, its shareholders and its managers. Index), which is composed of approximately 60 shares, In addition to the prerequisites of the Novo Mercado, the most important inclusion criterion for which is the Company also has a differentiated dividend policy, share liquidity. which involves the distribution of 30 % of adjusted net In September, Duratex gained important market reearnings, while committing itself to one third of its board cognition with its shares being chosen to form part of the members being independent, as well as adhering to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index – DJSWI. Definition Abrasca code for self-regulation and good practice. for inclusion in this share index involves a rigorous analysis process, including external verification by Deloitte. 34 Shareholding structure as at the end criteria were evaluated, from Environmental, Social and of December 2012 Economic perspectives. During the evaluation process, Pension funds the company obtained an absolute score of 79, positio0.6% Treasury ning it among the best 10 %, with an overall score of 93 % 0.2% Other and the best score in the sector in five criteria, of which 10.2% we would draw particular attention to Crisis and Risk Itaúsa and families Management, Stakeholder Engagement and International 40.0% Ligna and family Production Standards. Duratex was the first company in 20.0% Latin America in the Construction Materials sector to be Foreign investors included in the index. 29.0% 94 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY In 2012, the company had 10,601 employees, who received a total remuneration of R$86.1 million in the quarter, bringing the total for the year to R$331.8 million. (amounts in R$ ‘000) 4Q12 3Q12 % 4Q11 % 2012 2011 % EMPLOYEES 10,601 10,627 -0,2% 10,667 -0,6% 10,601 10,667 -0,6% (quantity) Remuneration 86,151 82,004 5,1 % 81,411 5,8 % 331,761 315,498 5,2 % Obligatory legal charges 48,070 47,395 1,4 % 46,494 3,4 % 185,786 180,815 2,7 % Differentiated benefits 17,047 16,101 5,9 % 15,830 7,7 % 66,676 59,368 12,3 % In 2012 the company spent R$27.7 million on with donations of complete structures for the showing of environmentally related initiatives, which included the digital films to schools in the public education network treatment of effluents, the collection of residues and and the training of professional staff to use them, as an the maintenance of forestry areas. This represented an educational instrument, the Restoration of the Railway increase of 3.8 % compared to investments of this nature Station and the Implementation of the Botucatu Railway in 2011. History Museum and the project Um passe para EducaDuring 2012, the Company made a global investment ção (a step forward for education). of R$ 9,334 thousand in the financing of projects with an In August, Duratex held its 2nd Stakeholders Meeting. educational focus, concentrating on socio-environmental This involved two panels, composed of specialists and aspects, health, cultural incentives and sport. employees. The object of these events was to determine In the fourth quarter of 2012, funds were spent on the themes that are the most important to be developed new cultural, sporting and health-related projects, which and inserted into the company’s strategy and its manaare to be implemented in 2013. Of particular note are gement. These aspects will be covered in greater detail the 2013 Annual Activity Plan from the Tomie Othake in the Annual Sustainability Report for 2012. Institute”, participation in Encena Brasi”, which involDuring the year, the Company won the following ves a travelling theatre group (for adults and children), important prizes: circus shows, cinema sessions, storytelling, workshops, • Abrasca Award, 14th edition, in the category Outstanexhibitions and musical shows in eight towns and cities, ding in the Sector 2012 – Paper and Pulp, as the best benefiting pupils in the public education network and instance of value creation in 2011; the population in general, and ProCine São Paulo, which • The Top Mobile prize for the fifth year running, one of the consists of the donation to municipal authorities/social most important awards in the furniture sector in Brazil. entities, of materials and physical structures (cabins) The Company obtained first place in the MDP and MDF suitable for the setting up of three units for the experipanel categories, in the Industry Suppliers segment; mental production of videos, with 42 hours of workshop • The Deca and Durafloor brand names were the “most training in the video production area. recognized” by the public in their segments of opeWe must also not forget the other projects alrearation, at the 15th edition of the Top of Mind awards dy supported by Duratex in previous years, and which promoted by Casa & Mercado magazine; continued to receive funding in 2012, as well as pro• Best company in the Decoration and Construction Majects initiated in 2012, and which will be continued in terials segment in the first edition of Época NEGÓCIOS 2013, including Salas de Cinema (cinema rooms) – Cine 360º annual magazine, a special publication by Moviola and “Casinha de Filmes (little house of films), Editora Globo; 95 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex • Champion of the Decoration and Construction Materials INDEPENDENT AUDITORS segment, for the 12 edition of the annual magazine Vath In accordance with CVM Instruction 381, dated January lor 1000 published by the newspaper Valor Econômico; 14, 2003, and Circular Letter CVM/SNC/SEP nº 02/2006 of • Best company in the Decoration and Construction December 28th 2006, Duratex and its subsidiaries state Materials segment, in the As Melhores da Dinheiro that they have not contracted other services from the 2012 magazine, a special publication by Isto É Dinheiro audit company, PricewaterhouseCoopers, which is responmagazine, and sible for the external audit of the Company for the period • Duratex’s forestry division was selected as the best ended December 31, 2012. company in the Wood and Pulp sector in the 2012 “BigThe Company’s policy for procuring services from its ingest and Best” ranking, compiled by Exame magazine. dependent auditors that are not related to external audit is based on internationally accepted principles that preserve DURATEX’S NEW LOGO the independence of auditors and mean that: (a) the audiFor more than 60 years Duratex has been a benchtor should not audit their own work, (b) The auditor should mark for reliability, quality, innovation and sustainability. not provide management functions within the client, and The company is the market leader in the production of (c) the auditor must not promote the interests of the client. laminate flooring, wood panels, vitreous chinaware and metal bathroom fittings, and its operations are characACKNOWLEDGMENTS terised by the application of values, social responsibility We are deeply grateful for all the support received and environmental preservation. from our shareholders, the dedication and commitment In 2012, the Company decided to design a brand for of our employees, the partnerships we have with our the future, reworking its visual identity in order to prepare suppliers and the confidence placed in us by our clients for a new market context and go beyond the aesthetic and consumers. transformation. Thus was created a symbol that causes impacting associations and encourages the idea of conThe Management glomerate with the particularities of the various businesses in which the company operates. The redesign of the rhino brings contemporary, while evoking the symbol of credibility built up over the years. The combination of light and fluid lines gives the idea of a drop or a leaf, a clear association with Duratex’s commitment to sustainability. The new feature also refers to the letter “d”, which highlights tradition, solidity and ethics. DURATEX. Ready for the future! 96 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex BALANCE SHEET ASSETS PARENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED (IFRS) 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 CURRENT ASSETS Note 1,876,992 1,535,754 2,364,965 1,933,005 Cash and cash equivalents 5 617,307 376,071 1,032,077 726,159 Trade accounts receivable 6 753,721 639,562 796,008 657,589 Inventory 7 385,768 380,541 414,633 411,427 Other receivables 56,887 56,736 33,586 31,496 Recoverable taxes and contributions 8 59,248 76,714 83,094 98,484 Other credits 4,061 6,130 5,567 7,850 NON-CURRENT ASSETS 5,052,917 4,537,077 5,393,633 4,881,145 Related parties 10 12 Restricted deposits 23,407 18,245 25,717 21,067 Other receivables 34,363 46,145 62,216 71,738 Pension plan credits 27 84,867 72,402 92,232 78,108 Recoverable taxes and contributions 8 44,054 27,536 45,462 29,763 Deferred income tax and social contribution 9 51,188 45,975 63,655 62,488 Investments in subsidiaries 11 1,550,565 1,373,739 173,704 Other investments 298 298 772 772 Property, plant and equipment 12 2,694,105 2,369,760 3,257,083 2,939,835 Biological assets 13 1,102,337 1,094,220 Intangible assets 14 570,070 582,965 570,455 583,154 TOTAL ASSETS 6,929,909 6,072,831 7,758,598 6,814,150 97 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex BALANCE SHEET LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ equity PARENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED (IFRS) 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 CURRENT LIABILITIES Note 1,074,507 939,858 1,268,582 1,141,539 Loans and financing 15 560,261 527,664 675,892 687,902 Debentures 16 5,882 5,882 Suppliers 206,480 162,580 211,829 159,262 Personnel 101,736 96,588 111,392 104,893 Accounts payable 63,387 41,156 102,366 60,139 Taxes and contributions 45,724 51,718 69,973 68,987 Dividends payable 91,037 60,152 91,248 60,356 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 1,835,421 1,443,764 2,466,411 1,979,801 Loans and financing 15 1,380,930 1,096,056 1,617,211 1,227,588 Debentures 16 102,802 102,802 Provisions 17 88,769 83,283 125,444 135,437 Deferred income tax and social contribution 9 251,931 259,236 485,707 500,721 Related parties 10 5 95 Other 10,984 5,094 135,247 116,055 STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 19 4,019,981 3,689,209 4,023,605 3,692,810 Capital 1,550,246 1,550,000 1,550,246 1,550,000 Costs on issue of shares (7,823) (7,823) (7,823) (7,823) Capital reserves 314,984 307,932 314,984 307,932 Revaluation reserves 83,332 89,721 83,332 89,721 Revenue reserves 1,665,920 1,355,588 1,665,920 1,355,588 Treasure shares (10,101) (23,032) (10,101) (23,032) Carrying value adjustments 423,423 416,823 423,423 416,823 Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent company 4,019,981 3,689,209 4,019,981 3,689,209 Noncontrolling interests 3,624 3,601 total liabilities and stockholders’ equity 6,929,909 6,072,831 7,758,598 6,814,150 98 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex STATEMENT OF INCOME PARENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED (IFRS) Note 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 NET SALES REVENUE 21 3,245,404 2,829,388 3,394,399 2,970,365 Variations in the fair value of biological assets 13 144,574 154,009 Cost of products sold (2,243,023) (2,008,751) (2,355,832) (2,112,443) GROSS PROFIT 1,002,381 820,637 1,183,141 1,011,931 Selling expenses (371,319) (334,751) (378,278) (343,955) General and administrative expenses (94,665) (95,424) (110,535) (106,763) Management expenses (12,706) (13,103) (12,837) (13,581) Other operating income (expenses), net 24 (6,346) 14,935 9,051 28,734 Equity in the results of investees 130,290 134,380 2,024 OPERATING PROFIT BEFORE 647,635 526,674 692,566 576,366 FINANCIAL RESULT Financial income 23 45,142 53,857 89,050 98,131 Financial expenses 23 (155,239) (167,255) (208,450) (220,037) PROFIT BEFORE INCOME TAX AND 537,538 413,276 573,166 454,460 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTIONS Income tax and social contributions current 25 (74,445) (24,661) (112,483) (59,421) Income tax and social contributions deferred 25 (3,837) (14,403) (972) (20,179) NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR 459,256 374,212 459,711 374,860 Net income attributable to: Owners of the company 459,256 374,212 Noncontrolling interests 455 648 Net income per share (R$): Basic: 28 0.8375 0.6820 Diluted: 28 0.8128 0.6688 99 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME PARENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED (IFRS) 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR 459,256 374,212 459,711 374,860 Other components of comprehensive income Participation in the comprehensive income (loss) of subsidiaries 4,696 4,682 4,696 4,682 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR, NET OF TAX 463,952 378,894 464,407 379,542 Attributable to: Owners of the company 463,952 378,894 463,952 378,894 Noncontrolling interests 455 648 100 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex STATEMENT OF cash flow PARENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED (IFRS) 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 OPERATING ACTIVITIES: NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR 459,256 374,212 459,711 374,860 ITEMS NOT AFFECTING CASH: Depreciation, amortization and depletion 237,057 218,805 499,932 430,288 Variations in the fair value of biological assets (144,574) (154,009) Interest, foreign exchange and monetary variations, net 142,860 158,392 160,752 195,173 Equity in the results of investees (130,290) (134,380) (2,024) Provisions, disposal of assets 23,504 47,046 10,870 14,721 INVESTMENTS IN WORKING CAPITAL: (Increase)/Decrease in Assets Trade accounts receivable (112,292) (31,794) (140,660) (94,377) Inventory 1,880 (52,957) (3,150) (32,992) Other assets 10,109 19,232 5,636 (146) Increase (Decrease) in Liabilities Suppliers 41,769 (9,476) 52,304 31,737 Personnel liabilities 4,048 17,627 6,520 22,437 Accounts payable 17,206 (1,264) 47,736 36 Taxes and contributions 62,799 25,735 100,560 53,342 Other liabilities (20,537) (12,139) (27,845) (1,691) Cash provided by operating 737,369 619,039 1,025,768 839,379 Income tax and social contribution paid (69,105) (30,400) (90,507) (60,796) Interest paid (136,683) (80,914) (162,600) (103,336) CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING ACTIVITIES 531,581 507,725 772,661 675,247 101 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex STATEMENT OF cash flow PARENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED (IFRS) 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES: Investments in biological, fixed and intangible assets (597,101) (500,621) (832,214) (635,846) Advance for future capital increase in subsidiaries (118,200) Dividends received from subsidiaries 124,457 Net cash received on the merger of subsidiary 359 1,720 CASH USED IN INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (590,485) (498,901) (832,214) (635,846) FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Financing 544,154 532,752 695,922 675,068 Debentures 101,364 101,364 Amortization of financing (234,060) (316,497) (321,555) (435,262) Interest on capital/Dividends (122,251) (144,444) (122,453) (159,428) Loans from subsidiaries 578 Treasury shares and others 10,933 (14,142) 10,933 (11,508) CASH USED IN (PROVIDED BY) FINANCING ACTIVITIES 300,140 58,247 364,211 68,870 Exchange variations on cash and cash equivalents 1,260 1,339 INCREASE IN CASH FOR THE YEAR 241,236 67,071 305,918 109,610 OPENING BALANCE 376,071 309,000 726,159 616,549 FINAL BALANCE 617,307 376,071 1,032,077 726,159 102 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex STATEMENT OF VALUE ADDED PARENT COMPANY CONSOLIDATED (IFRS) 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 REVENUE 4,184,983 3,694,968 4,366,765 3,872,471 Gross sales revenue 4,142,437 3,664,522 4,308,655 3,828,277 Other revenue 44,862 32,495 60,631 46,676 Allowance for doubtful accounts (2,316) (2,049) (2,521) (2,482) Inputs acquired from third parties (2,434,086) (2,117,707) (2,115,979) (1,845,558) Cost of sales (2,103,126) (1,846,642) (1,765,895) (1,557,114) Materials, energy, outsourced services and others (330,960) (271,065) (350,084) (288,444) Gross value added 1,750,897 1,577,261 2,250,786 2,026,913 Depreciation, amortization and depletion (237,057) (218,805) (499,932) (430,288) Net value added 1,513,840 1,358,456 1,750,854 1,596,625 Value added received through transfer 175,432 188,237 91,074 98,131 Financial income 45,142 53,857 89,050 98,131 Equity in the results of investees 130,290 134,380 2,024 Value added to be distributed 1,689,272 1,546,693 1,841,928 1,694,756 distribution of value added Personnel compensation 504,683 483,684 559,077 536,658 Direct compensation 422,967 407,342 460,038 445,569 Benefits 51,206 47,124 66,676 59,318 Severance indemnity fund (FGTS) 28,443 26,884 30,269 29,416 Other 2,067 2,334 2,094 2,355 Government taxes 572,729 524,480 618,393 566,449 Federal 362,921 367,347 403,769 407,518 State 208,083 153,288 211,423 155,077 Municipal 1,725 3,845 3,201 3,854 Financing remuneration (interest) 152,604 164,317 204,747 216,789 Stockholders' remuneration 459,256 374,212 459,711 374,860 Interest on capital/dividends 157,496 128,200 157,496 128,200 Retained earnings 301,760 246,012 301,760 246,012 Minority interests 455 648 Total value added distributed 1,689,272 1,546,693 1,841,928 1,694,756 103 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Total Costs on RevaCarrying NonconStockholNote Capital issue of Capital luation Revenue value adTreasury Retained Total trolling ders’ reserves reserves shares earnings shares reserves justments interests equity BALANCES AS AT DECEMBER 31, 2010 1,288,085 (7,823) 303,103 104,590 1,360,660 412,141 (8,890) 3,451,866 662 3,452,528 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR Net Income for the year 374,212 374,212 648 374,860 Participation in the comprehensive income of subsidiaries 4,682 4,682 4,682 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 4,682 374,212 378,894 648 379,542 Share options granted 26 4,829 4,829 4,829 Acquisition of treasury shares (14,142) (14,142) (14,142) Capital increase using revenue reserves 261,915 (261,915) 2,634 2,634 Interest on capital – 2011 complement (4,038) (4,038) (4,038) Realization of revaluation reserve (14,869) 14,869 APPROPRIATION OF NET INCOME Allocated to the legal reserve 18,437 (18,437) Interest on capital 1st half-year (59,655) (59,655) (59,655) Interest on capital 2nd half-year (64,680) (64,680) (64,680) Dividends 2nd half-year (3,865) (3,865) (3,865) Appropriation to tax incentives 5,478 (5,478) Appropriation to reserves 236,966 (236,966) (343) (343) BALANCES AS AT DECEMBER 31, 2011 1,550,000 (7,823) 307,932 89,721 1,355,588 416,823 (23,032) 3,689,209 3,601 3,692,810 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR Net Income for the year 459,256 459,256 455 459,711 Participation in the comprehensive income of subsidiaries 4,696 4,696 4,696 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 4,696 459,256 463,952 455 464,407 Share options granted 26 7,052 7,052 7,052 Sales of treasury shares 12,931 (1,998) 10,933 10,933 104 Adjustment of debentures convertible into shares 1,904 1,904 1,904 Capital increase 246 246 246 Duratex Interest on capital – 2011 complement (682) (682) (682) Realization of revaluation reserve (6,389) 6,389 APPROPRIATION OF NET INCOME Allocated to the legal reserve 22,963 (22,963) Interest on capital 1st half-year 19 d (62,032) (62,032) (62,032) Interest on capital 2nd half-year 19 d (89,963) (89,963) (89,963) Dividends 2nd half-year 19 d (638) (638) (638) Proposed additional dividend 19 d 4,863 (4,863) Appropriation to tax incentives (Article 195 – Law No. 6.404/76) 9,902 (9,902) Appropriation to reserves 273,286 (273,286) (432) (432) BALANCES AS AT DECEMBER 31, 2012 1,550,246 (7,823) 314,984 83,332 1,665,920 423,423 (10,101) 4,019,981 3,624 4,023,605 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (All amounts in Brazilian Reais, unless otherwise indicated) Note 1 – Operations Tablemac is the market leader in Colombia in the sector a) General information of industrialized wooden boards and panels, and has Duratex S.A. (the Company) is a publicly-traded corpofour industrial plants in Colombia for the production of ration headquartered in the city of São Paulo – SP, Brazil. medium density particle (MDP) panels, medium density Its controlling shareholders are Itaúsa – Investimentos Itaú fiberboard (MDF) and modular furniture. S.A., which has significant operations in the financial and b) Approval of financial statements industrial sectors, and Companhia Ligna de Investimentos, On February 22, 2013, the financial statements were which operates principally in the retail market, the distribuapproved by Duratex S.A.’s Board of Directors. tion of civil construction and woodworking materials, and in property construction and rental. Note 2 – Summary of The main activities of Duratex and its subsidiaries significant accounting policies (collectively “the Group”) comprise the manufacture of The main accounting policies applied in the preparation wood panels (through its Wood Division), vitreous chiof these financial statements are as set out below. These naware, sanitary ceramic and metal products (the Deca policies were consistently applied in the periods presented. Division). Duratex presently has fourteen industrial plants in Brazil and one in Argentina, and maintains branches 2.1 – Basis of preparation in the main Brazilian cities. Duratex also has commercial The financial statements were prepared on the basis subsidiaries in the United States and Europe. of historical costs, with financial assets held for trading The Wood Division operates five industrial plants in and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) Brazil, responsible for the production of hardboard, memeasured at fair value. dium density particle (MDP) – panels, medium, high and The preparation of financial statements requires super density fiberboard – (MDF, HDF and SDF) panels, Duthe use of certain critical accounting estimates and the rafloor laminate flooring and components for the furniture use of judgment by the Company’s management in the industry, as well as one industrial resin production plant. process of applying the Group’s accounting policies. The The Deca Division operates nine industrial plants in Brazil areas requiring the highest level of judgment and having and one in Argentina, responsible for the production of sanithe greatest complexity, as well as the areas where astary ceramic and metal products under the trademarks Deca, sumptions and estimates are significant to the consoliHydra, Belize, Elizabeth and Deca Piazza (in Argentina). dated financial statements, are disclosed in note 3. On August 6, 2012 Duratex subscribed to 25 % of the share capital of Tablemac S.A., and on November (a) Consolidated financial statements 8, 2012 acquired an additional 12 % stake by way of a The consolidated financial statements were prepared takeover bid (OPA) reaching 37 % of the total capital. and are being presented according to the accounting 105 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex practices adopted in Brazil, including the pronouncemation, as follows: ments issued by the Brazilian Accounting Pronouncea) Interest paid of R$80,914 in the parent company ments Committee (CPCs), as well as by International and R$103,336 in the consolidated financial stateFinancial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued by the Interments were reclassified from the account “Amortizanational Accounting Standards Board (IASB). tion of financing”. b) Income tax and social contributions paid of R$30,400 (b) Individual financial statements in the parent company and R$60,796 in the consoliIn the individual financial statements, subsidiaries dated financial statements were reclassified from the are accounted for under the equity method. The same caption “Taxes and contributions” in cash flow from adjustments are made in both the individual and consolioperating activities. dated financial information, in order to arrive at the same net income and stockholders’ equity attributable to the 2.2 – Consolidation parent company’s shareholders. In the Company’s case, the Brazilian accounting practices applied in the individu2.2.1 – Consolidated financial statements al financial information differ from the IFRS applicable to The following accounting policies were applied to the the separate financial statements only in respect of the preparation of the financial statements: valuation of investments in subsidiaries under the equity method of accounting, where IFRS requires the valuation (a) Subsidiaries at cost or fair value. Subsidiaries are all entities (including specific-purpose entities) whose financial and operating policies can be (c) Changes in accounting policies and disclosures controlled by the Company and in which the Company There were no new accounting standards, pronounhas a shareholding exceeding half the voting rights. cements and interpretations effective for 2012 issued by The consolidated financial information includes the the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) or companies: Duratex S.A. and its direct subsidiaries: Brazilian Accounting Pronouncements Committee (CPC) Duraflora S.A., Estrela do Sul Participações Ltda., Duratex which could have a significant impact on the Company’s Empreendimentos Ltda., Duratex Comercial Exportadora financial statements. S.A., and its indirect subsidiaries: Duratex North America Reclassifications: Inc., Duratex Europe NV., Duratex Belgium NV., TCI Trading (i) Current Liabilities S.A., and Deca Piazza S.A. For comparison purposes, R$7,932 was reclassified The business combination is accounted for under in the financial statements from “Dividends payable” to the acquisition method. The transferred amount for the “Accounts payable” in relation to the profits to be disacquisition of a subsidiary represents the fair value of tributed in the projects of Society Participation Account the assets transferred, liabilities incurred and equity of the subsidiary Duraflora S.A. with its other partners instruments issued by the Company. The consideration participating. transferred includes the fair value of assets and liabilities (ii) Statement of cash flow resulting from a contingent consideration agreement, if In 2012, interest on financing, income tax and social applicable. Acquisition related costs are recognized in the contributions paid were presented in specific categories income statement as incurred. The identifiable assets acof cash flow from operating activities. For better comquired and the liabilities and contingent liabilities assuparability it were reclassified as well the items for 2011 med in a business combination are initially measured at that were originally presented as supplementary inforfair value on the acquisition date. The group recognizes 106 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex non-controlling interest in acquirees either at fair value The Group’s share of the profits and losses of or at the non-controlling interest’s proportionate share of associated companies is recognized in the statement the acquiree’s net assets. The measurement of the nonof income and its share of the changes in reserves is controlling interest is determined on each acquisition. recognized in the Group’s reserves. If the Group’s share The excess of the consideration transferred the of losses in an associate equals or exceeds its interest in amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree the associate, including any other unsecured receivables, and the acquisition date fair value of any previous equity the group does not recognize further losses, unless it has interest in the acquiree over the fair value of the group’s incurred obligations or made payments on behalf of the share of the identifiable net assets acquired is recorded associate or subsidiary. as goodwill. If the acquisition cost is less than the fair value of the net assets of the acquired subsidiary, the 2.2.2 – New accounting standards, amenddifference is recognized directly in the statement ments and interpretations not yet effective of income. The following new accounting standards, changes Intercompany transactions, as well as the balances and interpretations were issued by the International and unrealized gains and losses in relation to those tranAccounting Standards Board (IASB) but were not effective sactions, were eliminated. The subsidiaries’ accounting for 2012. The early adoption of these standards, though policies were adjusted to ensure consistency with the encouraged by the IASB, was not allowed in Brazil by the accounting policies of the Company. Brazilian Accounting Pronouncements Committee (CPC). IAS 1 “Presentation of Financial Statements.” The (b) T ransactions with and participation in main change resulting from these amendments is the non-controlling entities separation into two groups of items presented in Other These are recorded in a manner identical to tranComprehensive Income: items that can be reclassified sactions with the Group’s shareholders. For acquisitions into profit or loss and items that cannot be reclassified of non-controlling ownership interests, the difference into profit or loss. The adoption of this amendment is between any consideration paid and the acquired portion applicable from January 1, 2013. The expected impact of the controlling shareholder’s net assets is recorded in of this adoption is only the disclosure of these items. stockholders’ equity, as along with the gains or losses on IAS 19 – “Employee Benefits” was amended in June sales to non-controlling shareholders. 2011. This amendment was included in CPC 33 (R1) – “Employee benefits.” The adoption of this amendment (c) Associate is applicable after January 1, 2013. The impact on the Associates are all entities over which the Group has Company will be as follows: (i) to immediately recognize significant influence but not control, generally accomall past service costs, (ii) to replace interest costs and panying a shareholding of between 20 % and 50 % of the expected return on assets with a net interest rate that is voting rights. expected to generate a short increase in the cost of Investments in associates are accounted for unthe plan. der the equity method, and are initially recognized at IFRS 9 – “Financial Instruments” addresses the historical cost. The Group’s investments in associates classification, measurement and recognition of finaninclude any goodwill identified on acquisitions, net of any cial assets and financial liabilities. IFRS 9 was issued in accumulated impairment losses. See Note 2.12 for November 2009 and October 2010. It replaces parts of details of the impairment of non-financial assets, IAS 39 that are related to the classification and measuincluding goodwill. rement of financial instruments. IFRS 9 requires financial 107 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex assets to be classified into two measurement categories: IFRS 12 “Disclosure of interests in other entities” those measured as at fair value and those measured at was included in the new CPC 45 “Disclosure of inteamortized cost. The determination is made upon initial rests in other entities”. IFRS 12 includes the disclosure recognition. The classification depends on the entity’s burequirements for all forms of interests in other entities, siness model for managing its financial instruments and including joint arrangements, associates, special purpothe contractual cash flow characteristics of the instruse vehicles and other off balance sheet vehicles. Adopment. For financial liabilities, the standard retains most tion is applicable from January 1, 2013. The impact of of the IAS 39 requirements. The main change is that, in this standard is basically an additional disclosure. cases where the fair value option is selected for financial IFRS 13 “Fair Value Measurement” was issued in liabilities, the portion of the fair value change due to an May 2011, and was included in the CPC 46 entity’s own credit risk is recorded in other comprehensi“Fair Value Measurement”. The main objective of ve income rather than the income statement, unless this IFRS 13 is to improve consistency and reduce complecreates an accounting mismatch. The Company is still xity by providing a precise definition of fair value and a analyzing the full impact of IFRS 9. The adoption of IFRS single source of fair value measurement and disclosure 9 is applicable from January 1, 2015. requirements for use across IFRS. The requirements, IFRS 10 “Consolidated financial statements” was which are largely aligned between IFRS and US GAAP, included in CPC 36 (R1) – “Consolidated financial stado not extend the use of fair value accounting but tements”. This amendment builds on existing principles provide guidance on how it should be applied where its by identifying the concept of control as the determining use is already required or permitted by other standarfactor in whether an entity should be included within ds. The standard is applicable from January 1, 2013. the consolidated financial statements of the parent The impact of this standard is basically an additional company. The standard provides additional guidance to disclosure. assist with the determination of control where this is There are no other IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that difficult to assess. Adoption is applicable from January are not yet effective that the Company believes may 1, 2013. The Company does not expect any significant have a material impact on the Company. impact from the application of IFRS 10. IFRS 11 “Joint arrangements” was issued in May 2.3 – Presentation of segment information 2011, and was included in CPC 19 (R2) “Joint arrangeSegment information is presented consistently with the ments”. IFRS 11 provides a more realistic reflection of segmented information provided to the main operating dejoint arrangements by focusing on the rights and obligacision maker. The main operating decision maker, responsitions of the parties to the arrangement rather than its ble for allocating funds and evaluating the performance of legal form. There are two types of joint arrangement: (i) operating segments, is the Company’s Board of Directors, Joint operations arise where a joint operator has rights which is in charge of the Group’s strategic decision making, to the assets and obligations relating to the arrangewith the support of the Supervisory Board. ment and therefore accounts for its share of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and (ii) Joint ventures are joint arrangements whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the net assets of the arrangement, and the investment is accounted for under the equity method. Proportional consolidation of joint ventures is no longer allowed. Adoption is applicable from January 1, 2013. 108 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex 2.4 – Foreign currency translation 2.5 – Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash, bank depo(a) Functional currency and presentation currency sits and other short-term highly liquid investments with The items included in the financial statements of each original maturities of three months or less and subject to of the companies are measured using the main currency an insignificant risk of change in value. of the economic environment in which the respective company operates (the functional currency). The individual 2.6 – Financial assets and consolidated financial statements are being presented in Brazilian Reais, which is the Company’s functional and 2.6.1 – Classification presentation currency. The classification of financial assets is determined by management when they are initially recognized, and (b) Transactions and balances depends on the purpose for which they were acquired. Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into There are two categories under which the financial assets the functional currency using the exchange rates prevaiare classified: ling on the transaction dates, or on the valuation dates in the event that the items are remeasured. Exchange (a) Financial assets measured gains and losses resulting from the settlement of those at fair value through profit or loss transactions and from the conversion at period-end exThese are financial assets maintained for trading, change rates of monetary assets and liabilities in foreign acquired mostly for short-term sale, including derivatives currencies are recognized in the statement of income as not designated as hedge instruments, which are classifinancial income or expense, except when they are recorfied as current assets. ded in stockholders’ equity and considered to be a hedge Derivatives are also categorized as held for trading, of net investments. unless, they have been designated as hedge instruments. (c) Companies of the group with (b) Loans and receivables different functional currency Loans and receivables represent non-derivative The net income and financial position of the subsidiafinancial assets with fixed or determinable payments ries located abroad (none of which have the currency of which are not quoted in an active market. They are a hyperinflationary economy), whose functional currency included in current assets, except for those maturing at differs from the presentation currency (Brazilian Reais), least 12 months after the balance sheet date, which are are converted into the presentation currency as follow: classified as non-current assets. Loans and receivables • Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange represent trade accounts receivable, other accounts rate on the balance sheet date; receivable and cash and cash equivalents, except for • Income and expenses are translated at the average short-term investments. exchange rate for the month in which they are recorded; • All resulting exchange-related differences are recognized in 2.6.2 – Recognition and measurement stockholders’ equity as “accumulated conversion adjustPurchases and sales of financial assets are recogniments” and are recognized in the statement of income zed on the trading date, which is the date when the Comwhen the investments in the subsidiaries are realized. pany and its subsidiaries commit to buy or sell the asset. • Goodwill and fair value adjustments resulting from the Loans and receivables are recorded at amortized acquisition of a foreign entity are recognized as assets cost using the effective interest rate method. and liabilities of the foreign entity and translated at the closing exchange rate. 109 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Financial assets classified at fair value through pro2.6.4 – Impairment of financial assets fit or loss are initially recognized at their fair value, and At the end of each reporting period, the Company transaction costs are charged to the results. Financial evaluates whether there is objective evidence that a finanassets are written off when the rights to receive cash cial asset or group of financial assets has been impaired. flow from the investments have been realized or transAn asset or group of financial assets is deemed to be ferred, and, in the latter case, as long as the Company impaired and impairment losses are incurred only if there and its subsidiaries have transferred virtually all of the is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or risks and benefits of ownership. Financial assets meamore events occurring after the initial recognition of the sured at fair value through profit or loss are subsequenassets (a loss event) which will have an impact on the estly recorded at fair value. timated future cash flow from the financial asset or group Gains or losses resulting from fluctuations in the fair of financial assets which can be reliably estimated. values of financial assets measured at fair value through The criteria used by the Company to determine profit or loss are presented in the statement of income whether there is objective evidence of an impairment in “Other net gains (losses)” in the period in which they loss include: occur. Dividends from financial assets measured at fair • financial difficulties of the issuer or debtor; value through profit or loss (e.g. shares) are recognized in • a breach of contract, such as a default or delay in the the income statement as part of other operating income payment of interest or principal; net when the Company establishes the right to • the disappearance of an active market for that financial receive dividends. asset due to financial difficulties; The fair values of publicly quoted assets and liabi• observable data indicating a measurable reduction in lities are based on their current purchase prices. If the the estimated future cash flow from a financial asset market for a financial asset (and for securities not listed portfolio since the initial recognition of those assets, in a stock exchange) is not active, the Company estaeven if the decrease cannot yet be allocated to the blishes fair value by using valuation techniques. These individual financial assets in the portfolio, including: techniques include the use of transactions with third a) adverse changes in the payment situation of the parties, reference to other substantially similar instruportfolio’s borrowers; ments, analysis of discounted cash flow models and b) national or local economic conditions correlating with option pricing models making maximum use of informaadverse changes in the payment situation of the tion generated by the market and the least possible use portfolio’s borrowers; of information generated by the management of c) n ational or local economic conditions correlating with the Company. defaults on the portfolio’s assets. The Company and its subsidiaries first evaluate whe2.6.3 – Offsetting of financial instruments ther there is objective evidence of impairment. Financial assets and liabilities can be reported at their The loss amount is measured as the difference net amounts in the balance sheet only when there is a between the book value of the assets and the present legal right to offset the amounts recognized and there value of estimated future cash flow (excluding future is an intent to settle them on a net basis, or realize the credit losses not yet incurred) discounted based on asset and settle the liability simultaneously. the interest rates originally contracted for the financial assets. The book value of the assets is reduced and the amount of the loss is recognized in the consolidated statement of income. If a loan or investment maintained through maturity has a variable interest rate, the 110 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex discount rate utilized to measure the impairment loss is 2.8 – Trade accounts receivable the current effective interest rate determined in acTrade accounts receivable are recorded and maincordance with the contract. For practical purposes, the tained at the nominal value of the amounts obtained Company and its subsidiaries can measure the impairon sales of products, plus exchange variations, where ment based on the fair value of an instrument obtained applicable. Trade accounts receivable substantially refer by utilizing an observable market price. to short-term operations, and are therefore not disIf, in a subsequent period, the value of the impaircounted to present value, as no significant adjustments ment loss decreases and the decrease can be objectiwould arise from this. The provision for doubtful receively related to an event occurring after the impairment vables (allowance for doubtful accounts or impairment) has been recognized, such as an improvement in the is made based on the analysis of the risk of realization debtor’s credit classification, the reversal of the preof the credit receivable, in an amount considered suffiviously recognized impairment loss is recognized in the cient by management to cover potential losses on the consolidated statement of income. realization of these assets. Recoveries of written-off items are credited to 2.7 – Derivative financial “other operating income (loss), net”, in the statement of instruments and hedging activities income. Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value on the date when the derivative agreement is entered into, 2.9 – Inventory and are subsequently remeasured at fair value through Inventory is stated at the average purchase or the results. production cost, not exceeding the replacement cost or Derivatives are contracted as a form of financial risk realizable amount, whichever is the lesser. Imports in management, and the Company’s policy is not to enter transit are stated at the cost of each import. into leveraged derivative transactions. The cost of finished goods and work in progress Although the Company does not have a hedge comprises the cost of raw materials, direct labor, other accounting policy, it has designated certain debts at fair direct costs and related direct production costs (based value through profit or loss, because of the existence of on normal capacity). The net realizable value is the esderivative financial assets directly related to loans, as a timated selling price in the normal course of business, means of avoiding the recognition of gains and losses less the estimated costs of completion and the estimain different periods. ted costs necessary to make the sale. Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are recorded as cash flow hedges. Any gain or loss on 2.10 – Intangible assets the hedging instruments is recognized in stockholders’ Intangible assets represent goodwill, customer portfoequity in “accumulated conversion adjustments”, and lio, trademarks, patents and rights of use of software. the gain or loss related to the non-effective portion is They are stated at acquisition cost less amortization over reported in the statement of income immediately in the period, calculated using the straight line method, in “other operating income (loss), net”. accordance with the established useful life. Gains and losses accumulated in equity are included in the statement of income when the foreign operation is partially or totally transferred or sold. 111 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Goodwill 2.11 – Property, plant and equipment Goodwill is the positive difference between the paid Items of property, plant and equipment are stated or payable amount for the acquisition of a business at the cost of acquisition, formation or construction, and the net fair value of the assets and liabilities of the including financing costs related to the acquisition of acquired subsidiary or business combination. Goodwill qualifying assets, less accumulated depreciation calcuis not amortized, but it is tested annually to identify whelated using the straight line method, taking into consither there is any need to record impairment losses. deration the estimated economically useful lives of the Goodwill is allocated to Cash Generating Units for imassets, which are reviewed at the end of each year. pairment. The allocation is made to the Cash Generating Subsequently incurred costs are added to an asset’s Unit or groups of Cash Generating Units that are expecbook value or are recognized as a separate asset, as ted to benefit from the business combination on which applicable, only when it is likely that the future econothe goodwill arose, and are identified for each operating mic benefits associated with the asset will be realized segment. and the cost of the asset can be reliably measured. The book values of replaced items and parts are written off. Trademarks and patents All other maintenance and repair costs are recorded in Separately acquired trademarks and licenses the results for the year in which the costs are incurred. are initially stated at historical cost. Trademarks and licenThe book value of property, plant and equipment ses acquired in a business combination are recognized at is reduced to its recoverable amount if the book value their fair value on the acquisition date. Since they have exceeds the estimated recoverable amount. a defined useful life, trademarks and licenses are subseGains and losses on disposals are determined by quently recorded at cost less accumulated amortization. comparing the results with the book value and are recognized in “other operating income (losses), net”. Contractual relationships with customers – customer portfolio 2.12 – Impairment of non-financial assets Only customer relationships acquired in a busiAssets which have an indeterminate useful life, such ness combination are recognized at fair value on the as Goodwill, are not subject to amortization and are acquisition date. Customer relationships have a finite tested annually for impairment. The assets subject to useful life and are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation or amortization are tested whenever there amortization. Amortization is calculated using the is objective evidence that the book value may not be straight-line method over the expected useful life of recoverable. For this purpose, the companies take into the customer relationship. consideration the effects arising from obsolescence, demand, competition and other economic factors. For Software impairment testing purposes, assets are grouped at the Acquired software licenses are recorded as capital lowest levels for which there is separately identifiable expenditure at the amount of the costs incurred to acquire cash flow (Cash Generating Unit level). the software and prepare it for use. The cost is amortized over the estimated useful life of the software. 112 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex 2.13 – Biological assets 2.15 – Accounts payable to Forest reserves are recognized at their fair value, suppliers and provisions less the estimated selling costs at harvest time, as described in Note 13. For immature plantations (up to Suppliers one year old), the cost is considered to approximate Accounts payable to suppliers are obligations to pay the fair value. Gains or losses on the recognition of for goods or services that were purchased in the ordinary biological assets at their fair value, less selling costs, course of business, and are classified as current liabilities are recognized in the results. The depletion appropriaif the payment is due within one year. Otherwise, the ted to the results is made up of the formation costs accounts payable are presented as non-current liabilities. portion and the fair value adjustments portion. Accounts payable are initially recognized at their nominal The formation costs of these assets are recognized value, which is equivalent to the fair value, and subsein the results as incurred. The effect of the variation quently measured at amortized cost using the effective in the fair value of a biological asset is presented in a interest rate method. separate account in the statement of income. Provisions 2.14 – Loans and financing Provisions are recognized when there is a present Borrowing is initially recognized at its fair value legal or constructive obligation resulting from past when funds are received, net of transaction costs, and events, and it is likely that a disbursement of funds will subsequently stated at amortized cost, that is, with be required to settle the obligation, and the amount can the addition of charges and interest proportional to the be reliably estimated. Provisions are not recognized for period elapsed (calculated on a pro rata basis), using future operating losses. Provisions are measured at the the effective interest rate method, except for borrowing present value of the amount expected to be required to hedged by derivative instruments, which is stated at settle the obligation, and reflecting the specific risks of fair value. the obligation. Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying 2.16 – Current and deferred income asset, i.e. an asset that requires a substantial period of tax and social contributions on net income time to prepare for its intended use or sale, are capitaliThe income tax and social contributions are calculazed as part of the cost of the asset when it is probable ted based on the net income for the year before taxation, that these costs will result in future economic benefits adjusted for inclusions and exclusions in accordance with to the entity which can be reliably measured. Other borthe tax legislation. Deferred income tax and social contrirowing costs are recognized as expenses in the period butions are recognized on temporary differences arising in which they are incurred. between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. In practice, tax adjustments to the accounting net income, such as the inclusion of expenses and exclusion of revenue, are temporary differences and generate deferred tax assets or liabilities. 113 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex These taxes are recognized in the statement of income, The fair value of the options granted is calculaexcept for the proportion related to items directly recognized ted at the date of the granting of the options, and at in equity. In this case, the tax is also recorded in equity. each financial statement date the Company revises its Income tax and social contributions are presented estimates of the quantity of shares it expects to issue, in liabilities on a net basis when there are amounts based on the vesting conditions. payable, or in assets when the amounts paid in advance exceeds the total owed at the reporting date. (c) Profit sharing Deferred taxes and contributions are recognized only The Company and its subsidiaries compensate their if their offsetting against future taxable income employees with profit sharing if established performance is probable. targets are met. This remuneration is recognized as a liability and an expense in the operating results (under 2.17 – Employee benefits cost of goods sold, selling expenses and administrative expenses) when the employee fulfils the established a) Pension plans performance conditions. The Company and its subsidiaries offer all of their employees a defined contribution plan managed by 2.18 – Capital Fundação Itaúsa Industrial. The regulations of the plan The common shares are classified in equity. Increestablish that the sponsoring companies will make a mental costs directly attributable to the issue of new contribution ranging from 50 % to 100 % of the amount shares or options are presented in equity as a deduction contributed by the employees. The Company previously from the funds obtained, net of taxes. offered a defined benefit plan to its employees, but this The amount paid for the acquisition of treasury shaplan is being extinguished, with enrollment not permitted res, including any directly attributable costs, is deducted for new participants. from equity attributable to the shareholders until the In relation to the defined contribution plan, the shares are cancelled, sold or utilized in the stock Company and its subsidiaries have no further payment option plan. obligations after the contributions are made. The contributions are recognized as employee benefit expenses 2.19 – Revenue recognition when they fall due. Contributions made in advance are Revenue represents the fair value of the considerarecognized as an asset to the extent that these contribution received or receivable for the sale of products in the tions lead to an effective reduction in future payments. normal course of the activities of the Company and its subsidiaries. The revenue is stated net of taxes, returns, (b) Share-based compensation discounts or rebates granted, as well as the eliminaThe Company offers its executives a compensation tion of intercompany sales, and is recognized when its plan based on stock options, according to which it receiamount can be reliably measured, and when it is probaves their services as consideration for the stock options ble that future economic benefits will be obtained by the granted. The fair value of the employees’ services, Company and specific criteria for each of the relevant received in exchange for the stock options granted, is activities have been met. recognized as an expense, with a corresponding entry to stockholders’ equity during the period when the executives render the services and acquire the right to exercise the stock options. 114 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex (a) Sales of goods As provided in the bylaws, the Company may pay Sales revenue is recognized on the delivery of the interest on capital, attributing the amounts as dividends. products, as well as upon the transfer of the risks and The tax benefit of the interest on capital is recognized in benefits to the buyer. the statement of income. (b) Financial income Note 3 – Critical accounting Financial income is recognized in accordance with the judgments and estimates elapsed period, using the effective interest rate method. During the preparation of the financial information, When an impairment loss is identified in relation to a finanaccounting judgments, estimates and assumptions are cial instrument, the Company and its subsidiaries reduce utilized to record the amounts of certain assets, liabilities the book value to its recoverable value, which corresponds and other transactions. The estimates and accounting to the estimated future cash flow, discounted at the original judgments adopted by management were based on the effective contractual interest rate of the instrument. information available at the date when the financial information was prepared, based on experience of past 2.20 – Leases events and forecasts for future events. The financial staThe Company has lease contracts on land utilized for tements include several estimates, including the useful forestry activities. In these contracts, the risks and rights lives of property, plant and equipment items, the realiof ownership are retained by the lessor, and the leases zation of deferred tax credits, the allowance for doubtful are therefore classified as operating leases. The costs accounts, inventory losses, the evaluation of the fair incurred in operating lease agreements are recorded as value of biological assets, and provisions for contingenpart of the cost of formation of biological assets, using cies and impairment losses. the straight line method, over the contractual period. The The following are the main estimates and assumpgroup does not have financial leases. tions that involve a substantial risk of requiring adjustments to asset and liability book values: 2.21 – Distribution of dividends and interest on capital a) Risk of variations in the fair The distribution of dividends to Company shareholvalue of biological assets ders is recognized as a liability in the financial stateThe Company adopted several estimates in order to ments at the end of each year or on interim dates, as value its forestry reserves in accordance with the methodetermined by the Supervisory Board. The balance is dology established by CPC 29/IAS 41. These estimates calculated based on the minimum dividend established in were based on market references, and are subject to the Company’s bylaws, net of the amounts approved and changes which could impact the Company’s financial stapaid during the year. tements. Specifically, a 5 % reduction in standing wood Any additional portion in excess of the minimum prices would result in a reduction in the fair value of biomandatory dividend and which is declared by manalogical assets by about R$ 35,831, net of tax effects. If gement after the accounting period of the financial the discount rate used were to be increased by 0.5 %, this statements but before the date of authorization of the would result in a reduction in the fair value of biological financial statements is recorded under “Proposed additioassets of about R$ 8,758, net of tax effects. nal dividends” in the stockholders’ equity, and its effects are presented in Note 19, item d. 115 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex b) Estimated impairment of goodwill Group’s assets or an increase in its liabilities due to changes The Company and its subsidiaries test the possible in exchange rates. The Group has an exchange rate risk policy impairment of goodwill on an annual basis in compliance establishing the maximum amount in foreign currency to with the accounting policy presented in Notes 2.10 and which it can be exposed in terms of exchange rate variations. 2.12. The balance could be impacted by changes in the In line with the risk management procedures, the economic or market scenario without, however, creating a objective of which is to minimize the foreign exchange significant effect in relation to stockholders’ equity. exposure of the Company and its subsidiaries, hedging mechanisms are maintained, in order to mitigate, in large c) Pension plan benefits part, the foreign exchange exposure. The current value of assets related to pension plans (II) Derivatives: In terms of the derivative instrudepends on a number of factors that are determined ments, no verifications, monthly settlements or margin using actuarial calculations. These calculations involve calls are made, and the contracts are settled upon maa series of assumptions. Among the assumptions used turity and recorded at fair value, considering the market in determining these values are the discount rate and conditions for terms and interest rates. current market conditions. Any changes in these assumpThe outstanding contracts as at December 31, 2012 tions will affect the corresponding book values. were as follow: Note 4 – Financial risk management a US$ vs. Interbank deposit certificate (CDI) swap agreements 4.1 Financial risk factors The Company had six agreements of this nature, with The Company and its subsidiaries are exposed to an aggregate notional amount of US$ 128,548,000 and market risk in relation to fluctuations in interest, and also varying maturities up to December 21, 2015, being an to exchange rates and credit risk. asset (purchase) position in US Dollars and a liability (sale) position in CDI. Consequently, risk management is based on the poliThe Company made these agreements in order to cies approved by the Board of Directors, and is monitored convert its debts denominated in US Dollars into debts by the Audit and Risk Committee. The Company and its indexed to the CDI. subsidiaries have procedures to manage these situations and can use hedging instruments to reduce the impact of b Fixed rate vs. Interbank deposit the risks in this regard. These procedures include monitocertificate (CDI) swap agreements ring the level of exposure to each market risk, in addiThe Company had six agreements with an aggretion to establishing decision-making levels. All hedging gate amount of R$ 186,225, maturing through April transactions entered into by the Group are intended to 28, 2015, being an asset position at a fixed rate and a protect its debts and investments. The Group does not liability position at a percentage of the CDI. utilize leveraged financial derivatives. The subsidiary Duraflora S.A. had two agreements with an aggregate amount of R$ 163,545, maturing (a) Market risk on December 11, 2014, being an asset position at a (I) Exchange rate risk: Exchange rate risk arises from fixed rate and a liability position at a percentage of the risk that there will be a reduction in the values of the the CDI. 116 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex The Company made these agreements in order to The Company made this agreement in order to convert its total fixed interest rate debts into CDIconvert its US Dollar liabilities into Brazilian Reais. The -indexed debts. agreement will be settled on the maturity date, at the . difference between the forward exchange rate (NDF) and c Non-Deliverable Forward (NDF) Agreement the end-of-period exchange rate (Ptax). The Company had one agreement of this type, the d Calculation of the fair value of positions total contractual amount of which was US$ 12,000,000 The fair value of the financial instruments was calcumaturing on January 31, 2013, with a purchase position lated by utilizing the estimated present value of both liain US Dollars. bility and asset positions, where the difference between the two represents the market value of the swap. Statement of consolidated position of derivative financial instruments Reference Value Accumulated Effect Fair Value (notional) (current period) Amount Amount 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 receivable/ payable/ received paid I. Swap contracts Asset position Foreign currency (USD) 258,711 41,587 264,340 43,732 3,714 Fixed rate 349,770 628,898 411,218 718,184 20,674 Liability position CDI (608,481) (670,485) (651,169) (745,817) II. Future contracts (NDF) Commitment to purchase Foreign currency (USD) 24,373 33,541 (70) (131) (70) The gains or losses on the transactions listed above were offset against the liability and asset positions in interest rates and foreign currency, the effects of which were recognized in the financial statements. e Sensitivity analysis The table below sets out a sensitivity analysis of the Company’s financial instruments, including derivatives, and describes the risk scenarios which could generate material losses for the Group. The analysis involves a Probable Scenario (Base Scenario) plus two other scenarios (under the terms determined by CVM 475/08) representing a 25 % and 50 % deterioration in the risk variables. 117 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex For the rates of risk variables used in the probable scenario, BM&FBovespa (São Paulo Stock, Futures and Commodities Exchange)/ Bloomberg quotations for the respective maturity dates were used. Sensitivity analysis table Amounts in thousands of R$ Probable Possible Remote Risk Instrument/Operation Description Scenario Scenario Scenario Interest rate risk SWAP FIXED / CDI Increase CDI 14,391 5,248 (4,011) Subject to hedge: (14,391) (5,248) 4,011 fixed rate loans. Net Effect SWAP US$ / CDI Foreign exchange Decrease US$ (4,028) (82,837) (161,645) (Res.2770 e Res. 4131) Subject to hedge: (increase US$) 4,028 82,837 161,645 foreign currency debt (US$) Net Effect Foreign exchange NDF (US$) Decrease US$ 209 (5,971) (12,150) Subject to hedge: foreign (increase US$) (209) 5,971 12,150 currency debt (US$) Net Effect Total (III) Cash flow or fair value risk In relation to temporary cash investments and all associated with the interest rate other investments, the Company follows the policy of Interest rate risk is the risk that an economic loss will working only with blue-chip institutions and not concenbe suffered due to adverse changes in interest rates. This trating its investments in only one economic group. risk is continually monitored in order to evaluate any possible need to contract derivative transactions to hedge (b) Liquidity risk against interest rate volatility. The Company and its subsidiaries have a debt policy which defines the limits and parameters for debt and the (a) Credit Risk minimum funds which should be maintained, the latter The Group’s sales policy is directly associated with being the higher of the following: an amount equivalent the level of credit risk it is willing to accept in the course to 60 days of net revenue or the amount of the debt serof its business. The measures adopted to minimize vicing expenses plus dividends and/or interest on capital default or losses on accounts receivable include: the forecast for the following six months. diversification of the Group’s portfolio of receivables, the The liquidity position is managed on a daily basis, by selection of its customers, and the monitoring of sales means of monitoring the cash flow. financing terms and individual position limits. 118 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Listed below are the maturities of the Company and its subsidiaries’ contracted financial liabilities as presented in the financial statements: Parent company Consolidated Less than 2014 and From 2016 After Less than 2014 and From 2016 After 1 year 2015 to 2020 2021 1 year 2015 to 2020 2021 12/31/12 Loans/ 566,143 1,100,012 377,380 6,340 681,774 1,282,790 430,431 6,792 Debentures Suppliers 206,480 211,829 Total 772,623 1,100,012 377,380 6,340 893,603 1,282,790 430,431 6,792 The budget projection for the next fiscal year, approved by the Board of Directors, if achieved, shows the Company will be able to generate sufficient cash to meet its obligations. 4.2 Capital management The Company and its subsidiaries manage their capital with the objective of ensuring the continuity of their operations, as well as providing shareholders with a return on their investment. This is achieved through capital cost optimization and control of the level of indebtedness as a result of monitoring the financial leverage index based on the ratio of net debt to total capital. Parent company Consolidated 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 A Loans, financing and debentures 2,049,875 1,623,720 2,401,787 1,915,490 short-term 566,143 527,664 681,774 687,902 long-term 1,483,732 1,096,056 1,720,013 1,227,588 B (-) Cash and cash equivalents 617,307 376,071 1,032,077 726,159 C = (A-B) Net debt 1,432,568 1,247,649 1,369,710 1,189,331 D Stockholders' equity 4,019,981 3,689,209 4,023,605 3,692,810 C/D = Financial leverage index 36 % 34 % 34 % 32 % The increase in financial leverage occurred by raising funds for investment in accordance with the policy of the Company’s indebtedness. 119 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex requires the disclosure of the measurement criteria used. 4.3 Fair value estimates As the Company has only level 2 derivatives, it uses the It is assumed that the book values of accounts receifollowing valuation techniques: vable from customers and accounts payable to suppliers, • The fair value of the interest rate swap is calculated less the provision for loss (impairment), are close to their as the present value of the estimated future cash flow fair values. The fair value of financial liabilities for disbased on the yield curves adopted by the market; closure purposes is estimated by discounting the future • The fair value of foreign currency forwards contracts is contractual cash flow at the current market interest rate determined based on future exchange rates at balance which is available to the Company and its subsidiaries for sheet dates, with the resulting amount discounted to its similar financial instruments. present value. The Company and its subsidiaries apply CPC 40/IFRS The financial instruments (by category/level) are 7 for financial instruments measured at fair value, which Financial Loans and Other financial Financial liabilities Total Instruments: receivables assets and liabilities designated at fair value Disclosure 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 ASSETS Cash and cash 1,032,077 726,159 1,032,077 726,159 equivalents Trade accounts 796,008 657,589 796,008 657,589 receivable Call option (*) 2,498 2,498 Restricted deposits 25,717 21,067 25,717 21,067 Total 1,853,802 1,404,815 2,498 1,856,300 1,404,815 LIABILITIES Loans/debentures 1,790,093 1,175,572 611,694 749,049 2,401,787 1,924,621 Suppliers 211,829 159,262 211,829 159,262 Dividends/ 91,248 60,356 91,248 60,356 Interest on capital Derivative financial (11,562) (9,131) (11,562) (9,131) instruments (**) Total 2,093,170 1,395,190 600,132 739,918 2,693,302 2,135,108 (*) Value recorded in “Other accounts receivable”, non-current asset. (**) Derivative financial instruments are presented at the net value, asset or liability, and are all level 2 financial instruments. 120 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex presented below: Parent company Consolidated 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 Cash and banks 25,391 11,996 38,839 21,266 Fixed income securities 286 138 2,525 138 Bank deposit certificates 591,630 363,937 990,713 704,755 TOTAL 617,307 376,071 1,032,077 726,159 Note 5 – Cash and cash equivalents The bank deposit certificates in Brazil earn interest with reference to the CDI rate, and deposits abroad in US dollars earn a fixed interest rate. Although they have long-term maturities, bank deposit certificates can be redeemed at any time without loss of remuneration. Parent company Consolidated 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 Domestic customers 739,795 631,415 785,733 653,677 Foreign customers 42,094 36,075 39,127 32,418 Allowance for doubtful accounts (28,168) (27,928) (28,852) (28,506) TOTAL 753,721 639,562 796,008 657,589 Note 6 – Trade accounts receivable Parent company Consolidated 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 Not yet due 743,921 627,629 786,291 645,544 Past-due up to 30 days 4,111 6,699 4,228 6,852 From 31 to 60 days 852 582 858 595 From 61 to 90 days 688 1,131 715 1,204 From 91 to 180 days 3,048 3,172 3,048 3,424 More than 180 days 29,269 28,277 29,720 28,476 TOTAL 781,889 667,490 824,860 686,095 The balances of accounts receivable by maturity are as follows: The Company and its subsidiaries have a Credit Policy in place, the objective of which is to establish the procedures to be followed when granting credit in commercial operations, and sales of products and services, both domestically and abroad. The credit limit is determined on the basis of a credit analysis, considering the history of the customer, its capacity as a borrower, and market information. The credit limit is defined with reference to a percentage of net revenue and the stockholders’ equity, or a combination of these. Consideration is also given to the average volume of monthly purchases. The decision as to the credit limit is always supported by 121 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex an evaluation of the economic and financial situation, an examination of the relevant documents and the Company’s reputation. Customers are classified as A, B, C and D based on the length of the Company’s relationship with them and their Length of % of customer Classification Payment history relationship portfolio dec/12 dec/11 A over 05 years Punctual 57 % 61 % B over 03 years Up to 01 day late, on average 7 % 8 % C below 03 years Over 01 day late, on average 33 % 27 % D Defaulted 3 % 4 % payment history. The maximum credit risk exposure at the date of this report is the book value of each class of trade accounts receivable listed above. The Group has not pledged any receivables as collateral for liabilities. Parent company Consolidated 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 Finished goods 91,507 100,868 104,529 114,122 Raw materials 152,822 143,238 160,213 150,764 Work in progress 69,455 61,958 76,691 69,730 General warehouse 69,853 65,854 70,967 64,774 Advances to suppliers 2,131 8,623 2,233 12,037 Total 385,768 380,541 414,633 411,427 Note 7 Inventory Note 8 – Recoverable taxes and contributions Parent company Consolidated 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 Current Income tax (IRPJ) and social contribution (CSLL) to be offset 14,692 28,470 22,877 36,787 ICMS, PIS and COFINS on the 29,566 44,300 31,381 46,889 acquisition of property, plant and equipment(*) PIS and COFINS to be offset 5,931 442 13,846 8,749 ICMS and IPI recoverable 9,039 3,502 13,857 6,059 Others 20 1,133 Total 59,248 76,714 83,094 98,484 Non-Current ICMS, PIS and COFINS on the 44,054 27,536 45,462 29,763 acquisition of property, plant and equipment(*) Total 44,054 27,536 45,462 29,763 (*) The recoverable amounts for State Value-Added Tax (ICMS), Social Integration Program (PIS) and Social Contribution on Revenue (COFINS) were mainly generated on the acquisition of property, plant and equipment items for the industrial plants. Under current legislation, the PIS/COFINS credits will be utilized within 12, 24 and 48 months, and the ICMS credits within 48 months. 122 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex The Company and its subsidiaries have recoverable federal and state tax credits, the composition of which is as follows: Note 9 – Deferred income tax and social contribution Deferred income tax and social contributions are calculated on income tax and social contribution losses, temporary differences between the tax and book bases of assets and liabilities, and adjustments made to comply with CPCs/IFRS. The tax rates applied in this respect are 25 % for income tax and 9 % for social contributions. Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that future taxable income will be available to utilize temporary differences, considering the projections of future income. These projections are prepared on the basis of internal Parent company Consolidated 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 Deferred tax assets to be recovered within 12 months 29,722 21,830 34,327 27,088 Income tax and social contribution losses 57 Temporarily non-deductible provisions: Provision for sundry labor charges and costs 12,222 11,275 13,405 12,314 Provisions for losses on inventory 3,326 3,042 3,371 3,106 Provision for adjustment of assets to market value 2,203 1,647 2,205 1,669 Provision for commission payable 1,777 1,514 1,777 1,514 Sundry provisions 10,194 4,352 13,569 8,428 Deferred tax assets to be recovered after 12 months 21,466 24,145 29,328 35,400 Provision for sundry labor charges 9,929 8,653 10,886 9,506 Tax provisions 9,316 9,379 15,118 20,107 Allowance for doubtful accounts 1,209 1,399 1,209 1,455 Provision for loss on investments 469 469 469 469 Sundry provisions 150 895 1,253 895 Effect of business combination – CPCs/IFRS 393 3,350 393 2,968 Total deferred tax assets 51,188 45,975 63,655 62,488 Non-current liabilities Income tax and social contributions on: Revaluation reserve (32,685) (35,317) (61,510) (65,237) Present value adjustment of loans (8,405) (11,835) (8,405) (11,835) Swap result (cash vs. accrual basis) (3,583) (2,167) (4,337) (2,325) Depreciation (25 % credit of social contribution) (3,272) (4,185) (11,885) (13,826) Goodwill based on future profitability (8,936) (4,302) (4,199) (4,302) Sale of real estate (6,303) (9,029) (8,369) (11,762) Income tax of subsidiary located abroad (Deca Piazza) (699) (471) Income tax and social contributions on other fiscal obligations (69,585) (49,235) (69,620) (51,454) Income tax and social contributions on CPC/IFRS adjustments (119,162) (143,166) (316,683) (339,509) Total deferred tax liabilities (251,931) (259,236) (485,707) (500,721) 123 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex assumptions and using future economic scenarios, and are, therefore, subject to change. Note 10 – Related parties Controlled companies Associate Description Duratex Coml. Indústria Duraflora Duratex Empreend. Tablemac Exportadora Metalúrgica Jacareí 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 Assets Customers 55 48 Dividends receivable 472 30,801 31,914 Accounts receivable 11 65 Subsidiaries 12 Liabilities Suppliers 2 21,620 16,457 Subsidiaries 5 95 Results Sales 20 12 1,899 Purchases (265,299) (236,680) (1,362) Financial 1 2 (80) 8 3 Others 35 (43) Indirect subsidiaries Description TCI Trading Duratex N. America Duratex Europe Deca Piazza 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 Assets Customers 8,863 8,751 46 6,788 5,873 Accounts 9 1 receivable Liabilities Suppliers 1,010 6,151 1 Results Sales 27,637 20,482 7,814 3,508 3,670 Purchases (80,755) (111,953) Financial 633 683 217 635 586 124 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex a) Balances and transactions with subsidiaries Leo Madeiras Leroy Merlin Ligna Description Elekeiroz S.A. Maqs.& Fer. Ltda Cia Bras.Bricolagem Florestal Ltda. 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 assets Customers 16,610 16,551 30,130 24,176 Liabilities Suppliers 1 564 Results Sales 91,520 83,875 92,043 76,888 394 Purchases (72) (25,550) (22,103) Lease costs (*) (13,446) (13,308) (*) Refers to the costs of the rural leasing agreement with Durafloora S.A. and Ligna Florestal Ltda. (controlled by Ligna de Investimentos) in connection with land used for reforestation. The monthly charges for this lease are R$1,161. The agreement will expire in July 2036, but may be renewed automatically for a further 15 years, and will be readjusted annually based on the Company’s average price for the sale of MDP panels. Itaúsa Itaúsa Description Itautec S.A. Empreendimentos S.A. Investimentos S.A. Banco Itaú S.A. Itaú Seguros 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 31/12/12 31/12/11 Assets Financial 532,725 251,825 investments Customers 3 64 114 Accounts receivable Liabilities Suppliers 29 Results Sales 75 66 350 177 Rent expenses (2,525) (1,174) (186) (937) Insurance espenses (3,187) Remuneration on 27,063 15,511 financial investments Financial expenses (511) Other operating (2,917) (4,280) (2,505) (2,399) income (expenses), net 125 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex b) Transactions with other related parties The transactions with related parties correspond to c) Management remuneration trade purchases and sales, in the normal course of the The remuneration paid or payable to the executives Company’s business, realized in market conditions. of the Company and its subsidiaries up to December Financial investments in Banco Itaú S.A. are made 31, 2012 was R$12,837 in fees (R$13,581 – Decemunder normal financial market conditions, and within the ber 31, 2011), R$15,645 in the form of profit sharing limits set by the Company’s management. The amounts (R$10,397 – December 31, 2011), and R$5,694 in the presented as financial income represent earnings on form of long-term remuneration based on stock options investments, and financial expenses refer to fees for the (R$3,184 – December 31, 2011). collection of receivables. Note 11 – Investments in subsidiaries and associate 126 Direct subsidiaries Duratex Estrela Duratex DRI – Res. Deca Duratex Ind. Met. Duraflora Total Coml. Exp. do Sul Empreend. Industriais Nordeste Europe Jacareí Number of shares/quotas held (Thousand) Common 6 182 Preferred 10 52 Quotas 12 2,874 Interest 100.00 100.00 99.99 100.00 Capital 190,200 700,006 12 2,874 196,812 Equity 209,159 1,334,301 5,398 6,470 194,179 Net income (loss) for the period 1,988 127,385 131 391 (8,432) Changes in investments Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 As at December 31, 2010 33,748 1,226,383 5,824 5,428 78,720 1,350,103 Acquisition of 500 shares of DRI Resinas 205 205 Acquisition of Deca Nordeste 80,000 80,000 Acquisition of 1 share of Duratex Europe 9 9 Amortization of goodwill (65) (1,290) (1,355) Equity in results of subsidiaries (3,068) 131,161 (557) 650 1,199 4,995 134,380 Exchange variation on equity 4,682 4,682 Dividends (31,914) (2) (31,916) Merger of subsidiary on 04.30.2011 (80,124) (80,124) Merger of subsidiary on 07.29.2011 (29,511) (29,511) Reclassification of goodwill to intangible assets (54,194) (54,194) Elimination of unrealized revenue 1,460 1,460 As at December 31, 2011 36,822 1,325,565 5,267 6,078 7 1,373,739 Amortization of goodwill (67) (2,894) (2,961) Equity in results of investees 1,988 127,385 130 391 (7) 403 130,290 127 Acquisition of Indústria Metalúrgica Jacareí 46,343 46,343 Variation on unrealized revenue 820 820 Duratex Capital increase 47,000 47,000 Exchange variation on equity 4,802 4,802 Dividends (472) (123,344) (123,816) Merger of subsidiary on 12.28.2012 (13,026) (13,026) Reclassification of goodwill to intangible assets (16,174) (16,174) Reclas. of goodwill to property, plant and equipment (14,652) (14,652) Advances for capital increases 118,200 118,200 As at December 31, 2012 209,160 1,329,539 5,397 6,469 1,550,565 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Indirect subsidiaries Associate Deca North Duratex Duratex TCI Jacarandá Tablemac Piazza America Europe Belgium Trading Mimoso Number of shares/ quotas held (Thousand) Common 32,545 500 19 1,880 6,069 12,529,839 Preferred 6,069 Quotas Interest 100.00 100.00 100.00 100.00 82.00 37.00 Capital 15,272 885 196,812 46,762 17,634 54,332 Equity 6,144 6,737 194,179 47,903 20,135 320,147 Net income (loss) for the period (6,599) 379 (8,432) (2,218) 2,530 4,746 (*) Changes in investments As at December 31, 2010 5,014 7,451 22,159 3,102 90,229 Acquisition of 1 share of (9) Duratex Europe Equity in results of subsidiaries (1,617) 188 (1,682) 3,137 99 Capital increase 2,461 12,000 4,500 Exchange variation on equity 275 800 2,990 Dividends (2,640) (5,983) (1,832) As at December 31, 2011 6,133 5,799 17,475 16,407 94,828 Amortization of goodwill 1,078 Equity in results of investees (6,599) 379 (8,432) (2,218) 2,296 (5) 2,024 Acquisition of shares of Tablemac 119,541 Goodwill – Tablemac 44,478 Establishment of investee 155 Capital increase 6,888 176,908 47,300 Exchange variation on equity (278) 559 8,221 2,666 6,583 Dividends (2,193) Merger of subsidiary on 04.30.2012 (94,823) Variation on interest % 7 As at December 31, 2012 6,144 6,737 194,179 47,903 16,510 173,704 128 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex a) Change in investments non-current assets). This transaction is covered by CPC 18 b) Acquisition of a significant participation R1 Investments in associates and subsidiaries, approIn August 2012 Duratex S.A., through its indirect ved by CVM Resolution No. 688 of October 4, 2012 and subsidiaries Duratex Europe NV. and Duratex Belgium NV., therefore recognized or unrecognized, assets and liabilities subscribed capital equivalent to 25 % of Tablemac S.A. (the of Tablemac were stated at their fair value, resulting in market leader in Colombia in the sector of industrialized R$27,510 of Goodwill. wooden boards and panels), through a primary issue of shaIn addition to the above acquisition, a public share res. This subscription represented an investment of R$116.1 offer is currently being made in the Colombian market in million in the Colombian company, equivalent to R$116.6 order to acquire up to 12 % of Tablemac’s shares, resulas at July 31. Of this, R$107.4 related to the acquired ting in a total of 37 % of Tablemac’s share capital. This participation and R$9.2 related to a call option to subscribe investment was approximately R$54 million. 15 % of additional Tablemac shares. The option has a term Details of the fair value acquired and goodwill are of two years (recorded in “Other accounts receivable” under as follow: First Second Fair value of assets and liabilities of Tablemac S.A. acquisition acquisition Assets 530,638 447,226 Cash and cash equivalents 116,943 36,420 Trade accounts receivable 25,829 22,584 Inventories 30,646 34,183 Recoverable taxes and contributions 2,834 6,972 Other credits 1,498 Property, plant and equipment 305,670 295,373 Biological assets 12,058 12,387 Contractual relation with the customer 36,658 37,809 Liabilities 211,211 136,745 Suppliers 15,620 12,893 Loans and financing 132,922 71,912 Personnel 1,474 1,805 Accounts payable 33,522 25,780 Taxes and contributions 3,759 7,366 Contingencies 7,357 4,138 Deferred income tax and social contribution 16,557 12,851 Total net assets 319,427 310,480 Percent acquired = 25% 79,857 12% 37,258 Goodwill 27,510 16,968 Price paid on the acquisition 107,367 54,226 129 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex c) Acquisition and merger of subsidiary c1) Acquisition On October 2, 2012 Duratex S.A. completed the acquisition of all of the capital quotas of Indústria Metalúrgica Jacareí Ltda. (MIPEL), for a total of R$46,343 million. This transaction is covered by CPC 15 – “Business combinations” approved by CVM Resolution No. 580 of July 31, 2009 and therefore assets and liabilities were stated at their fair value. Details of the book value, fair value acquired and goodwill are as follow: Book value Fair value of the acquired entity Assets 47,245 15,934 Cash and cash equivalents 75 75 Trade accounts receivable 2,444 2,466 Inventories 9,451 7,404 Recoverable taxes 624 624 Other credits 84 84 Property, plant and equipment 19,610 4,454 Intangible assets 827 827 Contractual relation with the customer 13,000 Trademark 1,130 Liabilities 3,304 3,311 Suppliers 1,417 1,424 Personnel 1,355 1,355 Accounts payable 1 1 Taxes and contributions 234 234 Advances from customers 297 297 Total net assets 43,941 12,623 Goodwill 2,402 Price paid on the acquisition 46,343 130 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex c2) Merger of subsidiary As at December 28, 2012, the Extraordinary General Meeting approved the merger by Duratex S.A. of its subsidiary Indústria Metalúrgica Jacareí Ltda. – Mipel, at book values, aiming to optimize production processes. The main assets and liabilities of the merged subsidiary are as follows: Mergered Balance Sheet at December 28, 2012 Indústria Metalúrgica Jacareí Ltda. Assets Current assets 12,037 Cash and cash equivalents 359 Trade accounts receivable 4,183 Inventories 7,107 Recoverable taxes and contributions 314 Other credits 74 Non-current assets 33,629 Other credits 13 Property, plant and equipment 19,844 Contractual relation with the customer 12,783 Trademark 989 Total assets 45,666 Liabilities and stockholders´equity Current liabilities 3,861 Suppliers 2,131 Personnel 1,100 Accounts payable 319 Taxes and contributions 311 Non-current liabilities 355 Related parties 355 Stockholders’ equity 41,450 Total liabilities and equity 45,666 131 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Note 12 – Property, plant and equipment Structures Machinery, Assets in Furniture Other Parent company Land and improequipment and Vehicles Total progress and fixtures assets vements facilities Opening balance as at 01/01/2011 Cost 88,724 562,868 2,292,481 140,599 22,663 18,381 70,822 3,196,538 Accumulated depreciation (203,847) (865,554) (16,693) (14,230) (56,280) (1,156,604) Net book value 88,724 359,021 1,426,927 140,599 5,970 4,151 14,542 2,039,934 As at 12/31/2011 Opening balance 88,724 359,021 1,426,927 140,599 5,970 4,151 14,542 2,039,934 Acquisitions 1,800 1,233 66,263 334,703 1,578 6,018 4,642 416,237 Write-offs (7,456) (6,554) (1,120) (12,659) (67) (110) 15,581 (12,385) Depreciation (21,505) (154,466) (1,287) (2,460) (6,978) (186,696) Transfers (448) 18,788 156,097 (176,769) 2,110 (191) 413 Merger of Deca Nordeste and DRI Resinas 4,010 27,691 69,541 9,371 197 438 1,422 112,670 Net book value 86,630 378,674 1,563,242 295,245 8,501 7,846 29,622 2,369,760 Balance as at 12/31/2011 Cost 86,630 604,026 2,583,262 295,245 26,481 24,536 92,880 3,713,060 Accumulated depreciation (225,352) (1,020,020) (17,980) (16,690) (63,258) (1,343,300) Net book value 86,630 378,674 1,563,242 295,245 8,501 7,846 29,622 2,369,760 As at 12/31/2012 Opening balance 86,630 378,674 1,563,242 295,245 8,501 7,846 29,622 2,369,760 Acquisitions 220 619 69,141 432,402 1,562 596 6,809 511,349 Write-offs (208) (15,101) 12,406 (91) (1,042) (761) (4,797) Depreciation (22,168) (168,977) (1,430) (1,998) (7,175) (201,748) Transfers 19,891 60,860 (81,281) 418 (1,929) 2,041 Merger of Indústria Metalúrgica Jacareí 3,836 3,604 9,852 167 323 21 1,738 19,541 Net book value 90,686 380,412 1,519,017 658,939 9,283 3,494 32,274 2,694,105 Balance as at 12/31/2012 Cost 90,686 627,932 2,708,014 658,939 28,693 22,182 102,707 4,239,153 Accumulated depreciation (247,520) (1,188,997) (19,410) (18,688) (70,433) (1,545,048) Net book value 90,686 380,412 1,519,017 658,939 9,283 3,494 32,274 2,694,105 132 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Structures Machinery, FurnituAssets in Other consolidated Land and improequipment re and Vehicles Total progress assets vements and facilities fixtures Opening balance as at 01/01/2011 Cost 602.216 594.678 2.314.754 165.742 31.397 42.421 73.749 3.824.957 Accumulated depreciation (216.407) (802.454) (23.573) (24.972) (58.768) (1.126.174) Net book value 602.216 378.271 1.512.300 165.742 7.824 17.449 14.981 2.698.783 As at 12/31/2011 Opening balance 602.216 378.271 1.512.300 165.742 7.824 17.449 14.981 2.698.783 Acquisitions 8.234 1.867 76.800 341.656 2.020 9.327 5.422 445.326 Write-offs (10.515) (6.626) (1.168) (12.659) (70) (993) 15.616 (16.415) Depreciation (22.684) (165.265) (1.462) (7.190) (7.135) (203.736) Transfers 452 20.938 160.237 (199.200) 1.002 96 2.637 (13.838) Merger of Deca Nordeste and DRI Resinas 3.959 17.380 8.114 4 47 133 78 29.715 Net book value 604.346 389.146 1.591.018 295.543 9.361 18.822 31.599 2.939.835 Balance as at 12/31/2011 Cost 604.346 628.237 2.558.737 295.543 34.396 50.984 97.502 4.269.745 Accumulated depreciation (239.091) (967.719) (25.035) (32.162) (65.903) (1.329.910) Net book value 604.346 389.146 1.591.018 295.543 9.361 18.822 31.599 2.939.835 As at 12/31/2012 Opening balance 604.346 389.146 1.591.018 295.543 9.361 18.822 31.599 2.939.835 Acquisitions 1.919 1.745 77.181 434.133 1.829 1.068 8.124 525.999 Write-offs (2.407) (301) (15.466) 12.403 (111) (2.334) (765) (8.981) Depreciation (22.737) (177.146) (1.593) (5.361) (7.475) (214.312) Transfers 21.317 60.972 (82.081) 418 (2.160) 1.534 Merger of Indústria Metalúrgica Jacareí 3.773 2.538 6.896 225 20 1.090 14.542 Net book value 607.631 391.708 1.543.455 659.998 10.129 10.055 34.107 3.257.083 Balance as at 12/31/2012 Cost 607.631 653.536 2.688.320 659.998 36.757 47.578 107.485 4.801.305 Accumulated depreciation (261.828) (1.144.865) (26.628) (37.523) (73.378) (1.544.222) Net book value 607.631 391.708 1.543.455 659.998 10.129 10.055 34.107 3.257.083 133 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Assets in progress refer mostly to expansion of the a) Fair value estimate industrial plants in Itapetininga-SP and Queimados-RJ. The fair value is calculated based on an estimate of As at December 31, 2012 the Company and its the volume of wood ready for harvesting, at the current subsidiaries have formalized contracts for the expansion prices for standing wood. In this respect there is an exof industrial plants in Itapetininga-SP and Queimados-RJ ception for (i) forests which are up to one year old, which and for the acquisition of equipment and services totaling are stated at cost (because the cost approximates the approximately R$208.5 million. fair value in such cases), and (ii) forests in formation, for As provided for in Technical Interpretation ICPC 10 of which the discounted cash flow method is employed. the Brazilian Accounting Pronouncements Committee, Biological assets are measured at fair value, less selling approved by CVM Resolution No. 619/09 in 2012, the costs at the time of harvesting. Company reviewed the estimated useful lives of its key Fair value is determined by valuing the estimated readyassets to calculate the depreciation. to-harvest volumes at current market prices, based on volume estimates. The assumptions utilized were: Annual depreciation rates i. Discounted cash flow – the estimated volume of readyStructures and improvements 4.00 % to-harvest wood at current market prices, net of costs Machinery, equipment and facilities 6.70 % still to be incurred and the capital costs of the respectiFurniture and fixtures 10.00 % ve land (brought to present value). Vehicles 10 % to 20 % ii. Prices – the cubic meter prices in R$ obtained from Other assets 10 % to 20 % market surveys carried out by specialized firms surveying regions and products similar to those of the Note 13 – Biological assets Company, in addition to prices obtained from third(forest reserves) party transactions in active markets. Through its wholly-owned subsidiary Duraflora S.A., iii. Differentiation – the volumes harvested were categorized the Company is the owner of eucalyptus and pine forest and valued according to: (a) speciespine and eucalyptus, reserves, which are primarily utilized as raw materials for (b) region, (c) destination: sawmill and processing. producing wood panels, floors and components, and also iv. Volume – the estimated volumes ready for harvesfor sale to third parties. ting (i.e. in the 6th year for eucalyptus trees and in These reserves guarantee supplies to the factories, the 12th year for pine) were based on the projected and also protect the Company against the risk of future average productivity for each region and for the two wood price increases. Integrated with the manufacturing species. Average productivity may vary based on age, facilities, these reserves, together with a supply network, rotation, climatic conditions, quality of seedlings, fires, provide the Company with a high degree of self-suffiand other natural risks. In the case of mature forests, ciency in terms of wood supplies. the actual volumes of wood are utilized in arriving at As at December 31, 2012 the Group had roughly the estimate. Rotating physical inventory is realized 140 thousand hectares of planted areas (December from the second year of a forest’s life, and the effects 31, 2011: 138 thousand hectares), in the States of São are incorporated in the financial statements. Paulo, Minas Gerais, and Rio Grande do Sul. v. Regularity – expectations regarding future wood prices and volumes are reviewed at least every quarter, or when the rotational physical inventory is concluded. 134 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex b) Composition of Balance The biological assets balance is made up of the cost of forest formation and adjustments to fair value, as shown below: 12/31/12 12/31/11 Cost of formation of biological assets 545,248 518,927 Difference between cost and fair value 557,089 575,293 Fair value of the biological assets 1,102,337 1,094,220 The forests are unencumbered by any third-party liens or pledges, including financial institutions. In addition, none of the Company’s forests has a restricted legal title. c) Changes in balance The following are the changes in the balance from the beginning to the end of the period: 12/31/12 12/31/11 Opening balance 1,094,220 1,030,717 Variation in fair value Volume/price 144,574 154,009 Depletion (162,778) (137,898) Variation in book value Formation 114,811 97,455 Depletion (88,490) (57,197) Acquisitions 7,134 Final balance 1,102,337 1,094,220 Effect of the variation in fair value of biological assets in the Statement of Income Variation in fair value 144,574 154,009 Depletion at fair value (162,778) (137,898) The investments in forests in formation resulted from an increase in planted areas to support the expansion of the Company’s operations. The adjustment related to the variation of the fair value results from higher prices in the present value of standing wood, and higher productivity. 135 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Note 14 – Intangible assets Trademarks Goodwill due Customer Parent Company Software and to future Total patents profitability portfolio Opening balance as at 01/01/2011 Cost 40,774 2,456 209,727 329,000 581,957 Accumulated amortization (12,794) (29,244) (42,038) Net book value 27,980 2,456 209,727 299,756 539,919 As at 12/31/2011 Opening balance 27,980 2,456 209,727 299,756 539,919 Additions 2,952 197 3,149 Write-offs (156) (156) Amortization (6,747) (24,672) (31,419) Merger of Deca Nordeste 2 17,092 55,000 72,094 Income tax and social contributions (18,700) (18,700) on customer portfolio Deca Nord. Income tax and social contributions 18,078 18,078 on transf. to liabilities on merger of Deca Nord. Net book value 24,031 2,653 226,819 329,462 582,965 Balance as at 12/31/2011 Cost 43,572 2,653 226,819 383,378 656,422 Accumulated amortization (19,541) (53,916) (73,457) Net book value 24,031 2,653 226,819 329,462 582,965 As at 12/31/2012 Opening balance 24,031 2,653 226,819 329,462 582,965 Additions 2,729 243 2,972 Amortization (6,743) (25,601) (32,344) Merger of Indústria Metalúrgica Jacareí 303 989 2,402 12,783 16,477 Net book value 20,320 3,885 229,221 316,644 570,070 Balance as at 12/31/2012 Cost 46,604 3,885 229,221 396,161 675,871 Accumulated amortization (26,284) (79,517) (105,801) Net book value 20,320 3,885 229,221 316,644 570,070 Average annual amortization rate 20 % 0 % 0 % 6,6 % 136 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Trademarks Goodwill due Customer Consolidated Software and to future Total patents profitability portfolio Opening balance as at 01/01/2011 Cost 41.044 2.459 209.727 329.000 582.230 Accumulated amortization (12.994) (29.244) (42.238) Net book value 28.050 2.459 209.727 299.756 539.992 As at 12/31/2011 Opening balance 28.050 2.459 209.727 299.756 539.992 Additions 3.097 202 3.299 Write-offs (160) (160) Amortization (6.775) (24.672) (31.447) Merger of Deca Nordeste 17.092 55.000 72.092 Income tax and social contributions (18.700) (18.700) on customer portfolio Deca Nord. Income tax and social contributions 18.078 18.078 on transf. to liabilities on merger of Deca Nord. 24.212 2.661 226.819 329.462 583.154 Net book value Balance as at 12/31/2011 43.981 2.661 226.819 383.378 656.839 Cost (19.769) (53.916) (73.685) Accumulated amortization 24.212 2.661 226.819 329.462 583.154 Net book value As at 12/31/2012 24.212 2.661 226.819 329.462 583.154 Opening balance 3.098 245 3.343 Additions (111) (111) Amortization (6.807) (25.601) (32.408) Merger of Indústria Metalúrgica Jacareí 303 989 2.402 12.783 16.477 Net book value 20.695 3.895 229.221 316.644 570.455 Balance as at 12/31/2012 Cost 47.271 3.895 229.221 396.161 676.548 Accumulated amortization (26.576) (79.517) (106.093) Net book value 20.695 3.895 229.221 316.644 570.455 Average annual amortization rate 20 % 0 % 0 % 6,67 % The impairment testing was carried out by the Company’s management, taking into consideration the cash-generating intangible asset. In this test were considered long-term discounted cash flow projections and the nominal discount rate used was set at a rate of 14.2 %, with no need for impairment, since the amounts are fully recoverable. 137 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Note 15 – Loans and financing 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 NON NON TYPE CHARGES AMORTIZATION GARANTEES CURRENT CURRENT CURRENT CURRENT Parent Company Local currency BNDES TJLP + 2.3 % p.a Monthly and Quarterly Surety – Itaúsa 60,045 204,458 57,320 263,579 BNDES TJLP + 2.7 % p.a Monthly Guarantee – Ligna 31,606 55,369 29,765 86,106 Surety – 70 % Itaúsa – 30 % BNDES TJLP + 3.3 % p.a. Monthly and Quarterly 19,790 143,652 557 5,018 natural person BNDES TJLP + 2.8 % p.a 1,206 5,425 Guarantee Duratex Coml. BNDES REVITALIZA 9 % p.a. June 2013 50,168 180 50,000 Exp. S.A. BNDES REVITALIZA 8 % p.a. August 2014 483 49,974 BNDES PROGEREN TJLP + 2.85 % p.a December 2015 Promissory Note 56 50,000 TJLP + 2.3 % p.a./ FINAME Monthly and Quarterly Chattel mortgage and PN 999 13,583 565 5,788 Fixed 5.8 % p.a. INDUSTRIAL CREDIT with Surety – Duratex Coml. 12.7 % p.a Up to April 2015 110,464 54,706 343,711 150,378 Swap Exp. S.A. Surety – Duratex Coml. INDUSTRIAL CREDIT 101.3 % of CDI Up to November 2015 54,946 384,044 158,508 Exp. S.A. BANK CREDIT 105 % of CDI Up to October 2015 5,644 FLOATING RATE NOTE 109.3 % of CDI Up to May 2013 140,840 9,119 135,000 30 % IGP-M per FUNDIEST Up to December 2020 Guarantee – Ligna 4,048 135,801 13,919 125,912 month Surety – 70 % Itaúsa – 30 % FUNDOPEM IPCA + 3 % p.a Up to November 2025 9,793 4,023 natural person IGP-M + 4 % p.a / Surety – Ligna and MortgaPROINVEST / PRO FLORESTA Up to January 2018 13,518 21,415 21,047 24,476 IPCA + 6 % p.a ge of assets Discounted Rural Promissory 5.5 % p.a. Up to April 2013 24,893 15,219 Note Total Parent Company 511,856 1,122,795 498,252 1,014,213 Local currency Parent company Foreign currency Basket of currencies BNDES Monthly Surety – Itaúsa 5,917 22,342 5,470 25,915 + 2.2 % p.a Basket of currencies BNDES Monthly Guarantee – Ligna 4,066 7,776 3,761 10,889 + 2.4 % p.a BNDES US$ + 1.6 % p.a Monthly Surety – Itaúsa 1,037 3,679 955 4,320 Surety – 70 % Itaúsa – 30 % BNDES US$ + L + 2.1 % p.a Monthly 307 1,086 181 820 natural person Up to September RESOLUTION 2770 US$ + 6.6 % p.a. 15,320 2012 Surety – Ligna – Mortgage RESOLUTION 2770 / Swap US$ + L + 1.7 % p.a. Up to April 2014 2,894 1,965 2,700 5,577 and trust RESOLUTION 4131 / Swap US$ + 1.9 % p.a. March 2013 Surety – Duraflora S.A. 33,821 234 34,322 RESOLUTION 4131 / Swap US$ + L + 1.5 % p.a. August 2015 Promissory Note 308 103,194 138 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex 12/31/2012 12/31/2011 NON NON TYPE CHARGES AMORTIZATION GARANTEES CURRENT CURRENT CURRENT CURRENT RESOLUTION 4131 / Swap US$ + L + 1.3 % p.a. December 2015 Promissory Note 55 118,093 IMPORT FINANCING US$ + L + 0.5 % p.a Up to March 2012 Natural person 689 IMPORT FINANCING US$ + L + 0.9 % p.a Up to February 2012 Surety – Ligna and notes 102 Total Parent company 48,405 258,135 29,412 81,843 Foreign currency TOTAL PARENT COMPANY 560,261 1,380,930 527,664 1,096,056 Subsidiaries Local currency RURAL CREDIT NOTE with 9.6 % p.a. December 2014 Surety – Duratex 111,159 63,473 100,484 102,512 SWAP EXPORT CREDIT NOTE 105.3 % of CDI June 2015 Surety – Duratex 114,977 57,912 Surety – 70 % Itaúsa – 30 % BNDES TJLP + 3 % p.a Monthly and Quarterly 2,761 56,701 992 27,632 natural person FINAME Fixed 7.4 % p.a Monthly Chattel mortgage and PN 263 1,130 264 1,388 Surety – Duratex Coml. FUNDAP 1 % p.a. Monthly 65 586 Exp.S.A Total Subsidiaries – 114,248 236,281 160,238 131,532 Local currency Subsidiaries – Foreign currency Working capital Argentina(HSBC/ 1,383 Patagonia Bank) TOTAL SUBSIDIARIES 115,631 236,281 160,238 131,532 TOTAL CONSOLIDATED 675,892 1,617,211 687,902 1,227,588 139 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Sureties and letters of guarantee securing the de Investimentos, which should maintain: current borrowing of Duratex S.A. were granted by Itaúsa S.A., liabilities below 60 % of total liabilities and Ebitda totaling R$419,717 (R$364,278 as at December 31, margin above 13 %. In the financing agreement for 2011), Companhia Ligna de Investimentos, amounting the Uberaba MDF plant, the covenants are based to R$243,525 (R$324,254 as at December 31, 2011), on the balance sheet of Duratex S.A., which should Duratex Comercial Exportadora S.A., totaling R$654,328 maintain a debt coverage limit by means of a ratio (R$717,996 as at December 31, 2011) and Duraflora of net bank debt vs. Ebitda (*) of not more than 3.5 S.A., totaling R$33,821 (R$34,556 as at December 31, times, and a ratio of gross debt/gross debt plus sto2011). In the case of loans and financing obtained by ckholders equity of not more than 0.75. subsidiaries, sureties were granted by Itaúsa S.A., totaling b) HDF plant in Botucatu, MDFII plant in Agudos, indusR$41,623 (R$20,036 as at December 31, 2011), Duratex trial resins in Agudos, ceramics in Jundiaí, Deca sanitaS.A., totaling R$289,609 (R$260,908 as at December 31, ry metals in São Paulo and Jundiaí, and forestry area 2011) and Duratex Comercial Exportadora S.A., totaling – during the contractual period, maintain the following R$65 (R$586 as at December 31, 2011). ratios in the Duratex S.A. annual audited balance sheet: (i) Ebitda (*)/Net Financial Expenses: above or equal Restrictive clauses to 3.0 (ii) Ebitda (*)/Net operating revenue equal to or Loans from the National Bank for Economic and above 0.20, and (iii) Stockholders’ Equity/Total Assets Social Development (BNDES) are subject to restrictive equal to or above 0.45. covenants in accordance with usual market practices, If these contractual obligations are not met, Duratex S.A. which in addition to certain common obligations specify should provide additional guarantees. the following: Based on the available information, the contractual a) The MDP plant in Taquari and MDF plant in Uberaba obligations related to 2012 were met. – present operating licenses, adopt measures and * Ebitda (Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization) . actions intended to avoid or remedy damage to the environment, and measures with regard to occupaLoans and financing designated at fair value tional health and safety. In the loan agreement for Certain loans and financing (identified in the table the Taquari MDP plant, the covenants are based on above as SWAPS) were designated at fair value through the consolidated balance sheet of Companhia Ligna profit or loss, as described in Note 2.7. 140 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Debt with financial institutions Maturities 12/31/12 Parent company Consolidated Local Foreign Local Foreign Total Total Year currency currency currency currency 2014 485,005 13,126 498,131 613,649 13,126 626,775 2015 367,033 234,848 601,881 421,167 234,848 656,015 2016 119,649 8,797 128,446 121,813 8,797 130,610 2017 56,632 1,364 57,996 58,002 1,364 59,366 2018 42,385 42,385 57,296 57,296 2019 23,600 23,600 48,085 48,085 2020 22,151 22,151 32,272 32,272 2021 2,424 2,424 2,876 2,876 Other 3,916 3,916 3,916 3,916 Total 1,122,795 258,135 1,380,930 1,359,076 258,135 1,617,211 31/12/11 Year Parent company Consolidated Local Foreign Local Foreign Total Total currency currency currency currency 2013 357,446 47,130 404,576 461,637 47,130 508,767 2014 311,166 13,129 324,295 312,844 13,129 325,973 2015 171,409 12,389 183,798 173,088 12,389 185,477 2016 85,186 7,999 93,185 86,864 7,999 94,863 2017 28,294 1,196 29,490 29,381 1,196 30,577 2018 23,803 23,803 30,939 30,939 2019 17,482 17,482 28,044 28,044 2020 17,722 17,722 21,243 21,243 Other 1,705 1,705 1,705 1,705 Total 1,014,213 81,843 1,096,056 1,145,745 81,843 1,227,588 Note 16 – Debentures panels (MDF), a new low pressure coating line, and convertible into shares a new low pressure line for the impregnation of laminaAs at February 8, 2012 the first private issue of deted paper; bentures, with a floating guarantee, and convertible into (ii) The acquisition by the company of locally manucommon shares of the company were approved. These factured machinery and equipment needed for (i). were and are to be issued through private subscription. The fair value of the liability component, included in The proceeds from the debentures are to be allocated non-current borrowing, was calculated using the market as follows: interest rate for an equivalent bond without conversion (i) Fixed investment at the company’s industrial unit rights. The residual amount, representing the subscripin Itapetininga – SP in a new production line for the tion bonus, is included in the stockholders’ equity as a manufacture of medium density reconstituted wood fiber carrying value adjustment. 141 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Balance as at December 31, 2012 Annual Issue Type of Maturity Qty Face Price as of Short Composition finance Long term Total date debenture date debentures value issue date term charge IPCA index + interest of 6 % private p.a. 252 working 1st Issue 01/15/12 convertible 01/15/17 777,000 128.70 99,999.9 days in the year 5,882 102,802 108,684 into shares annual payments, on January 15 of each year Note 17 Contingencies The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to judicial and administrative processes relating to labor, civil, and tax matters which arise in the normal course of business. The provision for contingencies in relation to these processes takes into consideration an evaluation of the likelihood of loss, performed by the Company’s legal advisors. Based on the opinion of its legal advisors, the Company’s management believes that the recorded provision for contingencies, presented below, is sufficient to cover any potential losses relating to these processes: Parent company Tax Labor Civil Total Balance as at December 31, 2010 68,586 13,827 4,936 87,349 Monetary variance and interest 3,426 2,406 2,324 8,156 Constitution 4,427 6,577 11,004 Reversal (10,158) (32) (210) (10,400) Payments (4,378) (4,378) Closing balance as at December 31, 2011 66,281 18,400 7,050 91,731 Judicial deposits (1,805) (1,897) (4,746) (8,448) Balance as at December 31, 2011 64,476 16,503 2,304 83,283 after offsetting of judicial deposits Consolidated Tax Labor Civil Total Balance as at December 31, 2010 129,013 17,114 4,936 151,063 Monetary variance and interest 6,460 2,792 2,324 11,576 Constitution 4,789 7,244 12,033 Reversal (10,539) (37) (210) (10,786) Payments (2,416) (5,906) (8,322) Closing balance as at December 31, 2011 127,307 21,207 7,050 155,564 Judicial deposits (13,211) (2,170) (4,746) (20,127) Balance as at December 31, 2011 114,096 19,037 2,304 135,437 after offsetting of judicial deposits 142 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Parent company Tax Labor Civil Total Balance as at December 31, 2011 66,281 18,400 7,050 91,731 Monetary variance and interest 2,693 3,096 288 6,077 Constitution 11,665 17,553 423 29,641 Reversal (13,650) (13,650) Payments (1,101) (10,671) (6,937) (18,709) Closing balance as at December 31, 2012 65,888 28,378 824 95,090 Judicial deposits (2,152) (3,618) (551) (6,321) Balance as at December 31, 2012 63,736 24,760 273 88,769 after offsetting of judicial deposits Consolidated Tax Labor Civil Total Balance as at December 31, 2011 127,307 21,207 7,050 155,564 Monetary variance and interest 5,873 3,479 288 9,640 Constitution 15,889 18,985 423 35,297 Reversal (34,994) (34,994) Payments (1,101) (12,180) (6,937) (20,218) Closing balance as at December 31, 2012 112,974 31,491 824 145,289 Judicial deposits (15,433) (3,861) (551) (19,845) Balance as at December 31, 2012 97,541 27,630 273 125,444 after offsetting of judicial deposits a) Decrease in provision for contingencies b) Summer Plan The decrease in the provision for contingencies Refers to a lawsuit demanding the right to updaoccurred due to: te the 1989 fiscal year balance sheet by utilizing the (i) Favorable decisions from the Administrative full IPC inflation index (gross rate) of 70.28 %, thereby Board of Fiscal Resources (CARF) related to PIS – sixavoiding distortions to the Company’s balance sheet -monthly amounting of R$20,952. Have been retained and the related income tax due to the non-recognition the provisions of installments of amounts regarding the of the actual inflation rate. A judgment was obtained interpretation as to updating credit; acknowledging the right to adjust the balance sheet in (ii) Revision of the predictions regarding certain conaccordance with the rate of 42.72 %, which was effected tingencies, considering the recent judgments issued by in the fiscal years of 1994 to 1996. Though the Regional the Superior Court in similar cases. Consequently there Federal Court (TRF) was opposed to the sentence, the was a reversal of the amount of R$10,028 related to Company obtained, by means of a writ of prevention, the the process for which there is no expectation of loss suspension of the appeal in the Superior Court of Justice and R$4,014 related to the reversal of decline and (STF), and the judgment was upheld. As at December 31, other casualties. 2012 there was a provision of R$51,485 (R$50,340 at December 31, 2011) relating to the offsetting of income tax and social contributions on net income. 143 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex c) Contingencies not subject to provision d) Contingent Assets The Company and its subsidiaries are involved in The Company and its subsidiaries have filed legal other tax lawsuits which total R$81,633. Of this total, actions for the refunding of certain taxes and contribuR$53,969 is related to the question of incidence and cretions. According to legal counsel the likelihood of success dit of State Value-Added Tax (ICMS) which, in the opinion in these cases is high. Because the amounts, presented of the legal advisors, represents a possible chance of below, represent contingent assets, they have not been loss. No provision has, therefore, been constituted. recognized in the Company’s financial information: 12/31/12 12/31/11 IPI credit premium from 1960 to 1985 104,201 96,365 Monetary Restatement of Federal Power Company (Eletrobás) credits 10,254 58,160 (*) Refund of withholding Tax on Net Income (ILL) paid on dividend distributions from 1989 to 1992 10,783 9,973 INSS (Social Security) Accident Insurance (SAT), alteration of rural tax rate, transport benefits 5,444 8,044 (fares and passes) and health insurance plan COFINS judicial deposit 3,408 3,229 PIS – calculation basis 2,125 2,401 PIS and COFINS – Manaus Free-Trade Zone 1,486 1,928 PIS and COFINS – remittance of commission on overseas sales 1,952 2,253 Other 1,128 1,306 Total 140,781 183,659 (*) In 2012 R$11,971 was received, holding the expectation of receiving R$10,254 and the remaining amount reclassified as possible. Note 18 – Rural lease The minimum future payments are as follow: Amounts involved linearization The rural lease is an agreement entered into by the sub2013 13,932 2014 to 2018 69,660 sidiary Duraflora S.A. with Ligna Florestal Ltda (controlled 2019 onwards 244,971 by Companhia Ligna de Investimentos), in connection with Total 328,563 property in Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul, where the Company’s forests are located. The monthly charges for this lease are R$1,161. The agreement will expire in July, 2036, In compliance with CPC 06 – “Leases”, the subsimay be renewed automatically for a further 15 years, and diary Duraflora S.A. records the costs of the rural lease will be readjusted annually with reference to the average agreements using the straight line method. price charged by the Company for the sale of MDP panels. 144 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Note 19 – Stockholders’ equity a) Capital The Company’s authorized capital is 920,000,000 (nine hundred and twenty million) shares and the fully subscribed and paid-up capital is R$1,550,246, represented by 550,054,041 registered common shares with no par value. During the fiscal year 2012 the capital was increased through the issue of common shares subscribed and paid-up by debenture holders, as shown below: Issued Increased Current Prior amount Prior Qty. Corporate Action shares value Current Qty. value 1,550,000 550,035,331 MBD 06/12/2012 2,600 34 550,037,931 1,550,034 1,550,034 550,037,931 MBD 07/17/2012 15,590 206 550,053,521 1,550,240 1,550,240 550,053,521 MBD 10/11/2012 20 1 550,053,541 1,550,241 1,550,241 550,053,541 MBD 26/10/2012 500 5 550,054,041 1,550,246 b) Treasury Shares Based on the most recent market quotation as at December 28, 2012, the value of the Company’s treasury shares is R$12,306 (R$16,854 as at December 31, 2011). nº of shares Amount Prices Weighted Lastest Minimum Maximum Balance as at December 31, 2011 1,889,486 23,032 Average Quotation Sale of treasury shares (1,060,809) (12,931) 2.86 14.85 12.19 14.85 Balance as at December 31, 2012 828,677 10,101 c) Equity Reserves Parent company and Consolidated 12/31/12 12/31/11 Capital Reserves 314,984 307,932 Premium on the subscription of shares 218,720 218,720 Tax incentives 13,705 13,705 Prior to Law No. 6404 18,426 18,426 Options granted 77,089 69,857 Options granted to be appropriated (Note 26) (12,956) (12,776) Revaluation Reserves 83,332 89,721 Revenue Reserves 1,665,920 1,355,588 Legal 119,016 96,053 Statutory 1,524,389 1,251,785 Additional proposed dividend 4,863 Tax incentives 17,652 7,750 Treasury shares (10,101) (23,032) Carrying Value Adjustments 423,423 416,823 145 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex The amount presented in the Capital Reserves bathe capital will be capitalized in 2013. lance as a premium on the subscription of shares refers Tax incentives refer to: R$10,730 (R$5,567 in 2011) to the additional amount paid by the shareholders in of PRODEPE Pernambuco State Development Program, relation to the nominal value per share at the time of the R$3,361 (R$948 in 2011) of the FAIN Paraíba Indussubscription for the shares. trial Development Support Fund and R$3,561 (R$1,235 The amounts of Options Granted in the Capital Reserin 2011) SUDENE The Superintendency for the Develoves balance represent the recognition of the awarding of pment of the Northeast. the options on the grant date. As provided for in the bylaws, the balance appropriad) Dividends and interest on capital ted to the statutory reserve will be utilized for: (i) the Under the bylaws, the stockholders are assured a Reserve for Dividend Equalization, (ii) the Reserve for minimum mandatory dividend corresponding to 30 % of Increasing Working Capital, (iii) the Reserve for Capital net income. Presented below is the dividend calculation, Increases in Investees. the amounts paid/credited and the balance payable. Through a proposal to be effected by the Board of Dividends as at December 31, 2012 were calculated Directors, the excess of revenue reserves in relation to as follow: Net income for the year 459,256 (-) Legal reserve (22,963) (-) Tax incentives (9,902) (-) Realization of revaluation reserve 6,389 Adjusted net income 432,780 Minimum compulsory dividend (30%) 129,834 Gross Withholding Net Dividends declared in the year amount tax (IRRF) amount The Board of Directors at a meeting held on July 26, 2012 resolved to credit interest on capital, on account of the compulsory dividend for 2012, the amount of 62,032 (9,305) 52,727 R$0.113163373 per share totaling R$62,032, which payment was made by August 15, 2012. The Board of Directors at a meeting held on November 30, 2012 decided to pay, on December 28, 2012, ad referendum of the General Meeting, interest on own capital on 89,963 (13,494) 76,469 account of the compulsory dividend of 2012 an amount of R$0.1639 per share totaling R$89,963, which payment will be made by April 30, 2013. Dividends proposed at 12.31.2012 5,501 5,501 Stockholders remuneration 157,496 (22,799) 134,697 Exceed minimum mandatory dividend 4,863 4,863 146 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex As described in the Note 2.21, any dividend portion in Note 20 – Insurance coverage excess of the minimum mandatory dividend which is deAs at December 31, 2012, the Company and its clared by management after the accounting period of the subsidiaries had insurance coverage against fire and financial statements, but before the date of authorization various risks relating to property, plant and equipfor the disclosure of the financial statements, is not recorment, inventory and civil liabilities totaling R$3,297 ded as a liability and its effects are disclosed in the notes. million. The Company does not have insurance coveAs at December 31, 2012 the total of R$4,863, the rage for its forests. To minimize the risk in this regard portion in excess of the minimum mandatory dividend, it maintains an internal fire brigade, fire trucks and under the bylaws, was recorded in the caption “Proposed motorized forest guards. The Company has not suffeadditional dividends” in the stockholders’ equity. red losses in relation to forest fires. Note 21 – Net sales revenue The reconciliation of gross and net sales revenue is as follows: Parent Company Consolidated 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 Gross sales revenue 4,142,437 3,664,522 4,308,655 3,828,277 Domestic market 4,017,842 3,563,070 4,159,083 3,693,306 Foreign market 124,595 101,452 149,572 134,971 Taxes and contributions on sales (897,033) (835,134) (914,256) (857,912) Net sales revenue 3,245,404 2,829,388 3,394,399 2,970,365 Note 22 – Expenses, by nature Parent Company Consolidated 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 Variation in fair value of biological assets (144,574) (154,009) Variations in the inventories of finished (441,166) (373,428) (430,379) (349,680) products and work in process Raw materials and consumption materials 1,898,440 1,647,963 1,742,364 1,515,983 Remuneration, charges and benefits to employees 557,389 529,246 616,121 581,348 Depreciation charges, amortization and impairment 206,385 191,479 470,342 402,519 Transport expenses 197,353 173,396 200,005 177,634 Advertising expenses 58,503 53,435 58,851 53,724 Other expenses 232,103 216,835 187,341 181,633 Total 2,709,007 2,438,926 2,700,071 2,409,152 147 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Note 23 – Financial income and expenses Parent Company Consolidated 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 Financial income Remuneration on financial investments 30,393 35,915 61,323 70,172 Foreign exchange variances 3,727 7,015 6,290 8,365 Indexation adjustment 6,373 6,396 10,638 7,942 Interest and discounts obtained 4,733 4,497 5,073 5,053 Operations with subsidiaries 68 Fair value (44) (45) Fundap Discount 5,817 6,634 Others (84) 10 (91) 10 Total 45,142 53,857 89,050 98,131 Financial expenses Charges on financing – Local currency (137,709) (140,548) (170,949) (171,042) Charges on financing – Foreign currency (9,877) (18,361) (9,877) (19,381) Foreign exchange variances (4,911) (3,764) (7,319) (4,853) Indexation adjustment (2,340) (2,547) (4,722) (5,887) Derivatives 8,376 7,585 14,400 7,916 Bank charges (4,820) (4,874) (5,476) (5,647) Tax on financial operations (2,635) (2,939) (3,703) (3,248) Other (1,323) (1,807) (20,804) (17,895) Total (155,239) (167,255) (208,450) (220,037) Total financial result (110,097) (113,398) (119,400) (121,906) Note 24 – Other operating income (expenses), net Parent Company Consolidated 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 Amortization of customer portfolio (25,817) (25,294) (26,103) (25,294) Profit sharing and Stock Option (19,385) (15,226) (19,385) (15,226) Pension plan credits 12,465 10,367 14,124 11,306 Tax recovered as a result of the PIS six-monthly credits, 10,729 Complementary Law No. 7/70 Sale of the Jundiaí hardboard unit 28,929 28,929 Sale of the Boa Esperança farm of the subsidiary Duraflora 13,442 Sale of the Monte Alegre farm of the parent company 570 570 Reversal of tax contingencies 10,028 7,875 10,028 7,875 Reversal of provision for income tax on customer portfolio of merger subsidiary 16,311 16,311 Gain (Loss) on disposal of assets and other operating income and expenses 52 7,714 3,347 7,132 (6,346) 14,935 9,051 28,734 148 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Note 25 – Income tax and social contributions Reconciliation of income tax and social contribution expenses The reconciliation of income and social contribution tax expenses, at nominal and effective rates is as follows: Parent Company Consolidated 12/31/12 12/31/11 12/31/12 12/31/11 Profit before Income tax and social contribution 537.538 413.276 573.166 454.460 Income Tax and Social Contribution (182.763) (140.514) (194.876) (154.516) at the rates of 25 % and 9 %, respectively Income tax and social contribution on additions and deductions from the result 104.481 101.450 81.421 74.916 Income from foreign investments (6.506) (788) Interest on capital 53.225 51.426 53.225 51.426 Equity in results of investees 44.298 45.690 688 Other additions and exclusions 6.958 4.334 34.014 24.278 Income tax and social contribution on profit for the period (78.282) (39.064) (113.455) (79.600) In the results: Current income tax and social contribution (74.445) (24.661) (112.483) (59.421) Deferred income tax and social contribution (3.837) (14.403) (972) (20.179) Note 26 – Stock Option Plan datory minimum dividend distribution to shareholders. As provided for in the bylaws, the Company has a The total quantity of options to be granted during each Stock Option Plan, the objective of which is to integrate fiscal year should not exceed 0.5 % (one half percent) executives into the Company’s mediumand longof the total number of shares owned by the controlling -term development process, enabling them to benefit and non-controlling shareholders at the end of that from the value that their work and dedication brings to same fiscal year. Duratex’s shares. The exercise price payable to Duratex will be defined These options grant their owners the right, pursuant by the Committee when granting the option. In order to to the Plan’s conditions, to subscribe to common shares define the exercise price, the Committee will consider of Duratex’s authorized capital. the average price of Duratex’s common shares in the The rules and operating procedures of the Plan are BM&FBOVESPA trading sessions for a period of five to proposed by a Committee designated by the Company’s ninety days prior to the options’ issue date. This will Board of Directors. This Committee submits to the be at the discretion of the Committee, which may add Board of Directors proposals regarding the implementaor subtract an adjustment of up to 30 %. The prices tion of the Plan. established will be readjusted until the month prior to Options will only be granted for fiscal years during the exercise of the options by the IGP-M index, or, in its which sufficient profits are earned to permit the manabsence, by an index specified by the Committee. 149 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total stock options granted 2,659,180 2,787,050 2,678,901 2,517,951 1,333,914 1,875,322 1,315,360 Exercise price on the grant date 11.16 11.82 15.34 9.86 16.33 13.02 10.21 Fair value on the grant date 9.79 8.88 7.26 3.98 7.04 5.11 5.69 Deadline to exercise 10 years 10 years 10 years 8 years 8 years 8.5 years 8.8 years Vesting period 1.5 years 1.5 years 1.5 years 3 years 3 years 3.5 years 3.8 years The following economic assumptions were utilized to determine these amounts: 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Volatility of share price 34.80 % 36.60 % 36.60 % 46.20 % 38.50 % 32.81 % 37.91 % Dividend yield 2.00 % 2.00 % 2.00 % 2.00 % 2.00 % 2.00 % 2.00 % Risk-free rate of return (1) 8.90 % 7.60 % 7.20 % 6.20 % 7.10 % 5.59 % 4.38 % Actual exercise rate 96.63 % 96.63 % 96.63 % 96.63 % 96.63 % 96.63 % 96.63 % The Company settles this benefit plan by transferring shares, which are kept in treasury until the the actual exercise of the options by the executives. (1) General Market Price Index (IGP-M) Statement of value and appropriation of the options granted: Balance to be exercised Grant Qty Vesting Term for Grant dec/11 * dec/12 * Date Granted Date Maturity price 03/30/2006 2,659,180 from 06/30/2007 to 12/31/2016 11.16 48,856 48,856 01/31/2007 2,787,050 from 06/30/2008 to 12/31/2017 11.82 2,535,227 1,588,612 02/13/2008 2,678,901 from 06/30/2009 to 12/31/2018 15.34 2,932,193 1,649,682 06/30/2009 2,517,951 from 06/30/2012 to 12/31/2017 9.86 1,983,285 922,476 04/14/2010 1,333,914 from 12/31/2013 to 12/31/2018 16.33 1,464,818 1,464,818 06/29/2011 1,875,322 from 12/31/2014 to 12/31/2019 13.02 1,875,322 1,868,298 04/09/2012 1,315,360 from 12/31/2015 to 12/31/2020 10.21 1,315,360 Total 15,167,678 10,839,701 8,858,102 Effective exercise rate Value established 150 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Competência from Option Total Other 2007 to 2011 2012 Price Value Periods 2010 03/30/2006 11.42 586 586 01/31/2007 10.36 24,758 24,758 02/13/2008 8.47 19,456 19,456 06/30/2009 4.64 9,194 6,957 1,490 747 04/14/2010 8.21 8,716 2,319 2,132 2,250 2,015 06/29/2011 5.11 9,583 1,374 2,809 5,400 04/09/2012 5.69 7,484 1,492 5,992 Total 15,167,678 79,777 54,076 4,996 7,298 13,407 Effective exercise rate 96.63 % 96.63 % 96.63 % 96.63 % 96.63 % Value established 77,089 52,252 (1) 4,829 (2) 7,052 (3) 12,956 (4) (1) Amount recorded against income from 2007 to 2010 (2) Amount recorded against income for 2011 (3) Amount recorded against income for 2012 (4) amount to be recorded against income until December 2015 (*) Includes stock dividend of 20 % as provided in the Ordinary and Extraordinary General Meeting held on April 29, 2011 As at December 31, 2012, the Company had 828,677 In the DC Plan PAI (Individual Retirement Plan) there is treasury shares that could be utilized for the exercise no actuarial risk, and the investment risk is borne by the parof options. ticipants. The regulations provide for sponsor contributions of 50 % to 100 % of the amount paid in by participants. Note 27 – Private pension plan The Company and its subsidiaries are part of a Pension Program Fund group of sponsors of Fundação Itaúsa Industrial, a The contributions by sponsors that remain in the plan non-profit organization which has as its objective the as a result of participants who opted to be paid out or who administration of private plans providing pensions or anticipated their retirement formed the Pension Program supplementary income benefits, similar to those of the Fund, which, according to the plan’s regulations, is being National Social Security. The Fundação manages a Deutilized to compensate the contributions by sponsors. fined Contribution Plan (DC Plan) and a Defined Benefit The present value of normal future contributions, Plan (DB Plan). calculated by Towers Watson, an independent actuary, according to the projected unit credit method, was reDefined contribution plan – (DC Plan) cognized in the December 31, 2012 financial statements This plan is offered to every employee and as at under “Pension Plan Credits” in the amount of R$92,232 December 31, 2012 had 6,159 participants (5,856 as (R$78,108 as at December 31, 2011). The increase of at December 31, 2011). R$14,124 was recognized in the Statement of income under “Other net operating income (expenses)”. Presented below is the reconciliation with the recognized amounts in the financial statements: 151 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Assets and liabilities relating to DB Plan 12/31/12 12/31/11 Present value of the actuarial obligations (622,119) (629,390) Fair value of assets 847,690 851,052 (Liabilities) / Assets calculated based on item 54 of CPC 33/IAS 19 225,571 221,662 Restriction on assets due to limit (item 58 of CPC 33/IAS 19) (133,339) (143,554) Assets and liabilities relating to DB Plan 92,232 78,108 Defined benefit Plan – (DB Plan) 2009, Towers Watson, an independent actuary, calculated The DB Plan has the basic purpose of granting benefor Fundação Itaúsa Industrial the amounts to be recognifits in the form of a lifetime monthly income to complezed in the financial statements. Due to the recognition of ment National Social Security payments, according to the the surplus depends on the occurrence or non-occurrence plan’s regulations. This plan is being discontinued and of one or more uncertain events (approval of the request enrollment by new participants is not permitted. for special reserve destination by the National SuperintenThe plan covers the following benefits: a retirement dence of Pension Funds (Previc) and maintenance of the supplement, based on the period of contribution, special contingency reserve amounts of the plan), as at December conditions, age, disability, lifetime monthly income, retire31, 2012 the Company management opted not to recogment premium, and a death benefit. nize the asset (see Note 30, item b). As required by CVM Resolution No. 600 of October 7, Presented below is the DB plan position as at December 31, 2012 and 2011: Assets and liabilities relating to DB Plan 12/31/12 12/31/11 Assets and liabilities relating to DB Plan (71,533) (66,269) Present value of the actuarial obligations 145,198 124,965 (Liabilities) / Assets calculated based on item 54 of CPC 33/IAS 19 73,665 58,696 Restriction on assets due to limit (item 58 of CPC 33/IAS 19) (73,665) (58,696) Assets and liabilities relating to DB Plan 152 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Actuarial assumptions Economic assumptions 12/31/12 12/31/11 Discount rate 8.16 % 9.52 % Estimated rate of return on assets 10.37 % 10.37 % Future salary increases 7.12 % 7.43 % Growth of benefits 4.00 % 4.30 % Inflation 4.00 % 4.30 % Capacity factor Salaries 100 % 100 % Benefits 100 % 100 % Economic assumptions 12/31/12 12/31/11 Mortality Table AT 2000 AT – 2000 Mortality table for disabled RRB 1983 RRB 1983 Table of entry into disability Modified RRB 1944 Modified RRB 1944 Turnover table Null Null First age entitled to Retirement age AT 2000 one of the benefits % of participation of married active participants on retirement date 95 % 95 % Wives are 4 years Wives are 4 years Age difference between participant and spouse younger than husbands younger than husbands Actuarial method Projected Unit Credit Projected Unit Credit Note 28 – Earnings per share (a) Basic The basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing the net income attributable to the Company’s stockholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period, excluding common shares purchased by the Company as treasury shares. 12/31/12 12/31/11 Earnings attributable to the Company's stockholders 459,256 374,212 Weighted average number of common shares issued (In thousands) 550,054 550,035 Weighted average of treasury shares (In thousands) (1,666) (1,377) Weighted average number of common shares outstanding (In thousands) 548,388 548,658 Basic earnings per share 0.8375 0.6820 153 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex (b) Diluted Diluted earnings per share are calculated by adjusting the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, assuming the conversion of all potential diluted common shares, resulting from the Stock Option Plan: 12/31/12 12/31/11 Earnings attributable to the Company's stockholders 459,256 374,212 Weighted average number of common shares issued (In thousands) 550,054 550,035 Call options for shares 16,609 10,840 Weighted average of treasury shares (In thousands) (1,666) (1,377) Weighted average number of diluted common shares outstanding (In thousands) 564,997 559,498 Diluted earnings per share 0.8128 0.6688 Note 29 – Information on business segments Management defines the Company’s operating segments with reference to the areas which report to the Board of Directors in order for it to make strategic decisions. The Board analyzes the business based on two main segments: the Wood Division and the Deca Division. The segments presented in the financial statements are strategic business units that provide different goods and services. There are no sales between the segments. These operating segments have been defined based on the reports used for decision making by the Supervisory Board. The accounting policies of each segment are the same as described in Note 2. 12/31/12 12/31/11 Wood Deca Consolidated Wood Deca Consolidated Net sales revenue 2,216,095 1,178,304 3,394,399 1,875,979 1,094,386 2,970,365 Domestic market 2,113,785 1,131,788 3,245,573 1,780,982 1,054,987 2,835,969 Foreign market 102,310 46,516 148,826 94,997 39,399 134,396 Variation in the fair 144,574 144,574 154,009 154,009 value of the biological assets Cost of goods sold (1,209,715) (681,708) (1,891,423) (1,085,975) (629,900) (1,715,875) Depreciation, amortization and depletion (248,303) (53,328) (301,631) (212,454) (46,216) (258,670) Depletion of adjustment in the biological assets (162,778) (162,778) (137,898) (137,898) Gross profit 739,873 443,268 1,183,141 593,661 418,270 1,011,931 Selling expenses (208,701) (169,577) (378,278) (188,387) (155,568) (343,955) Administrative and general expenses (62,090) (48,445) (110,535) (69,386) (37,377) (106,763) Management expenses (8,347) (4,490) (12,837) (8,786) (4,795) (13,581) Other operating income (expenses) (5,933) 14,984 9,051 26,472 2,262 28,734 Equity in the results of investees 2,024 2,024 Operating income 456,826 235,740 692,566 353,574 222,792 576,366 before Financial result 154 Financial Statements at December 31, 2012 Duratex Note 30 – Subsequent events b-) Private pension plan Revision of Defined benefit Plan (DB Plan) a-) Acquisition of Thermosystem On 28 January 2013 the National Superintendence Indústria Eletro Eletrônica Ltda of Pension Funds (Previc) approved the revision of the Duratex S.A. signed, on January 2, 2013, the contract Defined benefit Plan (DB Plan) solving the surplus and for the acquisition of all quotas of the capital of Therrestoring the technical balance of the plan by reversing mosystem Indústria Eletro Eletrônica Ltda., for R$ 58.1 the sponsors of the amount of R$ 42 million (R$ 28 million. This value can be adjusted upwards or downwarmillion net of tax) on the special reserve in stockholders’ ds according to the working capital that will be calculaequity. This amount will be available in accordance with ted from the financial statements of the year end 2012. Resolution CGPC 26, in 36 months from 2013. The payment conditions were as follow: 50 % in January 2013, 20 % in February 2013 (five working days from the c-) Capital increases closing of the year end of 2012), and the final 30 % will In the Board of Directors Meetings, as provided in the be paid in three successive annual installments, maturing table below, it was decided that the Company’s capital on April 30, 2014, 2015 and 2016. was increased through the issue of common shares, without par value, subscribed and paid-up by debenture holders, who acquired debentures under the Private Deed of First Private Issue of Debentures Convertible into Shares. Prior amount of Prior Qty. of Convertible Issued Increased Current Qty. Current value of Corporate Action capital shares debentures shares value Of shares capital 1,550,246,461.69 550,054,041 RCA – 01/23/2013 3 30 409.56 550,054,071 1,550,246,871.25 1,550,246,871.25 550,054,071 RCA – 02/14/2013 1 10 137.33 550,054,081 1,550,247,008.58 155 2012 GRI Reporting Index Duratex Independent Auditor’s Report on the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2012 Independent auditor’s limited assurance report on the social and environmental information included in the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2012 To the Board of Directors our limited assurance engagement carried out in accorDuratex S.A. dance with the Technical Communication CTO 01, “Issue São PauloSP of an Assurance Report related to Sustainability and Social Responsibility”, issued by the Federal Accounting Introduction Council (CFC), based on the Brazilian standard NBC TO We have been engaged by Duratex S.A. (“Duratex”) to 3000, “Assurance Engagements Other than Audit and present our limited assurance report on the compilation Review”, also issued by the CFC, which is equivalent of the social and environmental information included in to the international standard ISAE 3000, “Assurance the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2012 of Duratex engagements other than audits or reviews of historiS.A. for the year ended December 31, 2012. cal financial information”, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). Those Management’s responsibility standards require that we comply with ethical requirefor the Annual and Sustainability ments, including independence requirements, and Report for 2012 perform our engagement to obtain limited assurance The management of Duratex S.A. is responsible for the that the social and environmental information included preparation and presentation of the social and environin the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2012, taken mental information included in the Annual and Sustainas a whole, is free from material misstatement. ability Report for 2012, in accordance with the criteria and A limited assurance engagement conducted in guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3.1) and accordance with the Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000 for such internal control as that it determines is necessary and ISAE 3000 mainly consists of making inquiries of to enable the preparation of information free from matemanagement and other professionals of the entity inrial misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. volved in the preparation of the information, as well as applying analytical procedures to obtain evidence that Independent auditors’ responsibility allows us to issue a limited assurance conclusion on Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the the information, taken as a whole. A limited assurance social and environmental information included in the engagement also requires the performance of additionAnnual and Sustainability Report for 2012, based on al procedures when the independent auditor becomes 156 2012 GRI Reporting Index Duratex aware of matters that lead him to believe that the objective of which is the issuance of an opinion on social and environmental information taken as a whole the social and environmental information included might present significant misstatements. in the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2012. The procedures selected are based on our underConsequently, we were unable to obtain reasonable standing of the aspects related to the compilation and assurance that we would become aware of all signifipresentation of the social and environmental informacant matters that might be identified in a reasonable tion included in the Annual and Sustainability Report for assurance engagement, the objective of which is the 2012, other circumstances of the engagement and our issue of an opinion. If we had performed an engageanalysis of the areas in which significant misstatements ment with the objective of issuing an opinion, we might exist. The following procedures were adopted: might have identified other matters and possible mis(a) planning the work, taking into consideration the materiality statements in the social and environmental informaand the volume of quantitative and qualitative information included in the Annual and Sustainability Report tion and the operating and internal control systems that for 2012. Accordingly, we do not express an opinion were used to prepare the information included in the Anon this information. nual and Sustainability Report for 2012 of Duratex; Non-financial data are subject to more inherent (b) u nderstanding the calculation methodology and the limitations than financial data, due to the nature and procedures adopted for the compilation of indicators diversity of the methods used to determine, calculate through interviews with the personnel in charge of the and estimate these data. Qualitative interpretations preparation of the information; of the relevance, the materiality and accuracy of (c) interviews with the managers responsible for the informathe data are subject to individual assumptions and tion through visits to the administrative unit of Duratex; judgments. Furthermore, we did not consider in our (d) applying analytical procedures to quantitative informaengagement data reported for prior years, nor future tion and making inquiries regarding the qualitative inforprojections and goals. mation and its correlation with the indicators disclosed in the Annual and Sustainability Reports for 2012; and Conclusion (e) comparing the financial indicators with the financial Based on the procedures performed, described herein, statements and/or accounting records. no matter has come to our attention that causes us to The limited assurance engagement also included the believe that the social and environmental information application of procedures to assess compliance with the included in the Annual and Sustainability Report for 2012 criteria and guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative of Duratex S.A. has not been compiled, in all material (GRI-G3) applied in the preparation of the social and respects, in accordance with the criteria and guidelines of environmental information included in the Annual and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3.1). Sustainability Report for 2012. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is São Paulo, April 15, 2013 sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion. PricewaterhouseCoopers Auditores Independentes Scope and limitations CRC 2SP000160/O-5 The procedures applied in a limited assurance engagement are substantially less detailed than those Manuel Luiz da Silva Araújo applied in a reasonable assurance engagement, the Contador CRC 1RJ039600/O-7 “SP” 157 2012 GRI Reporting Index Duratex Statement GRI Applicaion Level Check GRI hereby states that Duratex S.A. has presented its report “Annual and Sustainability Report 2012” to GRI’s Report Services which have concluded that the report fulills the requirement of Applicaion Level A+. GRI Applicaion Levels communicate the extent to which the content of the G3.1 Guidelines has been used in the submited sustainability reporing. The Check conirms that the required set and number of disclosures for that Applicaion Level have been addressed in the reporing and that the GRI Content Index demonstrates a valid representaion of the required disclosures, as described in the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. For methodology, see www.globalreporing.org/SiteCollecionDocuments/ALCMethodology.pdf Applicaion Levels do not provide an opinion on the sustainability performance of the reporter nor the quality of the informaion in the report. Amsterdam, 11 April 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 Nelmara Arbex 2013 2013 2013 2013 Deputy Chief Execuive Global Reporing Iniiaive The “+” has been added to this Applicaion Level because Duratex S.A. has submited (part of) this report for external assurance. GRI accepts the reporter’s own criteria for choosing the relevant assurance provider. The Global Reporing Iniiaive (GRI) is a network-based organizaion that has pioneered the development of the world’s most widely used sustainability reporing framework and is commited to its coninuous improvement and applicaion worldwide. The GRI Guidelines set out the principles and indicators that organizaions can use to measure and report their economic, environmental, and social performance. www.globalreporing.org Disclaimer: Where the relevant sustainability reporing includes external links, including to audio visual material, this statement only concerns material submited to GRI at the ime of the Check on 28 March 2013. GRI explicitly excludes the statement being applied to any later changes to such material. 158 2012 GRI Reporting Index Duratex GRI Reporting Index GRI 3.12 The structure of Duratex’s 2012 Annual and SustainabiReport”, and are highlighted in a visual manner throughout lity Report was based on significant themes identified by the the report. Therefore, the other indicators do not form part materiality matrix assessment carried out in 2010. These of this reporting index, having not been considered material items are represented in the section “How to Read This in the view of the Company and its stakeholders. Profile Indicators 1. Strategy and Analysis Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Declaration of the holder of the post with the greatest decision-making 1.1 power in the organisation with respect to the importance of sustainability 07-12 for the organisation and its strategy. 1.2 Description of the principal impacts, risks and opportunities. 30-32 118-120 2. Organisational Profile Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact 2.1 Name of the organisation. 13 107 2.2 Principal brand names, products and/or services. 13 107 Operational structure of the organisation, including principal divisions, ope2.3 rational units, subsidiaries and joint ventures. 15 107 2.4 Location of organisation's headquarters. 15 107 Number of countries in which the organisation operates, and the name of 2.5 the countries in which its main operations are located, or which are particu13 and 15 107 larly relevant to questions of sustainability covered by the report. 2.6 Type and legal nature of ownership. 15 107 Markets served (including geographical breakdown, sectors served, and type 2.7 of client/beneficiaries). 13 107 13-17 and 2.8 Size of organisation. 78-82 90-98 Principal changes during the period covered by the report, with respect to 2.9 size, structure or shareholding participation. 3 90-98 2.10 Awards received during the period covered by the report. 34 and 35 159 2012 GRI Reporting Index Duratex 3. Parameters for the Report Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Period covered by the report (such as fiscal/calendar year) for the informa3.1 tion presented. 3 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report (if there is one). 3 3.3 Report publication cycle (annual, biennial, etc.). 3 3.4 Contact data in the case of questions related to the report, or its content. 3 Process for the compilation of report content, including: a) determination by 3.5 materiality, b) prioritisation of report themes and c) identification of which 4-5 stakeholders the organisation expects to use the report. Scope of the report (such as countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased ins3.6 tallations, joint ventures and suppliers). 3 3.7 Declaration on any specific limitations with respect to scope and limit of the report. 3 Basis for the compilation of the report with respect to joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased installations, outsourced operations and other organisations 3.8 which could significantly affect comparison between periods and/or other 3 organisations. Techniques for data measurement and calculation bases, including hypothe3.9 ses and techniques which support the estimates applied to the compilation 3 of the indicators and other information in the report. Explanation of the consequences of any reformulation of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such reformulations (such 3.10 as mergers or acquisitions, changes in base-year period, in the nature of the 3 business, or in measurement methods). Significant changes in comparison to previous years with respect to scope, 3.11 limit or measurement methods applied to the report. 3 3.12 Table that identifies the location of the information in the report. 161-169 Current policy and practice with respect to seeking external verification of 3 and 1583.13 the report. 159 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the 4.1 highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as the esta23-29 blishment of strategy or supervision of the organisation. Indication of whether the president of the highest governance body is also 4.2 the chief executive officer (and if this is the case, his or her functions in the 24 administration of the organisation, and the reasons for such make-up). Organisations with a unit based administration structure, declaration of the 4.3 number of independent members or non-executive members of the highest 24 governance body. Mechanisms whereby shareholders employees make recommendations, or 4.4 provide guidelines to the highest governance body. 25 and 43-47 Relationship between the remuneration for members of the highest governance body, executive board, and other executives (including contract 4.5 termination agreements) and the performance of the organisation (including 19 and 20 126-128 social and environmental performance). Processes in force within the highest governance body to ensure that con4.6 flicts of interest are avoided. 20 and 23 Process for the determination of the make up, the qualifications and the knowledge base of the members of the highest governance body, and their 4.7 committees, including any consideration with respect to gender and other 29 diversity indicators. 160 2012 GRI Reporting Index Duratex Declaration of mission and values, codes of conduct, and significant internal 4.8 principles with respect to economic, environmental and social performance 16 and this stage of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for the supervision and identification and management by the organisation of economic, environmental 4.9 and social performance, including significant risks and opportunities, as well 24 as adhesion or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles. Processes for performance self-evaluation of the highest governance body, 4.10 especially with respect to economic, environmental and social performance. 25 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the organisation applies the precaution principle. 30-32 Letters, principles or other initiatives developed externally of an economic, envi4.12 ronmental and social nature, which the organisation subscribes to or endorses. 20 and 36-38 Participation in associations (such as industry federations) and/or national/international defence organisms in which the organisation: a) has a seat within 4.13 groups responsible for corporate governance, b) is part of project or commit55 tees, c) contributes funds of an amount above the basic rate payable as an associate member and d) considers its membership as operationally strategic. 4.14 Relationship of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. 39-55 4-5 and 4.15 Basis for the identification and selection of stakeholders with which it engages. 39-55 Approaches for the engagement of stakeholders, including the frequency of 4.16 engagement by type and stakeholder group. 39-55 Principal themes and concerns that had been raised through the engage4-5 and 4.17 ment of stakeholders, and what measures the organisation has adopted to 39-55 deal with them. Indices of Economic Performance Method of Management Aspect: Economic Performance Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Direct economic value generated and distributed, including Essential EC1 revenues, operating costs, employee remuneration, dona68-70 and 106 tions and other investments in the community, accumulated 78-82 profit, and payments to capital providers and governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportuniEssential EC2 ties for the activities of the organisation as a result of 32 7, 8 and 9 climate change. Essential EC3 Coverage of obligations of the pension fund, and defi49 151 and ned benefit that the organisation offers. 152 Essential EC4 Significant financial assistance received 70 85 and 86 from the government. Aspect: Market Presence Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Variation in the proportion of the lowest salary with Additional EC5 respect to the local minimum salary at important opeNon Material rational units. Essential EC6 Policies, practices and proportion of expenditure with Non Material local suppliers in important operational units. Procedures for local hiring and the proportion of Essential EC7 members of top management recruited from the local Non Material community, in important operational units. 161 2012 GRI Reporting Index Duratex Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Development and impact of investments in infrasEssential EC8 tructure and services offered, principally for the public Non Material benefit, through commercial engagement by type or pro-bono activity. Additional EC9 Identification and description of significant indirect ecoNon Material nomic impactss, including the extent of these impacts. Environmental Performance Indices Method of Management Aspect: Materials Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Essential EN1 Materials used, by weight or volume. Non Material Essential EN2 Percentage of materials used outcome from recycling. Non Material Aspect: Power Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Essential EN3 Direct power consumption, broken down by primary Non Material energy source. Essential EN4 Indirect power consumption, broken down by primary Non Material energy source. Additional EN5 Energy saved due to improvements in conservation and Non Material efficiecy. Initiatives for the providing of products and services Additional EN6 with low energy consumption, or which use energy Non Material generated from renewable resouces. and the reduction in energy needs resulting from these initiatives. Additional EN7 Initiatives for the reduction in the consumption of indiNon Material rect energy and the reductions obtained. Aspect: Water Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Essential EN8 Total water drawn off, by source. 60 7, 8 and 9 Additional EN9 Water sources significantly affected by water drawn off. 38 and 60 7, 8 and 9 Additional EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and 60 7, 8 and 9 reused. Aspect: Biodiversity Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Location and size of area a owned, leased or adminisEssential EN11 trated within protected areas, or adjacent to them, and Non Material areas with a high index of biodiversity outside these protected areas. Description of significant impacts on biodiversity from Essential EN12 activities, products and services in protected areas, Non Material and areas with a high incidence of biodiversity outside protected areas. Additional EN13 Protected or restored habitats. Non Material Additional EN14 Strategies, measures in force, and future plans for the Non Material management of impacts on biodiversity. Number of species on the IUCN red list, and national Additional EN15 conservation lists with habitats in areas affected by Non Material operations, broken down by level of extinction risk. 162 2012 GRI Reporting Index Duratex Aspect: Emissions, Effluents and Residues Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Essential EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, by 62-63 7, 8 and 9 weight. Essential EN17 Other significant indirect greenhouse gas emissions, by 62-63 7, 8 and 9 weight. Additional EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and 62-63 7, 8 and 9 reductions obtained. Essential EN19 Emission of substances harmful to the ozone layer, by 62-63 7, 8 and 9 weight. Essential EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant atmospheric emissions, 62-63 7, 8 and 9 by type and weight Essential EN21 Total water discharged, by quality and destination. 61 7, 8 and 9 Essential EN22 Total weight of residues, by type and method of disposal. 61 7, 8 and 9 Essential EN23 Number and total volume of significant spillages. 61 7, 8 and 9 Weight of residues transported, imported, exported, or Additional EN24 treated as being considered dangerous, under the terms 61 7, 8 and 9 of the Basel Convention, – Annexes I, II, III and VIII – and percentage of residue loads transported internationally. Identification, size, protection status and biodiversity Additional EN25 index of bodies of water and related habitats significan38 7, 8 and 9 tly affected by discharges of water and drainage carried out by the reporting organisation. Aspect: Products and Services Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Initiatives to mitigate the environmental impacts of Essential EN26 products and services, and the extent of the reduction 74 7, 8 and 9 of these impacts. Percentage of products and their packaging recovered Essential EN27 in relation to the total products sold, by product cate72 7, 8 and 9 gory. Aspect: Compliance Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Essential EN28 non-monetary sanctions resulting from non-compliance Non Material to environmental laws and regulations. Aspect: Transport Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Significant environmental impact of the transport of Additional EN29 products and other goods, and material used in the Non Material operations of the organisation, as well as the transport workers. Aspect: General Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Additional EN30 Total investment and expenditure on environmental Não material measures, by type. 163 2012 GRI Reporting Index Duratex Performance Indicators with Respect to Labour Practices and Decent Work Method of Management Aspect: Employment Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact LA1 Total number of employees by type of employment, Essential Non material work contract and region, broken down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age Essential Non material group, gender and region. Benefits offered to full-time employees and which are Additional LA3 not offered to temporary employees, or half-time emNon material ployees, broken down by principal operations. Aspect: Relations between Workers and Governance Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective wage Essential Non material negotiation agreements. Minimum period for advance notification of operational Essential LA5 changes, including whether this procedure is specified in Non material the collective wage negotiation agreements. Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Percentage of employees represented on formal health and LA6 safety committees, composed of management and workers, Additional Non material which assist in monitoring and providing advice on occupational health and safety. LA7 Rate of lesions, occupational diseases, days lost, absenEssential Non material teeism and work-related deaths, by region. Ongoing programs for education, training, the providing of LA8 advice, and the prevention and control of risks, to provide Essential Non material assistance to employees, their families, are members of the community with respect to serious diseases. LA9 Themes related to health and safety covered by formal Additional Non material union agreements. Aspect: Training and Education Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact LA10 Average number of training hours per year and emEssential Non material ployee, broken down by functional category. Programs for skill management and continuous learning, Additional LA11 which provide support for continuity of employment for Non material employees, and for managing the end of their career. Additional LA12 Percentage of employees that regularly receive performance 48 analyses, and career development advice. Aspect: Diversity and Equality of Opportunity Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Make-up of groups responsible for corporate goverLA13 nance, and employee discrimination, by category in Essential Non material accordance with gender, age group, minorities, and other diversity indices. Aspect: Equality of Remuneration for Men and Women Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact LA14 Proportion of salary base and remuneration between Essential Non material men and women, by functional category. LA15 Rates of return to work and retention rates after materEssential Non material nity leave/paternity leave, by sex. 164 2012 GRI Reporting Index Duratex Performance Indicators with Respect to Human Rights Method of Management Aspect: Investment Practices and Buying Processes Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Percentage and total number of investment agreeEssential HR1 ments and contracts that include clauses referring to Non Material human rights, or which have been submitted to human rights evaluations. Percentage of suppliers, contractors and other signiHR2 ficant business partners that have been submitted to Essential Non Material evaluations with respect to human rights, and measures that were taken. Total number of training hours for employees in policies Additional HR3 and procedures related to aspects of human rights Non Material relevant to the operations, including percentage of employees that have received training. Aspect: Non-discrimination Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact HR4 Total number of cases of discrimination and measures Essential Non Material taken. Aspect: Freedom of association and collective wage bargaining Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Operations and significant suppliers identified for which the exercising of freedom of association and Essential HR5 collective bargaining may be violated or running a Non Material significant risk of being violated, and measures taken to support these rights. Aspect: Child Labour Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Operations and significant suppliers identified with a Essential HR6 significant risk of the occurrence of child labour and the Non Material measures taken to contribute to the abolition of child labour. Aspect: Forced labour or labour analogous to slave labour Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Operations and significant suppliers identified with a significant risk of the occurrence of forced labour or Essential HR7 labour analogous to slavery, and measures taken to Non Material contribute to the eradication of all forms of forced or slave labour. Aspect: Safety Practices Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Percentage of security personnel submitted to training Additional HR8 in be policies or procedures of the organisation related Non Material to aspects of human rights, which are relevant to its operations . Aspect: Indigenous Rights Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact HR9 Total number of cases of violation of the rights of indiAdditional Non Material genous people and measures taken . Aspect: Evaluation Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Percentage and total number of operations analysed Essential HR10 related to the review of human rights and/or impact Non Material evaluations. Aspect: Repair Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Number of complaints related to human rights filed, Essential HR11 dealt with and resolved through formal complaint Non Material mechanisms. 165 2012 GRI Reporting Index Duratex Social Performance Indicators with Respect in Society Method of Management Aspect: Local Community Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Nature, scope and efficiency of any program or practices Essential SO1 to evaluate and manage impacts on the operations in 52-54 the communities, including entry, operation and exit. Aspect: Corruption Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact SO2 Percentage and total number of business units submitted Essential 20-23 10 to evaluation for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in anticorruption poliEssential 20-23 10 cies and procedures in the organisation. Essential SO4 Measures taken in response to cases of corruption. 20-30 10 Aspect: Public Policies Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact SO5 Positions with respect to public policies and participaEssential Non material tion in the drawing up of public policies and lobbying. Total number of financial contributions and in cash for Additional SO6 political parties, politicians or related institutions, broken Non material down by country. Aspect: Unfair Competition Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact SO7 Total number of court cases due to unfair competition, Additional Non material anti-trust practices and monopolies, and their results. Aspect: Compliance Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Essencial SO8 non-monetary sanctions resulting from non-compliance Non material to laws and regulations. SO9 Operations with potential significant impacts, or negatiEssential Non material ve impacts effective in local communities. Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in Essential SO10 operations with potential significant impacts or negatiNon material ve impacts effective in the local communities. Performance Indicators Referring to Responsibility for the Product Type of Management Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Phases of the product and service life-cycle for which PR1 health and safety impacts are evaluated bearing in Essential 72 mind percentage improvement of products and services subject to these procedures. Number of total cases of non-compliance with regulaPR2 tions and voluntary codes related to impacts caused by Additional 72 and 75 products and services, with respect to health and safety during the life cycle, broken down by type of result. Aspect: Product Labelling and Services Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Type of information on products and services required Essential PR3 by labelling procedures and percentage of products and 72 and 75 services subject to these requirements. Total number of cases of non-compliance with regulaAdditional PR4 tions and voluntary codes related to information and 72 and 75 product labelling and services, broken down by type of result. 166 2012 GRI Reporting Index Duratex Practices related to customer satisfaction including Additional PR5 results of research that measures this level of 40-42 and 75 satisfaction. Aspect: Marketing Communication Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntaEssential PR6 ry codes related to marketing communications, incluNon Material ding publicity, promotion and sponsorship. Number of total cases of non-compliance with regulaPR7 tions and voluntary codes related to marketing commuAdditional Non Material nications including publicity, promotion and sponsorship, broken down by type of result. Aspect: Conformity Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact PR8 Total number of proven complaints related to a violaAdditional Non Material tion of privacy and loss of client data. Aspect: Compliance Pages RA Pages DCs Global Compact Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance Essential PR9 with laws and regulations related to the supply and use Non Material of products and services. 167 2012 Corporate Information Duratex Corporate Information Investor Relations Directorship Subsidiaries Abroad Director: Flavio Marassi Donatelli Deca Piazza Tel.: 11 3179-7148 || Fax: 11 3179-7300 || Zavaleta, 190 – 1.437 diretoria-ri@duratex.com.br Buenos Aires, Argentina Tel.: 005411 4909-0900 || Fax: 005411 4909-0992 Executive manager: Alvaro Penteado de Castro Tel.: 11 3179-7259 || Fax: 11 3179-7355 || Deca North America investidores@duratex.com.br 1208 Eastchester Drive, Suite 202 High Point NC 27265 3165 – USA Corporate Sustainability Toll free number: 877-802 1250 || Tel.: 001-336-885-1225 Management Fax: 001-336-885-1501 Executive Manager: João Carlos Redondo Tel.: 11 3543-4072 || Fax: 11 3543-3017 || Duratex North America sustentabilidade@duratex.com.br 1208 Eastchester Drive, Suite 202 High Point NC 27265 3167 – USA Duratex Tel.: 001-336-885-1500 || Fax: 001-336-885-1501 Av. Paulista, 1938 – 5th floor – Bela Vista – São Paulo (SP) Duratex Europe Tel.: 11 3179-7733 Xavier de Cocklaan, 66, Unit 8 Latem Business Park CEP: 01310-942 9831 Sint – Martens – Latem – Belgium P.O Box : 7611 Tel.: 0032-15-28-60-70 || Fax: 0032-15-28-60-79 www.duratex.com.br Consumer Services (SAC) Subsidiaries in Brazil Deca: deca@deca.com.br ou 0800-011-7073 (SAC) Duraflora S.A. Wood Panels: rino.responde@duratex.com.br Av. Paulista, 1938 or 0800-055-7474 (SAC) Bela Vista – São Paulo (SP) Durafloor: sac@durafloor.com.br or CEP: 01310-942 0800-770-3872 (SAC) 168 2012 Credits Duratex Credits Editing and general coordination Investor Relations Management Executive Content and graphics project consultancy TheMediaGroup Photos Duratex Collection Translation from the Original Portuguese Ashley Huggins Our special thanks to those internal partners who have contributed to the drawing-up of this report. 169 2012 GRI Reporting Index Duratex 170
