Communication on Progress 2012 Contents Statement of continued support................................................................................................................................................3 Dukat leading dairy industry in Croatia with century-long tradition.....................................................................................4 Human rights.................................................................................................................................. 5 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within its area of influence ; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour............................................................................................................................................. 7 Principle 3: Companies should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment................................................................................................................................... 15 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption.............................................................................................................................. 20 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Annex overview of relevant GRI performance indicators.................................................................................................... 21 2 Statement of continued support It is my pleasure to present to you the first Communication on Progress Report prepared by Dukat in accordance with the UN Global Compact principles, which covers our activities in the area of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption in 2012. As a company with a century-old tradition in the processing and production of milk and dairy products, Dukat strongly upholds the ten UNGC principles, the majority of which have been embedded in the company’s business strategy and operations. Although we joined the Global Compact initiative last year, Dukat can boast that it has based its operations on the principles of responsibility, transparency, efficiency and professionalism for a large number of years, and that it has consistently applied them in relation to its business partners, consumers, the community and its employees, as well as in relation towards the environment. As the leading dairy industry in Croatia and the biggest raw milk purchaser, Dukat is not only one of the key food industries in Croatia, but also an important economic entity, a large-scale exporter and an important employer. For this reason precisely, consistent implementation and respect of human and labour rights, care for the environment and anti-corruption are of exceptional importance. However, this requires the understanding and commitment not only of the company’s leadership but also of each of our employees. It is a challenging task, especially at times of the economic crisis when it is increasingly difficult to ensure the financial stability on the one hand and progress in the field of responsible operations on the other. We are aware that there is a lot more room for advancement in the field of responsible operations and that it is necessary to put additional efforts to improve our practice in this area. We will try to continue doing so in the future, about which we will inform you in our next report. Dukat’s first Communication on Progress report gives an overview of the activities related to the implementation of the UNGC principles, as well as the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. In this way this report provides the answer to a set of GRI performance indicators in the area of labour, human rights, environment and the society as a whole. Alen Fontana Zagreb, May, 2013 Director General for Croatia Dukat leading dairy industry in Croatia with century-long tradition Dukat d.d. is the leading dairy industry in Croatia with a century-old tradition in the production of milk and dairy products, which has grown into a regional company, thanks to the organic growth in the markets of the region and new acquisitions. With its 11 production plants in Croatia and South East Europe, Dukat is today the leading regional dairy industry. The Dukat Group consists of 11 associated companies in Croatia and abroad. Since 2007, Dukat has been operating as part of the Lactalis Group, the leading dairy group in the world and the leading global cheese manufacturer. By joining the Lactalis Group, Dukat has become the centre for the development and expansion of the dairy industry in the territory of Croatia and South East Europe. As the flagship brand for milk and dairy products, Dukat successfully responds to the demands and needs of consumers. Innovativeness, insisting on quality and implementation of the latest advancements in food and dairy industry has enabled Dukat to hold the position of the market leader and pioneer of the new trends in the dairy industry. Dukat bases its operations on the processing of top quality milk, which is produced on domestic dairy farms. In Croatia only, Dukat cooperates with over 7,200 producers from whom Dukat purchased over 235 million kilograms of raw milk last year. The product range consists of milk, dairy products and cheeses, and it comprises almost 200 products. This report gives an overview of the activities implemented in 2012 in Dukat d.d. and it does not cover the activities of the associated companies operating within the Dukat Group. 4 Human rights Businesses should make sure that support and respect they are not the protection of complicit in internationally human rights proclaimed human abuses. rights within its area of influence; and Dukat fully respects human and labour rights based respecting the principles of confidentiality, special attention on the Constitution, laws and other regulations of the is paid to the statements of all employees, as well as any Republic of Croatia, as well as international conventions. witnesses to determine all relevant facts without any bias. In Dukat guarantees and promotes the protection of each and individual case the Management Board appoints human rights through a number of internal documents a Commission consisting of three members which consists Work Regulations, Regulation on the protection of of independent members: a trade union representative, confidentiality of data, the Collective Agreement and an administrative service representative and a person the Code of Conduct as well as through its good appointed to receive and address employees’ complaints business practice. These documents are available to related to the protection of dignity. An identical protocol is the employees on the Intranet. also foreseen for all forms of discrimination and sexual harassment. In 2012, two complaints for the protection of dignity were HR6 Right to diversity and filed which were found to have been unfounded. HR7 equal opportunities Defence is provided to each employee in the cases which are assessed as violation of work obligations. Any written At Dukat, differences among people, regardless of reports related to the violation of a work obligation are their age, nationality, ethnic origin, religion and gender, removed from the employee’s personal file after a period language and socio-economic status, are accepted in an of three years. In this way, obstacles to an employee’s open and tolerant manner. All employees have an equal advancement and professional development, due to opportunity for success, and the position in the company isolated mistakes committed in the work process, are depends exclusively on the performance and success of eliminated. each individual. In the area of human resources management, we pay special attention to adherence to the principle of Code of Conduct diversity and equal opportunities. We respect all rights and regulations which prohibit child labour, forced or The Code of Conduct, which compiles the basic values and compulsory labour, which protect the dignity of the principles of employee behaviour in accordance with ethical, employees in such a way that non-discrimination and moral and professional norms and generally accepted civil protection from sexual harassment both of the employees values, has been applied in Dukat since 1998. The Code and of the persons undergoing the recruitment process is was amended in 2003 and it represents a framework for guaranteed. everyday work and behaviour in the work environment, as well as in relation to other stakeholders. The Code also, among other, sets the guidelines for addressing morally HR4 Protection of and ethically ambiguous situations which an employee can face at work. employees’ dignity Dukat consistently implements the regulations and directives of the EU and Croatia related to the suppression Objectives for 2013 of discrimination, as well as the protection of dignity of its employees, and the protocol of procedure in the case of §§ Upgrading of the existing and preparing a new Code infringement of dignity is embedded in Dukat’s internal of Conduct in accordance with the values of the Lactalis bylaws. Although scarce, significant attention is paid to Group all complaints and requests for the protection of dignity. In Human Rights 6 Labour Companies should the elimination of the effective the elimination uphold the freedom all forms of forced abolition of child of discrimination of association and compulsory labour; and in respect of and the effective labour; employment and recognition of the occupation. right to collective bargaining; Dukat respects and guarantees all labour rights prescribed In addition, employees are entitled to the following bonuses by laws and the Constitution and is systematically working on salary: bonus for years of service, bonus for work in shifts, on improving the quality of the work environment, bonus for work on Sunday and holidays, meal allowance. education and development of its employees, the care for health and safety at work and the contribution to the In 2012, we continued with the implementation of the community in which it operates. Collective Agreement, by which the right of employees to assistance for days of hospitalization was increased. Dukat fosters regular and open communication with trade HR5 Freedom of association unions and the Central Works Council, and provides them with information about decisions of importance for the and collective bargaining economic and social status of the employees. On an annual basis and upon need, the Management Board notifies the Dukat has a 15 year-long tradition of association and Works Council about operating results, plans, organizational collective bargaining. Two trade unions are active at Dukat: changes and other important issues. the Trade Union of the Employed in Agriculture, Food, Tobacco and Water Industries of Croatia (PPDIV) and the Trade Union of Croatian Drivers. The partnership relation with workers’ representatives is continually improved through Health protection the cooperation and communication with the local works councils and the Central Works Council. All conditions to act and safety at work freely in representing the rights of employees are ensured to trade union’s delegates and the Central Works Council. Dukat supports employee initiatives in all forms of humanitarian work and provides incentives and additionally Almost half of the employees (49.47 per cent) are trade rewards the employees who are voluntary blood donors LA4 union members. A higher level of rights arising from by granting them a day off work and by organizing a joint employment, when compared with similar companies in excursion. the area, is ensured by the Collective Agreement which applies to all employees regardless of whether they are trade Every year, a preventive vaccination against the seasonal union members or if they have permanent or temporary influenza is organized in the company premises. employment. Preliminary and periodic medical examinations are carried On the basis of the Collective Agreement, a set of benefits out on a regular basis for all employees working at positions is ensured to the employees: with special work conditions. §§ Allowance for sick leave over 90 days In-house trainings on health and safety at work are regularly §§ Allowance for annual vacation organised, as well as practical fire prevention exercises. LA6 §§ Christmas bonus §§ Transportation costs reimbursement Regularly, every 3 months, Health and Safety at Work §§ Jubilee award Committee meetings are held on the topic of safety and §§ Assistance for days spent in hospital health protection to discuss employee proposals to improve §§ Assistance in the event of an Act of God work conditions and health protection at work. §§ Assistance to families in the case of death of an employee §§ Gift in-kind for Easter The selection of health and safety commissioners and their mandate is established in accordance with the provisions of the Occupational Safety at Work Act. Labour 8 Lost days rate due to injuries at work LA7 Education and 0.40% development of employees 0.35% 0.30% In human resources management, Dukat remains faithful 0.25% 0,37% to its mission to ensure and retain capable, professional 0.20% and motivated employees, who are proactive in the 0,27% 0.15% circumstances of constant changes, who create new values 0.10% and achieve personal and professional fulfilment. 0.05% 0.00% In 2012, specialist education accounted for 46 per cent of the 2011 1 2012 total number of educations at Dukat, and education based on legal obligation accounted for 54 per cent of the total In 2011, the number of lost days due to injuries at work was number of educations. A total of 13,400 hours of education 870 days, while in 2012 it was 680 days. was conducted, or on average 10 hours of education per employee. A constant growth of the share of specialist Employees who spend most of the time working on a education has been recorded over the past years. computer are referred to eyesight check-ups. Number of Total number of Total educational Free bone mineral density measurement was organised for employees included employees who programmes (type the employees of Dukat as part of the public health project attended at least 1 in education of education) education in 2012 “Vitamin D insufficiency a global health problem”. Over 2,067 1,271 143 100 employees turned up to measure bone mineral density and consult with an MD specialist. Dukat shows social sensibility by covering the costs of In 2012, we again conducted a more intensified training of treatment and medical aids which are not on the list of the employees in hygiene and sanitary protection and in first LA8 Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, i.e. at a request by aid administration through the health education lecture. a lower-income employee. The training in safety at work and fire prevention covered In supporting the care for the health of its employees, 34 per cent of the total conducted educations in 2012. Dukat encourages its employees to engage in leisure and sports activities by co-financing such employee initiatives, in particular those in which the employees make the majority of the membership: Employee development §§ Sirela bowling club projects in 2012 §§ Sirela volunteer fire-fighting society §§ Dukat leisure cycling club In addition to all of the above, several large-scale education and development projects were implemented in 2012. Dukat Leisure Cycling Club Dukat Leisure Cycling Club was launched in August 2012 Talent Pool as part of the in-house initiative “Dukat Green Zone” and at employees’ proposal. The aim is to raise awareness With the aim of developing management skills in an about the importance of a responsible attitude towards international work environment and spreading the the environment and emphasize the importance of the Lactalis Group’s values, employees who were assessed environmentally-friendly aspect of cycling and the positive as high potentials for development took part in a oneeffects of bike-riding on health and general body condition. year programme of education and development of talents. The programme included training modules in All employees of Dukat and its associated companies the area of organisation and operational management, in Croatia can be members of the Dukat LCC, and the people management, the bases of controlling, personal membership is free. The Club’s members participated in development and dairy business in general, and it included Dukat’s cycling race “A Healthy Habit” held in September 2012. employees from the Dukat Group countries. Labour 9 Sales Formula International scholarships and internships The development and educational programme for Dukat sales force members was developed in cooperation with In 2012, Dukat continued with granting scholarships to Human Resources Department and Sales Department. postgraduates at Ingénieur International en Formation par The programme consisted of six modules. During the Apprentissage (I²FA), a two-year postgraduate study which implementation of this programme Sales Department is implemented at the high agricultural school of L’Ecole employees had the opportunity to spend several days Supérieure d’ Agriculture (ESA) in France. In addition to the in different departments to gain a broader insight into postgraduate study at ESA, the programme also includes company’s operations, as well as into the inter-dependence the acquiring of practical knowledge and skills through and the impact of sales decisions on other business internship at the leading European production plants of segments. the Lactalis Group in France. In February 2012, one student graduated from this postgraduate study and then joined Dukat’s team in Bosnia and Herzegovina. Industry Academy Also, in 2012, about 100 secondary school and university In 2012, 60 senior and junior managers and plant managers students attended the obligatory traineeship at Dukat. Like in in Milk Management departments at plants in Zagreb, the previous years, we continued our successful cooperation Bjelovar and Karlovac attended the education in the area with vocational secondary schools: Food Technology School of management of employees and teams, production and Agricultural School in Zagreb, Dairy School in Križevci controlling and milk intake. and Catering School in Bjelovar. Traineeship for secondary school students attending the dairy course was conducted at Dukat and Bjelovar production sites. Introduction of new employees to the company and activities Students of the faculties of Agronomy, Food Technology and Biotechnology, Business and Economy and other faculties New employees from all segments of the company undergo complete their practical training at Dukat to learn about the induction training to get acquainted with the strategy, organisation and operations of a modern company, design organisation, main business processes and the production the topic for their essay or thesis and gain their first work programme. During the induction programme, employees experiences in the dairy industry. visit all key departments and learn about the process of processing and production of milk and dairy goods at the Dukat Plant and the Sirela Plant. Data about employees LA1 LA2 Development of employees Type of employment LA4 and international mobility Type of employment contract No. of employees Advancement and employment at different positions within Permanent 1,234 the Lacatlis Group is encouraged and provided at Dukat. Temporary 127 Thus in 2012, three persons were promoted to management Total 1,361 positions within the Lactalis Group. Employees with special expertise can apply and develop their knowledge in South Temporary East European countries in which the Dukat Group is operating. 9,3% Permanent Performance appraisal Performance and individual development of employees 90,7% in whom a high work potential has been recognised are evaluated under the “People review” project every year. The readiness for international mobility is also appraised and agreed with the employees. 16 per cent of employees are included in the performance appraisal system. Labour 10 91 per cent of our employees have permanent employment Education contracts. Labour rights, as well as the rights arising from Education No. of employees the Collective Agreement apply equally to all employees, Primary school 189 regardless of whether they are permanently or temporarily Secondary school 923 employed and whether they are trade union members or not. College and university 249 Total 1,361 The employee turnover rate in 2012 was 7.33 per cent. Primary school Age structure Secondary school Employees’ age No. of employees 13,9% College and university < 30 188 18,3% 31 40 342 41 50 482 51 60 328 61 + 21 67,8% Total 1,361 1,5% 13,8% < 30 25,1% 31 40 Composition of governance 24,1% LA13 41 50 and management bodies 51 60 Gender Average age (years) No. 35,4% Men 45 49 61 + Women 44 26 Woman Average age of employees on 31 December 2012 was 43. Men 34,7% 65,3% Gender Gender No. of employees Men 940 Women 421 Total 1,361 The share of women in governance and management Woman positions at Dukat is 35 per cent. Men We pay special attention to the employment of the domestic 30,9% labour force and local experts, including for management EC7 69,1% positions. The share of Croatian citizens among the top management is 43 per cent. All employees have an equal opportunity for success, and the position in the company depends exclusively on LA14 performance and success of each individual. The salary and employee remuneration policy is exclusively based on the type and complexity of work, responsibility, knowledge According to the gender breakdown there are 31 per cent and skills required for the achievement of the tasks and of women and 69 per cent of men. results, and it does not depend on gender, ethnicity or any other personal traits. Labour 11 Other ways of communication Internal communication In addition to the above, employees are regularly informed Dukat Intranet Portal about news and events via electronic in-house notices, whose contents are also posted on the notice board and Dukat Intranet Portal is intended for all Dukat employees with on the Intranet portal. the aim of providing all relevant information and support in everyday work. The portal contains the most important Dukat fosters the open door policy, which, among other, is forms, descriptions of procedures, policies and documents, proved by the practice of direct communication with Human and news and notices of events in the company and new Resources Department. Each Dukat employee can directly products are regularly published. The Intranet contains all contact the management at human resources and get an key corporate documents such as the Work Regulations, answer to the questions of his/her interest. Regulation on the organisation and systematisation of jobs, Collective Agreement, Code of Conduct, etc. Contribution Internal newsletter to the community Contact is the in-house magazine intended for the employees of the companies within the Lactalis Group. A local version D u ka t coop e ra te s w ith nu m e rous hu ma nita r ia n of the magazine is intended for the employees of Dukat and organisations and helps associations, homes and socially the associated companies in Croatia and South East Europe. disadvantaged persons in Croatia through financial Four issues a year are printed. The aim of the magazine donations and donations of products. is to enable the employees to get to know better other departments and markets and to pass on Lactalis Group’s In 2012, through the donations of funds and own products, corporate values, promote the exchange of information and Dukat invested in: communication among different departments and markets of the Dukat Group. Financial donations Boxes for comments and ideas §§ Humanitarian causes and health care: Zagreb Rehabilitation Centre, Jordanovac kindergarten, monthly Although Dukat fosters open and direct communication and contributions for Dukat’s protégés (support to persons the open door policy, employees can give their remarks, from socially disadvantaged families and children of complaints, comments and ideas anonymously using the fallen soldiers in Croatia’s Homeland War until they boxes for comments and ideas placed at all production come of age), sites. All received remarks and comments are reviewed §§ Sports: Sirela bowling club with attention. Notice boards Donations in own products Notice boards are an additional communication channel, §§ Humanitarian causes: Food Bank Croatia, Zagreb Home especially important for the employees of production and for Children, Caritas of the Archdiocese of Zagreb, Home logistics departments without access to the Intranet web Tuškanac, Remar Centre, Home Bl. Alojzije Stepinac, portal. Notice boards are placed at all Dukat’s production Brezovica, Home Lug Samobor, St. Joseph’s Home, sites and logistic centres. Notices and information about Hrvatski Leskovac, Association Adhd and I, Home for the company events, notices of the launch of new products, elderly Adamovac, Association of single parents, Light employee benefits, etc., are regularly posted. Space for trade of life, New future, Merry Father Christmases. unions and works council’s communication and notices is provided on notice boards. Labour 12 In 2012, Dukat helped the holding of a series of cultural, educational, sports and gastronomic events through sponsorships: §§ Culture: Cest is D Best, Trešnja city theatre, KUD Cambi, 17th Youth film festival, 5th Four River Film Festival, VAFI Varaždin children and youth international animated film festival §§ Education, symposia and conferences: 40th Croatian dairy experts symposium, VIII symposium of livestock raisers in the Republic of Croatia, Small world of jobs, Kindergarten Olympics (Rijeka, Zagreb) §§ Sports: Dukat Velebit trekking, PBZ Zagreb Indoors §§ Fairs and gastro events: IAGI (International Art of Gastronomy in Istria), 6th Croatian Barista Championship, Children’s fair (Osijek, Rijeka and Zagreb), Babies, children and pregnancy days (Zagreb and Split), Sanvičenta cheese fair, Coffee art festival, Merry Christmas Tram. Objectives for 2013 §§ Increase the level of knowledge, competences, responsibility and involvement of every individual and improve efficiency §§ Improve efficiency in human resources management, boost motivation and satisfaction of employees and introduce a comprehensive system of competence appraisal 360 degrees of employees in production §§ Further develop and upgrade the programme of education of employees with a high potential for growth §§ Intensify the education of the key people in quality control of all production plants in the Dukat Group countries in the area of the development of skills of project management, sharing of knowledge and best practices §§ Ensure a systematic transfer of in-house knowledge and skills through training of in-house trainers for different business areas §§ Intensify in-house education of employees in production with emphasis on HACCAP, food safety, quality management and basic hygiene and occupational safety at work §§ Encourage activities which promote health and volunteer work of employees Labour 13 Environment Businesses undertake initiatives encourage the should support to promote greater development a precautionary environmental and diffusion of approach to responsibility; and environmentally environmental friendly challenges; technologies. Strategically focused on a responsible attitude towards the environment and operations in accordance with the Energy EN3 sustainable development policy, Dukat has built its own EN4 environmental management system over the years, Electricity thus continually decreasing the negative impact on the environment. The utilisation of electricity is approached with great care and attempts are made to achieve savings in all stages of Dukat ’s qualit y, food safet y and environmental operations: in designing energy plants and technological management policy is the umbrella document of the processes, more economical and ef ficient process environmental management system and the axis for management and regular and quality maintenance. The action and the setting of objectives to improve the consumption of electricity increases in the period from environmental protection. June to September due to the increased production in the summer months as a result of increased seasonal demand and intensified utilisation of the cooling systems. EN1 Materials Electricity 2011 2012 Dukat Plant 23,350,966 kWh 22,455,148 kWh Packaging Sirela Plant 9,892,693 kWh 9,879,163 kWh As a large-scale producer, we take account of the The total electricity consumption at the Dukat Plant in environmental acceptability of our products and we strive 2012 was 22,455,148 kWh, or down by 3.8 per cent, when to introduce economical and environmentally-friendly compared with the consumption in 2011 (23,350,966 kWh). packaging materials. In compliance with the Regulation on The total electricity consumption at the Sirela Plant in 2012 packaging and packaging waste, Dukat prepares quarterly was 9,879,163 kWh, or down by 0.14 per cent, when compared and annual reports on the types and volumes of packaging with 2011, when it was 9,892,693 kWh. put in circulation, and it also prepares additional monthly reports. In accordance with the reports we bear the costs of the packaging waste disposal and management. Steam Steam 2011 2012 Data on packaging put in circulation Dukat Plant 43,395 t 42,237 t (in kg) Dukat Plant Type of packaging material 2011 2012 Metal The total steam consumption at the Dukat Plant in 2012 was 30,966 33,433 (Al bottle for whipped cream 250 ml) 42,237 tons or down by 2.7 per cent when compared with Paper/glue (carton) 2,299,330 2,076,931 the steam consumption in 2011 (43,395 tons). Multi-layer packaging with predominant 1,935,819 1,683,162 paper component for milk beverages PET 692,042 665,457 Gas Polymers 1,962,980 1,978,274 PEHD 759,428 844,036 Gas 2011 2012 Total 7,680,565 7,281,293 Dukat Plant 830,301 m3 52,582 m3 Sirela Plant 2,826,084 m3 2,607,757 m3 In 2012, a total of 5.2 per cent less packaging was put into circulation when compared with 2011. Environment 15 In 2011, a steam generator (reboiler) was installed at the Dukat Total water consumption at the Sirela Plant in 2012 (311,675 EN5 Plant, which serves for the production of food technology m3) was down by 7 per cent than the consumption in 2011. steam in the sterilized products plant for the sterilisation The consumption of water from the public water supply process. By this reconstruction, in addition to the financial was 28,717 m3, i.e. down by 70 per cent when compared cost-effectiveness as a result of the use of a cheaper source, with 2011, while the consumption of water from own well savings are made in water, chemicals, boiler maintenance was up by 18 per cent. and inspection. In terms of the environment, emissions of pollutants in the air have been reduced. The measures of reduction of the CO2 emission are the result of investments in the production-process equipment which has a higher energy Air emissions, utilisation which results in the reduction of consumption of natural gas and the reduction of the CO2 emission. wastewaters and waste In 2012, 52,582 m3 of gas as energy source in boiler plants Freons in lacto-freezes was consumed at the Dukat Plant. Each year we systematically reduce the number of our At the Sirela Plant in 2012, 2,607,757 m3 of gas was consumed, cooling plants (lacto-freezes), which use environmentally or down by 7.7 per cent than the consumption in 2011 unacceptable freons. As proof to that, in 2012, 98 kilograms (2,826,084 m3). of gas in lacto-freezes were replaced by environmentallyfriendly cooling media. Water Wastewaters Dukat attaches great importance to water consumption and EN21 EN8 is constantly trying to find new possibilities for the reduction In 2012, temporary deviations of individual parameters of its consumption. Both plants (Dukat and Sirela) withdraw (chemical consumption of oxygen, BPK5, pH, total oil the majority of the water from their artesian wells, while the and grease value) from the set values from the water remaining water is used from the public water supply. At management licence for discharge into the public utility the Dukat Plant site in 2012, 97 per cent of water was used system of the city of Zagreb were observed at the site of from own well, and 3 per cent from the public water supply, the Dukat Plant in Zagreb. Intensive efforts are made to while at the Sirela Plant site, 91 per cent of water was used optimize the management of incongruent products from from the well and 9 per cent of water was used from the production and products with expired life by which these public water supply. temporary transgressions will be eliminated. Water 2011 2012 Volume Public Own Public Own Technology for reduction (m3) water supply well Total water supply well Total of emissions in waters Dukat 3,860 330,054 333,914 8,932 310,925 319,857 Dukat Plant Plant Regular maintenance of dispensers and adjusters, valves Sirela Plant 95,087 239,903 334,990 28,717 282,958 311,675 and block devices is carried out to prevent any unnecessary leakage of water. The system of a selective waste collection sulphate acid from the laboratory, ink, oils are collected in containers and disposed at the hazardous waste depot. In 2012, total water consumption at the Dukat Plant was 319,857 m3 or down by 4.2 per cent than the total water Technological processes at the plant are optimized, and consumption in 2011 (333,914 m3). The consumption of water regular maintenance of the milk processing plant is carried from the public water supply was 8,932 m3, 131 per cent up out to prevent any leakage of organic matter into the than in 2011 (3,860 m3). sewage system. The consumption of water from own well was 310,925 m3, The maintenance and control of the sewage system and or down by 5.8 per cent than in 2011 (330,054 m3). separators on site are carried out by the authorised person in compliance with the prescribed procedure, the Regulation 2,539 tons of total water consumption was used in products. on the functioning and maintenance of discharge facilities and wastewater treatment plants and the Regulation on the maintenance of grit separators. Environment 16 In the case of a sudden pollution of the discharge system, up by 10 tons over 2011. 211 tons of nitrate acid was used, or the procedure according to the Emergency operations plan up by 11 tons than in 2011. 48.5 tons of hydrogen peroxide in the case of sudden water pollution should be followed. was utilised, or down by 5 tons than in 2011. Sirela Plant Sirela Plant consumption of chemicals The Sirela Plant has its own wastewater treatment plant in wastewater treatment plant on the site of the factory, by which discharged water after Sirela Plant 2011 2012 treatment meets the threshold limit values from the water Total volume of chemicals utilised 153,000 kg 147,430 kg management licence (all legal frameworks). in wastewater treatment plant In 2012, a total of 337,397m3 of technological wastewater At the Sirela Plant, the total volume of chemicals utilised in was treated in the wastewater treatment plant, or up by the wastewater treatment plant in 2012 was down by 3.6 10.8 per cent than in 2011. per cent than in 2011. The reduction of the consumption of Aquaklar by 2.6 tons, when compared with 2011, was The average value of the chemical consumption of oxygen significant, while 22 per cent less Aquaflok was used when (CCO) in water after the treatment procedure was 448 mg/l, compared with last year. or down by 10 per cent than in 2011, when CCO was 498 mg/l. A decrease in the wastewater treatment factor (Fx) was also observed, when compared with 2011. In 2012, the average Noise Fx was 1.53, while in 2011, the average Fx was 1.66. The noise for day and night work conditions at both production sites (Dukat Plant and Sirela Plant) ranges within EN22 Waste generation and its processing the legal threshold levels of the permitted values, and neither plant exceeds the permitted noise levels. A systematic waste management is one of the fundamental components of the environmental management system. Dukat’s permanent objective is to manage waste in an environmentally-efficient way. Precisely for this reason, Additional projects continuous efforts are directed at the prevention and constant decrease in the generation of new types of waste Dukat employees’ and waste management in accordance with the economic volunteer clean-up campaign principles. At the end of 2011, Dukat launched its in-house environmental In 2012, the total volume of separated and received waste at project “Dukat Green Zone” by which the company upholds the Dukat Plant was 1,597 tons. 1,583 tons of non-hazardous and raises the awareness of its employees, suppliers, waste was collected. In the total balance, mixed packaging partners and the broader public about the importance of was mostly collected, then waste paper and carton and a responsible attitude towards the environment. Under the waste multi-layer packaging. Green Zone project, Dukat’s employees joined the national volunteer cleaning campaign “Green Clean-up one day The total volume of separated and received hazardous for a clean environment” in April 2012, as a part of the waste in 2012 was 14.3 tons. “World Clean-up 2012” campaign and “Let’s do it!” global movement. The employees collected and sorted 36 m3 of bulk waste on an illegal dumping site in Zagreb, which was Consumption of chemicals the biggest collected amount. Dukat Plant consumption of washing and disinfecting agents Dukat Plant 2011 2012 Total volume of washing 863,865 kg 842,231 kg and disinfecting agents In 2012, 2.5 per cent less washing and disinfecting agents were consumed at the Dukat Plant, when compared with 2011. Sodium base, i.e. 383 tons, was mostly used, which is Environment 17 Objectives for 2013 §§ Improve the established waste management system at all organisational levels in accordance with statutory provisions §§ Strengthen education, raise awareness, expertise and communication in environmental protection §§ Minimizing the possibility of emergency situations and carry out alignments with regulatory requirements §§ Reduce the consumption of resources §§ Prepare a cost-benefit analysis for a more economical addressing of incongruent products which are returned as return or which appear in the production process by 31 December 2013 §§ On the basis of comprehensive conditions for the protection of the environment obtain the environmental protection licence for Zagreb Plant and Sirela Plant from the Ministry of Environmental Protection Environment 18 Anti-corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Dukat applies strict anti-corruption standards in its 3. Implementation of practice concerning competition. daily operations, in accordance with relevant internal This segment is becoming increasingly important documents and corporate policies of the Lactalis Group as the Croatia’s accession to the European Union is and operates in compliance with the applicable legislation approaching, where freedom of competition is the and regulations. Dukat has implemented and applied the cornerstone of the political and economic community. Corporate Governance Code, aware of the importance In everyday business practice, great efforts are invested of a responsible and an ethically-based conduct. so that each economic activity is also considered from this aspect. Dukat’s anti-corruption activities can be divided into several main areas: 4. Internally regulated standards of procedure and work instructions. 1. Systematic improvement of adherence to laws, rules Among other, Dukat has had its Code of Conduct in of operation, good business practices and moral place for a number of years, which all employees are business practice. expected to adhere to and apply. The Code is publicly This objective is achieved through a constant available on the Intranet. It explicitly states that “the improvement of business processes and education of employee shall receive salary for his/her work at the Dukat’s employees responsible for a legal conduct of company. Any other receiving or giving of money, operations and management of business processes inappropriate gifts or services is not in compliance with on all problems of business practice and constant the company’s by-laws and is therefore forbidden.” legislative and business changes. Also, business processes are put in place and controlled so that they are always in compliance In 2012, like in the previous years, no reports of suspicion of S04 with the principles mentioned in the introduction, by corruption or cases of corruption were recorded at Dukat. adopting and enforcing internal by-laws, standards of procedure and work instructions, which are regularly Dukat adheres to and promotes freedom of competition S07 communicated via e-mail and the Intranet. in its daily business practice. In 2012, Dukat was not a participant in legal proceedings which would have been 2. Operations in accordance with the Companies’ instituted on the basis of behaviour contrary to the principle Act, Capital Market Act, regular adoption and of freedom of competition, or suspicion in anti-trust and implementation of the Corporate Governance Code monopoly practices. As the leading dairy industry, Dukat of the Zagreb Stock Exchange by the responsible regularly cooperates with the Croatian Competition Agency, management bodies of Dukat. to which it submits all data which the Agency requests and In this way, the legality, transparency and publicity of it regularly takes part in Agency’s surveys on milk and dairy operations is protected, and corporate governance products markets and distribution retail. of the highest rank is ensured, which is a systemic obstacle to corruption and abuses. Dukat is quoted on the Zagreb Stock Exchange where it regularly publishes the information which is of importance for shareholders, Objectives for 2013 investors and the general business public. In addition to the Zagreb Stock Exchange, all important information is §§ Education of employees of the key departments on submitted to the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory corruption risks and manners and measures for the Agency (HANFA), the Croatian News Agency (HINA), and suppression of corruption in all of its forms is published on the company’s website, in accordance §§ Alignment with the European Union’s rules in the area with relevant regulations. of competition and their integration in the internal documents and business practice Anti-corruption 20 Annex overview of relevant GRI performance indicators In preparing this report, the following Global Reporting Initiative performance indicators have been taken into consideration: I Human Rights Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of HR6 page 6 child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of HR7 forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of page 6 forced or compulsory labour. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. page 6 II Labour Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of HR5 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions page 8 taken to support these rights. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. page 8, 10 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health LA6 and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety page 8 programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of workLA7 page 9 related fatalities by region and by gender. Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist LA8 page 9 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by LA1 page 10 gender. Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, LA2 page 10 gender, and region. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category LA13 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of page 11 diversity. Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local EC7 page 11 community at locations of significant operation. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by LA14 page 11 significant locations of operation. III Environment EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. page 15 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. page 15 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. page 15 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. page 16 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. page 16 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. page 16 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. page 17 IV Anti-Corruption SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. page 20 Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly SO7 page 20 practices and their outcomes. This report is available on UN Global Compact web pages, Dukat corporate web site and internal web portal. Contact data Dukat d.d. Marijana Čavića 9, 10000 Zagreb, Croatia Elena Wolsperger Dolezil and Kristina Klarić Rubčić Phone: +385 1 2392 136 Fax: + 385 1 2382 298 E-mail: elena.wolsperger-dolezil@dukat.hr and kristina.klaric-rubcic@dukat.hr www.dukat.hr 21
