RESPONSIBILITY Social Responsibility Annual Report OUR COMMITMENT OUR MISSION: TO AID THE AFFLICTED THROUGH THE INGENUITY OF OUR MINDS, THE LABOR OF OUR HANDS AND THE COMPASSION OF OUR HEARTS. Acumed® places emphasis on global ethical business practices, stewardship of resources and support for local and global humanitarian efforts. In 2010, Acumed® identified four commitment areas for our business including social responsibility (SR) to reaffirm these values in a tangible manner. As a result of this formal commitment, an internal cross-functional social responsibility committee was created to ensure activities throughout Acumed® have the support and resources needed to achieve positive results. The committee’s purpose statement is as follows: WE SERVE ACUMED® AND OUR STAKEHOLDERS THROUGH THE PROMOTION AND ADVANCEMENT OF THE COMPANY’S SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIVITIES. BY DOING THIS WE INFLUENCE OUR ORGANIZATION TO INTEGRATE PRINCIPLES THAT PROTECT OUR PEOPLE, PLANET AND PROFITS. In 2012, the Acumed® Social Responsibility Committee had workgroups in four core focus areas: Governance, Community Impact, Wellness, and Environment. The committee also developed a communications document and launched a public webpage to engage both internal and external stakeholders in Acumed® activities related to each core focus area. The committee’s efforts are aimed at engaging successive levels of our sphere of influence. In 2012, the committee sought to engage internal Acumed® employees, Colson Associates, and our supply chain. We engaged with our marketplace by providing training to our sales force and worked within our local community support causes that align with our vision. 2 Social Responsibility Annual Report Go ACCOMPLISHMENTS ENVIRONMENT We are respectful stewards of our local community and global environment. GREEN TEAM Acumed® has formed a cross-functional group dedicated to preserving the environment and educating stakeholders on the benefits of being “green”. The Green Team’s purpose statement is: WE EMPOWER ACUMED® AND THE GLOBAL COMMUNITY THROUGH EDUCATION, ENCOURAGEMENT, AND EXECUTION OF SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PRACTICES. BY DOING THIS, WE ENGAGE OUR SPHERE OF INFLUENCE TO DELIVER INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS THAT RESPECT THE COMMUNITY’S NATURAL SYSTEMS, SUPPORT ETHICAL EQUITY AND DRIVE CUSTOMER LOYALTY. In 2012, the Green Team drove projects to reduce paper consumption and will expand this to reduce overall landfill waste by 10% in 2013. BIKE TO WORK Acumed® has been an active participant in the Bicycle Transportation Alliance’s September Bike Commute Challenge for years. This program encourages bicycling as a commuting option in the Portland metropolitan area. In addition, Acumed® sponsors a bi-annual incentive program that allows employees to earn cash for commuting to work by bicycle. Since September 2011, bi-annual program bike to work participants have logged over 10,000 miles! GREEN INITIATIVES Our vision includes being respectful stewards of our local community and global environment, and a large part of this is our commitment to “green” initiatives. Water Bottle Pledge • In 2012, the Green Team sponsored a water bottle pledge to eliminate the use of plastic water bottles by Acumed employees by giving each person a reusable bottle to use instead. To date, over 200 employees have signed the pledge to reduce and reuse for positive results! Papercuts • Acumed is committed to reducing paper consumption in our daily business operations. Activities include eliminating paper pay stubs, default double-sided printing and copying and compostable lunchroom supplies. 3 Social Responsibility Annual Report HUMAN RIGHTS Our activities are motivated by integrity and compassion. Our actions reflect a belief in ownership, accountability and trust. SIGN SIGN is a non-profit organization whose mission is to support surgeons in developing countries by providing them with training and modern equipment so they can offer immediate surgical treatment to their patients. Acumed® continues to work closely with SIGN to provide accessible orthopaedic fracture treatments around the world. Acumed® engineers donate design time to the organization and many employees assist with sorting and packaging surgical kits to be used in developing nations. Acumed® once again supported SIGN benefit events in 2012. Acumed® employees provided items that were used for a silent and live auction with all proceeds going directly to the SIGN organization. RAPHAEL HOUSE In an effort to further our commitment as respectful stewards of our community, Acumed® supported the Raphael House of Portland in 2012 to collect school supplies and cash for children in vulnerable situations. The Raphael House is an agency dedicated to ending domestic violence by serving a diverse community of women and children escaping violence. Raphael House also works to eliminate the causes of family and intimate partner violence through community education and outreach. FOOD BANK Oregon Food Bank distributes food and addresses the root causes of hunger through public policy advocacy and educational programs. Acumed® participates in this organization’s activities by holding team building events throughout the year at their facilities. In December 2012, 81 Acumed® employees visited the food bank and repackaged 14,120 lb of bean into 10,862 individual meals for families in need. In addition, Acumed® donated more than 700 lb of food for this cause. Oregon Food Bank Donations Pounds of Good Delivered 2500 2000 1500 Pounds of Food 1000 Cash 500 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 4 Social Responsibility Annual Report HEIFER PROJECT As part of our 2012 holiday giving, Acumed® donated an ark to Heifer International (www.heifer.org). The ark provides 15 pairs of animals to hungry families. These animals help the families to secure food and are a source of dependable income. Each family who receives livestock will pass on one or more of the animal’s offspring to other families who are in need in their community. For example: • Two cows bring milk and income to a Russian village • Two sheep help families in Arizona produce wool • Two camels help families in Tanzania earn income by transporting agricultural and industrial materials • Two oxen pull plows and carts in Uganda • Two water buffalo help Cambodian families increase rice production through animal draft power LABOR STANDARDS We embrace change and promote an open, team-centered environment. Stakeholders know they are valued. SAFETY The health and safety of our employees is vital to our success. To date, Acumed® has worked over 2,685 days without a lost time accident. Acumed® has implemented numerous programs designed to maintain a safe environment and to ensure our business and employees are protected. Examples of these programs are: • Hazard Communication • Disaster Recovery • Safety Team • Emergency Response Team Acumed’s Safety Team conducts regular safety audits as well as annual safety training for all employees. The team also provides incentives to employees who promote a safe work environment. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Acumed provides a robust benefits package to its employees to ensure they maintain a healthy body, mind and spirit. These benefits include: • Medical, Dental and Life Insurance • Short and Long Term Disability Insurance • Retirement Plan • Employee Assistance Plan • Educational Assistance 5 Social Responsibility Annual Report ANTI-CORRUPTION Acumed® maintains ethical behaviors with respect to compliance standards and laws. INDUSTRY COMPLIANCE In 2012, Acumed developed a thorough Compliance Manual through a cross-functional effort. The manual covers several aspects of compliance, including anti-corruption and serves as a guide to promote ethical decision-making amongst our employees and business partners. Acumed is a logo member of the Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed) and endorses the AdvaMed Code of Ethics. Acumed® also requires anti-corruption training for employees who interact with healthcare professionals or government officials (foreign or domestic). In addition, US sales representatives and international distribution partners must complete anti-corruption training programs. INDUSTRY PARTICIPATION Acumed® actively participates in several organizations that promote transparent and ethical business practices. By aligning our company with these organizations and like-minded businesses, we increase the impact of our collective actions and accomplishments. Acumed is proud to support the following organizations: • United Nations Global Compact • Boston College Center for Corporate Citizenship • Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed) 6 Social Responsibility Annual Report INITIATIVES IN PROGRESS Acumed® is committed to continuous process improvement. Consistent with the company’s strategic management system, Acumed® has measurable social responsibility goals that are acted upon, tracked and reported to management. ENGAGEMENT In 2012 Acumed successfully: • Engaged 5 levels of our sphere of influence in Acumed Social Responsibility activities • Began auditing suppliers’ social responsibility activities In 2013 Acumed will: • Increase internal visibility of Acumed Social Responsibility Activities by increasing employee response rate to social responsibility communications. ENVIRONMENT In 2012 Acumed successfully: • Executed an earth Week Celebration including company clean-up day • Eliminated paper pay stubs In 2013 Acumed will: • Reduce landfill waste generated by 10% • Research alternative transportation methods for employees WELLNESS In 2012 Acumed successfully: • Sponsored activities to promote employee wellness, including: • Rose Festival Dragon boat team • Dodgeball team • Cycling team • Softball team • Basketball team In 2013 Acumed will: • Increase employee participation in wellness activities. COMMUNITY IMPACT In 2012 Acumed successfully: • Sponsored the first Acumed® charity golf tournament in support of Shriner’s Hospital for Children • Donated over 500 lbs of food and $2000 to the Oregon Food Bank 7 Social Responsibility Annual Report In 2013 Acumed will: • Increase participation in the Acumed® charity golf tournament • Increase level of cash and food donations to the Oregon Food Bank • Continue to support SIGN benefit dinners and fundraising efforts “Acting with concern for our fellow team members and the global community has always been and will continue to be a fundamental part of Acumed’s mission and culture.” David G. Jensen, President 8
