csr report 2012 We have the power to make a difference, also in areas that are not directly linked to us as a company. CSR Report 2012 2 Solar csr report 2012 contents 4 14 Word from the management Corporate Governance 5 15 Solar at a glance Our standards 6 16 Our primary CSR stakeholders Data Summary Table 8 Customers 9 Employees 10 Suppliers 11 Environment Copyright: Solar, January 2013 Design and layout: Make® 12 Society Text: Solar A/S CSR Report 2012 3 our mission stronger together We understand our customers’ needs and provide value-adding services and products. We call it stronger together. CSR Report 2012 4 word from the management We take our responsibilities to people and our environment seriously Solar has a strong business interest in our progress within Corporate Social Responsibility to the energy-efficient solutions and see growing world around us. When reading this report, you will find an potential within this area. Our solutions bring introduction to the CSR activities that take place within Solar’s framework. Some of these activities are the results of large major savings, both on energy and CO2 projects, while others are small everyday actions which, emissions. nevertheless, are equally important when defining Solar as a company. In Solar, we do not plant trees and we are not biodynamic environmentalists. But we make a business out of selling and Solar takes its responsibilities with regard to people and the delivering solutions that help our customers’ clients lower their Flemming H. Tomdrup environment seriously. We wish to send out a clear message Group CEO CO2 emissions and save energy as well as money. Blue Energy that we are committed to the Global Compact Programme. is our concept for a profitable and energy-efficient future. We see our involvement in the programme as an asset in relation to customers and suppliers and a clear advantage Our employees’ intelligent integration of solar cells and energywhen it comes to attracting and retaining employees. In efficient lighting is the way of the future. We think holistically addition, we wish to be seen as a company in which both and use our knowledge of valves and heating devices – as Danish and foreign investors can safely invest – also from well as of ventilation, automation and sanitation products – to an ethical standpoint. create value. This report is also our Communication on Progress (CoP), We work intensively with Lean throughout the organisation honouring our obligation to report to the UN Global Compact. in order to remove waste in all parts of the value chain. We invite you to explore how we ingrate our social responsiOn many occasions, Solar has proven to be a company where bility into our strategy and our day-to-day operations, both the employees truly understand the meaning of being stronger Michael H. Jeppesen here and on our website www.solar.eu. Group CFO together. As a large company, we have a responsibility to the outside world also – and we have the power to make a difference, also in areas that are not directly linked to us as Flemming H. Tomdrup Michael H. Jeppesen a company. Group CEO Group CFO In 2009, we signed up for the United Nations’ Global Compact Programme, which formalises our obligation to communicate CSR Report 2012 5 The Solar Group is an international technical wholesaler within electrical, heating, plumbing and ventilation components. Through the subsidiary Aurora Group, Solar also sells accessories for consumer electronics. We deliver products, knowledge and solutions to customers within residential and commercial buildings, industry, marine and offshore, utility and infrastructure, and to the public sector. The group has approximately 3,600 employees. Solar has companies in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, the Netherlands, Germany, Poland, the Faroes, Belgium and Austria. Aurora Group is represented in Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Finland. Solar is a listed company. The B shares are listed on NASDAQ OMX Copenhagen and form part of the MidCap index and MidCap on NASDAQ OMX Nordic. Stronger Together solar at a glance We function as the professional link between supplier and customer. A range of approximately 215,000 articles in stock allows us to tailor those solutions that will help our customers the most. a preferred We respect the fact that a good wholesaler must deliver more than goods. At Solar, we learn from our customers. We watch them work, we listen to business them and get to know their workflow. In many ways, we cross the conventional line of cooperation – and by doing so, we develop logistics solutions that optimise our customers’ workflow. We are stronger together. companion With our Blue Energy concept, we focus fully on energy-efficient products and solutions. The Blue Energy concept enables our customers to meet demands for energy-efficient solutions. Solar’s e-business concept is a tool that optimises our customers’ workflow and makes customer service more efficient. With the e-business concept Solar should be known as the empathic we interact with our customers 24/7. E-business provides faster lead times, less administration and increased precision. And most importantly in this company and the challenger within our industry. perspective, our e-business tools make it possible for our customers to We will be our customers’ preferred business order goods without placing any CO2 strain on the environment because companion, their expert in logistics and their it does not require additional driving. We continuously work to increase our e-business share, thereby significantly reducing CO2 emissions. guarantee for safety of delivery. Global Compact Solar is a member of the UN’s Global Compact, which contains ten principles, including human rights, working environment/labour, the environment and anti-corruption. As a result of its membership, Solar is obliged to report on the activities in which we are involved within the Global Compact. We report on our CO2 consumption and our compliance with ethical standards. Executive Management The chairman of the Solar Group Supervisory Board is associate professor, lic. scient. Jens Borum. The Executive Board of the company is in the hands of Group CEO Flemming H. Tomdrup and Group CFO Michael H. Jeppesen. CSR Report 2012 6 our primary csr stakeholders Customers, employees, suppliers, the environment and the society are key stakeholders CSR Report 2012 7 At Solar, we embrace the fact Customers Solar has created its warehouse and distribution system with only one thing in mind – our customers. that we are stronger together – Solar’s customers want quick, secure, precise and flexible and that our success is dependent delivery of the articles they need. So, we have organised our logistics system accordingly. on an interaction between us, our That is why Solar’s customers can order articles and get in customers, our employees and touch with us 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. That is why we our suppliers, with due respect to distribute at night. And that is why we promise to deliver before 07:00 am if you order before 6:00 pm the previous day society and the environment wherever this is geographically possible. And for the same reason, 99.8% of our deliveries are flawless. which surrounds us. Employees At Solar we consider our employees our most important resources. They allow us to reach our goals and expand our For this report, we have defined business so that we can continue to set new standards on the market and for our customers in future. our 5 primary stakeholder groups, simply to illustrate how we At Solar we look for people who have the energy to move us forward with entrepreneurship, who set ambitious targets and interpret our corporate social deliver on promises. We offer challenging jobs, exciting career opportunities and individual development. responsibility in relation to these. Suppliers The collaboration with our suppliers is a very important asset to Solar. We have decided to enter into partnerships with a You can read more about the small group of strategic, responsible suppliers, and our goal is that these cover a minimum of 75% of the purchasing volume in individual stakeholder groups our markets. later in this report. We set the standards high for these suppliers – just like we do for ourselves. Environment Being a socially responsible company, we cannot ignore the fact that some of our activities can have a negative impact on our environment – this is true for practically any kind of business. Therefore, we constantly strive to find ‘greener’ ways to conduct our business. Society At Solar, we have a responsibility to use our knowledge and competences in a way that benefits society at large. Solar has subsidiaries in various countries and we like to support good causes – both globally and locally. CSR Report 2012 8 stakeholders We help our customers optimise their business customers processes. We understand our customers’ needs and provide value-adding services and products. Energy optimisation is a growing business area and results are convincing when it comes to the reduction of energy consumption and CO2 emissions. Being a technical wholesaler is all about challenging the Successful project conventional concept of a wholesaler. Solar’s close cooperation One of the successful projects in Solar Consulting was related with our customers goes far beyond the traditional wholesalerto the Danish school, Søndre Skole, in the city of Køge. customer relationship, resulting in more efficient workflows. The Danish subsidiary, Solar Danmark, was involved in this proWe are always looking for new business areas and in 2011 ject together with the contractor YIT and Køge local authority. Customer contact we added consultancy to our business. Solar Consulting is an advisory function that works with energy optimisation. As part 24/7 The project focused on energy optimisation of a number of of the programme we screen buildings to find energy savings technical fittings at the school, i.e. heating and ventilation potential. control in the class rooms. Competence and experience are vital for our ability to not only boost our customers’ market share, but also to minimise costs 99.8% The solutions implemented reduced energy consumption with the added benefit that the students experienced healthier and our carbon footprint. Flawless deliveries indoor climate which actually improves their learning environment. So, knowledge about energy optimisation, including the technical fittings which are necessary to cash in on the savings, All in all, these initiatives reduced energy consumption at the places high demands on the competences of everyone involved. school by 38% and the annual CO2 emissions by more than We think and 82 tonnes. Significant business potential act stronger From an energy perspective, Solar Consulting was launched together with These energy initiatives were also a good investment. Project to increase focus on the significant business potential within costs totalled some one million Danish kroner and this will be energy optimisation of technical fittings in existing commercial our customers. paid back in approximately four years. buildings. When the school’s energy initiatives are fully implemented, its In the technical fittings, i.e. within lighting, heating and ventienergy key figures will be below the national average when it lation, you will typically find a savings potential of 20-30% and comes to both electricity use and heat consumption. a payback time for the investment of 3-6 years. Therefore, an investment in energy optimisation of the technical solutions is much better than investments made solely in energy efficient windows and insulation (building envelopes) which typically have payback times of 10 years or more. However, it is necessary to invest in both the technical fittings and the building envelope to take full advantage of the energy optimisation potential. CSR Report 2012 9 stakeholders Solar focuses on ethics and people development. employees Our Code of Conduct leads the way for employees across the group. And with our own Solar Business Academy, we prioritise people development. Continuous development Recent measurements part of our academy. We will measure the effect of this leaderValue creation index We are continuously improving the way we do business. We are ship programme in relation to the employees. growing at a pace where innovation and optimisation of our processes, our standards and our practices are just as impor715 > 680 Career paths and recruitment tant as on-time delivery. Strategic targets 2010-2012 We want to secure career development at Solar in general. Value creation index We will heighten internal recruitment levels by making different Therefore, we work strategically with competency developcareer paths in Solar visible and by showing specialists that we ment through employee performance appraisals. Solar Business also have career paths for them. Academy, Group Leadership Programme and our new project Recent measurements management education further strengthen our development. Leadership index As demographic developments in the workforce will give So far, feedback from training has been very positive. For employers challenges for employers in the future, we are instance, the overall rating of our Project Management training 72 > 67 launching an Employer Branding concept to promote Solar as was 4.8 on a scale of 5. The way we are organised also requires Strategic targets 2010-2012 an employer, attract potential employees and increase pride our employees to have knowledge about distance and virtual Leadership index among our current employees. leadership as well as an understanding of cultural differences. Therefore, we have introduced these two disciplines in our Solar Navigator Solar Business Academy. Every 18 months Solar conducts an employee survey, Solar NaviWe will continue gator. The recent survey was conducted in the first half of 2012. Our Solar Business Academy is not only about leadership to keep up this development. The academy also provides a strategic lift when One of the results of the survey is the so-called value creation high level. it comes to skills relating to Lean, talent development and a index which shows our ability to create value for customers. range of business competencies. Another result is our leadership index which demonstrates our ability to lead. >70 is considered excellent. Group Leadership Programme As a company, Solar makes ever increasing demands on our As part of the strategy “#1 in Technical Wholesale”, Solar has managers because good leadership motivates and develops emlaunched a range of strategic targets which must be met, and ployees, and because our business depends on good leadership. the latest results are in line with the targets: The aim is to develop our managers’ skills, making them ready to drive the group’s current five-year strategy plan. Managers will Recent Strategic targets Strategic targets measurements 2010-2012 2013-2015 gain a shared understanding of their local leadership roles as well Value creation index 715 > 680 > 720 as their co-responsibility in developing the business as a whole. Leadership index 72 > 67 > 73 A total of 250 managers across group functions and subsidiaries participate in the Group Leadership Programme which is We will continue to work to keep up this high level. CSR Report 2012 10 stakeholders stakeholders employees suppliers We base our business on strategic partnerships with responsible suppliers. As a condition for entering into strategic partnerships with suppliers, Solar requires that such suppliers observe the Global Compact principles. As a business, we primarily work with important suppliers of branded products, several of whom have signed up to the Global Compact themselves. Solar also has a clear supplier strategy that means that we can stand by the products from our strategic suppliers at any given time. We have taken an active stand on our cooperation with our partners, requiring that they observe a number of principles Code of Conduct within e.g. environment, work environment and social responSolar is known for our high ethical standards, and in 2010 we implesibility. To make this possible, we have decided to focus our mented a code of conduct across the group. Under the code, Solar efforts on collaborating with a limited group of responsible is committed to comply with current legislation and regulations and strategic suppliers (leading regional, European or worldwide to act in an ethical, sustainable and socially responsible way in all branded suppliers). Our goal is that these cover a minimum of our business activities. The code has been signed by all employees 75% of our purchasing volume in all of our markets. and is accessible through leaflets in all languages used within the Solar Group. The ethical standards will be an integral part of all new Each and every one of these suppliers is required to observe employees’ introduction programmes going forward. the principles stated in the UN Global Compact. Taking this one step further, we also demand that they require the same thing Working environment from their sub-suppliers. We are constantly working to improve our working environment. An example is Solar Danmark A/S’ central warehouse, which was 75% given a green smiley by the Danish Working Environment Service for the great 5S lean work done by the employees who have created a nice and clean work place. The green smiley is valid for 5 years, under the condition that they keep up the good work. Whistleblower scheme Our goal is that at least 75% of our An external whistle blower scheme was launched in 2012. This is purchasing volume is covered by our an information system that provides employees with an opportunity responsible strategic suppliers. to report breaches of our Code of Conduct or suspicions thereof confidentially. In 2013, suppliers, customers and others will have access to the system too. CSR Report 2012 11 stakeholders Solar cares about the environment and sees environment potential in energy efficiency. We believe in energy efficient solutions and we have energyoptimised our own facilities in Vejen, Brøndby and Svenstrup in Denmark. Carbon Disclosure Project Solar has established a reporting system for the company’s CO2 66% Also, the interest in exploring energy efficient solutions at our knowledge centre, Solar Blue Energy Explorium, is significant consumption. The system has been rolled out in all the group’s among contractors, architects, consulting engineers, builders subsidiaries and the first CO2 emission measurements have Total percentage and politicians. been completed. One of the first areas being measured is CO2 of energy emissions generated from the direct burning of fossil fuels, i.e. Solar Blue Energy Explorium, which is based on renewable fuel consumption relating to company cars, lorries, etc. Another consumption energy sources, is categorised as an energy class 1 building area that is measured is CO2 emissions from purchased elecsavings. and, therefore, complies with the new legal requirements that tricity. Also, CO2 emissions in relation to goods distribution are Office building, come into force in 2015. measured. All these measurements are reported to the Carbon Vejen Disclosure Project. Energy optimisation of our own buildings We truly believe in energy-efficient solutions and not least Initiatives energy optimisation of existing buildings. Therefore we have Solar subsidiaries have obtained a number of ISO certifications energy optimised our own facilities in Vejen, Brøndby and within environmental and quality management. With the Carbon Disclosure Project, Solar is now firmly focused on 39T Svenstrup in Denmark and we can prove that it works. the environment. In the technical installations, i.e. within lighting, heating and Annual CO2 ventilation, you will typically find a savings potential of 20-30% Several initiatives have already been initiated: emission and a payback time for the investment of 3-6 years. • Solar has opened a green data centre in Vejen, Denmark. The reduction. centre consists of an energy-efficient server room of 245 m2. In our office building in Vejen we now save 66% of our total • The group has installed a so-called TelePresence system that Office building, energy consumption with a payback time for the investment offers the opportunity for video conferencing. This makes Brøndby and of 5.7 years. it both easier and cheaper to communicate between the Svenstrup group’s headquarters and the subsidiaries, and between the And in our office building in Brøndby we save 20% of our total subsidiaries themselves. As the system cuts down on travel energy consumption with a payback time for the investment between countries, we can reduce travel costs as well as our of 5.4 years. At the same time, we reduce our annual CO2 emisCO2 emissions. sions by 39 tonnes. Renewable energy Finally, in our office building in Svenstrup we save 31% of our Solar sees considerable potential in energy efficiency both now total energy consumption with a payback time for the investand in the future. As an example of this, we have recently seen ment of 7 years. Here we also reduce our annual CO2 emissions increased sales of solar cells. by 39 tonnes. CSR Report 2012 12 stakeholders Improved lighting society Being a technical wholesaler, Solar has competences and knowledge within lighting. These have come to good use at the castle of Koldinghus in Kolding, the city where Solar’s headquarters are also located. In 2012, Solar supported upgrading of the lighting of the knights’ hall at Koldinghus. Solar cares about society. Solar has subsidiaries in various Nordhøj For many years now, Solar has supported Nordhøj in Koldcountries and we like to support ing, Denmark, which is an institution for mentally challenged good causes – both globally individuals. The people at the institution do a great job helping us by repackaging small articles. Solar pays for this service and locally. and thereby supports the institution. We consider this a natural social gesture. Run for a good cause In our various subsidiaries there are several local initiatives supporting both local and global projects. For instance in the Netherlands, there is a group of runners called The Running Friends. The Running Friends are a group of Solar employees running for a good cause: The Hunger Project – a global movement with a vision and commitment to end hunger. The Fund of 20th December Solar’s majority shareholder, The Fund of 20th December, continuously provides support to a number of projects in the Kolding area, where Solar was originally founded. As an example of this, the fund this year paid financial aid to a day care centre in Kolding. CSR Report 2012 13 our values smartfun gloW courage Our values – what we stand for and what shape our culture SmartFun – Glow – Courage. CSR Report 2012 14 corporate governance Solar aims at transparency As a listed company Solar A/S wants as much openness and transparency for all our stakeholders as possible. Solar views the recommendations of the Committee on Corporate GovernSolar’s Supervisory Board see it as their responsibility to ensure a competent ance in Denmark as a valuable tool for ensuring sound management, good management, a clear-cut organisation, effective control and risk managetransparency for shareholders and other stakeholders and for efficient ment tools and to lay down and follow up on strategic targets with due risk management. Solar, therefore, basically follows the recommendations regard for financial opportunities and the company’s management resources. relevant to the company. In our annual report and on our website www.solar.eu, Solar Solar wishes to maintain an ongoing dialogue with the company’s shareholdlists the managerial duties, including board memberships, that the Executive ers and other stakeholders and to provide as timely and detailed information Board and individual board members have undertaken. The annual report also about the company’s development as possible, balanced with the necessary holds information on the number of options held by members of the Executive consideration for the company’s competitive situation. Board and any changes hereto. Moreover, the annual report states whether any members of the Supervisory Board and Executive Board own shares in the Solar regards shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers, lenders and socompany. Any changes in these shareholdings are published on an ongoing ciety in general as important stakeholders. We believe that, in the long-term, basis. there are common interests between the company’s stakeholders. As a result, we wish to focus on these long-term interests that influence the company’s Our website www.solar.eu includes more information about corporate governethics, policies and information practices. ance. Solar wants as much openness and transparency for all stakeholders as possible with due consideration for our competitiveness. The intention is to provide a timely, true and fair view of the company’s position, financial position and development potential and to make this information available to all stakeholders at the same time. CSR Report 2012 15 our standards Solar A/S employs about 3,600 people we developed in ten countries, primarily in the Northern part of Europe. To act as one company, standards we need clear standards. Since legal requirements and work cultures differ and policies from country to country, we have developed standards and policies for how we want to do business. UN Global Compact Solar has been an active signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2009. This means that Solar has established a reporting system for activities covered by Global Compact’s 10 principles, which encompass human rights, working environment/labour, environment and anti-corruption. By signing up for Global Compact, Solar meets the reporting requirements of the Danish authorities applicable as of 2009. Solar wants to make it clear that we are committed to the UN’s Global Compact Programme. We see our involvement in the programme as an asset in relation to customers and suppliers and a clear advantage when it comes to attracting and retaining employees. In addition, there is the need for and a desire to be seen as a company in which both Danish and foreign investors can safely invest – also from an ethical standpoint. In 2010, Solar implemented a Code of Conduct across the group. Under the code, Solar is committed to comply with current legislation and regulations and to act in an ethical, sustainable and socially responsible way in all its business activities. The ethical standards will be an integral part of all new employees’ introduction programmes. Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) The Carbon Disclosure Project was launched to accelerate solutions to climate change and water management by putting relevant information at the heart of business, policy and investment decisions. In 2010, Solar disclosed our greenhouse gas emissions, water management and climate change strategies for the first time in response to CDP’s information requests. CSR Report 2012 16 cdp Environment Unit 2010 2011 Total emissions of greenhouse gasses Tonnes CO2e* 22,055 25,811 ... of which company cars account for (Scope 1) Tonnes CO2e 3,529 3,970 Gasoline cars MWh 9,065 10,770 Diesel cars MWh 785 1,062 Ethanol cars MWh 62 14 ... of which energy use accounts for (Scope 2) Tonnes CO2e 6,112 7,462 Electricity MWh 12,261 16,973 Heat (district heating, heating oil and gas) MWh 12,711 12,588 ... of which transport of goods by lorries accounts for (Scope 3) Tonnes CO2e 12,414 14,379 Per full-time employee (Scope 1 & 2) Tonnes CO2e 3.35 3.57 Per € 1 million of revenue (Scope 1 & 2) Tonnes CO2e 7.14 7.46 All data is a result of Solar’s reporting to the Carbon Disclosure Project, www.cdproject.net. For a thorough look see the Solar investor CDP 2012 report, a report publicly available online. * The greenhouse gas emissions is given in CO2 equivalents (CO2e). The equivalents allow to compare the impact from many different emitted gasses, as all emissions are converted via gas-specific impact potentials. For a complete overview of applied impact potentials, see Solars reporting to the investor CDP 2012. Key figures Labour practices Total number of employees 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total 3,175 2,955 3,585* 3,564** Managers & White collars 80% 81% 84% 85% Blue Collars 20% 19% 16% 15% Age distribution 2009 2010 2011 2012 Average age 43 42 42 43 Seniority 2009 2010 2011 2012 < 2 years 18% 16% 15% 20.7% 2-5 years 28% 31% 18% 20.5% 5-10 years 19% 18% 39% 22.5% > 10 years 35% 35% 28% 36.3% Employee Satisfaction Survey 2009 2010 2012 Value Creation Index 690 707 715 Leadership index 65 70 72 * Total number of employees 20.11.2011 ** Total number of employees 26.11.2012 CSR Report 2012 17 Key figures 3,564 Total number of employees, 26 November 2012 43 Average age, 2012 Seniority (2012) < 2 years 20.7% 2-5 years 20.5% 5-10 years 22.5% > 10 years 36.3% Solar A/S Haderslevvej 25 DK 6000 Kolding Tel. +45 79 30 00 00 CVR no. 15908416 www.solar.eu
