4th,Oct,2013 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Aid Green reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Dohyung Ricky, Kim C.E.O Human Rights • Assessment, policy and goals • Aid Green supports the Universal Declaration of Human right article1-30. Aid Green put Human right issue through all program and its workplace include int,’l branch. • Implementation • Aid Green operating an open community system makes all employees share their difficulty and find a solution by themself. Through above procedure, 2S(share to solve) system aware a importance of others as a Human Being and Human Rights • Measurement of outcomes • Via monthly and quarterly internal session on related workshop use as measurement tool • During the past reporting period, there is no significant case on Humanrights. But, Aid Green monitoring through an organization to protect Human Rights and emphasis on importance of every individual. Labour • Assessment, policy and goals • A TP(Time & Place) free policy show a flexibility of pattern of labour in Aid GreenThe TP free policy base on every personnel’s responsility to their own duty • Aid Green strongly support ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work to ensure sustainability not a showup policy and this policy not just for Aid Green itself also, collaboration with related partner. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association & effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation • Same as the Human-rights, A Labour issues significant to Aid Green. • Implementation • Same as the Human-rights, A Labour issues significant to Aid Green. And the Labour issues effect to Aid Green's Growth too. Basically, Aid Green pursues a free talk to every project and routine job. This procedure makes all employee work in a team and grants an ownership. And Aid Green values that ownership as a core asset. • Measurement of outcomes • During the past reporting period, there is no significant case on Human-rights every project share with all and develop with them. above procedure review by management to develop 2S(share-solve) system Environment • Assessment, policy and goals • A Environment issue one of DNA which root in Aid Green From MDGs7 to Sustainability issue affect to international Development organization include Aid Green whose goal is social entrepreneurship to social innovation. • A Carbon for water which is community development program based on carbon financing collaboration with Vestergaard Frandsen and local government & partner received positive feedback and set a pilot project coming year Implementation • Implementation • Organize an open professional network to fulfill current global issue. Held a professional forum with related partner “Appropriate Technology and Carbon Business . Put a Greener project into international Development sector. Expand int'l development area into commercial sector. Adopt Carbon for Water into CSR Fund • Measurement of outcomes • Open an account to Carbon-disclosure Mechanism as a developer Plan a local research project coming month(Oct.2012) Have a stakeholder meeting locally(Oct.2012) • Held a working-level meeting with related partner in Cambodia every 2nd month Anti-Corruption • Assessment, policy and goals • Aid Green support United Nations Convention against Corruption We not allow any types of bribe to any organization. We has a policy of 2C(clean & clear) • Implementation • Any types of worker in Aid Green should sign on 2C agreement. Routine workshop refer to related issues • Measurement of outcomes • During the past reporting period, there is no significant case on anti-corruption Routine Workshop and training by Policy professional.
