UN GLOBAL COMPACT IC COMPANYS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 MESSAGE FROM THE GROUP CEO IC Companys is a leading sports and fashion company with approximately 2200 employees engaged in operations globally. As a natural part of striving to become the best developers of sports and fashion brands, IC Companys is also aspiring to be one of the most responsible developers. By being a responsible company we refer to IC Companys not only being in compliance with regards to international standards on people, planet and profit but also to IC Companys’ ability to allocate resources to where we can make the biggest impact. Like last year this financial year has been affected by the global financial turmoil and challenging markets. Furthermore, the tragic building collapse in Savar, Bangladesh and the factory fires in both Bangladesh and Pakistan have again reminded us of the CR challenges the industry face and the importance of working hard together with our suppliers to promote responsible supply chain management. The incidents also show that the audit system is not infallible and that we also need to look for other more sustainable solutions. This is one of the reasons why IC Companys puts emphasis on education and why we believe initiatives like UN Global Compact and the Sustainable Apparel Coalition have the potential to create positive change in the industry by among others setting common standards. Furthermore, involving the suppliers much more in the process than what has been the case with the ‘audit’ regimes is also a crucial element in creating responsible supply chains. In line with our support to the UN Global Compact, IC Companys has signed the International Accord on Building and Fire Safety in Bangladesh which is committed to the goal of a safe and sustainable Bangladeshi Ready-Made Garment industry. Our signature of the Accord is also based on our belief that through initiatives like this, where we as an industry work together, we can exert leverage and affect change for the benefit of all actors in the industry. Our work with Corporate Responsibility was further strengthened during this financial year through our membership of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC), an industry-wide initiative established by a group of sustainability leaders from global apparel and footwear companies. IC Companys sees a membership of SAC as an opportunity to take our work one step further and be a part of defining the rules of the game. We believe that cooperating to find common solutions is the way forward instead of all of us developing our own initiatives which frustrates suppliers and creates confusion with consumers. In the next financial year IC Companys will continue our strong support of the UN Global Compact Principles and will work hard to have even better systems in place for implementing our CR efforts across the board. This includes continuing our emphasis on creating strong partnerships with our suppliers with focus on dialogue and education as vehicles for the development of a more sustainable supply chain. In the next pages you will find more information on IC Companys’ commitment to the UN Global Compact and how we translate this commitment into concrete activities and results. Group CEO Mads Ryder PAGE 2 • IC COMPANYS • UN GLOBAL COMPACT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IN IC COMPANYS Our Corporate responsibility framework of People, Planet and Profit is based on international principles and the UN Global Compact. Our work with international principles has played an important role in guiding our company in making the right decisions while also contributing to our readiness to meet future challenges. By matching our overall framework with policies and processes allocated to the relevant functional departments we have created a solid foundation for our Corporate Responsibility work. The first part of the Global Compact communication on progress report presents IC Companys’ corporate responsibility (CR) policy and then provides highlights of our CR activities in the financial year 2012/13. This is followed by a description of our work on People, Planet and Profit and subsequently by our plans and targets for the next financial year. In the last part of the report we provide a matrix showing an overview of activities and results vis-a-vis the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. Corporate Responsibility policy In the below is an excerpt of the CR policy. The areas of the CR Policy related specifically to People, Planet and Profit are mentioned in the section describing how we work on each area. In IC Companys we recognise that we are part of an industry with many CR challenges both in terms of complex supply chains and resource challenges to mention a few. Our overall approach is to take these challenges seriously and make sure that we are not a barrier to sustainable development. However, we would like to take it one step further and where possible work towards turning these challenges into opportunities where we can use our inherent creativity and strong innovation skills to make a difference and contribute to sustainable development. For IC Companys, CR is about not only making sure our products live up to our high quality standards and customer expectations, but also that they are produced responsibly. We consider CR to be an integrated part of our business and an essential element in our company’s profitability. Furthermore, our work with CR plays an important role in making sure IC Companys is ready to meet future challenges. IC Companys’ CR efforts are grounded in the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles which are based on internationally adopted declarations and conventions on human rights, labour rights, environmental protection and anti-corruption. We use these principles and the United Nations Guiding Principles as the overall framework to guide our CR policies and implementation processes. We pledge to work pro-actively internally as well as externally with our suppliers to promote compliance with these principles. We will never be able to guarantee 100% compliance, but we strive to make a positive difference and set up due diligence processes to avoid non-compliance issues. Furthermore, we use our Compliance Hotline to enable access to remediation in cases of noncompliance. A cornerstone in IC Companys’ approach is a continuous assessment of our CR risks and opportunities. This is essential for our efforts to secure compliance. Equally importantly it enables us to prioritise and allocate resources to where we can make the biggest impact. Moreover, we believe that for CR to be sustainable, it has to be integrated in the appropriate functions within IC Companys and our brands. This means that based on our continuous assessments, we assign responsibility in the organisation for our CR issues and CR targets in order for the relevant functions to take action. IC COMPANYS • UN GLOBAL COMPACT • PAGE 3 Highlights of activities in 2012/13 Further development of the implementation framework During this financial year IC Companys has focused on further developing the processes to guide the implementation of the Group’s CR strategy. This includes a very thorough revision and update of IC Companys’ Restricted Substance List to become even more comprehensive and aligned with the Group’s ‘precautionary principle’. Furthermore, IC Companys has launched new guidelines for our chemical workflow to assist employees in eliminating harmful chemicals in the different stages of a collection development. IC Companys has also introduced a new risk management procedure for both people, planet and profit risks, based on Country Risk Analyses to assess challenges in existing sourcing countries and to assess potential new sourcing countries. PEOPLE PLANET PROFIT PRINCIPLES UNGC Principles 1-6 UNGC Principles 7-9 UNGC Principles 10 POLICIES People CR policy Planet CR policy Profit CR policy PROCESSES Processes supporting the Processes supporting the Processes supporting the implementation of the People implementation of the Planet principles implementation of the Profit principles principles and policies and policies and policies Figure 1 3 X 3 P’s. Overall CR implementation framework From Principles to Policies to concrete Processes. IC Companys’ CR implementation framework (Figure 1) continues to provide valuable guidance in our everyday CR work, where the processes offer hands-on guidance on how to operationalise the CR work. First Danish member of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition During this financial year IC Companys joined the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC), an industry-wide initiative established by a group of sustainability leaders from global apparel and footwear companies. The members recognize that addressing the industry’s current CR challenges is both a business imperative and an opportunity. The member base consists of more than 90 leading apparel and footwear brands, retailers, suppliers and NGOs working to reduce the environmental and social impacts of apparel and footwear products around the world. IC Companys believes that through cooperation with other members in SAC and setting a common industry standard, the Group has an opportunity to contribute to a more transparent and sustainable fashion industry. This will benefit consumers, suppliers and brands. Furthermore, a membership of SAC is in line with how IC Companys, through the membership of the Danish Ethical Trading Initiative (DIEH), the Business Social CompIiance Initiative (BSCI) and Kemikaliegruppen, works to find solutions and try to exert leverage beyond what can be achieved alone. Finally, the membership matches the Group’s focus on education as one of the main means for being able to identify potential CR challenges and solutions. In SAC IC Companys gains access to a highly qualified network which provides valuable insight in new trends, challenges and opportunities. During this financial year IC Companys has used the membership of SAC to, among others, participate in developing The Higg Index. The Higg Index is primarily an indicator based tool for apparel that enables companies to evaluate material types, products, facilities and processes based on a range of environmental and product design choices. IC Companys has piloted The Higg Index both at a product level among the Group’s own brands and on a brand level to assist in setting targets for the Group’s CR efforts. For further information on SAC and The Higg Index, please see www.apparelcoalition.org Working with the suppliers The Group sees its suppliers as critical partners in its CR efforts. Consequently, using a partnership approach to promote responsible supply chain management has continued to be a main focus area during this financial year. This has included not only assisting the Group’s suppliers to find the most responsible solutions but also listening to the suppliers’ ideas on how to improve the Group’s CR performance. An example of this partnership approach is Peak Performance’s long term sourcing strategy which focuses on a closer relationship with the suppliers. The goal of Peak Performance is to be the best brand in the world on relationship-based sourcing as opposed to transaction-based sourcing. To achieve this, Peak Performance has to be closer to its suppliers and has among others held strategic workshop with the suppliers and set CR requirements for its partner suppliers. PAGE 4 • IC COMPANYS • UN GLOBAL COMPACT During this financial year IC Companys has also started to implement the supplier scorecard which in addition to parameters like quality, price and delivery also includes CR parameters. The tool is used to further promote dialogue with the Group’s suppliers and to emphasize the focus on CR performance as an important aspect of being an IC Companys supplier. The implementation is still at an initial phase but the Group has already received very positive feedback from the suppliers who have been involved. Furthermore, IC Companys has updated the Group’s Standard Operating Procedures to be aligned with the CR approach including the focus on the partnership approach and training, etc. Likewise, the Group has developed new procedures for its nominated fabric and trim suppliers. Our work on our People, Planet and Profit responsibilities People – UNGC principles 1-6 People Policy IC Companys supports and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which is outlined in the UN Global Compact principles 1-6. We do this by continuously identifying and assessing potential adverse human rights impacts both internally in IC Companys as well as in cooperation with our suppliers. Furthermore, we regularly assess opportunities for using our core competences to make a positive contribution to the realisation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our work with Human Rights also includes our efforts to create a conducive working environment for our employees, which provides the opportunity to develop and achieve a good work life balance. Furthermore, we use education both externally with our suppliers and internally as a mean to develop the capacity and understanding of the importance and value of working with human rights. DIEH (Danish Ethical Trading Initiative) As one of the founding members of DIEH, IC Companys continues to play a significant role in the initiative. During this financial year IC Companys’ CR Manager has filled the role of vice chair and also functioning chair for a period. This period coincided with the partnership agreement on responsible garments and textile production in Bangladesh between the Danish Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Danish garment and textile industry which was established in the aftermath of the terrible accident in the garment factory in Savar, Bangladesh. DIEH took lead in not only getting the support of the Danish industry to the partnership, but also in the follow-up work on suggesting concrete actions for implementation and getting the Danish industry to sign the international Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh. An agreement which IC Companys has also signed and which put emphasis on ensuring fire and building safety at factories by means of inspections as well as education of factory workers and building inspectors. For IC Companys its engagement in DIEH reflects the Group’s belief in working together in a multistakeholder approach to create sustainable solutions to the challenges in the industry. This also reflects the growing awareness in the industry that no single stakeholder can solve the complex challenges alone. On the contrary, there is great potential in working together and in identifying where each stakeholder has the best competences to contribute to sustainable solutions. BSCI Since joining BSCI in 2007, BSCI forms the foundation of the IC Companys’ initiatives on responsible supply chain management. BSCI is a business-driven initiative for companies committed to improving working conditions in the global supply chain. Built on the 3 pillars of Monitoring, Empowering and Engaging, BSCI unites hundreds of companies around one common Code of Conduct and supports them in their efforts to build a responsible supply chain by providing them with a step-by-step development-oriented system. A big part of BSCI’s work and budget is capacity building or empowering of suppliers and members. BSCI provides workshops in areas identified as challenging for suppliers e.g. overtime, occupation health and safety and worker management. IC Companys has participated actively in this financial year on improving BSCI’s capacity building work as a member of the capacity building work group. This not only provides IC Companys with the opportunity to be a part of the further development of BSCI but also allows us to gain valuable knowledge about the root courses or non-compliance areas from the suppliers’ point of view. In a response to the tragic building collapse in Savar, Bangladesh and the factory fires in both Bangladesh and Pakistan BSCI has strengthened detection of fire safety issues and included in the audit report as well as provided training courses on the same topics. The majority of our suppliers in Bangladesh have participated on this training course and the rest are on a waiting list to receive the training. IC COMPANYS • UN GLOBAL COMPACT • PAGE 5 The Higg Index – people part During this financial year we have piloted the new social/labour part of the The Higg Index, both at a brand and supplier level. Furthermore, we have participated in the Social and Labour market working group in SAC and provided feedback to the finalization of the social/labour part of The Higg Index. Global employee satisfaction In IC Companys our work with employee satisfaction is a continuous process which is closely followed by the top management. Satisfied, engaged employees and empowering leadership are absolutely necessary in a high performing organization. Each manager sets new targets each year and both individuals and teams are assessed to develop a performance culture based on performance recognition and respect for work life balance. To support this process, the annual Employee Survey ensures that we have a continuous idea of what our strengths are and where we need to improve. The overall results from this year’s Employee Survey shows that ‘Satisfaction & Motivation and Loyalty’ results for IC Companys are high with 72 points and 80 points, respectively. The score for ‘Satisfaction and Motivation’ and for ‘Loyalty’ are the same as last year and when compared with the external benchmark of the European Employee Index (EEI), it is a good result, Planet – UNGC principles 7-9 Planet Policy IC Companys supports the UN Global Compact’s principles for the environment (principles 7-9). Practically we do this by continuously assessing our environmental challenges and following the overall principle of taking a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Furthermore, we focus on educating our staff to become even better at identifying where in the supply chain we can take action to reduce our impact on the environment and where we can work with our suppliers to facilitate that they, e.g., use environmentally friendly technologies. Working with chemicals As part of our continuous work to improve our processes for working with chemicals we made a thorough revision and update of IC Companys’ Restricted Substance List to become even more comprehensive and aligned with the Group’s ‘precautionary principle’. Furthermore, IC Companys has launched a ‘Chemical Workflow’ to assist employees in eliminating harmful chemicals in the different stages of a collection development. The HQ knowledge center has also received training on chemical management and risks in leather products. The Higg Index – planet part In continuation of our work to improve the sustainability of our products we have piloted the product module of The Higg Index. The product module focusses on the environmental impact of a product with regards to materials, packaging, manufacturing, product care and end of use. The pilots which we did with our brand sourcing teams gave new insights on especially the environmental impact of the different materials but also highlighted how our products sustainability can be improve through e.g. changing the packaging. Profit UNGC principle 10 Profit Policy In IC Companys we believe that integrating our social, environmental and economic responsibilities is essential for our long-term profitability. In other words, we believe that running a company which respects our people, planet and profit responsibilities is not only the best thing for the profitability of IC Companys but it is also how we can make the biggest contribution in the societies where we operate. Furthermore, we also believe that this results in proper risk management for the benefit of our shareholders and other stakeholders. With regards to anti-corruption, we support the 10th principle of the UN Global Compact and apply a zero tolerance approach against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. To further safeguard our Company against illegal activities and to identify corrupt practices we apply our Compliance Hotline which provides a confidential system through which employees can report misconduct. Furthermore, we continuously work to improve our processes and educate our employees on how best to tackle situations where they face corruption challenges. PAGE 6 • IC COMPANYS • UN GLOBAL COMPACT Compliance Hotline Implementation of the Compliance Hotline During this financial year IC Companys has implemented the Compliance Hotline allowing employees/managers and agents working on the Group’s behalf to report suspected misconduct in a secure and confidential way. The Compliance Hotline plays an important role in ensuring that IC Companys complies with all internal policies and regulatory requirements and is an important part of the on-going due diligence work. IC Companys has only received one case during the financial year 2012/13 which was handled by the CR Committee. Though mentioned here under the Profit chapter, the Compliance Hotline is equally relevant with regards to People and Planet non-compliance issues. Plans and targets for 2013/2014 In the next financial year IC Companys will continue its strong support of the UN Global Compact Principles and will work hard to have even better systems and processes in place for implementing the CR efforts across the board. Furthermore, the Group’s membership of the Sustainable Apparel Coalition and the implementation of The Higg Index will be an important driver for the Group’s CR work in 2012/13. Moreover, IC Companys will finalize the implementation of the anti-corruption policy which was not fully implemented in this financial year. In terms of using more quantitative indicators inspired by the Global Reporting Initiative, the Group will assess the new set of guidelines (G4) and then evaluate if inspiration can be drawn from this new set of indicators for future reporting. Furthermore IC Companys will focus on the following: • Full roll out of Supplier Scorecard tool • Continue the work to further increase transparency of supplier CR performance and ranking • Continuous training and dialogue with preferred and partner suppliers • Active membership of BSCI including participation in working groups • Active membership of SAC • Active membership of DIEH • Continuous updating of the RSL • Tools and training on harmful chemicals for brands and production offices • Increased training for sourcing and design teams on using The Higg Index • Implementation of The Higg Index Facility and Product modules • Continue support to DIEH and the search for multistake-holder solutions IC COMPANYS • UN GLOBAL COMPACT • PAGE 7 CR ACTIVITIES AND RESULTS 2012/13 PRINCIPLES COMMITMENTS SYSTEMS ACTIONS RESULTS PEOPLE – SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Principle 1: Support and IC Companys supports CR Integration in relevant Assessed CR risk and Increased awareness of respect the protection of and respects the Univerdepartments, managed opportunities through CR challenges in existing internationally proclaimed sal Declaration of Human by Corporate CR Manager, Country Risk Analyses and potential supplier human rights Rights which is outlined who reports directly to countries. in the UN Global Compact our CEO Principle 2: Make sure principles 1-6. Increased dialogue with that we are not complicit We do this by continuousConsultation Committee suppliers on how to avoid in human rights abuses. ly identifying and assesswith participation of manidentified potential noning potential adverse huagement and employees compliance issues Principle 3: Support freeman rights impacts both representatives dom of association internally in IC Companys and the right to collective as well as in cooperation CR standards included in bargaining with our suppliers. Occupational Health and Safety guidelines. Principle 4: Support Furthermore, we use elimination of all forms education both externally Annual Employee Surveys Employee survey Employee survey results: of forced and compulsory with our suppliers and Satisfaction & Motivalabour internally as a mean to tion and Loyalty’ scores develop the capacity and Compliance Hotline among IC Companys’ Principle 5: Support the understanding of the employees is the same as effective abolition of child importance and value for the 2012 survey labour of working with human rights Business Social CompliInput to and membership In 2012, BSCI trained Principle 6: Support elimiance Initiative (BSCI) of BSCI capacity building I2,200 factory and farm nation of discrimination Code of Conduct (coverwork group staff in respect of employment ing principles 3-6) and occupation Assessment of suppliers 62% of the production deusing BSCI process riving from countries with a high risk profile was from suppliers who had Supplier scorecard incl. Initiated rating of our or were in the process CR indicators linked to suppliers (Supplier of completing the BSCI BSCI process Scorecard) according auditing process to progression in BSCI process Global Sourcing Project Reduction of suppliers in 2012-13 by 10% to a total of 314 (349) Country Risk Analysis Performed county risk analysis on all existing supplier countries Social and Labour part of Piloted and provided Increased awareness the The Higg Index input to the Social and internally and for selected Labour part of the The suppliers on the standHigg Index ards for social and labour and how to improve Signed International Accord on Fire and Building Safety in Bangladesh PLANET – ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Principle 7: Support a IC Companys supports HQ chemicals knowledge Continued chemicals Increased competences precautionary approach the UN Global Compact’s center training of HQ knowledge of own staff and suppliers to environmental chalprinciples for the environcenter including participaon how to avoid harmful lenges ment. Practically we do Risk Matrix and supporttion in monthly Swerea chemicals in our products this by continuously asing guiding documents meetings sessing our environmenfor avoiding harmful tal challenges and followchemicals ing the overall principle of taking a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PAGE 8 • IC COMPANYS • UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES COMMITMENTS SYSTEMS ACTIONS RESULTS PLANET – ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Principle 8: Undertake Furthermore, we focus Restricted Substance List Training of HQ knowledge Increased competences initiatives to promote on educating our staff (RSL) center on sustainable to work with sustainable greater environmental to become even better leather leather production responsibility at identifying where in Database for monitoring the supply chain we can test results on harmful Principle 9: Encourage take action to reduce our chemicals Revised and updated Improved RSL covering the development and difimpact on the environRestricted Substance List latest REACH developfusion of environmentally ment and where we can ments friendly technologies work with our suppliers One-on-One dialogue with to facilitate that they, and advice to suppliers e.g., use environmentally on using non-harmful friendly technologies. chemicals Chemical Workflow Workshop with brands Increased competences on harmful chemicals in brands to eliminate and what can be done harmful chemicals to eliminate them in the different stages of the collection development Internal guidelines on working with chemicals Supplier scorecard incl. Suppliers rated according Increased transparency CR indicators on harmful to chemical performance and awareness for supplichemicals ers with regards compliance with our RSL Membership of Swerea –The Swedish Chemicals Training of Hong Kong Increased knowledge of Group which includes and Shanghai offices and own staff and suppliers continuous updates on suppliers on how to avoid on how to avoid harmful newest research and deharmful chemicals chemicals velopments with regards to chemicals in textiles Compliance Hotline Country Risk Analysis Environmental part of The Piloted and provided input Higg Index to the Environmental part of the The Higg Index Chemical risk matrix Application of Risk Matrix on all styles to secure the ‘right’ products are tested for harmful chemicals PROFIT – FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Principle 10: Work against With regards to antiAnti-Corruption policy Established Anti-corrupcorruption in all its forms, corruption, we support tion policy including extortion and the 10th principle of the bribery UN Global Compact and Compliance Hotline Established Compliance Resolved one issue reapply a zero tolerance apHotline ported to the Compliance proach against corruption Code of Conduct Hotline in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. To further safeguard our Company against illegal activities and to identify corrupt practices we apply our whistle-blower system which provides a confidential system through which employees can report misconduct. IC COMPANYS • UN GLOBAL COMPACT • PAGE 9
