SMEC Sustainability Report 2012 2013 Contents The Chief Executive Officer 4 The Company 6 Global Network 8 Corporate Governance 10 Board of Directors 12 Executive Committee 14 Stakeholders & Objectives 16 Performance 18 Sustainability Strategy 20 People 22 Community 30 Sustainability & Environment 34 Global Reporting Initiative Index 40 This is SMEC’s third annual Sustainability Report. SMEC has applied the Global Reporting Initiative The report covers SMEC’s economic, environmental (GRI) G3.1 guidelines to a self-declared Level B. The and social performance from 1 April 2012 to GRI G3.1 guidelines are the world’s most widely used 31 March 2013. sustainability reporting guidelines. The information in this report pertains to SMEC’s The data in this report has been gathered using Australian operations and does not include SMEC’s standard measurement techniques which conform international operations, international subsidiaries, to national or international guidelines or regulatory joint ventures or any other controlled entities. requirements. Specific calculations are referenced where appropriate. All monetary figures are in SMEC’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Australian dollars, unless otherwise stated. policies and procedures have been implemented in Australia over the last year and will be implemented For further information, please contact: in pilot sites internationally in the year ahead. sustainabilityreport@smec.com. The Chief Executive Officer I fully support SMEC’s CSR Program and will continue to drive a culture where sustainability is entrenched in the way we do business. I am pleased to report that this is SMEC’s third managers (direct reports of Executive Committee the way we recorded health and safety hazards and over 2.4 million kWh of power and over 7,000 reams consecutive year reporting on the Company’s members) have commenced the Program. The implemented a system to record ‘proactive alerts’ (to of paper in the last 12 months. We immediately set Sustainability initiatives, since joining the United Nations Program will progressively be implemented across all identify a potential hazard before an accident occurs). In a reduction target of 10% for energy and paper Global Compact (UNGC) in April 2010. Each year we levels of the Company. this reporting period, we set a target of 48 proactive alerts consumption for the next 12 months. To assist in have made progress in all three areas of reporting; and recorded 60 proactive alerts, this is encouraging. achieving this target, SMEC joined CitySwitch, a People, Community, and Sustainability and Environment. In this reporting period, we focused on improving benefits national tenant energy efficiency program. for our people and implemented initiatives ranging from With changes to Australian Workplace Health and In early 2013, we clearly defined the Company’s generous Australian Defence Force leave, to (additional) Safety (WH&S) in 2012, we implemented online training I fully support SMEC’s CSR Program and will continue commitment to the three areas and agreed several annual leave being made available for purchase. to ensure our people are kept informed. We achieved to drive a culture where sustainability is entrenched five-year objectives. We are already using these Purchasing additional annual leave has been particularly an 86% completion rate which was a good result. Also in the way we do business. We have made significant objectives to plan and implement our Corporate Social popular with 15% of Australian-based employees in the WH&S space, we introduced the Safety and progress to date and I am excited about the practical Responsibility (CSR) Program. availing of the opportunity within the first six months. Wellbeing Award as a new annual award. This Award program we will be implementing in the year ahead. recognises an initiative that has had a positive impact Gender diversity remains a priority for SMEC and I’m SMEC is serious about having a work environment on safety and wellbeing at SMEC. pleased to note that improving the gender balance is that is inclusive and promotes mutual respect. In this gaining momentum. As at 1 January 2013, 32% of new reporting period we reviewed our approach to Equal SMEC continued its commitment to supporting starters in the Australian business were female, and Employment Opportunity (EEO) and developed an EEO people in need through the charitable work of the 24% of Australian based employees were female. This framework. We have implemented EEO briefings for all SMEC Foundation. In this reporting period, donations Ross Hitt is positive and a lot higher than the industry average. members of the Board, Executive Committee and the increased by 12% to (over) A$100,000 and were used Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Australian Management Committee. EEO training is to provide small-scale grants to 17 projects in nine SMEC Holdings Limited Succession Planning has been a key focus area being implemented for all Australian-based employees countries, primarily in the areas of Education (40%), during this reporting period. A formal program has over the next 12 months. Emergency Relief (25%) and Health (20%). been implemented for the two levels of management below the CEO position. The Program involves an Providing a working environment where there is no risk New initiatives to eliminate (or minimise) adverse online 360 degree appraisal, mentoring program and to health and safety is a top priority for SMEC. In this impacts on the environment were introduced in detailed Development Program. ‘Level One’ managers reporting period, we continued to focus on proactive this reporting period. We collected baseline data (Executive Committee members) and ‘Level Two’ reporting of health and safety. In 2011, we changed to reveal that in Australia alone, SMEC consumed 4 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 5 The Company A professional services firm with Australian origins and a global footprint, SMEC couples expertise with responsiveness and reliability to deliver practical outcomes for major infrastructure projects. 5,000+ people 70+ offices 35+ countries 6 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 7 Global Network NORTH AMERICA SOUTH ASIA AND ASIA PACIFIC MIDDLE EAST AFRICA SOUTH AMERICA AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND North and South America Africa South Asia and Middle East Asia Pacific Australia and New Zealand • Established 2004 • Established 1974 • Established 1968 • Established 1962 • Established 1949 • 4 offices • 25 offices • 16 offices • 10 offices • 16 offices • 65 people • 1,368 people • 1,895 people • 588 people • 1,264 people 8 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 9 Corporate Governance Company Structure Risk Management SMEC operates using a divisional-functional matrix Independence of Non-Executive Directors Executive Committee The Board, through the Audit and Risk Committee, structure. The essential features of the structure are: a An independent Director is separate from management, The Executive Committee (EC) monitors SMEC’s is responsible for ensuring that there are adequate Chief Executive Officer (CEO) reporting to a Board of free of relationships that could interfere with the exercise operations and ensures that strategies and policies set organisational arrangements for designing, Directors; one global division, Mining, Oil and Gas; four of independent judgement; and meets the criteria for by the Board are implemented. The EC is responsible implementing, monitoring, reviewing and improving risk geographic divisions (Australia and three international independence in the ASX Standards. SMEC’s Board has for all matters not reserved for the Board or individual management throughout SMEC. divisions); and a series of functional (technical) groups. three independent Non-Executive Directors. Directors and is responsible for the day-to-day A Corporate Affairs group provides business support SMEC has improved its processes for the identification management of SMEC. The EC is chaired by the services across the Company. of risks and better consultation in managing risks. Managing Director and CEO, receives its terms of Board Committees reference from the Board and is comprised of members This led to the implementation of (more) targeted risk The SMEC Group operates through a number of management measures, and an overall improvement of The Board has three permanent committees which appointed by the CEO. companies under parent company SMEC Holdings, SMEC’s risk management systems. provide direction on specific areas. Each committee a predominately employee owned public company has written terms of reference and is subject to annual registered in Australia. SMEC’s Australian and review by the Board. These committees are: the Remuneration of Directors During this reporting period SMEC focused on fostering international operations are conducted through SMEC a risk management culture. The adoption of this Audit and Risk Committee; the Remuneration and Non-Executive Directors are paid annual fees, which Australia, SMEC International and Global Maintenance culture has led to greater awareness and improved Nominations Committee; and the Executive Committee. in total fall within the fixed amount approved by Consulting. The SMEC Group includes subsidiaries communication of risks at all levels. shareholders (currently set at A$1,000,000). During the which meet regional and functional needs. Audit and Risk Committee 2011–2012 financial year, remuneration of Non-Executive The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board with Directors totalled A$542,449. Non-Executive Directors Quality Management The Board of Directors financial reporting, managing SMEC’s material risks and are not eligible for SMEC’s bonus or incentive schemes SMEC is committed to implementing quality SMEC’s Board of Directors has adopted practices in ensuring that financial information (provided to investors and only statutory retirement benefits are payable. management principles on all projects and has line with the Principles of Good Corporate Governance and the Board) is accurate and timely. The Audit and developed a Quality Management System (QMS). Risk Committee must have at least three members, and Best Practice set out by the Australian Stock consist only of Non-Executive Directors, have a majority Code of Conduct SMEC’s QMS complies with the requirements of ISO Exchange (ASX) Corporate Governance Council. ASX 9001:2008 and regulatory requirements. of independent Directors and have an independent SMEC has a Code of Conduct which must be followed Standards promote ethical behaviour, transparency and Chair (who is not the Chair of the Board). by all employees. Reviewed and updated in early SMEC’s QMS provides systematic control of business ensure fair remuneration. 2013, the Code requires that all employees act with activities to ensure that client expectations are being SMEC’s Board is responsible for formulating SMEC’s Remuneration and Nominations Committee honesty, integrity and in compliance with the law met and, if possible, exceeded. With processes for strategic direction and maintaining good corporate The Remuneration and Nominations Committee and work collaboratively with their colleagues. The planning, documenting, managing and controlling governance. Acting on behalf of shareholders, the assists in establishing a Board with an effective Code encourages employees to report any unethical everyday business needs and activities, the QMS Board is accountable for SMEC’s financial and composition, diversity and size to adequately practices and ensure the safety of themselves and includes review processes to monitor and measure operational performance and acts with fairness and discharge its responsibilities. The Committee aims those around them. performance and identify improvements. accountability. The Board has a written charter which to ensure that SMEC: secures, motivates and retains Managers (in addition to the above responsibilities) are During the reporting period, SMEC implemented outlines its responsibilities and governance framework. highly skilled and diverse senior executives to ensure expected to develop a positive working environment and an electronic audit site to monitor quality levels and SMEC’s long-term success; remunerates its directors SMEC’s Board is composed of two Executive Directors provide ongoing support and feedback to their employees generate feedback to improve the QMS and SMEC’s and senior executives fairly and responsibly; and and four Non-Executive Directors. The Board can including performance and development reviews. overall business operations. Since 1 July 2012, there implements policies and practices that secure, motivate only have a maximum of eight members (a majority of and retain highly skilled and diverse employees. The have been 122 items logged using the audit site. These Along with the review of the Code of Conduct, independent Non‑Executive Directors), with the Chair Remuneration and Nominations Committee must have items range from corrective action requests to business SMEC introduced an Equal Employment Opportunity elected by the Board. Directors should have a range of at least three members, consist only of Non-Executive improvement suggestions. Procedure (which covers workplace harassment skills and experience and (except the Managing Director) Directors, have a majority of independent Directors and and bullying) to promote an inclusive, flexible work should retire at the fourth Annual General Meeting have an independent Chair. environment that fosters mutual employee respect. following their appointment, or stand for re‑election. 10 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 11 Board of Directors Peter Busbridge Chairman BE(Civil), AMP Harvard, FIEAust, MAICD Peter joined SMEC in 1974 and has held the positions of Chief Executive Officer, Chief Alastair McKendrick Kate Spargo Operations Officer, Executive Director Australia, Director and Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Manager New South Wales and Chief Engineer BBus(Acc), FCPA, MAICD BA, LLB(Hons), FAICD Highways and Transportation. In 2009, Peter was Alastair joined SMEC in 1999 as Financial Controller, Kate is a Non-Executive Director of SMEC (appointed appointed Chairman of the Board and in 2010 Peter was appointed Chief Financial Officer in 2000 and in 2010), Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee and was appointed a Director of the SMEC Foundation Group Finance Director in 2009. He was elected to the a Director of the SMEC Foundation Board. Kate is Board. Peter holds a Bachelor of Engineering (Civil) Board as an Executive Director in 2001. Alastair has currently a Non-Executive Director on the Boards of from Melbourne University and has completed over 30 years’ experience in the management of large Sonic Healthcare Ltd, Fletcher Building Ltd, Investec the Advanced Management Program at Harvard organisations and consulting to small-to-medium sized Bank (Australia) Ltd, Accounting Professional and Ethical University. Peter is a Fellow of the Institution organisations in Australia, Hong Kong, New Zealand Standards Board, International Ethics Standards Board of Engineers Australia and is a Member of the and the United Kingdom. Alastair holds a Bachelor of for Accountants, CoInvest Ltd and Suncorp Portfolio Australian Institute of Company Directors and Business (Accounting) from Monash University, is a Services Ltd. Kate holds a Bachelor of Law (Honours) the Road Engineering Association of Asia and Fellow of Certified Public Accountants Australia and a and a Bachelor of Arts from Adelaide University. Kate is Australasia (REAAA). Member of the Australian Institute of Company Directors. a Fellow of the Australian Institute of Company Directors. In early 2013, SMEC set a number of five year objectives to help deliver on the CSR commitments the Company has made in Ross Hitt Max Findlay Roger Bayliss each of its three key areas; Managing Director and CEO Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director BE(Civil), GradDip(Management), FIEAust, MAICD BEc, FAICD BSc, MRACI, FAICD People, Community, Ross joined SMEC in 1980. Ross was appointed Max was appointed Non-Executive Director of SMEC in Roger was appointed to the Board in 2002. Roger and Sustainability and Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of SMEC in 2009, after serving as Managing Director 2010. Max was the Managing Director of Programmed Maintenance Services for 18 years until his retirement is a Non‑Executive Director of SMEC, Chair of the Remuneration and Nominations Committee and a Environment. International since 2005. Ross has more than 35 in 2008. Max serves on the Boards of several Director of the SMEC Foundation Board. Roger’s career years’ experience in engineering, development and organisations including the Royal Children’s Hospital has spanned 45 years and includes management and infrastructure projects in Australia and internationally. and Skilled Group Ltd (a publicly listed company). Max policy development, marketing, international trade and Ross holds a Bachelor of Engineering (Civil) from is Chairman of the Board of EVZ Ltd. Max holds a investment. Roger was a member of the executive Monash University and a Postgraduate Diploma in Bachelor of Economics (Politics) from Monash University management team at the Australian Trade Commission Management from Deakin University. Ross is a Fellow and a postgraduate qualification in Accounting from (Austrade). He is a Chartered Chemist, a Member of the of the Institution of Engineers Australia and a Member Swinburne University. Max is a Fellow of the Australian Royal Australian Chemical Institute and a Fellow of the of the Australian Institute of Company Directors and the Institute of Company Directors. Australian Institute of Company Directors. Roger holds Australia India Business Council. a Bachelor of Science from Sydney University. 12 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 13 Executive Committee Ross Hitt Managing Director and CEO Hari Poologasundram Manoli Loukas Andy Goodwin BE(Civil), GradDip(Management), FIEAust, MAICD Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer Ross joined SMEC in 1980. Ross was appointed Australia and New Zealand Asia Pacific South Asia and Middle East Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of BSc(Hons), MSc, CPEng, MIEAust, GradDip(Business), MBA BSc(Eng)Mech, BCom(Hons) SMEC in 2009, after serving as Managing Director MICE, MIHT Manoli joined SMEC in 2005. In 2011, Andy joined SMEC in 2012 as Chief International since 2005. Ross has more than Hari joined SMEC in 1994, was Manoli was appointed Acting Chief Operating Officer South Asia and 35 years’ experience in engineering, development appointed Managing Director Australia Operating Officer Asia Pacific and in Middle East. Andy has 29 years’ energy and infrastructure projects in Australia and in 2009 and Chief Operating Officer 2012 he was permanently appointed. and infrastructure sector experience in internationally. Ross holds a Bachelor of Engineering Australia and New Zealand in 2012. Prior to this, Manoli held the positions Asia, Europe and South Africa. Andy (Civil) from Monash University and a Postgraduate Hari has over 25 years’ experience of Regional Director Asia Pacific and has led highly technical and complex Diploma in Management from Deakin University. Ross in the delivery of large infrastructure Regional Manager India. With over projects and implemented business is a Fellow of the Institution of Engineers Australia projects using Design and Construct, 25 years’ engineering experience, strategies that have led to strong and a Member of the Australian Institute of Company Public‑Private Partnership and Alliance Manoli has a strong background in growth. Andy holds a Bachelor of Directors and the Australia India Business Council. methods. Hari holds a Bachelor of operations management and strategy Science (Mechanical Engineering) from Science (Civil Engineering) and a development. Manoli holds a Master the University of Witwatersrand and a Master of Science (Civil Engineering) of Business Administration from Bachelor of Commerce (Honours) from from City University, London. Swinburne University. the University of South Africa. SMEC’s Executive Committee is comprised of a diverse group of Alastair McKendrick Neil Evans Tom Marshall Irek Stawiczny Angus Macpherson Director and Group Finance Director Strategy and Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer Director Corporate Affairs professionals, Director New Business Africa Mining, Oil and Gas; and BE(Civil), CPEng, MIEAust BBus(Acc), FCPA, MAICD BSc(Eng), AMP Harvard PrEng, BEng, MEng, DEng, MSAICE, CEO GMC Global responsible for Alastair joined SMEC in 1999, was Neil joined SMEC in 1993, was MIMESA, FIOD BE(Mechanical) Angus joined SMEC in 1993 and was appointed Director Corporate the day-to-day appointed Chief Financial Officer in 2000, elected to the Board in appointed Director Strategy and Business Development in 2009 and Tom joined SMEC in 2012, when Vela VKE joined The SMEC Group. Irek is the founder of GMC Global. Irek joined SMEC in 2012, when Affairs in 2010. Angus has more than 15 years’ experience in management of 2001 and appointed Group Finance Director in 2009. Alastair has over Director Strategy and New Business in 2012. Prior to this, Neil was Tom has over 25 years’ experience in civil engineering design, construction GMC Global became part of The SMEC Group. A qualified engineer managing design teams and in the development and implementation the Company. 30 years’ experience managing large organisations and consulting Managing Director Australia, and led acquisitions and business planning. supervision and management of multi-disciplinary teams throughout with 18 years’ mining industry experience, Irek has worked in of business management systems. Angus has experience in both to small-to-medium organisations in Neil has over 40 years’ experience southern Africa. Tom holds a multiple technical and leadership the public and private sectors Australia, Hong Kong and the United and has been a member of project Bachelor of Engineering (Civil) and a roles. Irek has been involved in a in a wide range of infrastructure Kingdom. Alastair holds a Bachelor boards and review groups worldwide. Master of Engineering (Geotechnics number of large-scale maintenance projects. Angus has expertise of Business (Accounting) from Neil holds a Bachelor of Science (Civil and Transportation) from the management improvement programs in scope control, risk analysis, Monash University, is a Fellow of Engineering) from the University of University of Stellenbosch and a and global Enterprise Resource financial management and design Certified Public Accountants Australia New South Wales and completed the Doctor of Engineering (Engineering Planning (ERP) projects. Irek holds a review. Angus holds a Bachelor of and a Member of the Australian Advanced Management Program at Management) from the University of Bachelor of Mechanical Engineering Engineering (Civil) from the University Institute of Company Directors. Harvard University. Johannesburg. from Central Queensland University. of Technology, Sydney. 14 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 15 Stakeholders & Objectives Stakeholder Engagement Sustainability Objectives SMEC interacts with a wide range of stakeholders, Employees receive regular company updates from In early 2013, SMEC set a number of five year Community from local community members and contractors to the CEO and other senior management via email objectives to help deliver on the commitments the Our Commitment employees, clients, shareholders, industry bodies and announcements and SMEC’s intranet. The SMEC Company has made in each of its three Corporate opinion leaders. News, an electronic internal monthly newsletter (edited Social Responsibility (CSR) categories: People; Support community and charitable programs that and produced by employees for employees) provides Community; and Sustainability and Environment. SMEC provide long-term solutions. SMEC stays abreast of emerging trends and sensitive information on SMEC’s projects, people, events and will report on progress against these objectives in issues through effective and regular dialogue with Five Year Objectives achievements. future Sustainability Reports. stakeholders. This dialogue feeds directly into the • To deliver the best possible social and development ongoing development of SMEC’s business practices. Clients People outcomes for people in need through small-scale SMEC recognises that it is important to engage with Client satisfaction is (and has always been) a high Our Commitment grant support through the SMEC Foundation local stakeholders to develop a Corporate Social priority for SMEC. Listening to clients is a major part of • To protect and uphold internationally proclaimed Responsibility (CSR) framework that resonates with Create a rewarding, inclusive workplace for our people the business. SMEC encourages open dialogue with its human rights, particularly in the areas of child abuse employees, clients, communities and other stakeholders. by encouraging personal development, recognising clients and focuses on quick action to improve service and forced compulsory labour good performance, fostering equal opportunity and and project delivery. The diverse nature of stakeholder groups means a ensuring employee health, safety and wellbeing. • To support and encourage employee participation in variety of methods is used to communicate effectively SMEC has a Client Relationship Management (CRM) their local community, particularly charity work at every level. The communication method used Five Year Objectives policy, related procedures and an online system Sustainability and Environment depends on the situation and the stakeholder and to manage client information to better respond to • To provide and maintain a satisfying and rewarding may involve one-on-one meetings, industry initiatives, client needs. CRM documentation includes a project work environment for all employees Our Commitment corporate publications, company announcements, closure procedure which states that Project Managers • To achieve and maintain cultural and gender Eliminate or minimise any adverse impacts that SMEC’s media releases, the website (www.smec.com), the must request client feedback using SMEC’s Project balance and increase awareness of the importance office activities and projects have on the environment. intranet or a combination of these. Service Questionnaire (which covers quality of service, of diversity technical input and value for money). Raise employee, client and community awareness of SMEC’s policies and procedures identify and manage • To provide employees with personal and career the importance of environmental sustainability. issues that may impact stakeholders. SMEC’s three At the time of this report, SMEC was finalising an development opportunities and clear career paths major stakeholder groups are employees, clients and improved client feedback tool (and associated • To eliminate or manage hazards and practices that Five Year Objectives shareholders. procedures) linked to the existing CRM system. SMEC’s could cause accidents, injuries or illness • To operate energy efficient offices and reduce improved client feedback system will capture and Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions generated by Employees analyse client feedback to ensure SMEC continues to SMEC’s operations SMEC’s management has an ‘open door’ philosophy, provide responsive, reliable services. • To provide long-term environmentally sustainable whereby all employees can feel comfortable project advice to clients Shareholders approaching management to discuss any issue or idea. SMEC encourages two-way communication SMEC has a policy of continuous disclosure and • To implement an Environmental Awareness Program communication to shareholders. The Board aims to educate employees, clients, partners and with employees through the Staff Consultative to ensure that shareholders are fully informed. The contractors about the importance of environmental Committee (SCC). The SCC is a recognised committee Company Secretary is responsible for communicating sustainability within SMEC’s management chain, comprising both employee‑elected and management-appointed with the Australian Securities and Investments employees. The SCC acts in an advisory capacity Commission (ASIC) and ensuring compliance with the to address employee issues and management continuous disclosure requirements of the Corporations briefs. Initiatives introduced by the SCC over the last Act 2001. SMEC communicates with its shareholders 12 months include Australian Defence Force leave and through a dedicated shareholder website, Annual employee travel discounts. General Meetings and a range of announcements. 16 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 17 Performance Industry Awards Economic Performance Consistently ranked amongst the world’s top engineering International Erosion Control Association SMEC has policies in place to ensure strong economic Government Financial Assistance firms, SMEC won a variety of awards in the past year, • Environmental Achievement Award: Banora Point performance, sustained long-term growth and positive The Australian Government offers a Research and from technical excellence and design innovation to the Upgrade Alliance returns for all stakeholders. During the reporting period Development (R&D) tax incentive (40% tax offset) for management of environmental risks. (1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013), revenue in Australia activities which are innovative or have high levels of International RiverFoundation increased by 8.9% to A$222.6 million. SMEC’s net technical risk. SMEC improved its rankings in Engineering News • Australian River Prize: Condamine Alliance operating profit after tax in Australia increased by 4.4% Record’s (ENR) 2012 lists. SMEC was ranked at New South Wales Roads and Maritime Services During the reporting period, SMEC spent A$1,028,324 to A$12.2 million. SMEC’s operating costs decreased number 74 in the ‘Top 150 Global Design Firms’ list (an • Quality Innovation Award: Banora Point Upgrade on R&D activities and received A$101,804 as an after by 42% to A$33.7 million, with employee compensation increase of 13 positions) and ranked at number 58 in increasing by 36% to A$176.6 million. The generation tax cashback benefit (as displayed in Figure 3). the ‘Top 200 International Design Firms’ list (an increase Planning Institute (Northern Territory) • Best Planning Ideas Award (Small Ideas): Breezes and distribution of SMEC’s economic value is displayed of nine positions). In ENR’s 2012 ‘Top Ten by Market’ in Figures 1 and 2. list for Water, SMEC ranked at number nine. Muirhead Urban Development Institute of Australia (Victoria) Figure 1: Economic Value Generated in Australia (all figures are in A$’000) Alliancing Association of Australia • Alliance Team of Excellence Award (Project Alliance): • Residential Development (more than 250 lots): Cardinia Lakes Generated VIC & SA NSW & ACT QLD & NT AUSTRALIA Ballina Bypass Alliance Revenue 74,970 94,329 53,297 222,596 Banksia Environmental Foundation Company Memberships • Water Award: Condamine Alliance Net Operating Profit After Tax N/A N/A N/A 12,202 • Association of Consulting Surveyors (Victoria) Civil Contractors Federation (New South Wales) • Association of Land Development Engineers • Earth Award (projects greater than A$75 million): • Australian Green Infrastructure Council Figure 2: Economic Value Distributed in Australia (all figures are in A$’000) Ballina Bypass Alliance • Australian National Committee on Large Dams Distributed VIC & SA NSW & ACT QLD & NT AUSTRALIA Civil Contractors Federation (South Australia) • Australian Water Association • Earth Award (projects greater than A$75 million): Operating Costs (11,373) (14,311) (8,085) (33,769) • Australasian Corrosion Association Adelaide Desalination Plant Employee Compensation (59,486) (74,847) (42,289) (176,622) • CitySwitch Green Office Program Consult Australia • Consult Australia Payments to Providers of Capital – Dividend N/A N/A N/A (7,231) • Future Leader (Gold): Jared Cooke, Manager • International Road Federation Highways, Brisbane Government (Tax) N/A N/A N/A (1,091) • National Association of Women in Construction TOTAL (218,713) Engineers Australia (Newcastle) • Property Council of Australia (South Australia) • Engineering Excellence Award: Ballina Bypass Alliance • Property Council of Australia (Victoria) • Regional Award: Ballina Bypass Alliance Figure 3: Financial Assistance Received from the Australian Government (all figures are in A$) • Roads Australia Engineers Australia (Queensland) • United Nations Global Compact Claimed in 2012 Estimate Claim • Engineering Excellence Award (projects greater than • Urban Development Institute of Australia (Queensland) Tax Deduction at 133% Tax Offset at 133% TOTAL A$50 million): Gateway Upgrade (1/4/12–30/6/12) (1/7/12–31/3/13) (1/4/12–31/3/13) • Urban Development Institute of Australia (Victoria) • R.W. Hawken Award: Gateway Upgrade • Water Industry Alliance R&D Expenditure 257,081 771,243 1,028,324 Engineers Australia (Northern) • Waste Management Association of Australia Before Tax Cash Benefit 84,836 254,510 339,346 • President’s Award for Best Public Infrastructure • Women’s Planning Network After Tax Cash Benefit 25,451 76,353 101,804 Project: Darwin River Dam Upgrade 18 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 19 Sustainability Strategy People, Community, and Sustainability and Environment are the three broad focus areas of SMEC’s Corporate Social Responsibility framework. A$100K+ donated 100% of offices 18 recycle paper weeks parental leave People Employee Demographics Employee Benefits As at the end of December 2012, SMEC had a total of Flexible Working Arrangements Australian Defence Force Leave Figure 4: Employee Numbers in Australia 1,252 employees based in 15 offices across Australia. Introduced in 2011, SMEC’s Flexible Working During this reporting period, SMEC introduced an This is a 3% decrease in employee numbers from the Region Full Part Casual Fixed TOTAL Arrangements (FWA) procedure includes options to Australian Defence Force (ADF) leave procedure. Time Time Term previous reporting period. vary hours of work, work from home and job share. The SMEC will provide up to ten days ADF leave annually SA & VIC 285 16 47 4 352 The majority of SMEC’s Australian employees (82%) are objective of the procedure is to enable employees to (comprised of the Defence Reserve Service’s Payment balance their work and personal commitments. During Scheme and topped up to the normal salary level NSW & ACT 414 25 39 1 479 contracted on a full time basis, as displayed in Figure this reporting period, 33 employees used SMEC’s FWA, by SMEC). The scheme provides a weekly payment QLD & NT 244 10 37 3 294 4. SMEC’s employees are spread across three regions: Southern (South Australia, Victoria and Western representing a 57% usage increase since the last report. of A$1,345 (2012-2013) based on Average Weekly GMC Global 77 0 1 49 127 Australia), Central (the Australian Capital Territory and Of those employees using FWAs, 73% were female. Ordinary Time Earnings (AWOTE). TOTAL 1,020 51 124 57 1,252 New South Wales) and Northern (Queensland and the Purchased Additional Annual Leave Tertiary Education Assistance Northern Territory). The Central region is home to the majority of employees (43%), followed by the Southern SMEC introduced a Purchased Additional Annual SMEC’s Tertiary Education Assistance program Figure 5: Employee Turnover by Gender and Age in Australia region (31%), then the Northern region (26%). leave procedure in July 2012. The procedure enables supports the professional development of employees. 300 employees to salary package up to an additional four Continuing full time and part time employees who The average turnover for all employees in 2012 was weeks of annual leave per year. As at January 2013, have successfully completed 12 months of continuous MALE 250 25%, with the majority aged between 25 and 44 (as 183 employees had taken advantage of this new service are eligible to apply for Tertiary Education Number of Employees FEMALE displayed in Figure 5). This is a slight decrease on 2011, procedure, 30% of these employees were female. Assistance. SMEC will reimburse 50% of course fees, 200 during which the average turnover was 26%. The main up to a maximum of A$10,000 per calendar year. reason for turnover (see Figure 6) was resignation (61%), Parental Leave During the reporting period, the number of employees followed by redundancy (29%). SMEC employees who are the primary care giver, can accessing Tertiary Education Assistance tripled to 19 150 apply for 52 weeks of unpaid parental leave and are employees, of which two were female. 100 Remuneration entitled to 18 weeks paid leave on a full time basis Employee Assistance Program (comprised of the statutory paid leave and topped up to During this reporting period, the average female the normal salary level by SMEC), capped at A$150,000 SMEC’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP) is 50 graduate salary was A$69,846; A$1,564 more than the per annum. As of 1 January 2013, SMEC also provides provided by Davidson Trahaire Corpsych. Through the average male graduate salary. SMEC has benchmarked employees with one weeks’ paid paternity leave, on top EAP, employees can access short-term confidential 0 this data with Aon Hewitt standards to ensure the 15 24 25 34 35 44 45 54 55 64 65 + of annual and long service leave. counselling and financial advice. In 2012, 48 employees Company’s remuneration levels are in line with industry Age in Years accessed the EAP, 44% of these employees were standards. SMEC found that female graduate salaries During the reporting period, 20 female employees took female. This 3.8% utilisation rate is slightly higher than Figure 6: Reason for Employee Turnover in Australia were on par with industry standards while male graduate parental leave; 35% returned from parental leave, 20% industry benchmarks. salaries were slightly less (A$3,500 per annum). did not return and 45% are still on parental leave. Of the 1% 7% 2% 35% of female employees who returned to work, 86% Corporate Health Plan The average overall male salary for Engineering returned on a FWA. Ten male employees took paternity SMEC offers all employees a corporate health plan Professionals was A$124,332. The average female leave (all returned to work). through BUPA. The benefits include discounted health Resignation salary for Engineering Professionals was A$118,075. The average male salary is in line with industry standards. insurance and waived waiting periods. At the time of Redundancy The average female salary is slightly lower (A$2,700). reporting, 126 employees were BUPA members (an 29% Dismissal increase of 15% on last year), 29% of these are female. SMEC recognises that male employees are, on Retirement average, paid more than female employees. This can be Deceased attributed to a much higher proportion of males in senior 61% positions; and more broadly the type of roles that male and female employees undertake. 22 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 23 People (continued) Gender Diversity SMEC is committed to promoting gender diversity Gender Diversity Steering Committee Gender Diversity Initiatives Figure 7: Employees by Gender and Age and understands that improving the gender balance SMEC is committed to increasing the number of As in the previous reporting period, SMEC continued to MALE throughout the Company is not only a business females in senior positions. To this end, a Gender implement a number of programs to increase 250 FEMALE imperative, it makes good business sense. As at 31 Number of Employees Diversity Steering Committee, chaired by SMEC’s awareness of gender diversity. SMEC is aware that to December 2012, 24% of SMEC’s employees were Chief Executive Officer was established in 2011. The achieve gender diversity the Company must create 200 female, a 1% decrease since the last reporting period. Committee monitors the implementation of SMEC’s cultural change by aligning work practices, processes 150 As displayed in Figure 7, the majority of SMEC’s female Gender Action Plan to ensure that SMEC achieves its and systems with diversity objectives. The first step employees were aged between 25 and 34 years (33%) gender diversity objectives. in creating cultural change is raising awareness at all 100 and 58% were classified as professional (degree levels of the Company about gender diversity. qualified including engineers, scientists and corporate Women In SMEC (WINS) 50 services), followed by administration (33%) and The WINS (Women In SMEC) Committee was SMEC celebrated International Women’s Day (IWD) technical (9%), as displayed in Figure 8. established in 2011 to help increase the level of with a week-long program of events in major Australian 0 15 24 25 34 35 44 45 54 55 64 65 + participation of women in leadership in SMEC. The offices during the official week (4 to 8 March, 2013). A total of 32% of new starters were female (a slight Age in Years objectives of WINS are to identify strategies to: support SMEC’s 2012 theme was ‘Women Living Well’. SMEC increase of 1.4% on last year), as seen in Figure 9. encouraged employees to take part in a range of health Figure 8: Employees by Gender and Employment Type 37% of graduate employees who joined SMEC were women’s internal networking and knowledge sharing; enhance the personal and professional development and wellbeing activities including Work Health Checks female (compared to 19.5% last year). The majority and a panel session with successful business women 700 MALE of females who commenced work with SMEC in of female employees; and enhance employee work‑life balance. Activities undertaken by WINS over the last in leadership roles. As part of IWD, SMEC facilitated a 600 FEMALE Number of Employees 2012 were degree qualified professionals (57%) aged charity drive, calling on employees to donate unwanted between 25 and 34 years (42%). 12 months include: 500 business attire to Fitted for Work (a not-for-profit These figures are significantly higher than the industry • Career X-Factor panels where successful business organisation that assists long-term unemployed and 400 standard. According to a report released by Engineer’s women shared their insights for career success. These disadvantaged women to obtain work). 300 Australia (The Engineering Profession), 10.7% of the were held in the Brisbane and Melbourne offices. SMEC’s international offices hosted a range of events total Australian engineering workforce and 16% of • Company membership of the National Association to celebrate IWD. In Pakistan, SMEC celebrated IWD 200 engineering graduates are female. of Women in Construction. with an afternoon tea while in Kenya, a presentation 100 • Introduction of a WINS intranet page within the about the advancement of women was given by a Within Australia, SMEC operates nine engineering Diversity site which includes a discussion board, 0 functional groups: Environment, Infrastructure, Industrial guest speaker. SMEC’s Tanzanian office marked the Professional Technical Administration links to women’s networks and information from the occasion with a special lunch and SMEC’s South Employment Type and Power, Local Government, Social Development, Workplace Gender Equality Agency. Survey, Transport, Urban Development and Water. Of African offices donated funds to the Women’s Hope Figure 9: New Starters by Age and Gender these functional groups, three have a high proportion Education and Training Trust (a charity that works with In the year ahead, WINS will focus on the theme of of female employees, including the Social Development female victims of violence and abuse). 40 ‘Career Development’, with three in-house sessions MALE Number of Employees group with 67% of female employees, the Environment planned, including: My Career X-Factor (self-awareness SMEC submits an annual report to the Workplace FEMALE group with 53% of female employees and the Local sessions targeting career drivers and values), My Career Gender Equality Agency (formerly the Equal Opportunity 30 Government group with 50% of female employees. at SMEC (career planning within SMEC) and Career for Women Agency), a statutory authority within the Coaching (development of mentoring and action plans). Australian Commonwealth Department of Employment 20 and Workplace Relations. SMEC achieved compliance 10 with the Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Act 1999 for the 2011-2012 financial year and will submit 0 a report for the 2012-2013 financial year. 15 24 25 34 35 44 45 54 55 64 65 + Age in Years 24 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 25 People (continued) Career Development Career Pathways Project Management Training Equal Employment Opportunity Training Professional Development Program SMEC provides employees with clear career pathways SMEC focused on developing project management In 2012, SMEC’s approach to Equal Employment The Professional Development Program (PDP) is one within its global business. SMEC is commited to skills over the last 12 months. In Australia, 35 Opportunity (EEO) was reviewed. As a result, an EEO of the four pathways that Engineers Australia offers to employee development and workforce sustainability, employees (34% of which were female) were given the Framework (covering training and policy development members to achieve Chartered Engineer status. During and provides a workplace with targeted learning and opportunity to undertake either a Diploma or Certificate and review) was introduced to promote an inclusive, the reporting period, SMEC renewed its support for development programs and an equitable reward and IV in Project Management. flexible work environment that fosters mutual respect. employees achieving Chartered status and introduced recognition framework. SMEC is looking to increase its new application processes (to better monitor and investment in training for the year ahead as part of its The training was supported by a partnership between Implementation of the EEO Framework commenced support employees wanting to achieve this status). overall workforce planning and management strategy. SMEC, Engineers Education Australia and The in December 2012 with the roll out of briefing sessions SMEC now funds the cost of both the registration fee Moreland Group, with funding from the National to the Board, the Executive Committee and the and assessment fees. Succession Planning Program Workforce Development Fund. This will now become Australian Management Committee. Other aspects SMEC launched a formal Succession Planning an annual program, with a minimum of two employees of the Framework, including training for managers Managers play a key role in supporting employees Program in 2012 for two management levels below from each Australian region (six in total) participating in and employees, will be rolled out in 2013. The training completing the PDP. Managers are expected to monitor Chief Executive Officer. Level one includes Executive the program annually. for managers will cover EEO legislation and people employees’ progress in the PDP, provide development Committee members, while level two includes direct management skills. opportunities, mentor and encourage the submission of A one day workshop, ‘Introduction to Project Engineering Competency Claims. During this reporting reports of Executive Committee members, including Management at SMEC’, was also developed in Performance and Development Review General Managers, Regional Directors and Regional period, 36 SMEC employees were enrolled in the PDP collaboration with an external consultant. The SMEC conducts annual Performance and Development through Engineers Australia, 22% of these employees Managers. The program includes an objective, objective of the workshop was to introduce employees merit‑based nomination process and initiatives such as Reviews (PDR) for all employees using CareerTrac, an were female. (either new to project management or new to in‑house appraisal system. The objective of the PDR 360 degree appraisal and psychometric testing. project management at SMEC) to SMEC’s project Career Recognition process is to review employee performance and set During the reporting period, level one managers were management methodology, policies and procedures. future objectives by aligning individual performance and SMEC values its employee’s commitment to the provided a mentor and completed a 360 degree The program was delivered in the Melbourne, Brisbane development planning with SMEC’s business plan. Company and believes it is important to acknowledge appraisal survey. A Talent Profile was developed and Sydney offices to 25 employees. career milestones. SMEC’s Career Recognition which includes general information on each manager, The training and development needs of employees procedure formalises this process. Each year, A more in-depth two day project management training are reviewed annually as part of the PDR process. future possible roles, development strategies, mobility program was developed and piloted in Queensland. employees who achieve a career milestone of and preferences to assist in succession planning. This review considers the needs of the employee, between five and 40 years (at five year intervals) are The two day program targeted experienced project their manager and the needs of SMEC as a whole. Succession planning for level two managers will be managers and covered topics ranging from client acknowledged for their commitment to the Company. In completed in 2013. The process strives to align organisational needs with 2012, 113 employees achieved a career milestone. relationship management and procurement to quality individual development needs and aspirations. and safety management. SMEC recognises the outstanding technical excellence In 2012, 80% of SMEC’s employees participated in of employees as well as their contribution to the the PDR process; 74% were male and 26% were Company, the wider industry and the community, female (this aligns with SMEC’s gender workforce through the annual SMEC Awards. There are five SMEC composition). The CareerTrac Performance ratings were Award categories: SMEC Medal; SMEC Project of the fairly evenly spread, with the majority of employees Year; SMEC Young Professional of the Year; Safety and (75% of males and 81% of females) falling into the Wellbeing Award; and Community Award. ‘Meets Expectations’ category. The second largest category was the ‘Exceeds Expectations’ category, with 21% of males and 19% of women. 26 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 27 People (continued) Workplace Health & Safety Health and Safety Principles SMEC had a total of 121 reported incidents in 2012, this SMEC revised its procedure for the leasing of pool Figure 10: Reported Incidents by Region SMEC is committed to promoting and maintaining a was similar to 2011, with 120 incidents reported. ‘Drills cars in early 2013. The procedure now states that if a 20 culture and working environment in which risk to health and Inspections’ accounted for the greatest number new car is leased, it should have a five star New Car and safety is unacceptable. To meet this commitment, of reports, with 37 reported in total. This was followed Assessment Program (NCAP) safety rating. Number Number of Incidents SMEC (as far as is reasonably practicable) provides by ‘Near Misses’ with 15 reported. Figures 10 and 11 display a breakdown of reported incidents by region Health and Safety in 2013 15 healthy and safe working conditions for all people including employees, contractors, visitors and the general and activity. SMEC will continue to uphold its commitment to the core values of safety, knowledge and integrity to maintain of Incidents public. In order to meet these responsibilities, SMEC: Lost Time Injury (LTI) frequency rate per million hours a zero harm culture. With this in mind, SMEC will 10 worked increased from 1.45 per month to 3.3 per implement a number of new initiatives in the year ahead. • Develops safety awareness through training month, in 2012. This increase can be attributed to • Takes all practicable steps to eliminate hazards within four accidents (only one of which occurred in a SMEC Training the workplace through risk identification, assessment, 5 office) which resulted in employee injuries. Through a SMEC’s Human Resources and WH&S departments will control, reporting and monitoring renewed employee safety communication campaign implement a range of measures to increase awareness • Sets business specific health and safety standards for (including articles in the monthly employee newsletter of Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) emphasising all employees to follow 0 and safety alerts) SMEC hopes to reduce LTI frequency the prevention of workplace bullying, sexual harassment NSW & ACT QLD & NT VIC & SA • Ensures all managers, supervisors and employees are rates to less than 1.45 per month in the year ahead. and psychological injury. These measures include Region Region aware of and accept their responsibility to provide a both policy updates and a range of educational tools safe work environment With the increase in LTIs, the importance of SMEC’s Return to Work (RTW) Coordinator also increased. including online training. Figure 11: Reported Incidents by Activity • Strives to continuously improve health and safety To ensure the best outcome for SMEC’s injured management by setting objectives, plans and Hazard Identification and Risk Assessment 40 employees, SMEC engaged a specialist RTW performance measures and by regularly reviewing In 2013, hazard identification and risk assessment will Coordinator from an external company to assist injured 35 progress against targets be simplified through the introduction of revised online employees to return to (or remain at) work as soon as Number NumberofofIncidents • Ensures all incidents are accurately reported, forms for Job Safety and Environment Analysis as well 30 safely possible after injury. recorded and root causes identified as Safe Work Method Statements. The new forms will 25 Incidents SMEC strives to ensure that all new employees are have an improved user interface, automated e-mailing • Assists employees to achieve full recovery through familiar with relevant WH&S policies and legislation and formatting improvements. 20 prompt treatment and rehabilitation through the delivery of online training during induction. 15 Safety Communications Year In Review Reflecting the changing WH&S laws in Australia, SMEC delivered revised WH&S training to all Australian SMEC understands that to improve workplace health 10 In 2012, SMEC surpassed its ‘proactive alerts’ employees in 2012 and to GMC Global (one of SMEC’s and safety, employee communication is vital. SMEC reporting targets for the second year in a row. 5 wholly-owned subsidiaries) employees in February 2013. will continue to provide detailed reports to all levels Proactive alerts involve routine, planned testing, The completion rate for this training course was 86%. of management to maintain awareness of hazards, 0 inspection and identification of possible hazards before Office Project Site External Event Travel incidents and proactive reporting. In 2013, SMEC’s an incident occurs. In 2012, SMEC introduced an annual Safety and Activity Activity monthly internal newsletter will feature regular articles on SMEC’s 2012 target of 48 proactive alerts was surpassed Wellbeing Award. The award recognises an initiative WH&S to complement existing safety alerts and training. by 25%, with SMEC recording 60 proactive alerts. (implemented within the last year) that has had a Lost Time Injury Property Damage Drill or Inspection Proactive reporting accounted for 52% of all Workplace positive impact on safety and wellbeing at SMEC. Medical Treatment Motor Vehicle Accident Near Miss Health and Safety (WH&S) reporting in 2012, followed Hazard External Event First Aid by reactive reporting (25%) and injury reporting (23%). 28 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 29 Community Human Rights Community Involvement The SMEC Foundation SMEC supports and respects the protection of SMEC helps develop sustainable communities where The SMEC Foundation provides small-scale grant Figure 12: Expenditure by Sector internationally proclaimed human rights and ensures its employees live and work by supporting community support to deliver the best possible social and that the Company is not complicit in human rights programs that provide long-term improvements. development outcomes for people in need. Established 50 2011-2012 abuses through a number of policies. in 2001, the SMEC Foundation addresses the causes Expenditure (all figures in $’000) Community Award of poverty and helps communities become more 2012-2013 Corruption and Bribery SMEC’s employees give their time and talent to assist self-sufficient through small-scale grant assistance. 40 SMEC’s Code of Conduct prohibits bribery and in developing sustainable communities. In recognition Operating with financial support from The SMEC Group corruption by employees, consultants and third of this, SMEC recently introduced a new award and donations from employees, the SMEC Foundation 30 parties who act on SMEC’s behalf. SMEC is reviewing category in its Annual Awards, the Community Award. focuses on Community Development, Education, all standard commercial agreement templates to Emergency Relief, Health and Environment projects. include anti‑corruption, anti-bribery and human rights One employee will be recognised each year for their 20 protection provisions. outstanding contribution to the improvement of their After more than ten years in operation, the SMEC local community or the quality of life of people in the Foundation has donated over A$700,000 to more than Child Protection Policy broader community, with particular emphasis on charity 200 projects in over 30 countries. Improving the lives of 10 SMEC maintains a zero-tolerance policy in relation work. The Community Award will be presented in many people, SMEC Foundation projects have ranged to child abuse. Child abuse includes unacceptable November 2013, and annually thereafter. from building homes for people affected by floods in 0 behaviour directly involving children or observed by Pakistan to establishing a teacher training college in Community Emergency Education Health Environment Community Challenge Afghanistan. Development Relief children. Child Protection Policy training is a mandatory requirement for all employees. During this reporting In early 2013, SMEC implemented a Community Sector Challenge procedure. The Community Challenge is Since 2010, when SMEC joined the United Nations Global period, 60% of new employees completed the Child a year-long competition in which SMEC’s Australian Compact (UNGC, the world’s largest corporate citizenship Protection Policy training within their first three months. offices vie for the most ‘Community Points’. Community and sustainability initiative), the SMEC Foundation has Figure 13: Expenditure by Division Forced and Compulsory Labour Points will be earnt by donating money, time, services required that all funding requests align with the UNGC’s and goods to local community groups and charities. ten principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour SMEC’s Code of Conduct (along with a variety of other 60 Standards, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Expenditure (all figures in $’000) policies and procedures) seeks to ensure that ethical For example, one hour of volunteering earns ten points. 2011-2012 employment and labour practices are implemented At the end of each year, the office with the most points During this reporting period, the SMEC Foundation 50 2012-2013 across the Company. SMEC complies with national will be awarded a A$5,000 grant from the SMEC donated over A$102,000 to 17 projects in nine 40 employment legislation and is committed to the Foundation to be donated to their project of choice. countries (as displayed in Figure 14). This is a 12% elimination of all forms of forced and child labour. The project must align with the SMEC Foundation’s increase on funds donated in the previous reporting 30 Guidelines for Prospective Applicants. SMEC’s first period. As displayed in Figure 12, the majority of Indigenous Rights Community Challenge will commence in July 2013. funds went to Education projects (40%), followed by 20 SMEC works closely with clients to ensure that the Emergency Relief (25%), and Health (20%) projects. rights and heritage of Australia’s indigenous population More than half of all funds (51%) were donated to 10 are protected. Where required, SMEC includes projects in Asia Pacific, 39% were donated to Australian Indigenous Heritage Assessments and Management projects and the remaining 10% to projects in Africa, as 0 Australia Asia Pacific Africa South Asia and Plans as a component of Environmental Impact displayed in Figure 13. Middle East Assessments. Wherever possible, SMEC ensures active Division participation, skill development and increased long-term In May 2012, the SMEC Foundation Board conducted employment opportunities for indigenous people. internal presentations and a range of material (flyers, bookmarks, forms, intranet site) was also developed to promote the SMEC Foundation. 30 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 31 Community (continued) SMEC Foundation Projects Figure 14: SMEC Foundation Donations in 2012–2013 Project Location Sector Amount Banteay Srei Safe House Cambodia Community Development A$5,487 WaterAid funding for Water Tank in Liquica District Timor-Leste Community Development A$5,000 ChildFund Australia, Improving Access to Education Papua New Guinea Education A$10,000 Verbist Care Centre – Roof Construction Mongolia Education A$8,000 John Fawcett Foundation, Eye Clinic in Morotai Chipua Institute for Social Transformation (Indonesia, Health) (Tanzania, Education) Chipua Institute for Social Transformation Tanzania Education A$5,000 In September 2012, the SMEC Foundation donated In 2012, the SMEC Foundation donated A$5,000 to the Engineering Aid Australia Summer School Australia Education A$5,000 A$5,000 to the John Fawcett Foundation (JFF). The Chipua Institute for Social Transformation for the ‘Girls Indonesian Air Force funded the transportation of the JFF in Crisis’ project. The Chipua Institute works with girls mobile clinic to the remote island of Morotai where JFF living in the slums on the outskirts of Dar es Salaam Opportunity Cambodia Cambodia Education A$5,000 conducted eye screenings for 3,000 people, performed (Tanzania’s capital). The objective of the ‘Girls in Children’s Hope in Action, Health Education in cataract operations for 60 patients and provided people Crisis’ project is to provide a formal education for girls, Vietnam Education A$5,000 Communities with glasses. The grant funded eye screening tests and focused on life skills as well as vocational and business cataract operations for 44 patients in Morotai. skills to ensure financial independence. Verbist Care Centre – Computer Upgrade Mongolia Education A$3,000 Rotary Park Mission Beach, Queensland Advancing Australia Emergency Relief A$15,860 Community Resilience Fund Cyclone Yasi Recovery Group, Cassowary Coast Australia Emergency Relief A$10,000 Regional Council Nature Foundation Australia Environment A$5,000 John Fawcett Foundation – Restoring Sight in Indonesia Health A$5,800 Karangasem Program Verbist Care Centre Orphanage Ride to Conquer Cancer John Fawcett Foundation – Eye Clinic in Morotai Indonesia Health A$5,000 (Mongolia, Education) (Australia, Health) A shelter for homeless children, the Verbist Care Centre The SMEC Foundation donated A$2,000 to the Ride Cerebral Palsy Alliance – Mulago Hospital Research Uganda Health A$5,000 in Ulaanbataar received a grant of A$8,000 from the to Conquer Cancer in both 2012 and 2013. The SMEC SMEC Foundation to build a new roof. The roof will Foundation sponsored Kevin Golding (Civil Drafter, Ride to Conquer Cancer 2012 Australia Health A$2,000 prevent snow seeping into the building, which had Sunshine Coast) who participates in the ride each caused freezing temperatures inside (particularly in year. The two day bicycle ride through Queensland’s Ride to Conquer Cancer 2013 Australia Health A$2,000 winter when the temperature reaches -40°C). The new countryside benefits the Queensland Institute of roof also increased the centre’s capacity, enabling Medical Research, one of Australia’s largest and most TOTAL A$102,147 another 15 to 20 orphans to join. successful medical research institutes. 32 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 33 Sustainability & Environment Sustainability Principles Sustainable Offices SMEC is committed to embedding sustainability • Conducting all activities in an environmentally Figure 15: Environmental Impact Assessment Scale Environmental Management Plans principles throughout the Company. Environmental responsible manner to minimise adverse The majority of SMEC’s Australian offices have management programs and initiatives influence environmental impacts Impact Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) in place. business systems, procedures and communications. • Enhancing beneficial environmental impacts of 1 2 3 4 5 These EMPs outline how SMEC will reduce its any SMEC activities to improve the quality of the Major, but Catastrophic environmental impact, improve performance and SMEC continues to improve its understanding of Insignificant Minor Moderate reversible environment for future generations report transparently. A number of initiatives have been the sources, scope and extent of its resource use, Almost environmental emissions and impacts as well as • Preventing pollution 5 Certain 5 10 15 20 25 implemented via the EMPs: transparently report on performance. SMEC’s objective • Providing environmentally responsible, sustainable Above • Installing teleconferencing equipment to reduce travel 4 Average 4 8 12 16 20 for environmental management is to avoid or (where and practical options to clients Likelihood this is not possible) minimise impacts while contributing • Implementing online training • Monitoring, reviewing and auditing SMEC’s 3 Moderate 3 6 9 12 15 to lasting environmental benefits in local communities. environmental performance • Purchasing 70% recycled (from post-consumer waste) or plantation paper 2 Rare 2 4 6 8 10 Since 1999, SMEC has had a Corporate Environmental Environmental Impact Assessment • Purchasing green power (10% in the Melbourne office) Policy Statement and an Environmental Management Very 1 Rare 1 2 3 4 5 SMEC has controls in place to manage and (wherever • Encouraging public transport use (by making train, System (EMS) to formalise the Company’s commitment possible) reduce potential environmental impacts for bus or tram tickets available for employee use) to environmental responsibility. SMEC’s EMS complies environmental aspects of projects and office activities. • Participating in Earth Hour with the requirements of ISO 14001. Rating Treatment Project Managers and Regional Managers are • Enabling the ‘power saver’ function on printers SMEC’s EMS provides a systematic and methodical responsible for determining the potential consequences 1–6 Manage aspects via safe operating procedure. • Defaulting printers to double-sided printing approach to planning, implementing and reviewing of environmental impacts, using SMEC’s Environmental • Recycling printer toner cartridges SMEC’s environmental performance. Effective Impact Assessment Scale (as displayed in Figure 15). Process decisions and treatments or controls are implementation of the EMS has assisted in creating 8 – 12 assigned specific responsibilities within the process. • Recycling paper, glass and plastic a culture that is focused on incorporating sustainable Where the environmental impact rating is above practices into everyday business decisions. Carbon Management eight, SMEC employees are required to develop 15 – 16 Process decisions and treatments or controls are appropriate risk treatments, objectives and targets in escalated to senior management for review. SMEC understands that its business operations Environmental Management Policy emit a lot of Greenhouse Gases (GHG). From lighting an Environmental Management Plan (EMP). Where risk Process decisions and treatments or controls are SMEC has a detailed Environmental Management ratings are above 15, the hazard is assigned to executive 20 – 25 and heating to computers and photocopiers, a lot of escalated to executive level management for review. Policy which is reviewed and reaffirmed annually by management for review, who ensure that the risk is energy is used. Through development of a carbon SMEC’s Chief Executive Officer. SMEC operates in an managed in a holistic manner across the Company. management strategy, SMEC is seeking to reduce environmentally responsible behaviour through: its energy consumption. SMEC understands that the Project Managers must also develop and document first step in managing carbon emissions is to capture • Implementing and improving environmental management systems, in line with ISO 14001 environmental objectives and targets for their project baseline GHG data to measure the Company’s carbon during the planning stage and measure and monitor the footprint, identify major sources of GHG emissions, and • Complying with legal requirements achievement of objectives and targets at least annually manage and reduce these over time. • Implementing environmental management programs (or on completion for short-term projects). Regional to achieve environmental objectives and targets Managers must do the same for all offices in their region. SMEC commenced data collection for electricity and paper usage across all Australian offices during the reporting period. During 2012, SMEC’s offices consumed over 2.4 million kWh of power (equivalent to 3,127 tonnes of CO2e) at a cost of over A$600,000. 34 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 35 Sustainability & Environment (continued) Sustainable Offices (continued) Sustainability Services In 2012, SMEC used 7,254 reams of paper at a cost of Print Offsetting Environmental Surveys Natural Resources and Environment A$50,000. This equates to approximately 3,000 sheets In 2012, SMEC’s printing company measured and In early 2013, an Environmental Survey was distributed SMEC is committed to applying the principles of of paper per employee per year. GHG emissions for the offset a carbon footprint of 4,851 kg for the production to all SMEC Urban (one of SMEC’s wholly-owned Ecologically Sustainable Development (ESD) across all production of this paper are approximately 24 tonnes of SMEC’s annual publications at a cost of A$145. The subsidiaries) employees. The objective of the survey services in the transport, health, infrastructure, mineral of CO2e. retired carbon credits were invested in Climate Friendly, was to inform the Think Green. Take Action. Program and urban development markets. SMEC’s consulting SMEC has set a reduction target of 10% for energy a carbon management organisation which invests in and raise awareness about environmentally sustainable services ensure delivery of the social, environmental and paper use in the year ahead. To achieve this target, renewable energy projects. practises at work. and economic obligations and objectives of clients. SMEC is developing practical programs to ensure its SMEC introduced a procedure for the carbon offsetting The Survey showed that there is room for improvement SMEC’s services include environmental impact offices become more energy and resource efficient. of printing; printing of all corporate documents across all areas of employee behaviour. The majority assessments, permit applications in accordance CitySwitch (including, but not limited to, the Annual Review, Annual of employees (78%) always recycle bottles and cans. with environmental planning frameworks, strategic Report and One SMEC) is carbon offset. However, only 7% always turn off lights in areas not in planning and due diligence investigations, master In February 2013, SMEC’s Melbourne office joined use 100% of the time. 18% always use double‑sided planning, ecological assessments, contamination and the CitySwitch Green Office Program, a national tenant Sustainable Procurement Procedure printing and 46% never use teleconferencing remediation studies and water quality management. energy efficiency program. The Program is a joint SMEC introduced a Sustainable Procurement equipment. 2% always turn off their computer if they initiative between local councils and state governments. Procedure during the year. Employees who undertake are away from their desk for more than half an hour, Renewable Energy CitySwitch signatories commit to achieving and procurement of items valued over A$150,000 (capital and 68% always turn their computer off overnight and SMEC is at the forefront of the Renewable Energy maintaining an accredited four stars or higher National works, information technology, fleet and office supplies) on the weekend. sector, implementing projects that work towards Australian Built Environment Rating System (NABERS) must assess whether purchases: minimise waste replacing diminishing fossil fuel resources and cutting disposal, reduce GHG gas emissions and water use, A separate Environmental Survey was distributed to carbon emissions. SMEC’s areas of specialisation Energy tenancy rating. NABERS is a national rating all Australian Office Managers. The Survey focused on system that measures the environmental performance maximise resource efficiency, conserve and improve include geothermal, solar photovoltaic and solar biodiversity, incorporate ethical considerations, are sustainable procurement, waste disposal, office facilities thermal, wind, bio-mass, bio-fuels, hydropower (including energy efficiency, water usage, waste and procedures. The results will inform the Think Green. management and indoor environment quality) of carbon neutral, or have a low carbon footprint. technologies and energy efficiency strategies. Take Action. Program in the year ahead and encourage Australian buildings, tenancies and homes. Think Green. Take Action. office managers to adopt environmentally sustainable SMEC’s services include: sustainable energy policy A benchmark NABERS energy rating confirmed that The Think Green. Take Action. Program was launched practices within their offices. planning, site identification and evaluation, feasibility the Melbourne office is currently rated at two stars. in the Melbourne office in February 2013 to support studies, detailed technical design and specifications The Survey showed that the majority of offices already for complex systems, carbon services, construction The Melbourne office will develop and implement an CitySwitch. The Program includes a dedicated intranet have recycling programs in place; all offices recycle supervision, network connection, load forecasting and Environmental Management Plan which includes low site with suggestions for employees to be more paper and cardboard, 91% of offices recycle used long-term energy generation planning. or no-cost energy efficiency improvements. If the pilot environmentally sustainable at work (and at home), printer cartridges and 75% recycle bottles and cans. of CitySwitch in the Melbourne office is a success, the lunchtime information sessions on sustainable practices Climate Change Adaption program will be rolled out across other Australian offices. and a ‘Submit Your Green Idea’ suggestion box. However, improvement is required in the area of sustainable procurement and education. Only 33% Climate change adaption involves implementing Mobile Muster In the year ahead, the Program will be significantly strategies to build resilience into landscapes so that of offices purchase recycled paper and only 25% SMEC implemented a mobile phone recycling expanded. Focused on educating employees about future climate changes can be accommodated while purchase recycled printer cartridges and tissues. program in Australian offices in early 2013 through how their actions directly influence climate change, mitigation efforts take effect. SMEC is building its Employee education in environmental sustainability Mobile Muster. Mobile Muster is a free mobile phone a ‘Switch Off’ campaign will be implemented to ecological knowledge in the area of climate change needs addressing with only 25% of offices using ‘Turn recycling program that ensures mobile phones (and encourage employees to switch off lights, computers adaption, particularly in habitat connectivity, pest off the lights’ stickers and ‘Don’t waste water’ stickers. their associated accessories) do not end up in landfill; and other electrical equipment. species management, water re-use, wetland and instead they are safely, securely and ethically recycled. waterway rehabilitation. SMEC integrates environmental innovation into engineering design to assist with climate change adaption. 36 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 37 Sustainability & Environment (continued) Natural Resources & Environment Projects Renewable Energy Projects Northern Beaches Health Service Project Olympic Dam Permitting Solar Systems Northern Victoria 100 MW Solar Farm Agripower Processing Facility (New South Wales, Australia) (South Australia, Australia) (Victoria, Australia) (Queensland, Australia) The New South Wales Government is committed to Olympic Dam is the world’s largest uranium deposit Located south of Mildura at Carwarp, the 100 MW Agripower is mining diatomaceous earth (a fertiliser the Northern Beaches Health Service Project, which and fourth largest copper deposit. The mine is concentrated solar project involves installation of booster) in northern Queensland. Their processing will deliver integrated and contemporary health care supported by a variety of infrastructure which required approximately 2,500 14 m diameter solar collectors, facility requires major power supply, not easily sourced services to residents of northern Sydney. SMEC hundreds of licences and permits. As part of BHP from 2013 to 2017. SMEC provides ongoing Research from the local electricity grid. SMEC is assisting is acting as the environmental and development Billiton’s Permitting Team, SMEC reviewed proposed and Development (R&D) services to Solar Systems Agripower to minimise electricity usage, and provide a approvals manager for the hospital, providing infrastructure designs (in line with the Environmental to improve system performance. For the solar farm in power supply integrating solar, diesel and grid-based ecological assessments, environmental impact Impact Statement) and coordinated licence and permit Mildura, SMEC is providing field designs to improve energy. SMEC is undertaking fuel profiling, fuel source assessments and managing development approvals. applications with the relevant authorities. constructability, durability, operability and performance. selection, electrical engineering and network studies. Urban Biodiversity Mapping Assessment Conargo Local Environmental Plan 2012 Solmessis Queensland Solar Farm Devro Cogeneration Project (Victoria, Australia) (New South Wales, Australia) (Queensland, Australia) (New South Wales, Australia) The Victorian Government’s Melbourne 2030: SMEC assisted Conargo Shire Council to prepare a With construction commencing in 2013, Solmessis is Devro provides collagen products to the food industry Planning Update forecast that Melbourne will require shire-wide Local Environmental Plan to regulate the developing an 80 MW solar power station in 20 MW via two manufacturing facilities in Bathurst. The natural 600,000 additional dwellings by 2030. Land supply in sustainable use of rural land. The project involved stages. Located near a large gas-fired generator in gas cogeneration plant generates 1.2 MW of electricity Melbourne’s growth areas was below the Government’s general management, strategic planning and central-west Queensland, the station will include driven and 8 tph steam for the manufacturing facility, reducing policy and a review of Melbourne’s Urban Growth geographic information system mapping across 8,750 pile footings and high quality solar panels. SMEC is Devro’s Greenhouse Gas emissions by 27%. SMEC Boundary was required. SMEC investigated the flora sq km. Key sustainability issues were considered acting as the Owner’s Engineer (during financial closure), provided design, procurement and construction and fauna attributes of 2,730 ha and advised the including future zoning of land and protection of providing field layout concepts, energy output modelling management services from feasibility study stage Growth Areas Authority on biodiversity values. farmland, river banks and biodiversity assets. and electrical design. through to commissioning of the plant. 38 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 39 GRI Index This report applies the Global Reporting Initiative G3.1 Guidelines to a self-assessed Level B. Core Performance Indicators (PI) are in bold. GRI Page GRI Page PI Description Comments PI Description Comments Indicator Number Indicator Number 1.1 Statement from the CEO. 4–5 4.1 Governance structure. 10–15 Strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and 4–5, 17 4.2 Chair of the highest governing body. 10–15 opportunities. 4.3 Independent and non-executive board 10–15 members. 2.1 Name of the organisation. SMEC Holdings Limited 4.4 Mechanisms to provide recommendations to 10–15 2.2 Primary brands, products and services. Feasibility studies, detailed design, 6–9 the highest governing body. tender and contract management, construction supervision, operation 4.5 Compensation and performance. 10–15 and maintenance, training and 4.6 Processes to avoid conflicts of interests. 10–15 project management. 4.7 Process for determining qualifications and 10–15 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation. 6–11 expertise. 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. 220–226 Sharp Street 4.8 Mission, values and code of conduct. 11 Governance Cooma NSW 2630, Australia 4.9 Processes for management of company 10–15 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation 30+ 6–9 performance. operates. Profile 4.10 Processes for evaluating the performance of 10–15 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 6–9 the highest governing body. 2.7 Markets served. Transport; Water; Geotechnics and 6–9 4.11 Precautionary principle addressed. 4–5, 11 Tunnels; Environment; Hydropower 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental 4–5, 18 and Energy; Mining, Oil and and social charters. Gas; Urban Development; Social Development; Government and 4.13 Memberships in associations. 18 Advisory Services. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 16 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. 6–9, 22 organisation. 2.9 Significant changes to size, structure or Acquisition of Vela VKE (South 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of 16 ownership during the reporting period. African engineering firm with 1,000 stakeholders. employees and 12 offices). 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. 16 2.10 Awards. 18 4.17 Key stakeholder topics and concerns. 16 3.1 Reporting period. 1 April 2011 – 31 March 2012. 2 EC1 Direct economic value generated and 19 3.2 Date of most recent report. April 2012. 2 distributed. 3.3 Reporting cycle. Annual. 2 EC2 Financial implications, risks and 34–39 Economic opportunities due to climate change. 3.4 Contact point for report. sustainabilityreport@smec.com 2 EC4 Financial assistance received from 19 3.5 Process for defining report content. 2 government. Report Parameters 3.6 Boundary of the report. 2 EC5 Entry level wage compared to local minimum 22 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the 2 wage. report. EC9 Indirect economic impacts. 30–33 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures and other 2 EN3 Direct energy consumption. 34–37 entities. 3.9 Data measurement techniques. 2 EN4 Indirect energy consumption. 34–37 Environmental 3.10 Explanation of restatements. Nil. EN5 Energy savings. 34–37 3.11 Significant changes in scope and boundary Nil. EN6 Energy-efficient or renewable energy services. 37–39 during the reporting period. EN7 Reductions in indirect energy consumption. 34–39 3.12 Table identifying location of standard GRI Table. 40–42 disclosures. EN12 Impact on areas of high biodiversity value. 37–39 3.13 External assurance. Not used for this report. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 37–39 EN16 Greenhouse Gas emissions by weight. 34-37 40 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 41 GRI Index (continued) GRI Page PI Description Comments Indicator Number EN18 Greenhouse Gas reduction initiatives. 34–37 Environmental EN19 Ozone depleting substances by weight. 34-37 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Nil. EN24 Weight of transported waste. Nil. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts. 34–39 EN28 Non-compliance with environmental laws. Nil. LA1 Workforce by type, contract, region and 8-9, gender. 22–23 LA2 Employee turnover. 22 Labour Practices and Decent Work LA3 Benefits provided to full time employees. The same benefits are provided 22–27 to all employees (part time on a pro‑rata basis). LA4 Percentage of employees covered by Nil. collective bargaining agreements. LA7 Rates of injury and lost days. 28–29 LA8 Programs to assist with serious diseases. 27–29 LA11 Skills management and lifelong learning 26–29 programs. LA12 Regular performance reviews. 26 LA13 Workforce diversity. 22–24 LA14 Basic salary of men to women. 22 LA15 Return to work after parental leave. 22 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination. Nil. Human Rights HR5 Risks to freedom of association. All employees can join unions. HR6 Risks to child labour. 30 HR9 Incidents involving indigenous people. Nil. SO1 Programs that assess and manage the 30–33 impacts of operations on communities. Society SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive Nil. behaviour. SO8 Non-compliance with laws and regulations. Nil. PR1 Health and safety impacts of services. 28–29 Product Responsibility PR2 Non-compliance with health and safety laws. Nil. PR4 Non-compliance with information laws. Nil. PR5 Practices related to client satisfaction. 16–17 PR7 Non-compliance with marketing laws. Nil. PR8 Breaches of client privacy. Nil. PR9 Fines for non-compliance. Nil. 42 SMEC Sustainability Report 2012–2013 www.smec.com
