PMC 2012 COP To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that PHILAKE METAL CORPORATION reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In our first Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Mr BILLY YANG President 1|P age PMC 2012 COP HUMAN RIGHTS Declaration of Support Philake Metal Corporation actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We have a range of Human Resources policies which reflects the company’s proactive stance on human rights as declared on the Philake Metal Corporation’s policies on Conditions at Work. Implementation Any employee who detects a potential Human rights abuse reports it to the Human Resource Department and will be treated as an anonymous source. The Human Resource Department is responsible for executing company policy regarding Human rights. If any abuse is detected, and after an internal investigation, the abuse is proven, it can result on the termination of the employee’s contract. Measurement of Outcomes In the past year Philake Metal Corporation has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human rights violations. 2|P age PMC 2012 COP LABOUR Declaration of Support Philake Metal Corporation supports the International Labour Standards and against any forced and child labour. All Philake Metal Corporation employees are issued a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including pay rates. All staff are oriented on the company manual and policies which includes information on the standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, company rules and disciplinary procedures. Implementation Philake Metal Corporation have a range of HR policies which support best practice in terms of labour and employment declared on the company’s policies on Performance Evaluations and Discipline Procedures. The HR Department is responsible for executing company’s Labour Policy and Procedures. Measurement of Outcomes We conduct an annual performance evaluations for all regular employees and identify training requirements that are auctioned where ever financially possible. Philake Metal Corporation has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other labour incidents in the past year. 3|P age PMC 2012 COP ENVIRONMENT Declaration of Support Philake Metal Corporation strives to ensure our facilities operate to the standards to protect our employees, contractors, neighbors and the environment. Implementation Philake Metal Corporation continues to seek ways how to efficiently use material and energy. Waste is minimized through recycling used materials. Paper, water and energy is saved through getting the employees be aware of the environmental policy of the company. Measurement of Outcomes The environmental performance is monitored through company policies, internal through Safety and Security Policies and Guidelines, and external through Contingency Planning Procedure. All factors are taken into consideration during the monitoring efforts and audits. The results are communicated and when necessary the company conducts awareness programs for the employees. 4|P age PMC 2012 COP ANTI-CORRUPTION Declaration of Support Philake Metal Corporation supports the principles on anticorruption. We have Human Resources policies which work strongly against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery as declared on the Philake Metal Corporation’s policies on Code of Ethics and Business conduct. Implementation Compliance with these principles is an essential in PMC business. Day to day responsibility is delegated to all management members who are responsible for implementing these principles. Measurement of outcomes Every employee is responsible for knowing and adhering to the values and standards set forth in this code. The standards set forth in the Code will be taken seriously and violations are cause for disciplinary action up to and including termination or employment. No incidents have been reported since the system has been implemented. 5|P age
