2013 UN GLOBAL COMPACT communication on progress. 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS Letter of Support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Vision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Human Rights. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Labor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Environment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Anti-Corruption. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Who We Are . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16-17 Team Principles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 Global Strategies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 What We Do . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23-27 Partners . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Key Strategies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 Miyamoto Relief. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33 Media . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 3 LETTER OF SUPPORT “Make the world a better place.” That is the mission statement of Miyamoto International. Upon review of the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles, I believe that if each of these principles is embraced and supported by our organization, together, we can make the world a better place. Human rights, labor, the environment, and anticorruption are all global issues that need to be addressed—not only on paper, but through action. As an earthquake and structural engineer who has traveled to dozens of natural-disaster-stricken countries around the globe, I have seen firsthand the vital importance of upholding these principles—and the dangers of ignoring them. I have witnessed the destruction of human life due to structural failures that could easily have been prevented. With these Ten Principles in mind, Miyamoto International undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourages the development of environmentally friendly technologies. The quality of human life around the globe can be improved by engineering safe communities and using the best technologies available to improve our built environments. Miyamoto International fully supports the Ten Principles of the Global Compact and would like to join in your efforts to not only increase awareness of these vital global challenges, but implement change through the projects that we pursue and the partnerships that we build. Miyamoto will gladly share the Ten Principles with our sphere of influence, including partners, clients, and professional colleagues. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our strategy, culture, and daily operations, as well as engaging in collaborative partnerships and projects that will advance the broader goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals in eradicating poverty. We are willing to make a declaration statement to our stakeholders and the general public of our commitment to join forces with the UN to advance and implement these principles and goals. In closing, we are pleased to fully support the Ten Principles, and look forward to partnering with you to make the world a better place. Sincerely, H. Kit Miyamoto, Ph.D.,S.E. President and CEO Miyamoto International Earthquake + Structural Engineers 5 VISION MISSION We boldly pursue the optimal solutions to support businesses, make the world a enrich communities, and sustain humanity in every market that we serve. better place. We make a positive impact on humanity as a global engineering and strategic solution firm with offices positioned across the globe. We are the undisputed global leader in high performance earthquake and natural hazard engineering. 7 we work to provide safety and shelter to people when they need it HUMAN RIGHTS most. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Miyamoto International is a global earthquake and structural engineering firm that provides critical services to help sustain industries and communities around the world. Our passion to make the world a better place has taken us to the epicenters of some of history’s largest natural disasters. From these disasters, we have gained valuable knowledge, which we bring to all our projects. Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Miyamoto International respects and upholds the protection of international human rights as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Conventions and the Global Compact. Miyamoto will make this a criterion in the selection and management of its suppliers and contractors. 9 LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Miyamoto International recognizes and respects employees right to freely and voluntarily establish and join organizations of their own choice, while recognizing the right of the Employer’s freedom of expression that does not unlawfully interfere with that right. Miyamoto supports Employers that adopt non-discriminatory policies that support the employee’s right of association and to lawfully elect to be governed by collective bargaining, as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Conventions, and the Global Compact. Miyamoto will strive to make this a criterion in the selection and management of its suppliers and contractors. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of forced or compulsory Labor. Miyamoto International respects and supports the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Labor as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Conventions, and the Global Compact. Miyamoto will strive to make this a criterion in the selection and management of its suppliers and contractors. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child Labor. Miyamoto International respects and supports the effective abolition of child Labor as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Conventions and the Global Compact. Miyamoto will strive to make this a criterion in the selection and management of its suppliers and contractors. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Miyamoto International is an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate against otherwise qualified applicants on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, ancestry, age, sex, marital status, sexual preference, national origin, disability or handicap, or veteran status. 11 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Miyamoto International is committed to preserving our environment. Our company mission statement to make the world a better means that we engineer sustainable built environments around the globe, making this practice an integral part of our daily business operations. In particular, it is our policy to uphold health, safety, and environmental integrity to our business methods at all times. We will do so by adhering to the following principles: COMPLIANCE AND PRECAUTION We will comply with all applicable laws and regulations. We will implement programs and procedures to assure compliance. Compliance with health, safety and environmental standards will be a key factor in program implementation, training, and reaching our goals to achieve sustainable built environments around the world. PROMOTING GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY We will seek opportunities beyond regulatory compliance requirements to reduce risk to human health and the environment. We will employ management systems and procedures, such as disaster mitigation, to mitigate danger from structural failures that poses a threat? We will respond to emergency disasters, and seek out opportunities to rebuild sustainable communities in the event of a disaster. We will looks for ways to minimize risk to our own employees and to the communities in which we operate by seeking out and employing the latest sustainable technologies and engineering methods available. ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES We will leverage existing and cutting-edge technologies to provide alternative, innovative, solutions to structural challenges. We will partner with building systems experts on research and design to test and develop new innovations in our industry. We will commit to seeking out seismic technologies and implementing them into our projects, creating safe, more disaster resilient communities, minimizing our global footprint, and maintaining environmental integrity. GREEN BUILDING We will continue to use our LEED project expertise to design durable and functional buildings using renewable material resources. We will offer sustainable options and specify the resource reuse content for a variety of available structural materials. We will make full use of our extensive experience in evaluating and rehabilitating existing structures, maximizing the reuse of existing building shells. We will further our research and development for green products, LEED certified, and net-zero structures. COMMUNICATION We will communicate our policy commitments to our sphere of influence. We will measure and review our progress on an annual basis, and continue to seek out opportunities to improve our principles and our environmental performance. 13 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Miyamoto International prides itself on its commitment to make the world a better place. This commitment builds on the values of our company and our employees. We pride ourselves on our integrity and we do not permit the misuse of entrusted authority for private gain or any other forms of corruption in any setting or on any level based on foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations or those governed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Miyamoto International has a zero-tolerance policy and reserves the right to investigate, document and pursue any necessary, legal action for corrupt acts carried out by any of its trustees, officers, staff, associates or stakeholders. Miyamoto International strives to continually improve its financial and administrative systems, policies, and procedures to ensure transparency, accountability and compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations. our vision is to use the best practices in the world to provide effective financial management. 15 WHO WE ARE People Development As Principal, People Development (Human Resources), Lana Anest For us, an exemplary leader is someone who helps others focuses on Miyamoto International’s achieve their personal best by finding common ground biggest asset, its people. Her mission between group and individual goals. We believe that a group is to attract, develop and retain performs best when its goals bring out the best from each outstanding talent for Miyamoto, member. providing them with the knowledge and work environment to perform at their best. With over 20 years of experience Our staff members’ primary responsibility is to serve our clients. in multiple industries both domestically Our leaders serve the staff and make everyone’s job easier. and internationally, Lana leads Each leader works to position staff members to maximize their Miyamoto’s overall human resource strengths. We give our staff the freedom to do their best work strategy. and enhance our process as a collaborative organization. View Full Bio Visit us online to view our complete list of leadership profiles. Finance Sam is a leader versed in addressing the challenges of ‘globalizing’ firms. He is a CPA and holds a B.A. in both business accounting and economics from California State, Fullerton. As a member of the California Board of Accountancy and an executive board member of the Association for Corporate Growth, Sam is recognized by his industry peers as a financial visionary. View Full Bio Chief Executive Officer Communications H. Kit Miyamoto, PhD, SE, is the CEO and a structural engineer for Miyamoto International, Global Risk Miyamoto and a nonprofit organization, Jessica Stanton was drawn to Miyamoto Global Disaster Relief. Under his leadership, more than 12,000 the architecture, engineering, and projects have been successfully completed worldwide. Known for innovative construction community early on engineering, Kit Miyamoto has worked on many challenging projects that because of the opportunity that design received industry recognition, including the Structural Engineers Association offers to create places that affect our of California (SEAOC) Excellence in Structural Engineering Award. lives. Inspired by people who take responsibility for improving our quality View Full Bio of life through applied talent, Jessica uses her talents on behalf of the visionary men and women with whom she works at Miyamoto. Because of her entrepreneurial and collaborative spirit, Jessica excels as a communications leadership matters. and business development leader. View Full Bio 17 TEAM PRINCIPLES You will work with a team that values that values collaboration, prompt and honest communication, and passion for the Miyamoto mission represented by each staff member. You will work with a team that does not use rigid job descriptions or positions, because each of us is unique and each of us has something special to contribute to your vision, individually and as an integrated team of specialists. You will not need to deal with unnecessary management layers or titles, and any unnecessary bureaucratic paperwork will be eliminated. You can expect our leaders to serve others. All staff members serve our clients. Leaders serve the staff and make everyone’s job easier by removing roadblocks and building an effective team environment. You can expect all staff members to enhance our combined mission. Opinions from all levels of staff at any location are considered. You will work with a team that will continually learn and grow as leaders, team members, and professionals. Each of us is responsible for his or her own professional growth plan. You can expect our corporate team to serve and provide leadership so that staff and offices can be successful. Corporate is not an executive group, it is a leadership group. You can expect to use our open communication structure. 19 GLOBAL STRATEGIES Through a shared mission, vision, processes projects and staff, we inspire strategic collaboration among all Miyamoto offices and businesses. Establish a global practice: We provide a standard process and monitor for business functions: High Performance Engineering, Production, People Development, Communication, Finance, and IT. Deliver optimal quality through production standards and QA processes: We establish the quality of the Miyamoto brand, regardless of where projects are executed. Engineering processes and high performance engineering tools are shared globally through providing standards and working through projects together. We share talent globally to utilize the best available resources, optimize the cost and schedule to deliver projects. People Development is critical: We build a global culture, apply best human resources practices, coordinate recruiting, provide legal protection and foster professional growth opportunities for our staff. Communicate the Miyamoto brand and provide unified and localized communication and marketing tools: The Communications team provides marketing tools and systems and monitors the development for each location to promote our brand. Provide financial system and benchmarks: The Finance team sets up the system and monitors for accrual and cash basis financial statements and projections for all locations, as well as standard financial metrics to use as benchmarks for assessing our performance. Use state-of-the-art IT system: We provide a strategic IT plan to each location to ensure the use of common tools to facilitate multioffice projects and enhance communications. 21 PARTNERING WITH FAES AND UNICEF TO BUILD 34 SCHOOLS Miyamoto Haiti is engineering and building 34 schools throughout Haiti, in partnership with the Haitian government through the Fonds d’Assistance Economique et Sociale (FAES) and with the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF). The school sites are mainly in remote areas of Haiti, outside of the capital. These projects will be built to international standards for safety and quality. “There should be no difference in the safety standards for American children and for Haitian children. We need to ensure that all children are completely safe in their schools,” said Dr. Kit Miyamoto, CEO of Miyamoto International. Although the process will be challenging, such as building on sites with no access roads, this project will continue to build the capacity of Haitian engineers, contractors and masons. Miyamoto Haiti will train the team on supervision, quality control, planning and construction management to keep this mission-critical project on track from the start. “Our biggest challenge in Haiti is ensuring that construction is properly done,” said Guilaine Victor, Miyamoto Haiti program manager. “Our goal isn’t just to build safe schools, but to raise the quality of construction throughout Haiti.” Funding for the 19 FAES schools comes from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) and Haitian government, while funding for the 15 UNICEF schools comes from the Belgian Government. “We are committed to Haiti’s development,” said Dr. Miyamoto. “That is why we are investing in and expanding our operations here. Our trained Haitian engineers, masons and contractors can execute international-standard construction.” 23 METRO MANILA STRUCTURAL RESILIENCE PROGRAM In close collaboration with the World Bank and its effort to advance the Philippine governments overall natural disaster risk mitigation program, Miyamoto is developing retrofit guidelines and a multihazard prioritization methodology for Metro Manila’s public schools and hospitals. With the Philippines being among the top 10 natural disaster hotspots in the world, a mulit-hazard methodology that considers hazard risks due to volcanos, typhoons, floods, tsunamis and earthquakes was deemed essential in order to ensure that available seismic retrofit funds ($400 million) are allocated appropriately. The multi-hazard prioritization includes a seismic retrofit cost-benefit methodology that Miyamoto is to develop based on international best practices. The culmination of this assignment will include: • Multi-hazard prioritization methodology • Seismic retrofit cost-benefit methodology • Seismic retrofit engineering and construction guidelines • Prioritized list of the top 100 candidate public school and hospital buildings for seismic retrofit • Communication plan for stakeholders and the Filipino technical community (e.g., educational and/or training workshops) • Community engagement and public relations plan to communicate the earthquake risk and need for a retrofit program Join President Dr. Kit Miyamoto and his guest bloggers, as they give you an inside look at what it is like to be a first responding structural engineer after a disaster. Read the blog. 25 PERMANENT HOUSING SUPPORT, 7TH AND H STREETS, SACRAMENTO The 7th and H development is a mixed-use landmark affordable housing development by Mercy Housing California with 150 studio and one-bedroom apartments, extensive community spaces, comprehensive resident services, a health clinic, and ground floor commercial retail located in close proximity to multiple forms of public transit, downtown amenities, and downtown Sacramento’s Railyards Intermodal Transportation Facility. The new building was designed to incorporate many environmentally sustainable features into its goal of creating an affordable, safe and attractive housing development for the city’s homeless and low income workforce community. In partnering with the City of Sacramento and the Sacramento Housing and Redevelopment Agency, Mercy Housing California is working to reduce homelessness, to meet Sacramento’s 10-Year Plan to End Chronic Homelessness. It is creating a connection between the future Railyards development and the nearby established downtown neighborhoods. CONTRIBUTING TO THE COMMUNITY With its opening in December 2012, the project has begun the transformation of the formerly dilapidated 7th and H block with a café, retail, and clinic space along with 150 new residential units at the heart of downtown Sacramento. This development will help to reduce homelessness through a high quality, service-enriched housing program. It will provide affordable, safe, and attractive housing for the very low and extremely low income workforce community, replace 122 single room occupancy units in the downtown area and create a connection between the future Railyards development and the nearby established downtown neighborhoods. 75 of the residences are dedicated to permanent and supportive housing for formerly homeless individuals. Critical resident services include case management and a full-service medical clinic. 27 PARTNERS Our professional staff and consultants have responded to more than 100 earthquake and hurricane events over the past 30 years. We provide crucial post disaster activities, including structural safety assessment, damage assessment, damage data collection, retrieval of critical documents, debris management, human capacity building, establishment of assessment technical platforms and training programs, as well as development of reconstruction strategies. As a global leader in engineering, partnering with the World Bank, United Nations, USAID, and various NGOs, we continually respond to disasters to help restore safety. SELECTED GOVERNMENTS • United States Government • Government of Haiti • Government of Romania • Government of Thailand (Royal Thai Government) • Government of Japan • Republic of Turkey • State of California GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONS • Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Communications (MTPTC) • Ministry of Transport, Construction and Tourism • United States Agency for International Development (USAID) • United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) • United Nations AIDS Program (UNAIDS) • United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) • United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) • United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) • United Nations Development Program (UNDP) NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONS • Adoration Christian Centre • Aide Medicale Internationale • Caterpillar Foundation we are working to create a network of global • Caritas Autriche offices and companies that extensively • Clinton Bush Haiti Fund support each other. • Development Alternatives, Inc. (DAI) • European Commission Humanitarian Aid & Civil Protection (ECHO) • European Union • Japan Emergency Non-Governmental Organization (JEN) • Pan American Development Foundation (PADF) • World Bank 29 KEY STRATEGIES We are a decentralized, coordinated, and constantly evolving company. We open new offices where disaster mitigation and reconstruction activities are required by partnering with local firms or individuals. Our presence makes the community a better place. We focus on high-performance engineering, delivering unique value that justifies the highest profitability, allowing us to continue our research into advanced technical solutions. We are committed to building a powerful brand, one that is known worldwide, through high-quality staff; relentless public relations; and consistent application of the Miyamoto name, graphic image, and approach. We are committed to being a progressive, innovative, and creative company in the way that we lead our staff, work with strategic partners, and manage our company. We are one company. We use and share resources, our workforce, and expertise from office locations for optimal quality and cost-effectiveness. We are committed to having fun, and to being a positive influence on the world and the communities we serve. 31 “I know that repairing one school may not be a priority for large international organizations, but it is also true that the act of strengthening one school will create public awareness of the desperate condition of Haitian schools and promotes further action. Miyamoto Relief provides the strategic leadership necessary to save children’s lives.” –H. Kit Miyamoto, President After successfully completing the Children’s Academy with Haiti Partners, non-profit Miyamoto Global Disaster Relief is focusing on raising awareness and support for Grant Union High School and additional plans on the campus of the Children’s Academy in Haiti. Miyamoto Relief is fostering a relationship between the two schools to create dynamic global connections that will increase the standards for education internationally. Funds raised will be used to address the most immediate challenges at each school. Grant Union High School has an immediate need for the completion of a wellness center; while the Children’s Academy is planning construction of a vocational school. Both schools are at the center of community activity, and meeting their needs will not only improve the students’ quality of life, but also expand the opportunities for their communities. PARTNERS To make a donation please visit our website at miyamotorelief.org DONATE NOW save lives from disaster. 33 MEDIA PBS News Hour: After Haiti Quake, Using Anderson Cooper of CNN Reports the Haiti Science to Build Sturdier Buildings Earthquake Featuring Miyamoto International Returning People to Safe Homes in Haiti: CNN American Morning Reports on The First Step Miyamoto International’s Work in Haiti New Zealand News 3 Reports On CNN News Covers Kit Miyamoto’s Report Miyamoto’s Evaluation of CBD on Structural Damage to Sendai After the Demolition 2011 Earthquake ABOUT Visit the below links to learn more about Miyamoto International, our culture, our work and our people. • Awards YouTube • In the News • Press Releases 35 www.miyamotointernational.com © Copyright 2013 Miyamoto International Sacramento | Washington D.C. | Los Angeles | Orange County | San Francisco San Diego | Portland | Haiti | Milan | Istanbul | Tokyo | New Zealand | Bangkok
