2 0 1 3 United Nations Global Compact COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) June 2012 – June 2013 Company Name CESVA instruments, s.l.u. Address C/ Maracaibo, 6 08030 Barcelona Country Spain Contact name Joan Casamajó Monclús Contact Position General Manager Contact phone no. (+34) 934 335 240 Date 1 June 2013 Membership date 9 June 2008 Number of employees 24 Sector Metallurgical BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF NATURE OF BUSINESS We design and manufacture instruments for the measurement and control of noise and vibration. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2013 | page 3 GENERAL MANAGER’S STATEMENT OF SUPPORT CESVA instruments, s.l.u. has an ongoing commitment to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We operate in a world of fierce competition, and at a time of economic crisis which has put pressure on many companies of all sizes to find ways of making savings, cutting costs and increasing profitability. The past year has been especially hard in the south of Europe: Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain, where adjustments, cuts and tax increases have frozen the economic activity in these countries. The number of unemployed in Spain increased by 237,400 people in the first quarter of 2013, reaching 6,202,700, and the unemployment rate rose 1.14 points from the fourth quarter of 2012 and stood at 27.16% of the working population. In the past year, unemployment has increased by 10%, with 563,200 more unemployed while 800,000 jobs have been lost, 4.6%. CESVA has suffered this climate of recession and lack of trust that has paralyzed our closest and most important markets. Competition and price adjustments have been on every day agenda. But we keep committed to facing this without ever taking recourse to actions that would infringe on the 10 principles. Our goal for the past year has been to keep the entire human team that constitutes our company, which we have achieved. We think that this fact is very important for our immediate future. We therefore remain firmly opposed to any form of corruption, supporting fair play in a competitive market and the protection of UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2013 | page 4 workers’ rights and conditions, not only in our own company, but also all those we deal with. We are equally committed in our support of environmental protection, especially in the field most closely connected with our line of business; noise pollution. We also have an active paper on the WEEE Directive for collecting, and recycling electrical and electronic equipment. We support the work of the United Nations Global Compact wholeheartedly, and without reservations, and we hope that by doing so we may be a positive role model for those in our spheres of influence. Signature Joan Casamajó Monclús, General Manager. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2013 | page 5 2013 HUMAN RIGHTS The first two principles cover the area of Human Rights: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed 1: Businesses should human rights; and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights support and respect abuses. the protection of internationally proclaimed human Policy and Processes rights; and In order to ensure that CESVA is not complicit in human rights abuses, 2: make sure that they we have adopted a policy of not sourcing materials from countries with are not complicit in a systematically poor human rights record. human rights abuses. Results In 2012 CESVA did not import goods from, nor do business with any companies in countries with a systematically poor human rights record. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2013 | page 6 2013 LABOUR The second area covered by principles 3 to 6 is that of Labour Rights: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 3: Businesses should recognition of the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all uphold the freedom of forms of forced and compulsory labour; the effective abolition of child association and the labour; and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment effective recognition of and occupation. the right to collective bargaining; 4: The elimination of all Policy and Processes forms of forced and CESVA has a policy of recruitment based strictly on qualification and compulsory labour; ability. 5: The effective Factors such as sex, religion or sexual orientation play no part in the abolition of child recruitment process. Salary increases are in line with the collective labour; and agreement reached by the Unions and the Employers’ Association for the sector. 6: The elimination of discrimination in In addition, in line with the policy described in reference to Human respect of employment Rights, we ensure that our suppliers do not use child labour in their and occupation. production processes. Results In 2012 CESVA did not import parts from companies that use child labour in their production processes. Employees and Management have taken training courses to improve their knowledge and skills. All CESVA employees are paid according to their qualifications and the work that they carry out, independent of factors such as sex or religion, etc. As a result of a great effort and counter to Spanish indicators for active population, we were able to keep all people in the CESVA team. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2013 | page 7 2013 ENVIRONMENT Principles 7 to 9 pertain to the area of Environmental Protection: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to 7: Businesses are environmental challenges; undertake initiatives to promote greater asked to support a environmental responsibility; and encourage the development and precautionary diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. approach to environmental challenges; Policy and Processes 8: undertake initiatives At CESVA we keep with the policy of “reduce, reuse and recycle” in the to promote greater factory. environmental responsibility; and We continue being active members of ECOTIC ECOTIC Foundation is a non-profit private organization that works 9: encourage the development and towards environmental protection and sustainable development through diffusion of the awareness and training of manufacturers, distributors and users of environmentally electrical and electronic devices. friendly technologies. ECOTIC Foundation manages the WEEE (collection and recycling of electrical and electronic devices at the end of their lifespan) of its affiliated enterprises through its Integrated Management System (IMS). The mission of ECOTIC Foundation is not only to conveniently recycle the wastes that are generated by its affiliates after the use of these devices, but also to do it in the most efficient and economically feasible way, so that the system is environmentally and economically sustainable to guarantee its durability. Although it is not yet mandatory for our products, we are committed to the recently approved Spanish Royal Decree 219/2013, of March 22, which transposes into Spanish law the 2011/65/EU Directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment. We are equally committed to our support for environmental protection, especially in the field most closely related to our business: noise pollution. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2013 | page 8 Results The results achieved applying the 3R policies are positive. CESVA is listed in the National Register of Industrial Establishments producing Electrical and Electronic Equipment (RIE WEEE). We replaced the lead seals for plastic ones. And we keep on our policy of buying lead-free electronic components.  We have actively participated in the symposium “LESS NOISE, MORE ACOUSTICS”, a whole day of work-exchange-reflection and co-creation oriented to the acoustics and public and private noise management sectors, held to mark the International Noise Awareness Day 2013. CESVA gave a lecture of a FAST solution entitled: online control system for noisy activities and also participated in the products exhibition. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2013 | page 9 2013 ANTI-CORRUPTION The tenth principle deals with the problem of Corruption, and states simply that: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, 10: Businesses should work against corruption including extortion and bribery. in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Policy and Processes CESVA has always adhered to this principle. It may be that there are companies who resort to bribery to win contracts, but CESVA has never entertained the idea that this could, under any circumstances, be an acceptable business practice, even when it has cost us contracts or tenders. Results CESVA does not, and never has resorted to bribery or extortion. UN Global Compact | Communication on Progress 2013 | page 10 Maracaibo, 6  08030 Barcelona (Spain) www.cesva.com
