2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GC RIEBER GROUP 3 Table of contents 4 Message from the CEO 6 ABOUT GC RIEBER 8 CG RIEBER'S SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES 10 Collaboration with violinist Sonoko Miriam Welde 10 An environmentally friendly and progressive workplace 12 GC Rieber Eiendom 14 Energy labelling of all buildings is complete 14 Increased use of seawater energy 15 The BI building in Bergen – winner of the 2012 Eiendomsprisen property prize 15 Initiatives and projects in 2012 16 GC Rieber Industri 17 Local business development and improved nutrition in developing countries 18 Training for high-tech production 20 HSE in the toolbox 21 Initiatives and projects in 2012 Corporate social 22 GC Rieber Shipping 23 responsibility report Seismic vessel Polar Duke wins customer HSE award 24 Environmental and quality certification – an ongoing process 2012 24 On duty with the British Antarctic Survey in the name of science / FOTO / ILLUSTRASJON 25 Initiatives and projects in 2012 Øystein Klakegg s. 5 26 Training Filipino crews in Manila Øyvind Ganesh s. 7 Alf Gundersen s. 9 GC Rieber / Design Alf Gundersen / Trykk Molvik 4 GC RIEBER GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 5 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO GC Rieber aims to exercise proactive social responsibility in all parts of In light of this, GC Rieber has produced a Code of Conduct (CoC) aimed at its operations. This means that we must continually challenge ourselves in our suppliers/partners and companies in which we have minority ownership terms of what we can do, not just what we must do, with regard to laws, interests. The aim is to ensure that we are in agreement on issues concerning rules and industry standards. Proactive social responsibility means thinking human rights, working conditions, the environment and anti-corruption. big and not just looking after our own factories, vessels and buildings. By signing GC Rieber's CoC, suppliers commit themselves to a number of We must extend our thinking to incorporate the entire value chain: from widely accepted principles of corporate social responsibility which, in turn, sourcing and harvesting of raw materials to the way in which our suppliers will give them a competitive advantage when GC Rieber is selecting new organise their operations, the type of materials we use in our buildings etc. suppliers. It is a major task in other words, and although we have made significant progress, there is still some way to go before the job is complete. As at the end of 2012 a number of our suppliers have already signed the Code of Conduct. Some have declined on grounds that they have already Taking on proactive social responsibility in practice requires our boards of adopted these principles and have drawn up their own code of conduct. directors, management teams and employees to keep their radars “turned Either way, the process has put social responsibility on the agenda and on” in respect of how both minor and major decisions within the orgahelped encourage greater transparency around the issue in our dialogue nisation affect the world around us. It requires us to continue to remind with suppliers. ourselves that corporate social responsibility is not something that simply exists alongside our day-to-day business; it is the very platform that dictates As a corporation operating within a number of different sectors both locally how GC Rieber conducts its business. and globally, we continually face challenges relating to social responsibility. In particular, our overseas operations in countries far away require a great We feel that some of the group's 14 principles sum up it up quite well. deal of attention. Our presence must generate positive effects in terms of They spell out how proactive social responsibility is an essential criteria for protecting the environment and developing secure local jobs and of helping long-term business success: to ensure well documented and transparent financial transactions. If over time we are unable to document that our presence generates such effects, No. 11: Growth and development require transparent interaction between we are of the opinion that we should pull out, regardless of how profitable society, business contacts, employees and owners. In order for the company the operation may be in its own right. For us this is social responsibility in to reach its goals, none of these groups must be allowed to exploit its practice. powers at the expense of the others. No. 12: The company shall not contribute to the depletion of natural resources. Natural resources should be passed on to our descendants in at least as good a condition as when we took over. In order to emphasise its position on this issue, GC Rieber joined the UN's Paul-Chr. Rieber Global Compact in autumn 2010 and published its first CSR report the CEO following year. During 2012 we have intensified our efforts and are proud GC Rieber AS to be able to present some of our achievements in this report. Our main focus in 2012 has been to establish new tools to promote social responsibility and sustainability in our dialogue with suppliers and part-owned companies. For GC Rieber a proactive social responsibility does not just mean keeping our own house in order – we also want to take every available opportunity to influence our partners. 6 GC rieber GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 7 ABOUT GC RIEBER GC Rieber is a privately owned company exercising long-term proactive Inclusive ownership in a number of core areas. This means that we: • care about individuals. GC Rieber was established in 1879, trading in skins and hides. Over the • build teams, are inclusive and keep everyone informed. subsequent four generations the business has grown both organically and • involve employees in dealing with issues of importance to the individual. by acquiring and selling other businesses. Its headquarters are in Bergen, Norway. Its operations are based around three areas of business: industry, Clear shipping and property. The group possesses specialist expertise within niche This means that we: markets in all three areas. • are consistent in our assessments and decisions. • provide clear feedback and address difficult issues. It operates both locally and internationally, primarily within the corporate • use understandable language. markets. Strategy Vision GC Rieber shall hold a prominent and profitable position in selected GC Rieber's ambition is to maintain and enhance its position as a positive niches within the areas of industry, shipping and property. Good customer and innovative force in business and the wider community, by developing understanding and market-leading expertise shall help generate added value values for the future. for our customers in the form of innovative quality deliveries. From our headquarters in Bergen we take a global perspective of our operations. An Core values unambiguous value base and a common corporate culture form the basis for proactive social responsibility and sustainability at all levels of the Creativity organisation. • We are stimulated by redefining existing practices, and we dare to question “established truths”. Ownership Diligence Private holding companies: 50 % • We are driven by setting ourselves ambitious targets, and we work tirelessly to turn opportunities into visible results. Private shareholders: 30 % Charitable trusts: 20 % Responsibility • We act responsibly in relation to customers, society, the environment and each other. Since the very beginning the Rieber family has continued to make its mark on both the company's ownership philosophy and on its day-to-day operation. The company was founded by Gottlieb Christian Rieber in 1879 and Management principles is currently managed by the fourth generation of the family, represented by Paul-Chr. Rieber. Gottlieb Christian and Emma Rieber decided to establish Results-driven a charitable trust as early as in 1929. This was to become the predecessor This means that we: of the GC Rieber Funds, which currently own around 20 % of GC Rieber. • are open to innovation and adjust our course if necessary. Around 200 private shareholders also hold stakes in GC Rieber. In 2012 • convey clear objectives and generate a strong belief in them. the company decided to allow shares to be sold to employees, and some of • follow up on results and ensure that they conform with the company’s the private shareholders are in fact GC Rieber employees. fundamental values. 8 GC rieber GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 GC RIEBER'S SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES together answer behavior trade duty wrong important only behave political notions perspective ethics principle responsibility idea Corporate social responsibility (CSR) At company level the operational responsibility for implementing GC life answer involve Rieber's common standards and targets for social responsibility rests with There is no universal definition of the term CSR, but it can be seen as the management of each company. This involves integrating sustainability way philosophy a concept whereby an organisation integrates social and environmental value assessments into all business decisions and handling specific risk elements consider aspects into its operations. CSR is about what a company can do, not what relating to the company's operations. it must do, and it implies taking on responsibility above and beyond the need laws and rules that apply to the enterprise. Social responsibility means In order to monitor this procedure, the boards across the group receive overseeing the entire value chain and thinking long term. In other words, it means meeting the customer's needs while considering the expectations of a quarterly report on measures and progress undertaken in the field of corporate social responsibility. call base others. This also helps boost competitiveness in the long term. many suggest contemporary many many questions UN Global Compact metaethics arrive asset Currently the world's largest initiative for corporate social responsibility investment social always applies contract with more than 5,000 member companies in 130 different countries. The profit normality UN's Global Compact has drawn up ten universal principles describing how companies should show consideration for workers' rights, human rights, protecting the environment and fighting corruption. By signing up aspect live investigation to the initiative, the companies commit themselves to integrating the ten good environment duty principles into their business strategies. things moral similar GC Rieber’s ambition made decision political GC Rieber has an ambition to take on proactive social responsibility. As distinctions mean proposal sometimes trade part of this initiative, GC Rieber has joined the UN's Global Compact. This means that every year the company produces a report presenting various good study decisions, individual measures and projects underpinning GC Rieber's strategy of being a positive and innovative force in business and the wider community. tell seperation justice regulate guide earth About the work money called find able norm situation The GC Rieber group comprises a number of companies in a variety of sectors, each facing different challenges and risks. In order to best handle code of conduct this, GC Rieber has divided its social responsibility initiatives into two typical inmoral time levels: group level and company level. everyone serial example Common guidelines, targets and standards for corporate social responsibility are drawn up at group level and applied to the entire group of companies. An internal UN Global Compact group has also been established to help develop social responsibility initiatives, share contemporary experiences and develop effective, shared tools and management systems. The group consists of managers from the largest companies in the group. question justice 10 GC rieber GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 Collaboration with violinist Sonoko Miriam Welde For the last five years GC Rieber has “Diligence”, which underlines the importance of classical music talents can be developed. One of collaborated with the 15-year-old violinist working hard, practising and developing skills. the key messages was how young people learn Sonoko Miriam Welde. The partnership has and develop by performing alongside the very provided Miss Welde with financial support to At the end of 2012 Sonoko Miriam and her best experienced performers in their discipline. allow her to develop her musical talent under mentor, Alf Kraggerud from Barratt Due This learning philosophy has much in common the direction of the best teachers and performers Musikkinstitutt, were invited to GC Rieber's with the way in which young employees at GC in the field of classical music. The collaboration management forum. They performed for the Rieber have developed thanks to the company's ties in with one of GC Rieber's core values, delegates, giving the audience an idea how in-house mentoring programme. “I have been able to participate in so many activities this year. I have gained a lot of new experience as a concert soloist, orchestral player, touring chamber musician and in competitions. My aim is of course to become a good musician, and the support from GC Rieber has meant so much in helping me reach that goal. I will always be very grateful for the time I have spent working with you!” Sonoko Miriam Welde Sonoko Miriam Welde An environmentally friendly and progressive workplace For almost two years GC Rieber employees in showers and changing rooms – all greatly Bergen have been able to borrow electric cars appreciated by the company's many cycling during working hours. Two cars have been enthusiasts. made available to provide transport during the working day, bookable at elbil.gcrieber.no. This To encourage staff to choose environmentally initiative helps protect the air quality in the city friendly means of transport when travelling to of Bergen against unnecessary emissions, and and from work, GC Rieber has for the last few our employees are offered a good and flexible years sponsored employees who have elected not solution when travelling to client meetings and to sign up for a regular parking space. In 2012 other appointments around the city. To encourage staff to choose environmentally the sponsorship sum was increased to match the friendly means of transport when travelling to and monthly cost of a bus pass in Bergen. This way from work, GC Rieber has for the last few years GC Rieber's premises in Solheimsviken also have we try to make a small contribution towards sponsored employees who have elected not to sign ample indoor bike parking facilities with modern improving air quality in the city. up for a regular parking space 13 GC Rieber Eiendom PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT FOCUSING ON ENERGY USE, HEALTH, THE ENVIRONMENT AND SAFETY Newbuild for DNB in Bergen – a project focusing on have been central to the project. GC Rieber and DNB have had a shared GC Rieber Eiendom aims to develop and manage innovative ambition of ensuring that the project incorporates qualities that help reduce commercial properties especially designed for the future. energy, health, the environment and safety energy consumption. This has resulted in the buildings being planned and Particular attention is paid to the buildings' environmental On 1 September 2013 DNB will take possession of the five buildings that constructed in accordance with the requirements for low-energy buildings together make up Solheimsgaten 7 A-E in Solheimsviken. The buildings and in compliance with energy class B requirements. This involves stricter impact, energy consumption, ventilation and flexibility of use. offer a total of 44,000 sq. m. of floor space, of which DNB and its 1,800 requirements for heating, cooling and insulation of the building structure employees will occupy 33,000 sq. m. than the minimum stipulated by the authorities. The five buildings making up Solheimsgaten 7 A-E are estimated to use 106 kWh of energy per sq. m. The management of the buildings should be flexible, forward-looking and This is the largest single project ever completed by GC Rieber Eiendom. of heated floor space. The minimum requirement under current building long term. The company's largest existing commercial developments are Over a period of 30 months – from the demolition of the existing building regulations is 150 kWh per sq. m. This gives an estimated annual reduction the Business Park in Solheimsviken and the Marineholmen Research and stock in March 2011 to the completion and handover of the newbuild in in energy consumption of around 1,350,000 kWh. The above figures are Business Park, while the Bontelabo complex along with sites in Birkeland September 2013 – the project will have produced almost 1,200 FTEs. based on a “normalised Oslo climate”. Adjusted for the Bergen climate the and Kokstad are projects still in the planning. estimated energy consumption is 92 kWh per sq. m. Norway's building stock accounts for around 40 % of the country's total Right from the start the GC Rieber Eiendom and main contractor LAB, have placed great emphasis on health, safety and the environment (HSE), A further environmental benefit of the project is the use of seawater to energy consumption. Research carried out in large cities worldwide shows since one of the most important criteria for a successful project is to keep cool the buildings. Seawater is collected from the fjord at a depth of 100 m that upgrading the building stock is the one measure that offers the single injuries to a minimum. Together with LAB we worked systematically to through a 2.5 km long plastic pipeline. With a constant temperature of 6–8 greatest potential for reducing energy consumption and climate gas emisencourage a good HSE culture amongst the 250 people working on the C° throughout the year, the seawater can be used for free cooling. For every sions. GC Rieber Eiendom is taking this challenge seriously and is working site every day. Multilingual HSE conferences, dedicated HSE management 1 kWh used to pump in the seawater, another 70 kWh of cooling capacity is proactively to reduce its environmental footprint by choosing environmenmeetings, health and safety inspections and safety analyses are conducted to achieved at the other end. tally friendly materials and energy-efficient solutions for newbuilds and by continually upgrading older buildings. make the building site a safe place. The combination of a low-energy building and seawater-based free Apart from the focus on HSE, demand for energy-efficient solutions cooling makes the project one of the most sustainable buildings GC Rieber Eiendom has built to date. KEY FIGURES / GC Rieber Eiendom Key figures Operating income 304 EBITDA 121 Profit before taxes 77 Total Assets 2 528 Number of employees 30 From left; Engineer Arne Hellebostad, Project Manager Gard Kvalheim from LAB Entreprenør, Project Manager Harald Weløy from GC Rieber Eiendom AS. 14 GC RIEBER GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 15 The BI building in Bergen – winner of the 2012 Eiendomsprisen property prize INITIATIVES IN 2012 The BI building in Bergen was the worthy unpretentious but with numerous honest winner of the 2012 Eiendomsprisen qualities both in terms of materials and Environment property prize. The site is developed and design. It is easy to point to the timeless • Established a new engineering position run by GC Rieber Eiendom AS and is elegance, durability and environmental specialising primarily in energy and the owned by our part-owned subsidiary consciousness that the building displays both environment. Marineholmen Forskningspark AS. The inside and outside. The generous internal • Begun preparations for BREEM certificaEiendomsprisen property prize is awarded ceiling height suggests that money alone tion (international environmental standard every year in Bergen by Nordea, Stadsporten, did not rule this project. The architects for commercial buildings) for the Arenum Thommessen, Kyte Næringsmegling and have taken onboard the history of the site project. Bergens Tidende. and have incorporated elements from its • Implemented and completed programme for history in the outdoor areas, ensuring that energy classification of all buildings. In 2012 the jury decided to award the prize the building does not seem alien to the local • Energy class B (low-energy buildings) to a project that could make a difference in community. Its location by the fjord has been achieved for new DNB building and for BI the local neighbourhood. For many years fully exploited. Norwegian Business School building. this has been a neglected and run-down • Completed rebuilding of technical installaneighbourhood in a shady part of town – There is no forbidding architecture keeping tions in the Motorhallen and Skipsbyggeralthough it is technically speaking in a rather the public out – something that many private hallen buildings to use seawater for energy sunny area of Bergen. In recent years the area developers are often tempted to implement.” production. This will lead to lower and more environmentally friendly energy consumption. has seen a transformation that many people have great hopes for. • All suppliers to construction projects report The outdoor areas have been designed by regularly in line with GC Rieber Eiendom's Smedsvig Landskapsarkitekter AS and the environmental requirements for new projects. The jury said that “the building itself is building by b+b arkitekter AS. • The company's electric cars are used by company employees and tenants in Solheimsviken. The vehicles clocked up 12,000 km in 2012, which means a cut in emissions locally of around 1,330 kg of CO². Human rights and working conditions • Active follow-up of partners and suppliers to ensure that labour rights are observed. Reporting during every client meeting. • Reporting procedures stipulated in all contracts in respect of all foreign labour used in Energy labelling of all buildings is complete With its numerous buildings and associated technical installations, this the company's building projects. This is also has been an extensive process for GC Rieber Eiendom, but the project being followed up on at all client meetings. The Norwegian energy labelling regulations require all commercial was finally completed in February 2013. Twenty-two buildings had been • Follow-up and controls of all cleaning supplibuildings and homes that are sold or rented out to obtain an energy labelled, with 30 associated energy performance certificates and energy ers in accordance with the new Regulations performance certificate. The energy performance certificate contains a assessments of almost 50 installations. The best energy performance on Regulatory Approval of Cleaning Comlabel showing the energy standard of the building. It also includes an panies and on the Procurement of Cleaning certificate was achieved by the school building at BI Norwegian Business energy grade and a heating grade. The energy grade describes how much Services. School with the energy grade B and a green heating grade. energy the building uses, with an A meaning low energy consumption and an F high expected consumption. The heating grade uses colour codes Anti-corruption to show how environmentally friendly the energy source is. A red grade Increased use of seawater energy • Begun distribution of GC Rieber's Code of involves fossil fuels, while a green grade is awarded when the building uses Conduct for suppliers. Signed agreements renewable energy sources. The Skipsbyggerhallen and Motorhallen buildings in Solheimsviken have started to arrive. were connected during the autumn, and by the end of 2012 the Indre • Internal guidelines for ethics and whistlePuddefjorden Energisentral was delivering seawater to three properties. As well as an energy performance certificate, a building also requires blowing are communicated regularly to When upgrading the technical installations the traditional air-to-water heat regular energy assessments to be carried out of its technical installations. employees at staff meetings etc. pumps were replaced in favour of systems that use seawater for heating In the case of GC Rieber Eiendom, this involves climate systems for • New staff sign GC Rieber's “Ethical and and cooling. 2013 will see further expansion with the connection of the cooling and ventilation. The purpose of the energy labelling and technical social responsibility guidelines” as part of Administration building in May and the DNB building on 1 September. assessments is to raise awareness of energy use, of different heating the recruitment process. solutions and of solutions that can make the home or building more energyefficient. Energy labelling of commercial buildings carried out by experts must therefore also include a list of measures that will improve the energy performance of the building. 17 GC Rieber Industri INDUSTRIAL ENTERPRISE WITH A GLOBAL TARGET MARKET GC Rieber Industri is the group's product and processing division. The division currently comprises four main companies: GC Rieber Salt AS (100%), GC Rieber Oils AS Local business development and improved nutrition in developing countries (100%), GC Rieber Skinn AS (100%) and GC Rieber Compact Since 2004 GC Rieber Compact's joint venture with Danish company firm we built the country's largest, and practically only, processing plant, AS (80%). Engsko has helped develop food production by local companies in producing a nutritious porridge powder using partly local ingredients. The developing countries by supplying milling equipment as well as expertise product, Timor Vita, has significantly improved nutrition in children in East in the areas of production, quality control and marketing. GC Rieber Timor over the last three years. For GC Rieber Compact this means that GC Rieber Industri operates in the areas of industrial salt and salt for food Compact is a producer of high-quality food and emergency rations, and we are considered more of a partner than a straight-forward food supplier production, high-concentrate omega-3 oils, fur products and food and Engsko produces mills for milling flour, rice etc. The respective companies to our customers,” says Erik Sunde, GC Rieber Compact's long-standing emergency rations. provide technology / production equipment and production skills, and the representative in Africa and Asia. joint venture supplies complete solutions for setting up local factories for GC Rieber Industri companies operate both locally and globally. Raw producing flour using local ingredients. The investment pays off in the form of increased local knowledge of the materials used in the production are obtained from across the world, and countries in which the company's products are used. The company has also the supplier chains are mostly global. GC Rieber Industri also owns stakes The factories are purchased by organisations such as the World Food established an important network of local expertise in the food production in overseas companies, including in Canada, Morocco, Tunisia and India. Programme (WFP), which then work with local producers to set up the industry. Last but not least, it allows the company to gain a better insight Its global target market means there is an increased risk particularly with plants before eventually transferring ownership to a local partner. This into the work of the WFP, which is an important customer of GC Rieber regard to corruption as well as to health, environment and safety issues. helps strengthen local skills and business development. Local jobs are Compact. Quality assurance, specific improvement measures and close follow-up created and sustainable food production is established that meets the strict of the company's value chains are therefore key priorities for GC Rieber quality requirements of the World Food Programme. The products also help “Focusing on the customer is key to reaching our strategic targets. This Industri. improve the health of local people. project is a good example of sustainable business operations in practice, whereby we are able to transfer knowledge and technology to partners in “A good example of what we do can be seen in one of the world's newest developing countries. These countries may eventually become potential countries, East Timor, which finally won its independence after years of sources of raw materials, potential markets for our products and potential colonial rule, first under Portugal and most recently under Indonesia. This is producers of our own finished products,” says Øyvind Ramberg, CEO of a war-weary country with little industry. Together with the WFP and a local GC Rieber Compact. “This project is a good Key Figures / example of sustainable GC Rieber Industri business operations in practice, whereby we are Key Figures able to transfer knowOperating income 724 ledge and technology to EBITDA -16 partners in developing Profit before taxes -43 Total Assets 793 countries,” Number of employees 265 Øyvind Ramberg CEO, GC Rieber Compact 18 GC rieber GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 19 / FaCTS The apprenticeship scheme GC Rieber's apprenticeship scheme has been in operation in Norway for a number of years and is based on a model whereby apprentices complete two years of upper secondary education (with associated exams) before undergoing a 2-year practical training programme at a company. Having completed their apprenticeship period, candidates take a practical apprenticeship test. In order to be awarded an apprenticeship certificate in their chosen specialism, candidates must have chosen the appropriate basic course and advanced course. KOM trainees This is a regional training programme aimed at candidates holding bachelor degree at a minimum, wishing to live and work in the Kristiansund region. It is a 2-year programme, and three different positions are currently being offered. GC Rieber Oils is a partner enterprise for this programme. Magnus Ørbog, Chemical Processing Apprentice at GC Rieber Oils. Training for high-tech production Chemical processing apprenticeship at to the processes. My job is to turn crude fish oil trained and have obtained their certificates, they From PhD to trainee at GC Rieber GC Rieber into finished fish oil, which we can then sell,” may also want to apply for jobs with us. So far “I have been a trainee at GC Rieber for just Magnus Ørbog has just returned home from his says Magnus Ørbog. It has been a steep learning all our apprentices have passed and obtained Torill Fladvad over six months now – first at GC Rieber Oils curve, but Magnus has been given thorough their certificates after completing their training. night shift. It is eight in the morning. While most and then at its subsidiary GC Rieber Omega-3 training in the various processes taking place This is something we are very proud of,” says other people are on their way to work, Magnus Concentrates, which was established last at the factory. All trainees also attend courses Haavin. lab; planning and conducting studies to establish is about to go to bed. He is 18 and lives in autumn. The day-to-day changes have been in forklift driving and health and safety during stability factors and to optimise the addition of Kristiansund but originally comes from Tustna, almost unnoticeable, but it's still great to see their traineeships – both of which could be one of the neighbouring islands. useful later in their careers. that the company continues to develop and that antioxidants in new products; documentation “I'm part of the research procedures and international registration of we are moving upwards and forwards,” says some of our by-products; to building rooms and development Magnus chose Kristiansund as his base when an enthusiastic Toril Fladvad. She already has Kenneth Haavin, production manager and in “So far all our apprentices for use as controlled environments for the oils department at GC Rieber deciding what to study after secondary school. a few years under her belt as a PhD candidate charge of apprenticeships at GC Rieber Oils, He has studied at a Kristiansund high school says that despite having worked at the factory have passed and obtained and is now participating in the KOM Trainees during studies. Time really has flown by and Oils. Since I joined I've I'm really enjoying myself. All credit to my colfor two years. The first year he attended the for only a short time, Magnus is well liked by their certificates after programme in order to “widen her horizons”, as leagues for giving me a great start as a trainee,” been busy with a range of technical industrial production course, and in his his new colleagues and is a quick learner. “It's she puts it. completing their training. she concludes. interesting and challenging second year he studied chemical processing. He a joy to have apprentices who show such great is now a new apprentice at GC Rieber Oils in interest in the subject matter. This makes my job This is something we are “I'm part of the research and development projects in a number of Kristiansund in the field of chemical processing as a mentor much easier,” says Haavin. very proud of.” department at GC Rieber Oils, and we have lots areas.” and will stay with the company for two years. of exciting things on the go. Since I joined I've My next question is why does GC Rieber Oils been busy with a range of interesting and chal“I’m enjoying it very much. I haven’t worked take on apprentices? The answer is obvious: Kenneth Haavin lenging projects in a number of areas. My duties Torill Fladvad “They are a resource for us. Once they are fully Production Manager have involved everything from analyses in the Trainee here for very long yet, so I’m still getting used GC Rieber Oils GC Rieber Oils 20 GC rieber GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 21 Initiatives in 2012 Environment • Increased production of omega-3 concentrates instead of naturally refined fish oils has reduced CO² emissions. • A shift from road tankers to ships for transporting fish oil to bulk customers has cut CO² emissions. • Replaced 25% of energy/steam production by replacing heating oil with biodiesel / by-products from omega-3 production. • Reached an agreement with Biokraft on local delivery of residual waste from production free of charge. The deal will reduce CO² emissions compared with the previous arrangement, which required transportation to Denmark. • Started work on further developing processing methods to reduce pollutants, thus keeping abreast of new regulations. • Established new freight agreements for salt deliveries. New agreement means 50% of cargo will be shipped by larger Robert Svendsen vessels, leading to reduced emissions. • Participating in a test series of Caliber; a more environmentally friendly de-icing agent that is low in chlorine. • To help ensure energy-efficient production, factors such as energy requirements, design and saving water are important “The control element is criteria in the planned expansion of the production plant of Compact India. important in itself, but ongoing health and safety Human rights and working conditions efforts require that we learn One of GC Rieber warehouse workers unload big-bags • Close follow-up of all part-owned companies (below of salt at our terminal on Sjursøya, Oslo. 50 %), both in the form of active boardroom presence and from our mistakes while on-site visits/inspections to ensure that human rights and continually assessing the working conditions are satisfactory. HSE in the toolbox risks involved in all • Internal audits and audits of a number of suppliers in Norway and abroad have been carried out, including crude fish operations in order to Every day employees at GC Rieber Salt carry out In 2012 the company therefore implemented of the firm and is pleased to see the attention given to this issue across the oil suppliers in Peru and Chile, salt suppliers in Spain and prevent potentially operations that involve certain risks. Working a new quality assurance system to improve organisation. Germany, and raw material suppliers in Norway and India. near the quay, driving front loaders and forklifts, monitoring of day-to-day operations and to dangerous situations.” using machinery that involves a risk of crushing follow up on incidents. “The control element is Health and safety officers in all departments have recently completed an Anti-corruption are all recurring activities in the Norwegian important in itself, but ongoing health and safety extensive HSE course. The course was tailor-made and focused in particular Labour Inspection Authority's statistics on efforts require that we learn from our mistakes • GC Rieber's Code of Conduct has been issued to all main Robert Svendsen on the risk aspects of the work carried out at GC Rieber Salt. “The health suppliers. The companies in the group have received signed Quality Manager accidents at work. while continually assessing the risks involved and safety officers will be involved in the internal controls with frequent agreements from a majority of suppliers. Guidelines are folGC Rieber Salt in all operations in order to prevent potentially health and safety inspections, and they will act as advisors and sounding lowed up on continually at supplier meetings, and they are The proactive health, safety and environmental dangerous situations. We are therefore holding boards for the operating managers,” Svendsen explains. monitored by way of separate inspections. work being carried out at GC Rieber Salt is monthly health and safety meetings where the operating managers take part,” says HSE and • Requested partner organisation UNICEF to demand that all therefore of the utmost importance. In 2012 the “The causes of the accidents we experienced in 2012 are complex, but most quality manager Robert Svendsen at GC Rieber UNICEF suppliers must sign up to the UN's Global Comcompany recorded three accidents at work and of the incidents were caused by various forms of inattentiveness. Our main pact. However, the request has not yet been met. four minor incidents leading to personal injury. Salt. task is to adopt safety measures to reduce the effects of human failure. As This is on a par with the national average, but • New staff sign GC Rieber's “Ethical and social responsibilwell as the immediate effect of a given safety measure, all health and safety ity guidelines” as part of the recruitment process. still some way off the company's stated ambition His position was created in 2011, and in the initiatives are intended to have an effect on people's attitudes. To succeed of an accident-free workplace. Safety will last year Svendsen has worked hard to reinforce in our health and safety efforts, we need to create a common safety culture. continue to be a key priority in the times ahead. the safety culture within the company. He is We are well on our way to achieving this,” says Robert Svendsen. working closely with other managers at all levels 23 GC Rieber Shipping MODERN OFFSHORE SHIPPING COMPANY SPECALISING IN ICE GC Rieber Shipping's offshore/shipping activities include ownership of Seismic vessel Polar Duke wins customer HSE award specialised vessels, high-quality maritime operations and project development in the fields of subsea, ice/support and marine seismic. The company As a visible recognition of the company's long-term HSEQ focus, GC safety meetings and drills were held, and the crew were also actively possesses unique expertise on offshore operations in harsh environment Rieber Shipping was informed in February 2012 that Polar Duke had been involved in HSE reporting, particularly in relation to key indicators such as well as on the design, development and maritime operation of offshore awarded TGS' annual safety award. This annual award was established to as safety meetings, drills and safety audits. The solid HSE performance vessels. raise awareness of HSE and to emphasise the importance of a solid safety has also resulted in good operating results, which are clearly reflected in culture onboard the vessels operating for TGS. the production and efficiency statistics. The five and a half month long assignment was completed without a single HSE incident.” GC Rieber Shipping currently operates 16 advanced specialised vessels within its markets, 11 of which are owned by the company. The company GC Rieber Shipping seismic vessel Polar Duke began working for TGS in also has two vessels under construction: one advanced subsea vessel for the Barents Sea in May 2011 as Dolphin Geophysical's first high-capacity When GC Rieber Shipping CEO Irene Waage Basili was told of the award, delivery in the first quarter of 2014 and one high-capacity seismic vessel 3-D seismic vessel. Peter Seidel, HSE director at TGS, explains the award as she congratulated everyone involved, both onboard and onshore, and for delivery in the first quarter of 2015. The GC Rieber group also has a follows: “It took less than six days for the new vessel to start production, added: “It is achievements like this that give GC Rieber Shipping genuine strategic value chain investment involving a 50% stake in Reef Subsea. and during the mobilisation phase the crew demonstrated that they take credibility when discussing and negotiating with financial institutions, safety seriously. Throughout the assignment the crew and onshore team investors, customers and suppliers!” continued to show a high level of awareness concerning safety. Regular The company's head offices are in Bergen, Norway, and it has operating companies based in Sevenoaks (UK) and Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk (Russia). The company is listed on the Oslo stock exchange with ticker symbol RISH. GC Rieber Shipping's operational objectives are based on the principle of preventing injury to persons, the environment and property. This is reflected in its slogan: “Safe Competent Support”. The company is working proactively to highlight the core values of Creativity, Diligence and Responsibility and has set key targets for HSEQ in the form of key performance indicators. Its health, safety, environment and quality control efforts have been defined as an important part of the company's operations, with everyone within the organisation taking a personal responsibility. To ensure that crews onboard its vessels always sustain a high level of HSEQ expertise, the company has developed a training standard that goes above and beyond what is required by law. Key Figures / GC Rieber Shipping Key Figures Operating income 781 EBITDA 214 Profit before taxes 210 Total Assets 3 546 Number of employees 167 From left: Martin Billard Party Manager Polar Duke – Dolphin, Stian Kallestad Master Polar Duke – GC Rieber, Jan Numme Project Manager – TGS, John Ainsworth QHSE Vessel Coordinator Polar Duke – Dolphin, Mark Brittain Operation Manager – Dolphin. 24 GC rieber GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 25 Environmental and quality certification – On duty with the British Antarctic Survey in the ocean currents and environmental evolution in polar regions. The aim of the programme is to increase our understanding of the polar regions and the role they play within a global an ongoing process name of science perspective. The shipping industry is facing environmental challenges. In 2011 GC GC Rieber Shipping grew out of the combined hunting and fishing vessels Initiatives in 2012 Rieber Shipping made a concerted effort to qualify for the ISO 14001 operating in polar waters in the 1930s. Over the years the company has “Conducting complex research under such challenging conditions obviously requires carefully environmental standard. Following a thorough qualifying process carried maintained and further developed its specialist expertise on operations in planned, modern and efficient logistics. This is where Ernest Shackleton plays an important out by DNV, the company received proof that it has been formally ISO demanding and cold waters to become the modern offshore shipping comsupporting role for BAS. The ship is primarily used as a logistics vessel, carrying supplies of Environment 14001-certified in the first quarter of 2012. pany that it is today. This is why the company has been able to establish a food, equipment and crews to and from the various research bases. The vessel is occasionally • All vessels have plans in place for waste long-standing partnership with the British Antarctic Survey (BAS). also used for scientific operations and sample-taking,” explains Finn Atle Hamre, Chief disposal. Waste is sorted and disposed of Achieving certification under international standards is a key element of Commercial Officer at GC Rieber Shipping. in accordance with international and local the company's ongoing HSEQ work. During 2012 the company therefore One of the company's vessels, RSS Ernest Shackleton, is currently conregulations. decided to adopt the ISO 9001 standard. The qualifying process will tracted to BAS. BAS has a long and proud history of conducting research • Work is underway to measure and monitor Ernest Shackleton was built in 1995 and is a combined polar research and subsea support commence in 2013. This standard takes a process-based approach, and and studies in the Antarctic and surrounding regions, and the institution waste volumes onboard. vessel. The vessel was developed by GC Rieber's own design department, and her unique encompasses quality management, product design, customer service, produces the majority of all British research carried out on this ice-covered design is based on the company's long-standing, in-house expertise on polar operations. • The use of chemicals onboard each vessel document control, in-house training, internal audits and management evacontinent. The current research programme, Polar Science for Planet is being monitored and evaluated every luations. The company is also working to have its fleet certified under MLC Earth, comprises six different areas, including climate change, eco systems, quarter. The types of chemicals used are (the Maritime Labour Convention) and various flag state requirements. also being monitored to ensure that the most environmentally friendly options are chosen. • A possibility study has been conducted to look at the scope for environmental improvements onboard each vessel. Ideas “Conducting complex research under such from the study will be used to design action plans for each ship during 2013. challenging conditions obviously requires • A reporting system for fuel and lubricatcarefully planned, modern and efficient ing oils is in place, and consumption is logistics. This is where Ernest Shackleton continually monitored and evaluated. plays an important supporting role for BAS.” Human rights and working conditions • The company places great emphasis on Finn Hamre safety during all types of operations. Well Chief Commercial Officer established quality control systems are GC Rieber Shipping. used actively by the organisation both onshore and offshore to report incidents, non-conformities and suggested improvements. This helps to continually improve work processes, ensure safe working conditions and reduce operational risks. Anti-corruption • The company's main suppliers have been informed of GC Rieber's Code of Conduct for suppliers via the purchasing co-operative Incentra. Several large contract partners, including shipyards and individual customers, have also signed the company's Code of Conduct. • Current procedures for anti-corruption and the practical handling of anti-corruption issues are part of the company's training matrix for employees. • New staff sign GC Rieber's “Ethical and social responsibility guidelines” as part of the recruitment process. 26 GC rieber GROUP CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 Training Filipino crews in Manila Like most shipping companies, GC Rieber Norwegian Training Centre in Manila were not Shipping has increasingly chosen to focus on to the required standard, but partly also due to attracting international crews in recent years. the company's new crewing model. “Anyone The company currently has around 320 Filipino working with food and cleaning has a particular “The training crew members on long-term contracts via a responsibility to ensure that the food being crewing company. An important pillar of this served is safe to eat. This requires training in initiatives we offer new crewing strategy has been to invest conareas such as health, safety, hygiene, nutrition, provide valuable siderable resources in skills development. “We administration and management,” Tåsås formal qualifications think long term when developing each and every explains. The new courses are split into three crew member. Although they are not formally levels, with each level representing a total of that qualify crew employed by the company, training and courses four weeks of training. Level 1 is compulsory for members for new benefit both us and the individual crew memeveryone working onboard as a steward. Crew jobs and more bers. The training initiatives we offer provide members can qualify for the more advanced valuable formal qualifications that qualify crew levels 2 and 3 by completing level 1 and proviresponsibility members for new jobs and more responsibility ding evidence of good performance onboard. onboard” onboard,” saysher? Bildetekst Liv Hedda Leknessund, Head of HR at GC Rieber Shipping. In April 2012 the first level 1 course was held by the Norwegian Training Centre (NTC) in Liv Hedda Leknessund Head of HR Over the last year chief steward Elin Tåsås Manila. “It really was a pleasure to be part of GC Rieber Shipping has been working to develop new courses for the class. NTC has developed a very good course stewards onboard GC Rieber Shipping vessels. concept based on the topics we recommended,” The reason for creating a new programme was says Elin Tåsås, who was present in order to primarily that existing courses offered at the evaluate the training programme. Chief Cook Ruben Valenzuela Ochoco in the process of preparing an evening meal aboard the GC Rieber Shipping's seismic vessel Polar Duchess. GC RIEBER AS SOLHEIMSGATEN 15 / P.O. BOX 990 SENTRUM / N-5808 / NORWAY TEL +47 55 60 67 00 / FAX +47 55 60 67 01 / WWW.GCRIEBER.NO
