Annual Review 2012 “We’re creating a whole new model of research, working side by side with leading academics on a number of exciting programs, ranging from kidney disease to Alzheimer’s. My team is collaborating on TM4SF1, a protein indicated in prostate cancer, with a true giant in the field, Dr. Hal Dvorak of Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center. We’re pushing the OWNING science forward and learning so much from each other, so COLLABORATION quickly, it’s inspiring.” Alberto Visintin Associate Research Fellow Working Together to Speed the Science Pfizer’s Centers for Therapeutic Innovation (CTI) represents a significant departure from the traditional lengthy and linear process of target discovery to eventual drug development. Collaborations CTI Boston such as the one between CTI Boston and Dr. Hal Dvorak of Beth Our CTI Boston lab is located in the same Israel Deaconess Medical Center exemplify this new model, which building as offices of renowned research seeks to expedite the translation of science into medicine. centers of Boston Children’s Hospital and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, which places some potential partners just an CTI’s open innovation model puts Pfizer scientists side by side elevator ride away. with academic investigators in the lab, where they share their understanding of target biology and translational medicine expertise. Pfizer funds preclinical and clinical development programs and offers equitable intellectual property and ownership rights to our CTI partners. In addition, we provide access to select Pfizer compound libraries, proprietary screening methods, antibody development technologies, and a wealth of dedicated resources and support from Pfizer experts in drug development and protein sciences. The ultimate goal of each collaboration is to validate a drug candidate that can be moved into further clinical testing. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Owning Collaboration 1 Annual Review 2012 “An academic lab can only go so far. We’re good at identifying targets, but if you want to make monoclonal antibodies or take this to the clinic…a partner like Pfizer offers extraordinary resources.” DR. HAL DVORAK Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center Dr. Dvorak, a research pioneer whose ideas helped spur the advance of targeted Delivering on the Promise cancer drugs, was one of the first scientists to demonstrate that cancer cells secreted With four locations in the biomedical vascular endothelial growth factor, the initial research hubs of Boston, New York, San idea behind the development of drugs that Diego and San Francisco, and a network of cut off the blood supply to tumors to stop 20 academic medical center partners, CTI their spread. now has a portfolio of 26 programs across a variety of disease areas. Leveraging the respective strengths of these efforts, Pfizer hopes to demonstrate “proof-of-mechanism” on three candidate selections per year beginning in 2013. 26 CTI PROGRAMS In Development 20 ACADEMIC MEDICAL CENTERS Partnering with CTI TM4SF1 Program The TM4SF1 protein is over-expressed in tumor-feeding vasculature and certain cancers (such as colon and liver), presenting a potential target for monoclonal antibodies designed to destroy tumor-feeding vessels, thus starving cancer from its nutrients and inducing its regression. This program began with an antibody asset identified by Dr. Dvorak and his proposal for developing an antibody conjugate therapy. In the collaborative process with CTI, the team developed an antibody drug conjugate that is being tested for safety and efficacy in animal tumor models. The collaboration eventually included Global Biotherapeutics, CTI La Jolla and Pfizer’s Oncology research 5–10 YEARS unit. In a little over a year, a lead biologic Potentially Saved in Drug candidate was exhibiting great efficacy in not only reducing tumors in vivo but also Development Under CTI in keeping the tumors from growing back. Development continues. It is estimated that this particular collaboration has taken several years and great expense out of the development process. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Owning Collaboration 2 Annual Review 2012 “We worked on Xeljanz for 20 years, from discovery through registration. As a medicinal chemist on the program, I devoted over three years to synthesizing and profiling a thousand analogs. To see the promise delivered, and actual patients getting real-life benefits from our work…it’s humbling. And it feels very, very good. I consider myself OWNING incredibly lucky to have played a part.” POTENTIAL Mark Flanagan Associate Research Fellow A Novel Treatment Emerges Xeljanz is the first new oral disease-modifying antirheumatic drug approved for rheumatoid arthritis in more than ten years and the first rheumatoid arthritis treatment in a new class of medicines known as Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors. Unlike biologic therapies, which work outside the cell, Xeljanz targets the inflammation associated with rheumatoid arthritis from inside the cell. Specifically, Xeljanz inhibits the JAK pathways, which are signaling pathways inside cells that are used by pro-inflammatory cytokines (proteins that facilitate communication between cells). Approved in the U.S. for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to methotrexate, Xeljanz is currently under review by several regulatory agencies around the world. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Owning Potential 3 Annual Review 2012 A Product of Pfizer Science Rheumatoid Arthritis Discovered by Pfizer scientists in our Groton, Rheumatoid arthritis is a debilitating Connecticut, laboratories, Xeljanz was disease of the joints characterized by a developed solely by Pfizer. cycle of inflammation involving different pro-inflammatory cells and processes inside the body. Rheumatoid Arthritis Affects 23.7 MILLION People Worldwide 20 YEARS From Discovery to Approval 1.6 MILLION People in the U.S. 400,000 Compounds Screened 1,000 Compounds Sythesized Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Owning Potential 4 Annual Review 2012 “Patient safety is a core value and our absolute first priority— from the moment a compound is cleared for clinical trials, to its approval by regulators for use by patients, through its manufacture and distribution, and for as long as it is for sale and in use anywhere in the world.” OWNING TRUST Freda Lewis-Hall, M.D. Chief Medical Officer Empowering Physicians and Patients We work tirelessly to help doctors and patients use our medicines and vaccines safely, effectively and appropriately. Physicians and other health care professionals empowered to write prescriptions are the key ”gatekeepers” of our products. A prescription for a Pfizer medicine means that the patient and the health care professional have made a careful decision on a course of treatment. Around the globe and around the clock, we provide call services so that questions from doctors and other prescribers can be answered in a timely way by our well-trained medical staff. We also provide online and mobile resources, and are working on point-of-care smart phone apps, for even faster response. For patients and caregivers, we offer a variety of websites to help maintain and improve health, and to assist in the safe, effective and appropriate use of our products. Our Medicine Safety Education website, for example, shows how a medicine’s safety profile is determined, monitored and communicated, and even includes a direct link to MedWatch, the U.S. FDA’s Safety Information and Adverse Event reporting program. We provide such information so that prescribers and patients alike can make the best health care decisions and have the opportunity for the best health care outcomes. Keeping people informed will become even more important in the years to come, as medicines become more precise and are developed to meet the needs of very specific subgroups of patients. We are committed to continued leadership in keeping prescribers and patients fully informed about our medicines. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Owning Trust 5 Annual Review 2012 +100,000 UNIQUE VISITORS WATCH DR. FREDA LEWIS-HALL DISCUSS MIGRAINE ON THE To Our Medicine Safety Education Website DOCTORS WATCH DR. FREDA LEWIS-HALL DISCUSS ARTHRITIS ON THE DOCTORS Ensuring Data Inegrity People must trust the systems that enable regulators to evaluate the safety of new medicines and vaccines. We conduct hundreds of audits a year to affirm the integrity of the data we provide to regulators, with a special focus on making sure our clinical trials are executed properly. +800,000 PRESCRIBER INQUIRIES Answered per Year Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Owning Trust 6 Annual Review 2012 “I spent four months in Uganda working to improve maternal, newborn and child health as a Pfizer Global Health Fellow with Save The Children. It was an amazing experience. We were in the heart of Kampala, the capital city, working on building coalitions among national, regional and global stakeholders. I learned so much, particularly OWNING about what collaboration can do, especially when resources IMPACT are limited, and how diversity and different experiences bring strength and innovation to a team.” Jeffrey Trocio Associate Director Primary Care Market Access Focused on Where Needs Are Great For the past decade, Global Health Fellows like Jeffrey have worked hand-in-hand with international development organizations to strengthen health care infrastructure, capacity and awareness in under-resourced communities. Sharing best practices and privatesector knowledge, they learn how to leverage existing resources to create tangible and sustainable improvements in public and private health care delivery. Fellowship focus areas align with Pfizer expertise, such as supply chain management, health prevention programming and business development. The program promotes access, quality and efficiency of health care delivery for people in greatest need around the world. In return, Fellows and Pfizer gain new perspectives on global health challenges and how the public and private sectors can work together to address them. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Owning Impact 7 Annual Review 2012 317 COLLEAGUES 40+ COUNTRIES Pfizer’s Global Health Fellows Program Have served as Pfizer Global Health Including the U.S., since 2003 Fellows since 2003. Global Health Fellows is our signature international corporate volunteer program that places Pfizer colleagues and teams in short-term assignments with leading international development organizations in under-resourced communities around the world. For more on the program, including profiles of current and past Fellows, go here. The program is part of Pfizer’s Investments in Health platform that focuses on leveraging the full range of our resources — people, medicines, expertise and funding — to broaden access to medicines and strengthen health care delivery for underserved people around the world. For more information on our social investments, go here. 40 PARTNERSHIPS With international development organizations over the life of the Global Health Fellows program. 95% Of Fellows strongly agree that their fellowships expanded understanding of global health challenges and patient population needs. 94% Of Fellows agree on the importance of this program to developing professional skills. 89% Of Fellows agree that participation in the program sparked new ideas for products, services and improvements that they can apply to their work at Pfizer. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Owning Impact 8 Annual Review 2012 “What I love about Get Old, it’s getting people to discuss healthy aging and share their experiences. This empowers people in their health care. As a physician, as a geriatric psychiatrist, as a human being, I’ve always had a passion for community outreach. In person. I was reluctant to entertain the idea of social media. But Get Old got me so excited, I OWNING got a Twitter account so I could participate!” well-being Warachal Faison, M.D. Medical Director, Women’s Health It’s Happening at GetOld.com Get Old is a community created to encourage and support a dialogue about getting older and living better, where people of all ages can explore helpful health and aging information, along with stories from across our community. We invite everyone to tell their stories, and contribute their thoughts and experiences on growing up and growing old. What Is Get Old? It’s about… • Not just living longer, but having a better quality of life at any age • Celebrating the experiences, wisdom and knowledge that come with getting older • Providing useful, actionable information that can help people take control of their health at every stage of life • Connecting with people around a common truth—that everyone wants to live the longest, fullest life possible • Taking on an important issue affecting society, the health care system and government—our aging population Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Owning Well-Being 9 Annual Review 2012 10,000 BABY BOOMERS In the U.S. turn 65 every 24 hours. 1 OUT OF 5 AMERICANS Will be 65 or older by 2050, according to U.S. Census projections. 2 BILLION People worldwide will be over the age of 60 by 2050. Top Fears About Getting Old Dying comes in fifth on the list of things that scare people about getting old: 25% Living with pain and physical limitations 19% Becoming dependent 15% Being alone 14% Running out of money 10% Dying 9% Getting sick Age-Friendly Cities 7% Nothing The Pfizer Foundation and Grantmakers in Get Old Aging have awarded $1.3 million to support “Preventive Care and Healthy Community AGEnda, a partnership with five When you have more time, you get to see American communities to accelerate their Ageing: A Global Perspective more. You get to do more. You get to share efforts to become great places to grow up more. You get to make more wrong turns and Report” and grow old. Building on the World Health explore places you might never have gone to. Organization’s Age Friendly Cities initiative, You get to experience more successes. And This Pfizer-sponsored report, developed this one-year pilot program focuses on agejust as important, more failures. It’s a chance by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU), friendly community development in Phoenix, to not just live longer, but to live fuller. profiles eight countries: Brazil, China, India, Atlanta, Miami, Greater Kansas City and Ultimately, your job is to get to work on your Japan, Russia, South Africa, the U.K. and the the State of Indiana. This initiative will help dreams. Ours is to make sure you live long U.S. Its key finding: the world’s governments advance the efforts of all cities working to and well enough to achieve them. can help reduce rising health costs by create better communities for older adults investing in health for all age groups and in and people of all ages. preventive care programs. 28% Of people aged 35–49 have lied about their age. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Owning Well-Being 10 Annual Review 2012 CEO LETTER LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS Our strategic imperatives 1 INNOVATE AND LEAD 2 MAXIMIZE VALUE 3 EARN GREATER RESPECT 4 OWN OUR WORK TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS: 2012 was an outstanding year for the patients we serve and for our shareholders. 2012: A MILESTONE YEAR OUR purpose We brought five new therapies to patients for treating kidney cancer, leukemia, rheumatoid INNOVATE TO BRING arthritis, stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation and the rare Gaucher disease. We drove solid THERAPIES TO PATIENTS revenue growth in many of our key, patent-protected products and achieved double-digit revenue THAT SIGNIFICANTLY growth in emerging markets. Despite an industry record $7.4 billion operational loss in sales due to patent expirations, we maintained relatively flat adjusted earnings per share* and returned nearly IMPROVE THEIR LIVES $15 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. At the core of our performance in 2012 were the actions we took resulting from the four imperatives that we put in place at the beginning of 2011. Through the focus they provided, OUR mission we advanced our R&D turnaround, operated efficiently to create a more-flexible cost base, met our financial commitments, and maintained high standards of quality, compliance and TO BE THE PREMIER business ethics. Additionally, we made continued progress in our ongoing efforts to earn society’s INNOVATIVE respect and to create an ownership culture within Pfizer. I believe our culture can become a key BIOPHARMACEUTICAL sustainable advantage as we work to make Pfizer the premier, innovative biopharmaceutical company. That’s why we are investing time and resources to develop one unified culture that we COMPANY call OWN IT! A brief summary follows of our 2012 accomplishments for each imperative. * See the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended, for the year ended December 31, 2012 for the definition of “adjusted income” and for reconciliations of 2012 “adjusted income” and “adjusted diluted earnings per share” to 2012 net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. and diluted earnings per share attributable to Pfizer Inc. common shareholders, respectively. “Adjusted diluted earnings per share,” “adjusted cost of sales,” “adjusted selling, informational and administrative expenses” and “adjusted research and development expenses” are income statement line items prepared on the same basis as, and are components of, the “adjusted income” measure. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Letter to Stakeholders 11 Annual Review 2012 Improving the Performance of our Innovative Core Our strategic imperatives 2012 was a pivotal year for pipeline developments, with five new therapies now available that have significant efficacy and safety as well as value for patients, physicians and payers. • Bosulif was approved in the U.S. for previously treated chronic myelogenous leukemia, a slowly progressing blood and bone marrow disease, which usually occurs during or after middle age. With this approval, we continue to bring to patients targeted therapies that 1 more precisely treat their illness. INNOVATE AND LEAD • Elelyso was approved in the U.S. as an enzyme-replacement therapy for Type 1 Gaucher Disease in adults, a genetic disease characterized by anemia, low platelet counts, Improve Pfizer’s ability to bone disease and an enlarged liver and spleen. This development program affirms our innovate in biomedical R&D and commitment to patients suffering from rare diseases. develop a new generation of • Eliquis was approved in the U.S., Canada, the European Union and Japan as an high-value, highly differentiated anticoagulant. Co-developed and now co-promoted with Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eliquis has medicines and vaccines. the potential to set a new standard of care in the high need area of stroke prevention for patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. • Inlyta was approved in the U.S., Japan and the European Union for advanced kidney cancer. This is another example of our expanding Oncology portfolio. • Xeljanz was approved in the U.S. as the first new oral DMARD (Disease Modifying AntiRheumatic Drug) in over a decade. Xeljanz offers a totally new mechanism of action to treat rheumatoid arthritis and has a compelling clinical profile. 2 MAXIMIZE VALUE During 2012 we also advanced our early and mid-stage pipeline, most notably in the oncology and vaccines areas. We moved forward in phase III studies with dacomitinib for Invest and allocate our resources non-small cell lung cancer, inotuzumab for aggressive non-hodgkin’s lymphoma and Xeljanz for in ways that create the greatest psoriasis. We initiated phase III studies for Xeljanz for ulcerative colitis, for inotuzumab for acute long-term returns for our lymphoblastic leukemia and for a Meningococcal B vaccine for individuals aged 11-25. shareholders. These accomplishments are a result of actions we set in motion early in 2011 to improve R&D productivity. First, Pfizer scientists are now focused on the therapeutic areas where we have distinct advantages such as Neuroscience and Pain, Cardiovascular/Metabolic, Oncology, Inflammation and Immunology, and Vaccines. The chief scientist of each therapeutic area is accountable for managing resources and delivering specific results. Second, while our Groton R&D facility continues to provide important drug discovery and development expertise, many of 3 our scientists are now located in cities considered to be hubs of biomedical innovation, such as Boston, San Francisco and San Diego. By working alongside their counterparts in academia and EARN GREATER RESPECT with biotech partners, Pfizer scientists are able to drive discovery efforts and expand our access Earn society’s respect by generating to important enabling science and technology. Third, we are using specific metrics to assess our breakthrough therapies, improving success rate at every stage of the development cycle to help ensure we are allocating our capital access, expanding the dialogue to the programs that have the highest potential for delivering value. on health care and acting as a responsible corporate citizen. Through all of these actions, we are becoming increasingly rigorous in our choices of potential new medicines to move into the later, most expensive stages of development and much more agile in advancing our pipeline forward. Our latest pipeline report can be found on our website. Making the Right Capital Allocation Decisions 4 During 2012 we made decisions and took actions that enabled us to allocate our capital in ways OWN OUR WORK that enhanced shareholder value. Build and sustain a culture where We continued our multi year, companywide program to reduce expenses. In 2012, we reduced our colleagues view themselves as total adjusted Cost of Sales, Selling, Informational & Administrative expenses and R&D expenses* owners, generating new ideas, on an operational basis by approximately 10%, which is nearly a $4 billion reduction compared to dealing with problems in a 2011 levels. straightforward way, and working as teammates on challenges and We realized significant value for our shareholders through the sale of our Nutrition business to opportunities. Nestlé for $11.85 billion, and we started to unlock value from our Animal Health business, now called Zoetis. In early 2013, we completed an IPO in which we sold approximately 20% of Zoetis to the public and a related debt offering, generating approximately $6 billion in proceeds to Pfizer, Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Letter to Stakeholders 12 Annual Review 2012 “We remain firmly committed to fulfilling our company’s purpose of innovating to bring therapies to patients that significantly improve their lives. By doing that well, we will create value for the patients we serve and for our shareholders.” which we plan to deploy in the best interests of our shareholders. Zoetis begins its existence as the largest stand-alone company fully devoted to animal health medicines and vaccines. During 2012, we continued to pursue “bolt-on” business development opportunities to supplement our research efforts and product offerings. These are acquisitions or collaborative arrangements that we can readily integrate and that expand our reach or capabilities. We acquired NextWave, a specialty pharmaceutical company focused on the development and commercialization of products for the treatment of attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder. Together with Zhejiang Hisun Pharmaceuticals, we launched Hisun Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Company Limited, a joint venture to develop, manufacture and commercialize off-patent pharmaceutical products in China and global markets. We entered into an exclusive long-term collaboration with Mylan to develop, manufacture, distribute and market generic drugs in Japan. To capitalize on the strengths of our Consumer Healthcare business, we signed an agreement with AstraZeneca to obtain the over-thecounter rights to Nexium, their well-known gastrointestinal treatment. We also acquired Alacer, a company whose product, Emergen-C, fits well into our vitamins and supplements portfolio. Earning Greater Respect from Society – A New Approach to Social Dialogue Physicians, pharmacists, payers and governments determine how our medicines and vaccines reach patients. Being respected by these audiences and by society at large is at the core of our ability to operate. We know that the integrity of the information and data that we provide is essential to how we are viewed and the respect and trust that society places on what we do. Our highest priority is to provide useful, transparent and credible health information and medical data. Visitors to our website can view regularly updated reports on our clinical trials and their results, as well as the post-marketing commitments we’ve made to the FDA and regulatory authorities in other jurisdictions. Additionally, we remain committed to providing access to our medicines through a series of patient access programs, such as Pfizer Helpful Answers—a U.S. initiative that provides our medicines for free or at a savings to uninsured and underinsured patients who qualify. During 2012, this program helped 1 million patients receive more than 7 million Pfizer prescriptions. Finally, we know we will earn greater respect by listening to people from all walks of life and providing them with information that will help them live longer, healthier and happier lives. Towards this end, in 2012, we launched a multi-year initiative, called GetOld, to forge a richer dialogue on the issue of aging—one of society’s most pressing issues affecting health care and quality of life. Since the launch of GetOld in mid-2012, we went from zero share of voice of the aging conversation online to more than a 5% share in just six months. In addition, the new external platform we launched in 2011 with our Chief Medical Officer, Dr. Freda Lewis-Hall, to connect with consumers through broadcast media reached 30 million people. A Culture of Ownership We are committed to creating an ownership culture that unleashes the creativity of our colleagues around the world. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Letter to Stakeholders 13 Annual Review 2012 In 2012, we focused on building a culture, whereby colleagues apply their expertise to take appropriate risks to innovate, are accountable for their decisions, work collaboratively, deliver on their commitments, engage in constructive debate to help ensure each other’s success, and operate with integrity and in compliance with applicable legal requirements and company policies. Through new tools and companywide training, we are equipping leaders across the business to have open and candid conversations with colleagues and to encourage their active involvement in solving problems. We are seeing early signs of an ownership culture taking hold as colleagues become more entrepreneurial and seize opportunities to make a difference in the business. For example, the initiative and accountability of our colleagues contributed to an earlier-than-expected approval for Xeljanz in the U.S. Likewise, during 2012 the innovative approach of the teams managing the Lipitor loss of exclusivity (LOE) resulted in a substantially greater market share compared to previous LOE analogue products in the industry. I firmly believe having an ownership culture is what will give us the ultimate competitive advantage and it is a key priority for me and Pfizer’s entire senior leadership team. Focused on Creating Sustained Shareholder Value Pfizer is on the right path. As we turn to 2013, we must maintain our momentum by continuing to demonstrate fiscal discipline in how we use our capital, by delivering on the potential within our pipeline, and by executing our business plans while maintaining the highest standards of compliance and ethics. To help us achieve maximum performance over the next several years, we will continue to use distinct operating models within developed markets and emerging markets. In the developed markets, we have one operating model that supports our innovative-driven businesses that largely market patent-protected medicines and a second model that supports our value-driven business that largely markets medicines that are no longer patent protected. Within emerging markets, our operating model has a geographic focus that supports both the innovative-driven and value-driven businesses. This is working well in these high-growth geographies; however, as these markets evolve, we will evaluate if the emerging markets model should more closely mirror the two distinct approaches we take for developed markets. I would also note that we continue to enhance the value of our Consumer Healthcare business with a portfolio that includes some of the world’s best known consumer brands such as Advil, Centrum, and Caltrate. It has strong connections with emerging markets and pharmacy customers worldwide, and it gives us a platform to pursue the potential growth opportunities we see through the switches of prescription medicines to over-the-counter medicines. Speaking for all of us at Pfizer, including our Board of Directors, I thank you for your continued confidence in our leadership. We remain firmly committed to fulfilling our company’s purpose of innovating to bring therapies to patients that significantly improve their lives. By doing that well, we will create value for the patients we serve and for our shareholders. Sincerely, Ian C. Read Chairman and CEO Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Letter to Stakeholders 14 Annual Review 2012 CEO LETTER PERFORMANCE Financial Performance (a) For 2011, includes King Pharmaceuticals Inc. commencing on the acquisition date of January 31, 2011. (b) The sale of our Nutrition business closed on November 30, 2012. 2012, 2011 and 2010 reflect the Nutrition business, which was acquired in 2009, as a discontinued operation. All financial information before 2012 reflects Capsugel (the sale of which closed on August 1, 2011), as a discontinued operation. (c) Our short-term borrowings are rated P-1 by Moody’s Investors Service (Moody’s) and A1+ by Standard & Poor’s (S&P). Our long-term debt is rated A1 by Moody’s and AA by S&P. Moody’s and S&P are major corporate debt-rating organizations. *Calculation not meaningful. Detailed information on our financial and operational performance can be found in the 2012 Financial Report. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Performance > Financial Performance 15 Annual Review 2012 Key Performance Indicators Access to Medicines 11 17 56 Number of global programs and Number of top 20 global burdens Number of emerging markets in commercial transactions to of disease addressed by products which Pfizer has implemented increase access to medicines in and pipeline2 intra-country tiered pricing3 emerging markets1 EMPLOYEES 0.59 INJURIES PER 100 EMPLOYEES TOTAL INJURY RATE4 Pfizer’s injury rate has been reduced by 52% since 2007. The rate was unchanged from 2011. ENVIRONMENT5 2.4 MILLION METRIC TONS CO2 e6 50.7 MILLION CUBIC METERS 186 THOUSAND METRIC TONS7 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS WATER WITHDRAWAL WASTE GENERATED Total GHG emissions in 2012 were Total water withdrawal in 2012 was Total waste generated in 2012 was 4.8% lower than in 2011. essentially unchanged, increasing 4.7% lower than in 2011. by less than 1% from 2011. 1. Program/commercial transaction defined as a Pfizer investment or dedicated contract of over $250,000 with a national government or procurement agency, MLO, NGO, private institution or aid agency. Represents multi-country initiatives only and does not include numerous local initiatives to address access. 2. As defined by the World Health Organization. Burdens of illness not addressed include road traffic accidents, prematurity and low birth weight, and self-inflicted injuries. 3. Represents minimum number of emerging markets with pricing tailored to different patient segments (for at least one product), allowing access for more patients. 4. Represents >90% of Pfizer employees and directly-supervised contractors. 5. Data are baseline adjusted, reported absolute, using reporting boundaries per the WRI GHG Protocol. Includes Zoetis sites (formerly Pfizer Animal Health). Excludes divested Pfizer Nutrition sites. The 2011 U.S. and Puerto Rico GHG data (60% of the footprint) was independently verified to the “ Reasonable Assurance” level. Expanded environmental reporting will be posted on www.pfizer.com later this year. 6. Carbon footprint includes total direct (including fleet and aviation) and indirect emissions. Does not include Scope 3 emissions. 7. Pfizer is revising its approach to reporting spent process solvents for reclaim on-site (to be re-used in manufacturing) where they are not regulated as waste by local law. They are not now reported as waste. Based on corrected data, the overall recycling rate was 32%, and the quantity of hazardous and non-hazardous waste decreased 5% and 3% respectively from 2011. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Performance > Key Performance Indicators 16 Annual Review 2012 Performance and Guidance1 REPORTED REVENUES (in Billions) ADJUSTED COST OF SALES5 AS % OF REVENUES ADJUSTED SI&A EXPENSES5 (in Billions) Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Performance > Performance and Guidance 17 Annual Review 2012 ADJUSTED R&D EXPENSES5 (in Billions) ADJUSTED OTHER (INCOME)/DEDUCTIONS5 (in Millions) EFFECTIVE TAX RATE ON ADJUSTED INCOME5 REPORTED DILUTED EPS6 Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Performance > Performance and Guidance 18 Annual Review 2012 ADJUSTED DILUTED EPS5 OPERATING CASH FLOW (in Billions) 1. Please refer to Pfizer’s 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of the substantial risks and uncertainties related to the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Review. 2. At exchange rates that reflected a blend of the actual exchange rates in effect during the first nine months of 2012 and the mid-October 2012 exchange rates for the remainder of the year. Our 2012 guidance did not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of September 30, 2012, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions. It also excluded the potential effects of the resolution of litigation-related matters not substantially resolved as of September 30, 2012, except for charges for such matters that were recorded during the first nine months of 2012. 3. Revenues and expenses related to the Nutrition business as a discontinued operation were included for the full year in the guidance and through November 30, 2012 in actual results. The gain on the sale of the Nutrition business was not reflected in the Reported Diluted EPS guidance but is included in actual results for Reported Diluted EPS. 4. Our 2013 financial guidance is as of January 2013 and does not assume the completion of any business development transactions not completed as of December 31, 2012, including any one-time upfront payments associated with such transactions, and excluded the potential effects of the resolution of litigation-related matters not substantially resolved as of December 31, 2012. The exchange rates assumed in connection with the 2013 financial guidance are as of mid-January 2013. 5. “Adjusted Income” and its components and “Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share (EPS)” are defined as U.S generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP) reported net income6 and its components and reported diluted EPS6 excluding purchase accounting adjustments, acquisition-related costs, discontinued operations and certain significant items. Adjusted Cost of Sales, Adjusted Selling, Informational and Administrative (SI&A), Adjusted Research and Development (R&D) expenses and Adjusted Other (Income) Deductions are income statement line items prepared on the same basis and, therefore, components of the overall adjusted income measure. As described in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012, management uses adjusted income, among other factors, to set performance goals and to measure the performance of the overall company. Reconciliations of certain U.S. GAAP reported to Non-GAAP adjusted information for 2012 as well as reconciliations for full-year 2013 guidance for adjusted income and adjusted diluted EPS to full-year 2013 guidance for reported net income6 and reported diluted EPS6 are provided in our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012. Adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted EPS are not, and should not be viewed, as substitutes for U.S. GAAP net income and its components diluted EPS. Despite the importance of these measures to management in goal setting and performance measurement, adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted EPS are Non-GAAP financial measures that have no standardized meaning prescribed by U.S. GAAP and, therefore, have limits in their usefulness to investors. Because of the non-standardized definitions, adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted EPS (unlike U.S. GAAP net income and its components and diluted EPS) may not be comparable to the calculation of similar measures of other companies. Adjusted income and its components and adjusted diluted EPS are presented solely to permit investors to more fully understand how management assesses performance. 6. “Reported Net Income” is defined as net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. and “Reported Diluted EPS” is defined as net income attributable to Pfizer Inc. common shareholders. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Performance > Performance and Guidance 19 Annual Review 2012 CEO LETTER ABOUT THIS REVIEW This fully integrated Annual Review discusses many dimensions of our performance—financial, social and environmental—in one review. It demonstrates the integral relationship between our responsibilities as an enterprise and our core business strategies and their execution. It is produced for all of our stakeholders—patients, the medical community, investors, colleagues, customers and the public at large—to give an overall picture of how we are doing and, more importantly, how we are making progress toward our stated commitments. SCOPE OF REPORTING This review covers Pfizer’s worldwide business and provides information on our activities for the year ending on December 31, 2012. This review describes key dimensions of both the company’s financial and non-financial performance and includes updates on our products; our R&D pipeline; our commitment to quality, safety and high ethical standards; and our responsibilities to all stakeholders, starting with our patients. This review also describes critical challenges in society—from expanding access to health to our environmental impact—and our strategies for managing them. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING GUIDELINES As global standards for integrated reporting do not exist, we considered the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3) in preparing this review. A comprehensive GRI Index is included in this report. We self-declare this review to GRI Application Level B. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY MANAGEMENT This review was developed by Pfizer’s Policy, External Affairs and Communications Group, whose leader is a member of the Executive Leadership Team and reports directly to the CEO. Corporate responsibility is embedded in our business strategy and vision, and many corporate responsibility issues are managed within our business units and functional groups to ensure thorough integration in all of our work. The Corporate Responsibility team sets the strategic direction for corporate responsibility at Pfizer and supports the integration of corporate responsibility throughout the company. The team is also responsible for Pfizer’s flagship global health philanthropic programs. Pfizer’s Corporate Responsibility team provides annual updates to Pfizer’s Board of Directors on progress in achieving corporate responsibility goals. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual About This Review 20 Annual Review 2012 BOARD OF DIRECTORS DENNIS A. AUSIELLO, M.D. M. ANTHONY BURNS (1,2,4,6) W. DON CORNWELL (2,3,5,6) FRANCES D. FERGUSSON, WILLIAM H. GRAY III (4, 6) (2,4,5,6) Chairman Emeritus Founder and Retired Chairman PH.D. (3,5,6) Chairman Physician-in-Chief Ryder System, Inc. and CEO Granite President Emeritus Gray Global Strategies, Inc. Massachusetts General Hospital Broadcasting Corporation Vassar College HELEN H. HOBBS, M.D. (4,5,6) CONSTANCE J. HORNER (1,4,5,6) JAMES M. KILTS (3, 6) GEORGE A. LORCH (7) JOHN P. MASCOTTE* (4,5,6) Investigator Former Assistant to the Founding Partner Chairman Emeritus Retired President and CEO Howard Hughes Medical President of the United States Centerview Capital Armstrong Holdings, Inc. Blue Cross and Blue Shield and Director of Presidential of Kansas City, Inc. Institute Personnel SUZANNE NORA JOHNSON IAN C. READ (1) STEPHEN W. SANGER (2, 4,6) MARK TESSIER-LAVIGNE, (2,3,6) Chairman of the Board and Retired Chairman and CEO PH.D. (5,6) Retired Vice Chairman CEO General Mills President The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. Rockefeller University (1) Executive Committee (2) Audit Committee (3) Compensation Committee (4) Corporate Governance Committee (5) Regulatory and Compliance Committee (6) Science and Technology Committee (7) Lead Independent Director * Will retire as a Board Member effective as of the April 2013 Annual Meeting Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Board of Directors 21 Annual Review 2012 EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM IAN C. READ OLIVIER BRANDICOURT, M.D. FRANK A. D’AMELIO MIKAEL DOLSTEN, M.D. GENO GERMANO Chairman of the Board and President and General Manager Executive Vice President President President and General Manager Chief Executive Officer Emerging Markets and Business Operations and Worldwide Research & Specialty Care and Oncology Established Products Chief Financial Officer Development CHUCK HILL DOUG LANKLER FREDA C. LEWIS-HALL, M.D. ANTHONY J. MADDALUNA LAURIE OLSEN Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President / Executive Vice President Worldwide Human Resources Chief Compliance & Risk Officer Chief Medical Officer President, Pfizer Global Supply Strategy, Portfolio and Commercial Operations AMY SCHULMAN SALLY SUSMAN JOHN YOUNG Executive Vice President and Executive Vice President President and General Manager, General Counsel Policy, External Affairs Primary Care Business Unit Lead, and Communication Consumer Healthcare Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Executive Leadership Team 22 Annual Review 2012 STRONGER BUSINESS OUR BUSINESSES Leading In Biopharmaceutical Innovation Primary Our businesses include five Care prescription-only biopharmaceutical businesses and Pfizer Consumer Healthcare. Primary Care, Specialty Specialty Oncology Care Care and Oncology are responsible for life-cycle management of in-line products and promising new therapies that have achieved “proof of concept” in our labs, while also ensuring that patient and customer Emerging Consumer Markets Healthcare needs inform the development of new medicines and vaccines. Established Products Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Stronger Businesses > Our Businesses 23 Annual Review 2012 Primary Care Our solutions help patients and health care providers manage chronic, costly conditions, and are designed to improve outcomes Key Medicines and overall health. Through leadership in areas such as the management of pain and heart disease, our medicines treat Celebrex conditions that account for a large and growing portion of the (celecoxib) world’s health care costs. Our pipeline includes molecules with Chantix/Champix potential in women’s health, pain, cardiovascular and metabolic (varenicline) diseases, allergy and respiratory, and Alzheimer’s disease. Eliquis (apixaban) Lyrica 2012 HIGHLIGHTS (pregabalin) Eliquis (apixaban) gained approval to Lyrica received regulatory approval in Oxecta reduce the risk of stroke and systemic Japan for the additional indication of pain (oxycodone HCl) embolism in patients with nonvalvular associated with fibromyalgia. atrial fibrillation in the U.S., the 27 Premarin countries in the European Union, (conjugated estrogens) Canada, and Japan, and is under r eview in other countries. Eliquis, an Integrated Health, Pfizer’s new approach Pristiq oral Factor Xa inhibitor anticoagulant, to identifying innovative ways to partner (desvenlafaxine) has demonstrated superior risk reductions with payers, providers and employers to versus warfarin in three key outcomes of stroke and systemic embolism, major improve patient outcomes, launched its first two products focused on the employer Spiriva bleeding and all-cause death in patients health and wellness market: KEAS, an (tiotropium) with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. In online platform designed to engage 2007, Pfizer and Bristol-Myers Squibb employees around healthy behaviors; and Toviaz entered into a worldwide collaboration the American Health Strategies Project, (fesoterodine) to develop and commercialize this oral a tool designed to help demonstrate the anticoagulant, which was discovered by costs of chronic diseases and highlight Viagra Bristol-Myers Squibb. potential interventions to reduce costs and improve employee health outcomes. (sildenafil citrate) Lyrica (pregabalin) capsules CV received a new indication in the U.S. for the management of neuropathic pain associated with spinal cord injury. This is the fifth indication approved for Lyrica. Core indications for Lyrica are fibromyalgia and diabetic peripheral neuropathy, and Lyrica is the first indication approved for the management of neuropathic pain associated with spinal cord injury in the U.S. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Stronger Businesses > Our Businesses 24 Annual Review 2012 Specialty Care Featuring a robust portfolio of medicines, we are a leader in vaccines and the treatment of inflammation, two important areas Key Medicines of innovation and growth in biomedical science. We understand the devastating impact of rare diseases on patients and are dedicated Benefix (coagulation factor IX to addressing these serious unmet medical needs by seeking to (recombinant)) discover, develop and deliver treatments for them. Our medicines help address potentially life-threatening and debilitating diseases at Enbrel (etanercept) every stage of life. Genotropin (somatropin) 2012 HIGHLIGHTS Prevnar 13/ Prevenar 13 (pneumococcal polysaccharide The U.S. Food and Drug Administration Initiated Phase III studies for tofacitinib in approved Xeljanz (tofacitinib) 5 mg twice ulcerative colitis. conjugate vaccine) daily for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active rheumatoid Revatio arthritis who have had an inadequate (sildenafil citrate) response or intolerance to methotrexate. Launched Vyndaqel (tafamidis) in seven countries in the EU, including Tygacil Portugal, Germany, Austria, (tigecycline) Luxembourg and Sweden. Prevenar 13 received regulatory Vfend approvals for the adult indication in more (voriconazole) than 80 countries. Launched BeneFIX (coagulation factor IX (recombinant)) 3000 IU dosage Vyndaqel and new Xyntha (antihemophilic factor (tafamidis) Initiated the first Phase III study for our (recombinant), plasma/albumin-free) investigational vaccine, rLP2086, part of dosage sizes. Xeljanz the largest vaccine clinical development (tofacitnib) program to date in invasive meningococcal B disease. Xiapex Celebrated anniversaries: 15 years (adalimumab) for BeneFIX (coagulation factor IX (recombinant)); 10 years for Rebif (interferon beta-1a) and the MS Lifelines Zyvox Support Center. (linezolid) Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Stronger Businesses > Our Businesses 25 Annual Review 2012 Oncology Our Oncology Business Unit remains dedicated to more targeted, rational and efficient drug development to help improve the outlook Key Medicines for cancer patients worldwide. In addition to introducing three new compounds in the U.S. in just over a year, and recently announcing Bosulif EU marketing authorization for Inlyta and EU conditional marketing (bosutinib) authorization for Xalkori, the Oncology unit has a promising Inlyta late-stage pipeline, including dacomitinib and inotuzumab (axitinib) ozogamicin, being studied in non-small cell lung cancer and nonSutent Hodgkin’s lymphoma, respectively. Additionally, Pfizer continues (sunitinib malate) to prioritize our early portfolio and rigorously assess the number of Torisel molecules in development to focus on those that we believe hold (temsirolimus) the greatest potential for patients. Xalkori (crizotinib) 2012 HIGHLIGHTS In January 2012, Inlyta (axitinab) was Xalkori (crizotinib) was selected as a approved by the U.S. Food and Drug finalist in the 2012 Most Innovative Administration (FDA) for the treatment Product of the year award competition, of patients with advanced renal cell chosen by a group of industry experts. carcinoma after failure of one prior The pivotal Phase III PROFILE 1007 systemic therapy. Inlyta also was approved data, presented at the European Society this year in the European Union and a for Medical Oncology, demonstrated number of countries including Japan, that Xalkori is superior to standard Switzerland, Canada, Australia and Korea. chemotherapy in prolonging progression free survival in patients with previouslytreated ALK-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). These data In September 2012, Bosulif (bosutinib) established Xalkori as a standard of became the third new medicine from our care for this patient population. Xalkori Oncology pipeline to be approved by also has received conditional marketing the U.S. FDA in 13 months, and the first authorization in the EU for the treatment of therapy in Pfizer’s growing hematology adults with previously-treated ALK-positive portfolio to receive FDA approval. advanced NSCLC. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Stronger Businesses > Our Businesses 26 Annual Review 2012 Emerging Markets Emerging markets offer opportunities for Pfizer to reach more patients around the world. A leader in these markets, we bring Key Medicines our innovative and high quality medicines to over 75 emerging countries. To meet patients’ diverse needs, our Emerging Markets Celebrex unit offers our Primary Care, Specialty, Oncology, Vaccines and (celecoxib) Established Products portfolios. While core brands have helped Enbrel Pfizer reach more patients in the past and are a cornerstone of (etanercept) continued expansion, Established Products provide greater choice Lipitor and affordability for patients in emerging markets. (atorvastatin) Lyrica (pregabalin) 2012 HIGHLIGHTS Medrol (methylprednisolone) In 2012, we successfully started the population were found to have launches of Xalkori (crizotinib), Inlyta (axitinib) and Prevenar 13 Adult in dyslipidemia and this project helped more than 77 percent of these patients find Norvasc emerging markets. We also achieved treatment options. Cardiovascular disease (amlodipine besylate) the delivery of 500 million doses of has become an increasingly serious Prevenar 13. public health and socio-economic problem Prevenar in China, with more than 270 million (pneumococcal dyslipidimia patients and a diagnosis rate polysacharide that is lower than 10 percent. conjugate vaccine) As a leading multinational pharmaceutical company and the leader in cardiovascular Sutent disease management and treatment in (sunitinib malate) China, Pfizer has been working with the Pfizer has established more than 45 Ministry of Health, the Cardiovascular Physician Branch of the Chinese Medical partnerships to support health care priorities around the world. Partnerships Vfend Doctor Association and the Stroke include 20 national immunization programs (Voriconazole) Prevention and Control Society of the and participation in the GAVI Alliance, Chinese Preventive Medicine Association which provides life-saving vaccines to Viagra on a “China Vascular Health Project.” people in developing countries. (sildenafil citrate) The project was initiated and led by the SPCS and launched in the beginning of 2012. It has adopted a multi-pronged approach to address the huge unmet Our broader strategy in the world’s need and key challenges, such as largest emerging markets, such as Brazil, disease awareness among patients, Russia, India, China, Mexico and Turkey, diagnosis accuracy, treatment efficiency includes offering affordable, high quality and effectiveness, long-term disease medicines in order to reach more patients. management and prevention. For example, our partnership with Teuto in Brazil has yielded branded and generic versions of Viagra and Lipitor as well as anti-inflammatory and anti-depression To date, the project has achieved medications. The joint venture between significant outcomes, including screening Hisun and Pfizer aims to strengthen the more than 502,000 patients in almost ability of both companies to address health 500 hospitals in 95 cities throughout care needs in China and reach more China. Forty-six percent of the screened patients with high quality and low cost medicines in the branded generics arena. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Stronger Businesses > Our Businesses 27 Annual Review 2012 Established Products We offer growth opportunities for Pfizer to reach more patients in the developed world with Pfizer-originated medicines that Key Medicines have lost or are close to losing patent protection and with non-Pfizer-originated medicines secured through licensing or Effexor acquisitions. The off-patent pharmaceutical field is one of the (venlafaxine hydrocloride) fastest-growing segments in the global pharmaceutical market. Fragmin Currently, we offer over 600 off-patent Pfizer legacy brands and (dalteparin sodium) other generic products, backed by the highest quality standards and Lipitor consistency of supply. (atorvastatin) Norvasc (amlodipine besylate) 2012 HIGHLIGHTS Relpax (eletriptan HBr) Pfizer has acquired NextWave Pfizer has established an exclusive Pharmaceuticals, a privately held, specialty pharmaceutical company focused long-term strategic collaboration with Mylan to develop, manufacture, distribute Zosyn/Tazocin (piperacillin/tazobactam) on the development and commercialization and market generic drugs in Japan, the of products for the treatment of attention second largest pharmaceutical market in deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and the world, where there is an ever-growing related central nervous system disorders. demand for high quality generics. NextWave is the developer of Quillivant XR (methylphenidate HCl) for extendedrelease oral suspension, CII, the first 80% once-daily liquid medication approved Pfizer has created a Loss Of Exclusivity of prescriptions in the U.S. are filled in the U.S. for the treatment of ADHD, (LOE) Center of Excellence within the and holds exclusive North American Established Products Business Unit to with generics and other off-patent commercialization rights to Quillivant XR. offer brand teams that are facing similar medicines. This recently approved medicine was LOEs the expertise to successfully launched in the U.S. in early 2013. navigate brand patent expirations. The Center offers an “LOE Roadmap,” a detailed handbook for teams that are 50% developing strategies to maximize the of global pharmaceutical sales by We launched Elelyso (taliglucerase alfa) value of their products both before and 2020 will be off-patent medicines for injection, an enzyme replacement after patent loss, and an LOE Library, and their generic equivalents. therapy (ERT) for the long-term treatment which contains examples of strategic of adults with a confirmed diagnosis of planning documents, market research and Type 1 Gaucher disease. Elelyso is the promotional materials. first FDA-approved plant cell-based ERT for Gaucher disease. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Stronger Businesses > Our Businesses 28 Annual Review 2012 Consumer Healthcare We meet consumers’ health and wellness needs around the world through our science-based, differentiated self-care solutions. We Key PRODUCTS are ranked fifth globally among multinational, branded consumer healthcare companies, and second in our largest markets—the Advil U.S., Canada and China. We compete in three of the top five categories in the global over-the-counter (OTC) industry. We are Caltrate the only company with two of the top 10 global OTC brands—Advil Centrum and Centrum. ChapStick 2012 HIGHLIGHTS Emergen-C We continued to outpace global OTC Another major business development Robitussin growth in 2012. in 2012 was the acquisition from AstraZeneca of exclusive, global overthe-counter marketing rights for Nexium. ThermaCare Nexium is the fifth-best selling prescription Through our acquisition of Ferrosan, we medicine and a leading prescription expanded our product offerings in the remedy to treat the symptoms of fast-growing probiotics and Omega-3 gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). categories, and extended our geographic The gastrointestinal health market is the footprint into the Nordic markets, Russia fourth-largest OTC category. and other Eastern European markets. Advil maintained its market-leading Through the acquisition of Alacer, position in a number of key geographies, we added a leading vitamin C including the U.S. and Canada, with supplement, Emergen-C, to our dietary sustained revenue growth for the year. supplements portfolio. We expanded the Centrum franchise through the accelerated launches of Centrum Gender and Centrum Cardio/ Centrum Control into many markets across Europe and Latin America. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Stronger Businesses > Our Businesses 29 Annual Review 2012 STRONGER BUSINESS GLOBAL OPPORTUNITIES The world is our market. Every part of our global + enterprise is focused on the + + people we can help through + our products, knowledge and + expanding portfolio, as we strive to meet humanity’s growing medical and personal health care needs. + UNITED STATES UNITED KINGDOM FRANCE Acquiring Strong Product Embedded Collaboration Focused Research and Expertise in Academia Partnerships Pfizer acquired NextWave Pfizer and the Cardiovascular Pfizer and France’s Institut du Cerveau Pharmaceuticals, a specialty Epidemiology Unit at the University of et de la Moelle Épinière (ICM Brain and pharmaceutical company focused on the Cambridge in the U.K. have established Spine Institute) are embarking on a threedevelopment and commercialization of a collaboration that strives to develop year scientific collaboration to investigate products for the treatment of attention new medicines for cardiovascular disease. the fundamental mechanisms of certain deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and Pfizer brings a strong precision medicine neurodegenerative diseases, including related central nervous system disorders. focus to the collaboration, which has Alzheimer’s, Parkinson’s and Huntington’s The agreement includes Quillivant XR Pfizer scientists and University of diseases. Based in Paris, ICM is a major (methylphenidate HCl), the first onceCambridge researchers working side scientific center, composed of more daily liquid ADHD treatment in the United by side. This collaboration with some of than 500 researchers and physicians States. Pfizer launched Quillivant XR Europe’s top experts in population health focused on fundamental and translational in the U.S. in January 2013—providing sciences furthers Pfizer’s strategy to tap neuroscience research, with a strong patients and their caregivers a new into leading scientific minds and emphasis on industry partnerships. treatment option for the disorder. resources in academia. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Stronger Businesses > Global Opportunities 30 Annual Review 2012 CHINA JAPAN AUSTRALIA Branded Generics in China Branded Generics in Japan Innovation in Sterile Injectables Pfizer and Hisun, a leading China-based Pfizer and Mylan, the world’s third-largest Regulators in Europe have approved pharmaceutical company, have launched generics and specialty pharmaceuticals the use of docetaxel, a sterile injectable Hisun-Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Co., Ltd., company, have forged an exclusive developed by Pfizer Global Supply in a joint venture to provide high quality, strategic collaboration to drive growth Perth, Australia, for the treatment of affordable branded generic medicines for of the generics business in Japan, the breast, ovarian, prostate and non-small patients in China and other global markets. second-largest pharmaceutical market cell lung cancer. Docetaxel features a Hisun-Pfizer is expected to develop, in the world. The collaboration builds single-vial preparation manufactured manufacture and commercialize a range of on Pfizer’s already-strong commercial in plastic Cytosafe vials, which offer off-patent pharmaceutical products. presence and Mylan’s reputation for global significant safety benefits over a quality, manufacturing and supply chain competing innovator’s two-stage injection reliability for its generic medicines. system. Docetaxel is also stable at room temperature and has a commercially viable shelf life of at least 24 months. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Stronger Businesses > Global Opportunities 31 Annual Review 2012 STRONGER BUSINESS COLLEAGUES Colleagues at Pfizer are committed to building an organization that encourages the sharing of diverse ideas, taking accountability, acting with an entrepreneurial spirit and giving our best every day. Personal accountability and candid debate — we refer to this as Straight Talk — are core to our ownership culture and foundational to the way we need to work. Our ownership culture is what will differentiate us from our industry competitors. “I OWN IT!” OWN IT! “We must try new approaches and think differently. Innovation and accountability need to happen right here, with me.” NIVIN PEI Director, Global Technology Services Pfizer Global Supply Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Stronger Business > Colleagues 32 Annual Review 2012 As part of our cultural transformation, colleagues participate in an annual survey, PfizerVoice. In 2012, more than 86,000 colleagues globally provided feedback about Pfizer’s culture and how we are performing as an organization. The survey measures engagement levels and helps assess our progress in achieving the key dimensions of high performing organizations. OWN IT! “My team is Pfizer, and we’re all about results. It’s up to each of us to deliver on our commitments.” KAREN SANSONE Senior Director, Business Technology OWN IT! “How well we do, as a business and as a force for good in this world, is up to us. That’s how I approach every day.” ZOE ZAVATTIERI Sales Director Established Products Business Unit— U.S. Brands Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Stronger Business > Colleagues 33 Annual Review 2012 TALENT DEVELOPMENT “Colleagues must own their career development and, in turn, Pfizer is committed to supporting colleagues through a wide variety of tools and capabilities. ” MELISSA A. GUNN Chief of Staff, Senior Director of Operations Oncology Business Unit HEALTH AND SAFETY “I own my career at Pfizer by being aware of my work environment every day. We have to be accountable for colleagues’ safety. That’s the best way to ensure an injury-free workplace for all of us.” JIM DESTEFANO Welder, Pfizer Global Supply Our recruitment brand, “Many Paths One Goal,” continues to focus on attracting top talent around the world to the varied career opportunities that exist within Pfizer. Career paths range across general management, research and development, manufacturing, and enabling functions, but our goal is the same. By owning our careers at Pfizer, we make the world a healthier place. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Stronger Business > Colleagues 34 Annual Review 2012 Pfizer colleagues around the globe have embraced our Diversity & Inclusion Strategy, which focuses on increasing access to diverse talent pools, engaging and developing diverse talent, and advancing the business. DIVERSITY “Through the disAbility Pfizer Colleague Council, we are working to expand our access to diverse talent, including hosting Disability Mentoring Day, a longstanding partnership that Pfizer has with the Office of the Mayor of New York City.” SEAN HUDSON Brand Curriculum Development Lead, Global Commercial Operations DIVERSITY DIVERSITY “We are making an impact through “As a co-chair of OPEN-NY, I our innovative Get Old partnership have the opportunity to shape with SAGE, the oldest and largest the policies, strategies and services and advocacy group for partnerships that enhance Pfizer’s LGBT seniors in the U.S.” culture and our reputation among the LGBT community.” ANTHONY PALKOVIC Director, Worldwide Commercial Development, ZAK KARIM Business Development & Strategy Director, Human Resources Worldwide Research and Development Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Stronger Business > Colleagues 35 Annual Review 2012 STRONGER BUSINESSES STRONGER BUSINESS GOVERNANCE & ETHICS At Pfizer, we understand that good corporate governance is essential to our standing as a trusted member of society, and we conduct ourselves accordingly. Board of Compliance Ethical Sales Directors We believe that compliance with all and Marketing applicable laws is integral to our ability to serve society. We train colleagues Pfizer’s Board of Directors is responsible extensively in compliance and have an We are committed to promoting our for the oversight of management, including organizational structure designed to products responsibly, educating patients the overall strategic direction of the ensure good oversight of our colleagues, and providers about their appropriate use, company and for the company’s policies vendors and business partners. and reporting about our business practices on governance, executive compensation, in a fashion that promotes transparency. transparency and compliance. Read more about our Compliance here. Read more about our Ethical Sales and Read more about our Board of Directors Marketing here. here. Disclosing Direct-toHuman Payment Consumer Rights to Health Care Advertising in Pfizer strives to uphold human rights Professionals the U.S. in all our business activities. We also work to advance human rights by working to improve the health of people around the world. Read more about our Human Rights here. We do not pay health care professionals Our strict internal standards, going beyond for prescribing our medicines or as compliance with the law, have been an inducement for promoting our developed to ensure that the information products. We believe it is appropriate we share with patients is scientifically and ethical to fairly compensate health sound, balanced, easy to understand and care professionals for work they do helpful in encouraging them to consult with on our behalf. a health care professional. Read more about our Disclosing Payment Read more about our Direct-to-Consumer to Health Care Professionals here. Advertising here. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Stronger Business > Governance & Ethics 36 Annual Review 2012 INNOVATIVE SCIENCE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Partnering to Expand R&D Impact External collaboration is critical to advancing our R&D strategy and expediting new breakthroughs for patients OWNING COLLABORATION Centers for Therapeutic Innovation Pfizer’s Centers for Therapeutic Innovation (CTI) enable us to partner more closely with academic scientists located at major biotech hubs in the U.S., all in an effort to accelerate the translation of emerging science into new therapies. CTI combines the research expertise of academic experts in disease, targets and patient populations with Pfizer’s COLLABORATING ACROSS R&D knowledge, resources and development capabilities. CTI’s innovative business model ALL BOUNDARIES allows academic scientists to share more fully in the value of their science and positions Pfizer has a robust internal Pfizer to potentially enrich our R&D pipeline pipeline of product with innovative next generation therapeutics. candidates across our key therapeutic focus areas, National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences all of which are rooted in leading-edge science in Pfizer is a pioneering partner in the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences disease biology. Pfizer’s (NCATS), the newest program of the U.S. National Institutes of Health (NIH). NCATS provides a collaborative program to match academic researchers with dozens of pharmaceutical industry10 in-house research units owned molecules. A key step forward for the R&D ecosystem, this emerging meta-collaboration are complemented by a among government, academia and industry focuses on a portion of the therapeutic pipeline that wide range of collaborators traditionally has been difficult for academic researchers to access: compounds that already have outside the company. cleared safety testing in humans. Our new, more expansive Industry partners will retain ownership of their compounds, while academic partners will own approach to external any intellectual property they discover using these compounds, along with the right to publish collaboration is essential to their results. our R&D strategy—forging Some compounds are not effective for their initial intended use, but additional research may yield partnerships that connect different therapeutic uses. Examples include sildenafil, which was originally studied as a potential the assets and capabilities angina treatment, but went on to be developed as Viagra for erectile dysfunction and then of different organizations repurposed as Revatio for pulmonary arterial hypertension. and sectors to speed the development of new medicines for patients. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Innovative Science > Research & Development 37 Annual Review 2012 Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Therapeutics, Inc. Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Therapeutics, Inc., the nonprofit drug discovery and development affiliate of the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, has greatly expanded its research collaboration with Pfizer, agreeing to invest up to approximately $58 million to speed potential therapies that target the most common underlying causes of cystic fibrosis. The new six-year pre-clinical research program strengthens Pfizer’s position in developing therapies that help “correct” the action of mutated proteins and is designed to advance one or more drug candidates into the clinic. Such innovative collaborations between industry and patient organizations are seen as increasingly critical in expediting the translation of science into potential new treatments. Duke University: Exploring Insulin Resistance Pfizer entered into collaboration with Duke University’s Stedman Center to enhance our understanding of the mechanisms by which insulin resistance develops in humans. The partnership focuses on identifying the pathways underlying the development of diabetes by leveraging the Center’s established technology platforms and deep understanding of metabolic pathways. These insights into the biology of diabetes support the research and development of compounds that target the underlying causes of the disease. Nodality: Precision Medicine R&D for Lupus Nodality and Pfizer have entered into a strategic collaboration for the use of Nodality’s proprietary Single Cell Network Profiling (SCNP) technology as a Precision Medicine tool for the development of Pfizer compounds to treat autoimmune diseases. Precision Medicine has been widely adapted in oncology drug development, and there is considerable optimism that these principles can be applied to other disease areas. This multiyear, collaborative effort will initially focus on lupus, including characterizing mechanisms of action, disease analysis and drug profiling. Pfizer Venture Investments has been an investor in Nodality since 2008. Transcelerate: Drug Development Solutions Pfizer is a founding member of TransCelerate BioPharma, a nonprofit consortium formed by leaders in our industry to accelerate the development of new medicines. Joining us in the initiative are Abbott, AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, Roche and Sanofi. This cross-industry initiative is dedicated to identifying and solving common drug development challenges, beginning with clinical study execution, with the end goals of improving the quality of clinical studies and bringing new medicines to more patients more quickly. The five initial projects are: development of a shared user interface for investigator site portals; mutual recognition of study site qualification and training; development of risk-based site monitoring approach and standards; development of clinical data standards; and establishment of a comparator drug supply model. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Innovative Science > Research & Development 38 Annual Review 2012 INNOVATIVE SCIENCE Advancing Our Pipeline A Focused Portfolio of Promising Drug Candidates Our programs in development include potential treatments for autoimmune diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease, lupus, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer, neurological diseases and pain, as well as vaccines for meningococcal B disease in adolescents and for Staphylococcus aureus. View the latest pipeline on pfizer.com PROGRAMS IN CLINICAL TRIAL AND REGISTRATION As of February 28, 2013 Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Innovative Science > Research & Development 39 Annual Review 2012 INNOVATIVE SCIENCE Creating a Robust and Sustainable Innovative Core We continue to transform our R&D approach and capabilities with strategic choices that build a sustainable engine for innovation over the long term, while at the same time ensuring we execute effectively on our near-term pipeline priorities. Advancing a Differentiated Pipeline — Our R&D Priorities Pfizer has established three R&D priorities, unfolding over time, to focus on advancing a differentiated pipeline of medicines and vaccines. Underlying our choices is a focus on increasing differentiation and innovation and improving R&D productivity and return on investment over the long term, while at the same time seeking to ensure we execute effectively on our near-term pipeline priorities. Two years after launching a comprehensive R&D turnaround effort, we are seeing positive indicators, with a robust portfolio grounded in rigorous decision making and an ownership culture. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Innovative Science > Research & Development 40 Annual Review 2012 1. Deliver the Portfolio First and foremost, we are concentrating internal efforts where we believe we can deliver the greatest medical and commercial impact in areas of significant patient need. Over the last year, Pfizer has gained momentum in our late-stage pipeline with key regulatory approvals for important new medicines, including Eliquis (apixaban) for stroke prevention in nonvalvular atrial fibrillation, Xeljanz (tofacitinib), a first-in-class JAK inhibitor for moderate-to-severe rheumatoid arthritis, and the oncology compounds Inlyta (axitinib) and Bosulif (bosutinib). Pfizer is advancing a solid late-stage pipeline, including a number of Phase III programs in areas of critical patient need, such as: • Vaccines: To prevent Meningitis B in adolescents. • Breast Cancer: Palbociclib (PD-991) for certain breast cancer patients with limited treatment options. • Blood cancer: Inotuzumab ozogamicin, an antibody drug conjugate for certain types of lymphoma and leukemia. • Autoimmune disease: Xeljanz (tofacitinib) in psoriasis and ulcerative colitis. 2. Innovate New Capabilities That Position Us for Leadership Pfizer is focused on innovative capabilities that can position the company for long term competitive advantage. This includes the significant expansion of our vaccine development program, which now includes investigational first-in-class therapeutic and prophylactic vaccines targeting smoking cessation and deadly hospital-acquired infections. It also includes a leading platform in next-generation antibody drug conjugates (ADCs), which are targeted treatments for cancer that include an antibody and cancer cytotoxic in one medicine. Pfizer has cuttingedge small and large molecule technology capabilities that position us to develop fit-for-purpose optimized medicines for patient needs. In addition to scientific capabilities Pfizer is at the forefront of innovating novel open-innovation models such as the CTIs, where Pfizer scientists work in real time with academic scientists to expedite the translation of science into medicine. Key early-to-mid-stage clinical programs that reflect our new capabilities include: • Cardiovascular disease: An optimized antibody targeting PCSK9 for high LDL cholesterol • Vaccines: Therapeutic vaccine for smoking cessation, and prophylactic vaccines targeting two common and deadly hospital-acquired infections caused by Staph. aureus and C. difficile bacteria • Pain: New family of candidates targeting ion channels with important implications in pain • Oncology: Our first next-generation ADC, rooted in novel science on cancer stem cells • Diabetes: Tissue-distributed small molecule glucokinase inhibitors designed to help patients with glycemic control without causing long term complications • Autoimmune disease: Novel antibodies targeting inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and lupus • Rare disease: Antibody targeting new pathways for Duchenne’s muscular dystrophy, a debilitating and deadly genetic disease in children 3. Build the R&D Ecosystem of the Future We are moving toward a much more networked R&D model—shaping how biopharmaceutical innovation will be done. The R&D ecosystem of the future will draw on the total capabilities in the biomedical community, reducing silos and increasing productivity. Critical to this new ecosystem is optimizing the promise of Precision Medicine, an approach to discovering, developing and commercializing medicines that we believe will deliver superior clinical outcomes in complex diseases, identify patient populations that are most likely to respond to our medicines and expedite the timelines for drug development. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Innovative Science > Research & Development 41 Annual Review 2012 INNOVATIVE SCIENCE CLINICAL TRIALS Ensuring Integrity in Clinical Trials We work to help ensure that all our clinical trials, wherever they take place, are conducted to the same high ethical standards and comply with applicable local laws and federal regulations to ensure the rights and welfare of our clinical trial participants around the world are fully protected. We recently re-engineered our clinical trial process to further enhance our capabilities in these areas, in particular by implementing quality management principles (such as quality by design) into these processes, and our vigilance and oversight of contract research organization partners and clinical trial physician investigators, who are actively involved in the development of our new medicines. As part of this quality process, we conduct inspections of these sites and studies to help ensure patient safety, data integrity, protocol adherence and regulatory compliance. Clinical Innovation Roadmap We launched Clinical Innovation in 2011 to provide focus and discipline in our initiatives to reverse the increasing time, cost and complexity of clinical trials across the industry. As an early mover defining the field, we are positioned as a leader driving the re-invention of clinical research for Pfizer and the R&D ecosystem. Our vision for that ecosystem includes research participation made easier for patients and providers, enabling every health care interaction to serve as an opportunity to inform our medical product development. Pfizer Clinical Innovation develops, tests and scales new approaches to understand the efficacy and safety of our investigational medicines, drawing from tools such as mobile health, social media and health information technology. Clinical Innovation also leads collaborations with other stakeholders to work together to fix shared clinical research challenges. Collaboration examples include: TransCelerate BioPharma, a novel partnership of 10 major biopharmaceutical companies developing shared solutions, and the Partnership to Advance Clinical Electronic Research, an initiative aligning pharmaceutical companies with New York-based medical centers to improve the use of electronic health records in clinical research. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Innovative Science > Clinical Trials 42 Annual Review 2012 INNOVATIVE SCIENCE LEADING MEDICINES Noteworthy in 2012 For more information on any of these medicines, visit Pfizer Pharmaceutical Products. Xeljanz Bosulif OWNING POTENTIAL Xeljanz (tofacitnib) is the first new oral Bosulif (bosutinib) is for the treatment of disease-modifying antirheumatic drug adult patients with chronic, accelerated, approved for rheumatoid arthritis in more or blast phase Philadelphia chromosome than ten years and the first rheumatoid positive (Ph+) chronic myelogenous arthritis treatment in a new class of leukemia (CML) with resistance, or medicines known as Janus kinase (JAK) intolerance to prior therapy. Once-daily inhibitors. Unlike biologic therapies, which Bosulif was studied in a broad range of work outside the cell, Xeljanz targets the patients with CML, including CML patients inflammation associated with rheumatoid treated with imatinib followed by a secondarthritis from inside the cell. Specifically, generation tyrosine kinase inhibitor. Bosulif Xeljanz inhibits the JAK pathways, which addresses an unmet need in the CML are signaling pathways inside cells that treatment landscape. are used by pro-inflammatory cytokines (proteins that facilitate communication between cells). Approved in the U.S. for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to methotrexate, Xeljanz is currently under review by several regulatory agencies around the world, including in Europe and Japan. Eliquis Inlyta Quillivant XR Eliquis (apixaban) gained approval to Inlyta (axitinib) is indicated for the Quillivant XR (methylphenidate reduce the risk of stroke and systemic treatment of advanced kidney cancer hydrochloride) for extended-release oral embolism in patients with nonvalvular when one prior drug treatment for this suspension, CII, is the first once-daily atrial fibrillation in the U.S., the 27 disease has not worked or has stopped liquid medication approved in the U.S. countries in the European Union, Canada, working. It is the first treatment to for the treatment of attention deficit/ and Japan, and is under review in other demonstrate superior progression-free hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). This countries. Eliquis, an oral Factor Xa survival in a Phase III study compared recently approved medicine is expected inhibitor anticoagulant, has demonstrated with sorafenib in second-line advanced to be available in pharmacies in the U.S. superior risk reductions versus warfarin kidney cancer. Since its approval, Inlyta in early 2013. With the acquisition of in three key outcomes of stroke and has established its utility in this setting, NextWave Pharmaceuticals in 2012, Pfizer systemic embolism, major bleeding where it is an important treatment option gained exclusive North American rights to and all-cause death in patients with for many patients with advanced renal market Quillivant XR. nonvalvular atrial fibrillation. In 2007, cell carcinoma after failure of one prior Pfizer and Bristol-Myers Squibb entered systemic therapy. into a worldwide collaboration to develop and commercialize this oral anticoagulant discovered by Bristol-Myers Squibb. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Innovative Science > Leading Medicines 43 Annual Review 2012 Our Top 10 Best Selling For more information on any of these medicines, visit Pfizer Pharmaceutical Products. Medicines in 2012 Lyrica Viagra (pregabalin) (sildenafil) $4,158 million $2,051 million Lipitor Norvasc (atorvastatin) (amlodipine besylate) $3,948 million $1,349 million Enbrel Zyvox (Outside the U.S. and Canada) (linezolid) (etanercept) $1,345 million $3,737 million Sutent Prevnar 13/Prevenar 13 (sunitinib malate) (pneumococcal polysaccharide $1,236 million conjugate vaccine) $3,718 million Premarin Family (conjugated estrogens) Celebrex $1,073 million (celecoxib) $2,719 million Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Innovative Science > Leading Medicines 44 Annual Review 2012 INNOVATIVE SCIENCE LEADING CONSUMER HEALTHCARE PRODUCTS Familiar Around the World Pfizer Consumer Healthcare’s products include OTC medicines, supplements and other treatments that are top sellers in their categories and household names for consumers around the world. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Innovative Science > Leading Consumer Healthcare Products 45 Annual Review 2012 KEY MEDICINES Advil A trusted and effective OTC pain reliever for more than 25 years for millions of consumers, Advil is one of Pfizer’s billion-dollar brands and the No. 1 selling branded OTC analgesic in the world. In 45 countries, Advil helps consumers treat headaches, backaches, muscle aches, minor arthritis and other joint pain, and the aches and pains of the common cold. In 2012, Children’s Advil enhanced its position in the U.S. and Canada, becoming the No. 1 selling OTC pediatric brand in those markets. In Australia, we launched the Advil Children’s Pain & Fever line. In a number of Latin American markets, we extended the brand into the cold/ flu segment. This year also brought substantial success for Advil Migraine, which has gained additional distribution at key retailers. Learn more at advil.com Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Innovative Science > Leading Consumer Healthcare Products 46 Annual Review 2012 Caltrate Caltrate is the No. 1 selling brand of calcium supplements in the U.S. and China. Globally, Caltrate is sold in 57 countries. In the U.S., we launched a new Caltrate formula in 2012 with double the amount of vitamin D3, which helps aid in the absorption of calcium—a higher amount of vitamin D3 than any other leading brand. Because bone is composed of twothirds calcium and one-third collagen, healthy bones require both calcium and collagen for resiliency—a fact Caltrate has highlighted. The Caltrate 600+D Plus Minerals formulation, which contains calcium and vitamin D, plus extra minerals, helps to stimulate collagen production and delivers bone health. Caltrate is available in four different formulas and different forms to suit individual consumer needs. Learn more at caltrate.com Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Innovative Science > Leading Consumer Healthcare Products 47 Annual Review 2012 Centrum Centrum is the No. 1 selling brand of multivitamins in the world, sold in 86 countries, and the No. 1 doctor-recommended multivitamin brand in the U.S. Centrum provides a range of scientifically advanced multivitamins for adults and children that help fill dietary gaps and support important life benefits. In addition to Centrum and Centrum Silver, there are the following Centrum Specialist products in the U.S.: Energy, Heart, Vision and Prenatal. In 2012, we launched Centrum Gender—multivitamins specially designed to support men’s and women’s unique health needs—in Europe, Centrum Cardio/Centrum Control in Brazil and Taiwan, and Centrum Flavor Burst, a chewable adult multivitamin, in the U.S. Additionally, our Centrum Silver multivitamin was used in the Physicians’ Health Study II, a landmark 12-year study that evaluated the long-term benefits of taking multivitamins for men age 50 and older. The quality of Centrum Learn more multivitamins, among other factors, led the study investigators to use at centrum.com Centrum Silver as the multivitamin for the duration of the study. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Innovative Science > Leading Consumer Healthcare Products 48 Annual Review 2012 ChapStick The leading lip care brand in the U.S., ChapStick is sold in 25 countries globally. Some of consumers’ favorite ChapStick products include Moisturizer, Classic Cherry and Classic Original. With a history of more than 125 years, the brand continues to evolve, incorporating new technologies to meet consumer demands for a product that replenishes, rehydrates and protects lips while providing great taste. Learn more at chapstick.com Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Innovative Science > Leading Consumer Healthcare Products 49 Annual Review 2012 Emergen-C A leading health and wellness lifestyle brand, Emergen-C features vitamin C in vitamin drink mixes and now a liquid concentrated shot. Through its 30 years on the market in the U.S., Emergen-C has built a loyal customer base. It is sold in more than 15 flavors, including top sellers Super Orange and Raspberry. Specialty formulas include Emergen-C Immune+ System Support, Joint Health, Heart Health, Vitamin D & Calcium and Emergen-C Multi-Vitamins. Learn more at emergenc.com Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Innovative Science > Leading Consumer Healthcare Products 50 Annual Review 2012 Robitussin The leading doctor-recommended OTC cough medicine brand in the U.S., Robitussin has been providing effective relief from cough and cold symptoms for more than 50 years. In 2012, the brand partnered with WebMD, the No. 1 online source in the U.S. for health information, to educate consumers about treating their coughs. Worldwide, Robitussin is the No. 3 branded cough remedy and is available in 41 countries. In addition to an extensive lineup of liquid cough and cold products, Robitussin Day & Night Cold + Flu products are also available in liquid-filled capsules. These products provide multisymptom relief of cough, nasal Learn more congestion, headache and sore throat in a convenient liquid-filled capsule at robitussin.com form. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Innovative Science > Leading Consumer Healthcare Products 51 Annual Review 2012 ThermaCare Available in 12 countries, ThermaCare Heatwraps deliver heat that penetrates deep, warming the muscle right where it hurts—to relax, soothe and unlock tight muscles. In 2012, tapping into new channels available by virtue of the Ferrosan acquisition, ThermaCare products were launched in Denmark and Finland. ThermaCare HeatWraps have transformed the field of heat therapy by making it portable, safe and long-lasting. ThermaCare HeatWraps keep on working even after a person takes them off—totaling up to 16 hours of back pain relief. Learn more at thermacare.com Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Innovative Science > Leading Consumer Healthcare Products 52 Annual Review 2012 INNOVATIVE SCIENCE ENSURING GLOBAL SUPPLY Produced to the Highest Standards We strive to ensure that all Pfizer products are always available when needed. Environment, Health and Safety in the Supply Chain At Pfizer, responsible supply chain management is central to how we do business. We operate within a framework of principles aligned with ethical, social and environmental responsibilities to help ensure the sustainability of our business and the communities in which we operate. To that Our Global Supply Chain end, an external supply team oversees efforts to ensure that our chemical and biological product suppliers manage environment, health and safety (EHS) risks. We recently partnered with the Pfizer products are produced to the Institute of Sustainable Communities, an organization committed to advancing sustainability highest standards, in full compliance with in developing countries through education and training, and we participate in the industry-wide all applicable legal requirements. We Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative. supply products from both our internal manufacturing sites and a network of Click here for more information about EHS within our supply chain. external partners. External partners are selected based on their ability to reliably Pfizer is committed to responsible supply chain management. To learn more, please see: supply quality product at a competitive cost. We apply rigorous controls to assure quality Supplier Conduct Position across the entire supply chain. Supplier Conduct Principles 3,000+ SUPPLIER ONSITE ASSESSMENTS COMPLETED BY PFIZER’S EHS Formulations EXTERNAL SUPPLY TEAM IN 2012 175 Markets >150 Market Distribution & Logistics Center Operations Globally 500+ Suppliers There was a 30% reduction in EHS supplier 84* onsite assessments from Manufacturing Sites 2011 to 2012 due largely to the use of a new risk priority ranking tool. *Zoetis sites (formerly Pfizer Animal Health) are included. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Innovative Science > Ensuring Global Supply 53 Annual Review 2012 GREATER IMPACT EXPANDING ACCESS TO HEALTH Building Sustainable Solutions to Expand Access We are committed to bringing more medicines to more people and helping to improve health around the world. Our efforts are focused on building sustainable solutions to expand access to medicines and health care for underserved patients worldwide. We continue to explore models and approaches that are tailored to the needs of patients in different geographies with different needs. It is often suggested that the price of medicine and enforcement of intellectual property rights are the main barriers to access to medicines in poor populations. Access to medicines is a complex issue, with the greatest impact coming from lack of health care infrastructure. We believe that protection of intellectual property and sustainable pricing are essential to our ability to discover and develop new medicines, and bring them to patients in need. Given the complexity of access issues and the need for a holistic approach to solving them, we work closely with governments and other stakeholders to address health care challenges and improve health around the world. We are also taking innovative approaches to pricing, including tiered pricing both across and within countries. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Greater Impact > Expanding Access to Health 54 Annual Review 2012 COMMERCIAL STRATEGIES Developing Viable Business Models to Serve the Underserved We are developing a portfolio of innovative Providing Important Medicines business approaches and models as Through Institutional Buyers part of our strategy to increase access to our medicines and improve health We work closely with global institutional care for underserved populations in both buyers who purchase medicines for the developed and developing countries. We neediest of patients. For example, Pfizer are also taking innovative approaches to has long-standing business partnerships pricing in various markets, including tiered with both the U.S. Agency for International pricing both across and within countries, Development and the United Nations and portfolio offerings that address and Population Fund to make our injectable balance customers’ cost sensitivities. contraceptive, Depo-Provera, available to women all across the globe, from subSaharan Africa to Southeast Asia to Latin America. We are working to expand our relationship with such institutional buyers to make a broad portfolio of our medicines accessible to as many low income patients as possible. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Greater Impact > Expanding Access to Health 55 Annual Review 2012 R&D PARTNERSHIPS Partnering to Advance R&D for Diseases of the Underserved Pfizer is committed to and collaborating ViiV Healthcare on developing effective treatments for diseases that disproportionately affect ViiV Healthcare is a global specialist the underserved, including HIV/AIDS, HIV company established by Pfizer tuberculosis and otherwise neglected and GlaxoSmithKline in 2009 to deliver tropical diseases. advances in treatment and care for people living with HIV. Shionogi joined ViiV WIPO Re:Search Healthcare in 2012. ViiV Healthcare aims to take a deeper and broader interest in WIPO Re:Search is an R&D consortium HIV/AIDS than any company has done dedicated to developing new solutions— before, while taking a new approach to including medicines, vaccines and deliver effective and new HIV medicines, diagnostics—for neglected tropical as well as to support communities affected diseases, malaria and tuberculosis. The by HIV. consortium was created in partnership with the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), BIO Ventures for Global Health and other leaders in the R&D pharmaceutical industry INFRASTRUCTURE AND CAPACITY Building Health Care Infrastructure and Capacity Worldwide Pfizer helps build health care infrastructure These investments include programs that and capacity primarily in two ways: provide direct assistance, such as product donations and steep discounts, to help 1. By working in partnership with bridge current gaps in health care delivery non-government organizations, to various underserved populations. For government agencies, multilateral aid example, we donate Zithromax to fight organizations and other global health blinding trachoma and Diflucan to fight stakeholders to strengthen health opportunistic fungal infections associated care systems and improve care. with HIV and AIDS in the developing world. Pfizer Helpful Answers helps 2. Through product donation and patient eligible patients in the U.S. with their Pfizer assistance programs that improve prescriptions for free or at a savings and, access to our medicines. in some cases, offers reimbursement support services. A synopsis of our social investment programs may be found here. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Greater Impact > Expanding Access to Health 56 Annual Review 2012 Spotlight on Vaccines We are doing our part to help lessen the societal burden of EXPANDING ACCESS TO preventable disease. VACCINES Today, more people benefit from safe and efficacious vaccines than ever before. As Pfizer works to usher in a new era of vaccine innovation—both to prevent and treat disease—we are also working with governments and global health organizations to expand access to these treatments. National Immunization Programs We seek to make accessible our potentially life-saving vaccines through national immunization programs (NIPs), an important channel that provides an organized system of vaccine procurement and utilization for countries and agencies around the world. The overarching goal of such programs is to ensure proper delivery and utilization of vaccines in a cost-effective and efficient manner. Over many years, Pfizer has successfully collaborated with more than 60 governments in developed, developing and emerging markets worldwide to establish or maintain pneumococcal disease prevention programs that help to protect nearly 30 million children. Bringing Prevenar 13 to Children in Need We are committed to helping protect millions of infants and young children in the developing world from pneumococcal disease, the leading cause of vaccinepreventable death in young children. Under the auspices of the GAVI Alliance’s Advance Market Commitment (AMC) for pneumococcal vaccines, Pfizer will supply up to 480 million doses of Prevenar 13 through 2023. Within only two years of the launch of the AMC, Prevenar 13 is available in 20 GAVI-eligible countries, with many additional launches planned. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Greater Impact > Expanding Access to Health 57 Annual Review 2012 Pfizer’s Investments in Health Our social investments focus on effective and sustainable health care delivery for underserved patients OWNING IMPACT while empowering our colleagues, strengthening our stakeholder relationships, and ultimately having a positive impact on society and our business. For an interactive map of all our access-related programs, see here. PROGRAM DESCRIPTION TARGET IMPACT REGION Pfizer Helpful Provide Pfizer medicines for free or at a U.S. Enabled more than 3.4 million uninsured or underinsured Answers savings to patients who qualify. patients to get access to nearly 39.2 million Pfizer prescriptions from 2008 to 2012. Infectious Build capacity for prevention, treatment, Africa Provide ongoing care and treatment to more than 36,500 Disease Institute training, research and clinical services patients, with outreach to 688,000 individuals; more than in Uganda. 10,300 health care workers from 28 countries received training in HIV/AIDS since program inception. Global Health Improve access, quality and efficiency Global—Africa, Since 2003, 377 colleagues have completed an estimated Fellows of health services for underserved Asia, Latin 334,000 hours of skills-based volunteering, which is valued populations through individual three to America, Europe, at approximately $49 million of pro bono service to partner six month assignments and two to three U.S. organizations throughout the world. Through GHF, Pfizer week team volunteer assignments. has partnered with more than 40 international development organizations in more than 40 countries. 2013 marks the 10th anniversary of the program. International Goal to eliminate trachoma by 2020 Africa, Asia, Pfizer has shipped more than 340 million Zithromax treatments Trachoma through the donation of Zithromax and Latin America to date. Initiative an integrated public health strategy. Mobilize Against Educate treatment providers and Ghana, Kenya, Over 1,200 Licensed Chemical Sellers trained to correctly dose Malaria patients to improve malaria treatment. Senegal and administer ACTs, and to recognize and refer complicated malaria cases in Ghana. Over 1,600 staff trained to advise women on prevention and treatment of malaria in Kenya. Over 200 community health workers and nurses trained in malaria diagnosis and treatment at 24 health huts in Senegal. Global Health Strengthen innovative public health 47 countries More than 97,000 patients served and 266,000 health care Partnership partnerships that address challenges in Asia, Latin workers trained from 2008 to 2011. in cancer and tobacco control, in America, Europe, support of the noncommunicable Africa, North diseases movement. America Diflucan Donate Diflucan for the treatment of 63 countries in Over a 12-year period, the program has provided over $1.3 billion Partnership two opportunistic infections associated Africa, Asia, in medicine to more than 2,600 sites in 63 countries. Program with HIV and AIDS: cryptococcal Latin America meningitis and esophageal candidiasis. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Greater Impact > Expanding Access to Health 58 Annual Review 2012 GREATER IMPACT patient safety Innovations in Patient Care and Safety As a leader in biopharmaceutical research, we have great interest in new tools that help physicians and other health care professionals improve patient care and ensure patient safety, including mobile health platforms. Our collaboration with Epocrates—the leading mHealth software provider, used by more than 1 million physicians in the U.S.—improves real-time decision-making by providing health care professionals with detailed, up-to-date clinical information on Pfizer products, as well as one-click access to doctors working with Pfizer. In addition, Pfizer remains the only major biopharmaceutical company whose website expedites a direct link for patients to file adverse event reports with the FDA. OUR FIRST PRIORITY “Patient safety is a core value and our absolute first priority—from the moment a compound is cleared for clinical trials, to its approval by regulators for use by patients, through its manufacture and distribution, and for as long as it is for sale and in use anywhere in the world.” Freda Lewis-Hall, M.D. Chief Medical Officer WATCH DR. FREDA LEWIS-HALL WATCH DR. FREDA LEWIS-HALL DISCUSS MIGRAINE ON THE DISCUSS ARTHRITIS ON THE OWNING TRUST DOCTORS DOCTORS Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Greater Impact > Patient Safety 59 Annual Review 2012 Communicating Safety Information We empower patients, their caregivers and the public with up-to-date, meaningful information— clearly explaining the benefits, risks and proper use of our medicines—to drive the best possible +800,000 patient outcomes. Prescriber Inquiries Answered per Year Pfizer’s External Medical Communications team has hundreds of medical professionals standing ready to discuss with doctors and other licensed prescribers how our medicines are properly prescribed, and to answer questions about their risk and benefit profiles. PfizerPro.com and PfizerMedicalInformation.com, both available exclusively to prescribers, provide extensive +100,000 information on Pfizer medicines and an array of patient support resources, including patient Unique Visitors to Our Medicine assistance programs. Safety Education website The Pfizer Medicine Safety Education website shows how a medicine’s safety profile is determined, monitored and communicated. It includes a direct link to MedWatch, the U.S. FDA’s Safety Information and Adverse Event reporting program. Protecting Patients from Counterfeit and Substandard Medicines Counterfeit medicines are relatively easy to make and pose a serious public health risk. Pfizer has taken a leadership position among pharmaceutical companies to protect patients, 160 MILLION working in close coordination with many national authorities and multinational coalitions to Counterfeit Doses of Pfizer fight the counterfeiting of medicines. Our partnerships with enforcement authorities are key Medicines Seized Since 2004 to our progress. We are also experimenting with direct-to-consumer models that reduce the possibility of counterfeit medicines entering legitimate supply channels, including pilot programs to give 1 IN 2 patients a trusted online alternative source for medicines such as Viagra, the most counterfeited Odds of Receiving a Counterfeit medicine in the world. Medicine When Ordering from a “Rogue” Pharmacy—One Concealing Its True Location 106 COUNTRIES Countries Where Counterfeit Pfizer Drugs Have Been Found $ 0 COST Cost to Authorities to Test Suspected Pfizer Products Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Greater Impact > Patient Safety 60 Annual Review 2012 GREATER IMPACT ENVIRONMENT Committed to a A MILESTONE ON PFIZER’S GREEN JOURNEY Sustainable Future To all of us at Pfizer, the commitment to advancing health includes being good stewards of the environment. PFIZER’S GREEN JOURNEY Our “green journey” program focuses on three areas key to our business: helping to mitigate climate change and its impacts; minimizing the environmental impact of our products and processes by advancing stewardship across the supply chains and life cycles of our products; and managing water resources in a sustainable way. We take an entrepreneurial approach to sustainability practices that produce measurable value for our business and society in reducing reliance on energy and water and looking for innovative ways to better manage waste. For a comprehensive view of our contributions to a sustainable future, see here. 20% Celebrated a decade of Green Chemistry leadership, recognizing significant solvent Met a second, five-year public goal of and waste reductions, safer chemistry reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20% methods and greener processes. after only four years. Issued guides for colleagues to adopt 25% greener practices in travel, printing, and Obtained 25% of our Electricity from Solar, energy savings. Wind, Hydro and Cogeneration. Mapped locations for operations in water Achieved outstanding sustainability ratings in scarce areas, including top suppliers. the health care sector from influential groups: #1 Bloomberg Maplecroft, #6 Newsweek, #3 CDP Performance, #10 CDP Disclosure. Participated in creating industry carbon footprint guide for the National Health Service. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Greater Impact > Environment 61 Annual Review 2012 Pharmaceuticals in the Environment Pfizer has an active program to assess and address the issues associated with pharmaceuticals in the environment. We help to educate patients on the proper disposal of medicines, and we participate in product take-back programs in locations that operate them. To aid U.S. hospitals and health care clinics on responsible disposal of unused medicines, Pfizer, in collaboration with Waste Management, introduced an online guide listing disposal information for our products—a first in the industry. For more on our approach to pharmaceuticals in the environment, see here or go directly to Pfizer’s Position Statement on the topic and to the Pfizer Responsible Disposal Advisor. Managing Environmental Risk People at all levels of our company are involved with managing environmental risk and liabilities, beginning with oversight by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, governance by our Environmental Sustainability Council, and execution through teams at each of our major sites. For more information on our environment, health and safety program, including compliance and environmental remediation, please see www.pfizer.com/ehs. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Greater Impact > Environment 62 Annual Review 2012 GRI INDEX 1. Strategy and Analysis GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization From Our CEO (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. From Our CEO 8 Research and Development Environment, Health and Safety Covered Partially Covered Not Covered 2. Organizational Profile GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle 2.1 Name of the organization. Corporate Overview 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Pfizer Products 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, How We Are Organized operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Contact 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names Global Sites of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization About This Review 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Accolades Covered Partially Covered Not Covered Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 63 Annual Review 2012 3. Report Parameters report profile GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. About This Review 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Financial Reports 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) About This Review 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. report scope and boundary GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle 3.5 Process for defining report content. About This Review 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, About This Review leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information N/A provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, N/A boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI Content Index GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. GRI Index Assurance GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). Covered Partially Covered Not Covered Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 64 Annual Review 2012 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement GOVERNANCE GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees Corporate Governance under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is Pfizer Executive Leadership Team also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the Fact Sheet number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Contact Directors recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest Compensation governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure Director Code of Conduct conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the Corporate Governance members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of Compliance conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 65 Annual Review 2012 COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach 7 or principle is addressed by the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, Sales and Marketing principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes Expanding Access to Health or endorses. Manufacturing and Supply Chain 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or Trade Association Memberships national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: has positions in governance bodies; participates in projects or committees; provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; views membership as strategic. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with Expanding Access to Health whom to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Expanding Access to Health engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Covered Partially Covered Not Covered Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 66 Annual Review 2012 5. Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic Disclosures The economic dimension of sustainability concerns the organization’s impacts on the economic conditions of its stakeholders and on economic systems at local, national, and global levels. The Economic Indicators illustrate: • Flow of capital among different stakeholders; and • Main economic impacts of the organization throughout society. Financial performance is fundamental to understanding an organization and its own sustainability. However, this information is normally already reported in financial accounts. What is often reported less, and is frequently desired by users of sustainability reports, is the organization’s contribution to the sustainability of a larger economic system. disclosure on management approach (economY) Provide a concise disclosure on the Management Approach items outlined below with reference to the following Economic Aspects: • Economic Performance; • Market Presence; and • Indirect Economic Impacts. GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle GOALS AND PERFORMANCE From Our CEO Organization-wide goals regarding performance relevant to the Economic Aspects. Use organization-specific Indicators (as needed) in addition to the GRI Performance Indicators to demonstrate the results of performance against goals. POLICY From Our CEO Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines the organization’s Financial Performance overall commitment relating to the Economic Aspects listed above, or Global Opportunities state where this can be found in the public domain (e.g., web link). Expanding Access to Health ADDITIONAL CONTEXTUAL INFORMATION From Our CEO Additional relevant information required to understand organizational Financial Performance performance, such as: Global Opportunities Expanding Access to Health • Key successes and shortcomings; • Major organizational risks and opportunities; • Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and • Key strategies for implementing policies or achieving performance. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 67 Annual Review 2012 economic performance indicators ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including Financial Performance revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Climate Change 7, 8 organization’s activities due to climate change. Position Statement EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. ASPECT: MARKET PRESENCE GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local 6 minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior 6 management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and Expanding Access to Health services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic Expanding Access to Health impacts, including the extent of impacts. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 68 Annual Review 2012 Environmental Disclosures The environmental dimension of sustainability concerns an organization’s impacts on living and non-living natural systems, including ecosystems, land, air, and water. Environmental Indicators cover performance related to inputs (e.g., material, energy, water) and outputs (e.g., emissions, effluents, waste). In addition, they cover performance related to biodiversity, environmental compliance, and other relevant information such as environmental expenditure and the impacts of products and services. disclosure on management approach (environment) Provide a concise disclosure on the Management Approach items outlined below with reference to the following Environmental Aspects: • Materials; • Energy; • Water; • Biodiversity; • Emissions, Effluents, and Waste; • Products and Services; • Compliance; • Transport; and • Overall GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle GOALS AND PERFORMANCE Protecting the Environment Organization-wide goals regarding performance relevant to the Environment Aspects. Use organization-specific Indicators (as needed) in addition to the GRI Performance Indicators to demonstrate the results of performance against goals. POLICY EHS Policy Statement Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines the organization’s overall commitment related to the Environmental Aspects listed above or state where this can be found in the public domain (e.g., web link). ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY EHS Governance The most senior position with operational responsibility for Environmental Aspects or explain how operational responsibility is divided at the senior level for these Aspects. This differs from Disclosure 4.1, which focuses on structures at the governance level. TRAINING AND AWARENESS Supplier Review Procedures related to training and raising awareness in relation to the Environmental Aspects. MONITORING AND FOLLOW-UP Key Performance Indicators Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and preventive actions, including those related to the supply chain. List of certifications for environment-related performance or certification systems, or other approaches to auditing/verification for the reporting organization or its supply chain. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 69 Annual Review 2012 ADDITIONAL CONTEXTUAL INFORMATION Protecting the Environment Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: • Key successes and shortcomings; • Major organizational risks and opportunities; • Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and • Key strategies and procedures for implementing policies or achieving goals. environmental performance indicators ASPECT: materials GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 8 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 8, 9 ASPECT: energy GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 8 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 8, 9 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy Protecting the Environment 8, 9 based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Protecting the Environment 8, 9 reductions achieved. ASPECT: WATER GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. EHS Performance Dashboard 8 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. EHS Performance Dashboard EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. EHS Performance Dashboard 8 Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 70 Annual Review 2012 ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or 8 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and 8 services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 8 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing 8 impacts on biodiversity. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list 8 species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. ASPECT: EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS, AND WASTE GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Environment KPIs 8 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 8 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions EHS Performance Dashboard 8, 9 achieved. EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. 8 EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 8 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. EHS Performance Dashboard 8 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 8 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste EHS Performance Dashboard 8 deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water 8 bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. ASPECT: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and Green Journey 8, 9 services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are 8, 9 reclaimed by category. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 71 Annual Review 2012 ASPECT: COMPLIANCE GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of EHS Compliance 8 non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. ASPECT: TRANSPORT GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and 8 other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. ASPECT: OVERALL GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments 8 by type. social Disclosures The social dimension of sustainability concerns the impacts an organization has on the social systems within which it operates. The GRI Social Performance Indicators identify key Performance Aspects surrounding labor practices, human rights, society, and product responsibility. labor practices and decent work The specific Aspects under the category of Labor Practices are based on internationally recognized universal standards, including: • United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and its Protocols; • United Nations Convention: International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; • United Nations Convention: International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights; • ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of 1998 (in particular the eight core conventions of the ILO); and • The Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 72 Annual Review 2012 disclosure on management approach (labor practices and decent work) Provide a concise disclosure on the following Management Approach items with reference to the Labor Aspects listed below. The ILO Tripartite Declaration Concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy (in particular the eight core conventions of the ILO) and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, should be the primary reference points. • Employment; • Labor/Management Relations; • Occupational Health and Safety; • Training and Education; and • Diversity and Equal Opportunity. GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle GOALS AND PERFORMANCE Human Rights Organization-wide goals regarding performance relevant to the Labor Aspects, indicating their linkage to the internationally recognized universal standards. Use organization-specific Indicators (as needed) in addition to the GRI Performance Indicators to demonstrate the results of performance against goals. POLICY Human Rights Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines the organization’s Compliance overall commitment related to the Labor Aspects, or state where this can be found in the public domain (e.g., web link). Also reference their linkage to the international standards indicated above. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY The most senior position with operational responsibility for Labor Aspects or explain how operational responsibility is divided at the senior level for these Aspects. This differs from Disclosure 4.1, which focuses on structures at the governance level. TRAINING AND AWARENESS Compliance Procedures related to training and raising awareness in relation to the Labor Aspects. MONITORING AND FOLLOW-UP PSCI and External Certifications Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and preventive actions, EHS External Supply including those related to the supply chain. Compliance List of certifications for labor-related performance or certification systems, or other approaches to auditing/verifying the reporting organization or its supply chain. ADDITIONAL CONTEXTUAL INFORMATION Human Rights Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: • Key successes and shortcomings; • Major organizational environmental risks and opportunities related to issues; • Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and • Key strategies and procedures for implementing policies or achieving goals Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 73 Annual Review 2012 labor practices and decent work performance indicators ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, 6 gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided 6 to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. ASPECT: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 1, 3 agreements. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including 3 whether it is specified in collective agreements. ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, EHS Performance Dashboard and number of work-related fatalities by region. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Biopharmaceutical Businesses 74 Annual Review 2012 ASPECT: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 1, 6 per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. 1, 6 human rights Human Rights Performance Indicators require organizations to report on the extent to which human rights are considered in investment and supplier/contractor selection practices. Additionally, the Indicators cover employee and security forces training on human rights as well as non-discrimination, freedom of association, child labor, indigenous rights, and forced and compulsory labor. Generally recognized human rights are defined by the following Conventions and Declarations: • United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and its Protocols; • United Nations Convention: International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; • United Nations Convention: International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights; • ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work of 1998 (in particular the eight core conventions of the ILO); and • The Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action. disclosure on management approach (human rights) Provide a concise disclosure on the following Management Approach items with reference to the Human Rights Aspects listed below. The ILO Tripartite Declaration Concerning Multinational Enterprises and Social Policy (in particular the eight core conventions of the ILO which consist of Conventions 100, 111, 87, 98, 138, 182, 20 and 1059), and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises should be the primary reference points. • Investment and Procurement Practices; • Non-discrimination; • Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining; • Abolition of Child Labor; • Prevention of Forced and Compulsory Labor; • Complaints and Grievance Practices; • Security Practices; and • Indigenous Rights. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 75 Annual Review 2012 GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle GOALS AND PERFORMANCE Human Rights Organization-wide goals regarding performance relevant to the Human Rights Aspects, indicating their linkage to the international declarations and standards listed above. Use organization-specific Indicators (as needed) in addition to the GRI Performance Indicators to demonstrate the results of performance against goals. POLICY Human Rights Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines the organization’s overall commitment to the Human Rights Aspects (including policies which may be reasonably considered likely to affect the decision of employees to join a trade union or bargain collectively), or state where this can be found in the public domain (e.g., web link). Also reference their linkage to the international declarations and standards indicated above. ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY The most senior position with operational responsibility for Human Rights Aspects or explain how operational responsibility is divided at the senior level for these Aspects. This differs from Disclosure 4.1, which focuses on structures at the governance level. TRAINING AND AWARENESS Procedures related to training and raising awareness in relation to the Human Rights Aspects. MONITORING AND FOLLOW-UP PSCI and External Certifications Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and preventive actions, EHS External Supply including those related to the supply chain. Corporate Compliance List of certifications for human rights-related performance, or certification systems, or other approaches to auditing/verifying the reporting organization or its supply chain. ADDITIONAL CONTEXTUAL INFORMATION Human Rights Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: • Key successes and shortcomings; • Major organizational risks and opportunities; • Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and • Key strategies and procedures for implementing policies or achieving goals. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 76 Annual Review 2012 human rights performance indicators ASPECT: INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures 1, 4, 5, 6 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. ASPECT: NON-DISCRIMINATION GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. 1, 6 ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of 1, 3 association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 77 Annual Review 2012 ASPECT: CHILD LABOR GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents 1, 5 of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. ASPECT: FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents 1, 4 of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. ASPECT: SECURITY PRACTICES GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s 1, 2 policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. ASPECT: INDIGENOUS RIGHTS GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights 1 of indigenous people and actions taken. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 78 Annual Review 2012 society Society Performance Indicators focus attention on the impacts organizations have on the communities in which they operate, and disclosing how the risks that may arise from interactions with other social institutions are managed and mediated. In particular, information is sought on the risks associated with bribery and corruption, undue impudence in public policy-making, and monopoly practices. disclosure on management approach (society) Provide a concise disclosure on the following Management Approach items with reference to the Society Aspects: • Community; • Corruption; • Public Policy; • Anti-Competitive Behavior; and • Compliance. GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle GOALS AND PERFORMANCE Compliance Organization-wide goals regarding performance relevant to the Aspects indicated above. Use organization-specific Indicators as needed in addition to the GRI Performance Indicators to demonstrate the results of performance against goals. POLICY Compliance Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines the organization’s overall commitment relating to the Society Aspects or state where this can be found in the public domain (e.g., web link). ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY Compliance The most senior position with operational responsibility for Society Aspects or explain how operational responsibility is divided at the senior level for these Aspects. This differs from Disclosure 4.1, which focuses on structures at the governance level. TRAINING AND AWARENESS Procedures related to training and raising awareness in relation to the Society Aspects. MONITORING AND FOLLOW-UP Compliance Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and preventive actions, including those related to the supply chain. List of certifications for performance or certifications systems, or other approaches to auditing/verifying the reporting organization or its supply chain. ADDITIONAL CONTEXTUAL INFORMATION Compliance Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: • Key successes and shortcomings; • Major organizational risks and opportunities; • Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and • Key strategies for implementing policies or achieving performance. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 79 Annual Review 2012 society performance indicators ASPECT: COMMUNITY GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices 1 that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. ASPECT: CORRUPTION GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks 10 related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption 10 policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 10 ASPECT: PUBLIC POLICY GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Compliance 10 development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political Compliance 10 parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. ASPECT: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. ASPECT: compliance GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 80 Annual Review 2012 product responsibility Product Responsibility Performance Indicators address the aspects of a reporting organization’s products and services that directly abet customers, namely, health and safety, information and labeling, marketing, and privacy. These aspects are chiefly covered through disclosure on internal procedures and the extent to which these procedures are not complied with. disclosure on management approach (product responsibility) Provide a concise disclosure on the following Management Approach items with reference to the Product Responsibility Aspects: • Customer Health and Safety; • Product and Service Labeling; • Marketing Communications; • Customer Privacy; and • Compliance. GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle GOALS AND PERFORMANCE Patient Safety Organization-wide goals regarding performance relevant to the Research & Development Product Responsibility Aspects. Sales and Marketing Compliance Use organization-specific Indicators (as needed) in addition to the GRI Performance Indicators to demonstrate the results of performance against goals. POLICY Patient Safety Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines the organization’s Research & Development overall commitment to the Product Responsibility Aspects, or state where Sales and Marketing Compliance this can be found in the public domain (e.g., web link). ORGANIZATIONAL RESPONSIBILITY The most senior position with operational responsibility for Product Responsibility Aspects, or explain how operational responsibility is divided at the senior level for Product Responsibility Aspects. This differs from Disclosure 4.1, which focuses on structures at the governance level. TRAINING AND AWARENESS Procedures related to training and raising awareness in relation to the Product Responsibility Aspects. MONITORING AND FOLLOW-UP Compliance Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and preventive actions, including those related to the supply chain. List of certifications for product responsibility-related performance or certification systems, or other approaches to auditing/verifying the reporting organization or its supply chain. ADDITIONAL CONTEXTUAL INFORMATION Patient Safety Additional relevant information required to understand organizational Research & Development performance, such as: Sales and Marketing Compliance • Key successes and shortcomings; • Major organizational risks and opportunities; • Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and • Key strategies for implementing policies or achieving performance. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 81 Annual Review 2012 product responsibility performance indicators ASPECT: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products Patient Safety and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage Research & Development of significant products and services categories subject to such Greener Process procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELING GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, Product Labeling and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes Compliance 10 related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. ASPECT: CUSTOMER PRIVACY GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. ASPECT: COMPLIANCE GRI Guideline Corresponding Pfizer Material UNGC Principle PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Covered Partially Covered Not Covered Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual GRI Index 82 Annual Review 2012 CORPORATE AND SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION STOCK LISTINGS The principal market for our Common Stock is the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Our stock is also listed on the NYSE Euronext Brussels Exchange, the London Stock Exchange and the SIX Swiss Stock Exchange, as well as various United States regional stock exchanges. STOCK TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR Computershare Trust Company, N.A. 250 Royall Street Canton, MA 02021 Telephone: 1-800-PFE-9393 Outside the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico: 1-781-575-4591 Internet: www.computershare.com SHAREHOLDER SERVICES AND PROGRAMS Please contact our Stock Transfer Agent and Registrar with inquiries concerning shareholder accounts of record and stock transfer matters, and also for information on the following services and programs: • Computershare Investment Program -direct purchase of Pfizer stock -dividend reinvestment -automatic monthly investments • Book-entry share ownership • Direct deposit of dividends FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION Please refer to Pfizer’s 2012 Form 10-K for a description of the substantial risks and uncertainties related to the forward-looking statements included in this Annual Review. Our Form 10-K is available on our website at www.pfizer.com/sec and on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s website at www.sec.gov. POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE (PAC) To review our most recent PAC and corporate political contributions report, go online at www.pfizer.com/pac. ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY (EHS) Our global EHS initiatives, Environmental Sustainability Program and performance metrics may be found online at www.pfizer.com/ehs. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Corporate and Shareholder Information 83 Annual Review 2012 HELPLINES Patients, customers and health care professionals who have questions about any of our products should call 1-800-438-1985. Uninsured or underinsured patients who need help getting their Pfizer medicines should call Pfizer Helpful Answers, our family of patient assistance programs that provide Pfizer medicines for free or at a savings to patients who qualify. Some programs also offer reimbursement support services for insured patients. To learn more, visit www.PfizerHelpfulAnswers.com or call 1-866-706-2400. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION You can find more information about Pfizer online at www.pfizer.com. Real-time news about Pfizer can be found on our Facebook page (www.facebook.com/Pfizer) and through Twitter (www. Twitter.com/Pfizer_news). This Annual Review is produced by Pfizer’s Policy, External Affairs and Communications group. The trademarks, logos and service marks appearing in the Annual Review, whether or not appearing with the trademark symbol, are owned or licensed by Pfizer Inc or its affiliates. Design: Ideas On Purpose, New York Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Corporate and Shareholder Information 84 Annual Review 2012 OWNING COLLABORATION Transcript: Alberto Visintin One of the reasons why CTI was launched was really to accelerate the time that it takes from an idea to the bedside and this is our driving force and this is why we come to work to try to get to the bedside fast as we can with very innovative medicines. I’m Alberto Visintin and I am a project leader at Pfizer Centers for Therapeutic Innovation and my main role is to work on a team which is developing drugs to fight cancer. Doctor Dvorak’s application really stood out because of the potential that we saw right away of program was proposed to CTI. Hal Dvorak Well I’m Hal Dvorak and I’ve been a pathologist, an experimental pathologist for all my career. In academia one can only go so far and obviously the goal of experimental pathology is to treat patients. In academia you simply cannot do that, you don’t have the facilities to do that you don’t have the technologies to do that and you have to have a collaboration. You have to have a collaboration with industry and Pfizer came along and CTI is just a very fine program and they have resources that I just would have no access to. Alberto And we truly work in partnership and we share the goals we share responsibilities and perhaps we will share the success. Hal It also helps that the people at CTI and particularly Alberto are just wonderful collaborators they’re just very smart people very intelligent people very committed people. I’m actually surprised at how committed they are to curing cancer and that’s what I want to do to. Alberto We are highly motivated we have all the tools that we need. I believe this will be a success story. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Owning Collaboration Transcript Annual Review 2012 OWNING POTENTIAL Transcript: Mark Flanagan What makes Xeljanz different is the fact that it’s a small molecule and it can be dosed orally. It’s the first in a class of compounds called JAK inhibitors and the Janus kinase program or JAK program really started at Pfizer. My name is Mark Flanagan I’m an associate research fellow at Pfizer. Once the exploratory biology was done and we had a lead molecule to work with I worked with my colleagues to synthesize approximately a thousand synthetic analogs of that original lead until we eventually found Tofacitinib which we call today Xeljanz. The molecule that we found looked very very promising. It is very gratifying to see something that we worked on in all those years of research now translated into a new treatment option for patients. We found a drug that can potentially help make them feel better that’s really an exciting moment for for us. I think that this this program is really an example of people people owning it. People working hard doing their job, working together collaboratively, so this is really a Pfizer story from beginning to end and something that the organization I think is very proud of. It’s a great feeling. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Owning Potential Transcript Annual Review 2012 OWNING TRUST Transcript: Dr. Freda Lewis-Hall We work very hard to build and sustain trust with patients in fact we measure our success by whether or not people consider us a trusted source of information and high quality medicines. My name is Freda Lewis Hall I’m the chief medical officer at Pfizer. We have medical personnel around the world, thousands of us who are physicians and nurses and pharmacists who provide information, who help develop our clinical trials and implement them and who stand ready to answer the questions to ensure the safe effective and appropriate use of our medicines and the best possible outcome for patients. We hope to build trust with patients in three ways. The first is we want to insure their safety from the very first time one of our medicines touches them in a clinical trial to the last time any patient anywhere in the world touches one of our medicines. Second is we want to have the highest integrity of our data and the information that we are provide and then last but absolutely not least is the quality of our products. We want people to be able to trust every time they take a Pfizer medicine that it is the highest quality possible. I would absolutely recommend a Pfizer medicine to my friends and family and when they see the blue Oval they should think quality. They should think quality of the science, quality of the medicine and quality of the information that goes behind every pill. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Owning Trust Transcript Annual Review 2012 OWNING IMPACT Transcript: Jeffrey Trocio The Global Health Fellows program is Pfizer’s signature corporate volunteer program where they pair colleagues with different functional and technical expertise with international development organizations. My name is Jeffrey Trocio. I work at Pfizer Primary Care business unit. As a Global Health Fellow I partnered with Save Children Uganda for four months and I helped them with a five year strategy in improving maternal newborn child health in Uganda. So the impact that I have partnering with Save Children I hope will be a long lasting coalition that serves to engage regional and global actors in continuing to improve the healthcare system in Uganda. The impact that we had on different populations or clinics or hospitals was more measurable i guess, or you were able to see it much quicker because there were less layers between the work that I did and the results that were achieved. The experience makes me really proud to work at Pfizer. It’s really rewarding to be part of a team that has made an assessment, has identified needs and then has come full circle and has delivered on those needs. The GLobal Health Fellows program is important to Pfizer because it demonstrates leadership and commitment to it’s mission which is to improve and enhance access to healthcare around the world. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Owning Impact Transcript Annual Review 2012 OWNING IMPACT Transcript: Warachal Faison The Get Old campaign is important because it allows for a dialogue to occur. My name is Warachal Eileen Faison. I’m a physician as well as a psychiatrist and I support predominantly the Women’s Health team but I also support the Neuroscience team as well. My hopes for the impact of this campaign is that the public will feel more comfortable about sharing what’s important to them in regards to their life their health their families and with that they’ll learn about key health issues and feel comfortable interacting with their health care professionals to make sure they have all the necessary information to make those important healthcare decisions. Narrator We live longer than we did a generation ago, and longer still than we did two generations ago. And that’s no surprise, really. Because if we at Pfizer keep doing our jobs right, there will be a side effect — you’ll Get Old. You’ll live longer and better. When you have more time, you get see more, do more, share more. You get to make more wrong turns, and explore new places. You get to experience more successes, and more failures. It’s a chance to live not just longer, but fuller. To hit your prime at 30, and 50, and every year after. To turn a time that was feared into a time to look forward to, and live long enough to find out what you’re here for. Ultimately, your job is to get to work on your dreams. At Pfizer, our job is to make sure you live long and well enough to achieve them. Tell us how you feel about getting old. Pfizer Annual Review 2012 www.pfizer.com/annual Owning Well-Being Transcript
