2012 NPS Sustainability Report Social Responsibility Management Section, General Administration Support Dept., NPS building, 13 Olympic-ro 35da-gil, Songpa-gu, Seoul Phone : 02-2240-1908 FAX. 02-3485-9812 www.nps.or.kr Reassuring the People Strengthening the Pension 2012 NPS Sustainability Report Nice Partner for a Successful Life Overview Reassuring the People Characteristics of This Report This first-issued ‘Sustainability Report for the National Pension Service of Korea for 2012’ includes social responsibility Strengthening the Pension management activities of the National Pension Service (NPS). It focuses on important issues such as stakeholders’ engagement and materiality assessment in which stakeholders have great interest. This social responsibility management report is scheduled 2012 NPS Sustainability Report to be made public annually to concerned stakeholders. Period and Boundary of Reporting This report highlights social responsibility management activities performed by the headquarters and regional offices during the calendar year of 2011. Some key qualitative performance covers some activities from 2012 while quantitative performance includes data. The boundary of this report is the headquarters and regional offices of NPS. Where activities of some regional offices are subject to reporting, they are marked separately in this report. Criteria and G3.1 Guideline Application Level This sustainability report was prepared in accordance with ISO 26000 and G3.1 Guidelines of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). This report was prepared to satisfy all requirements defined as criteria of the application level ‘A+’ provided by GRI G3.1 guidelines. The currency unit used in this report is the KRW(Korean won), and other units are specified in parallel with numbers. Verification Third-party verification was carried out to increase reliability and accuracy of reporting and data included in this report. A third-party verifier confirmed that this report fulfilled the requirement of the G3.1 Guidelines application level A+. Contact Address : Social Responsibility Management Section, General Administration Support Dept., NPS building, 13 Olympic-ro 35da-gil, Songpa-gu, Seoul Phone : 02-2240-1908 Fax : 02-3485-9812 Email : nps0621@nps.or.kr Relevant office : Social Responsibility Management Section, General Administration Support Dept. Homepage : http://www.nps.or.kr Nice Partner for a Successful Life 2012 NATIONAL PENSION SERVICE CONTENT A message from the CEO NPS Sustainability Highlights SUSTAINABILITY 1. NPS : Planning a Happy and Prosperous Future REPORT 10 Introduction of NPS 16 Vision & Strategy of NPS 18 Stakeholders Standing with NPS 22 Identification of Materiality Issues of Social Responsibility Management Nice Partner for a 2. NPS : Implementing Responsibility Management 26 Transparent Governance to Strengthen Corporate Value Successful Life 28 Risk Management for a Sound National Pension 3. NSP : Investing in Prosperity and Hope 32 Sustainable Fund that is Prepared for the Future 36 Socially Responsible Investing to Enhance Social Responsibility Management 4. NPS : Our customers can rely on us 42 Customer Satisfaction Management to Deliver Happiness 45 Feature 1: Old-age Planning Services to Create an Affluent World 46 Feature 2: NPS Improving Welfare for the Disabled 47 Feature 3: The Research Institute to Increase Sustainability of the National Pension 5. NPS : Practicing to Share 50 Involvement in Local Communities to Promote Good Will 6. NPS : Making a Fair Society 56 Ethical Management to Create a Corruption Free Society 59 Transparent Information Disclosure to Protect Rights 62 Win-win Management with Business Partners 7. NPS : Holding People Dear 66 Human Resource Management for Hope-sharing 71 Open-minded Communication between Labor and Management 8. NPS : Thinking of the Environment 76 Environmental Management to Save the Earth 9. Appendix 81 Summary of Economic Performance 82 ISO 26000 Compliance Diagnosis Report 84 Assurance Statement of the Third Party Verifier 86 GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index 91 UNGC & UN PRI Principles 92 Certification, Prizewinning, and Membership 3 2012 NPS Sustainability Report CEO message A Message Future with NPS will be bright. Our hands toward you are not for merely showing an exaggerated from the CEO future dream but for growing up hope for future. Dear Stakeholders, Providing customized services for old-age preparation and supporting improved life quality for underprivileged implementation system where all the departments and divisions of NPS are involved. In link with NPS’ businesses, it promotes and supports small operational companies engaged in the fund groups management area, and relieves them of the burden of paying pension We are pleased to publish our first sustainability report, premiums. Moreover, it expands purchase from SMEs in an active Korea is quickly transforming into an aged society, so the national including a series of activities that the National Pension Service way and makes contributions to creating jobs in private businesses pension system, a representative social safety net in an aging society, (NPS), on the 25th anniversary of its founding, has been doing through giving assistance in the establishment of social companies is becoming more important. NPS helps people prepare for their to fulfill its societal obligations. old age by providing personalized information according to their life and holding job fairs. periods. Also, it helps socially underprivileged groups improve their To make affluent local communities ever more prosperous, NPS now All the executives and employees of NPS have gone to great life quality by supporting effective services. It has strengthened rights carries out enthusiastically various sharing activities considering lengths to offer improved services to the public. As a result of protection for the disabled by preparing infringement remedies in the characteristics of its businesses such as pension premium support the strength of our system management and the aggressive process of disability assessment and registration in 2011, and provided for low-income subscribers, a donation campaign conducted by activity-supporting services to help the disabled live independent its employees, listening and feeling trips with the disabled, and operation of the pension fund, NPS has evolved to become lives. revitalization of traditional markets. one of the top 4 pension funds in the world, with 20 million subscribers and KRW 367 trillion in reserve funds. At the moment many companies actively fulfill their SR activities and Stabilized fund operation and expansion of socially SR management is a condition of survival, not an option, NPS joined Recognizing corporate social responsibilities for the environment responsible investing the UN Global Compact in October 2012 to meet the needs of our and society, NPS has established and promoted the strategic society for SR management on the international level and plans to systems of social responsibility management centered on The global economic crisis has been prolonged due to Europe's continuously report to stakeholders the compliance status of the six strategic areas: trust management for customers, socially spreading debt crisis. NPS has steadily diversified investments to UNGC 10 principles covering human rights, anti-corruption, labor, the responsible investing, social contribution, ethical management, foreign assets and alternative investment sectors to minimize risk and environment, and the ISO 26000 implementation performance. continue to increase fund revenue in this unstable world economy shared growth, and environmental management. We have been and through difficult management conditions. Thinking of the year of 2012 as the first year of social responsibility focused on these targets since October 2011 to proactively NPS initiated SRI (Socially Responsible Investing) in 2006 and management, all the executives and employees of NPS will carry out respond to ISO 26000, the international standard of social has been expanding it ever since. Recognizing the importance of more active activities as a new role model for social responsibility to responsibility management. climate change and responsible investment, NPS joined the United make future value creation for stakeholders. Nations Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI) and clearly Thank you again for your interest in and support for NPS. indicated the environmental, social and governance (ESG) principles on the guidelines for exercising voting rights in 2009. NPS has also carried out new ESG research in February 2011 and has reinforced responsible investment infrastructure. November 30, 2012 Chairman & CEO of the National Pension Service Practice for co-growth and sharing Jun, Kwang-woo NPS seeks sustainable growth through partnership with small and medium enterprises (SMEs) by establishing the co-growth 4 5 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 2011 NPS Sustainability Highlights NPS Sustainability Winning ‘the Best Asia Pacific Pension Fund of the Year’ award for three consecutive years Beneficiaries exceeding 3.3 million Building up a comprehensive system for privacy Winning ‘the Best Asia Pacific Highlights Pension Fund of the Year’ award for three consecutive years Realizing ‘One-Stop’ service for the comprehensive welfare of the disabled NPS gained KRW 64 trillion in profit from operations. We have an annual average profit rate of 7.3% while Pension donations campaign for low-income classes ensuring both stability and profitability of the pension fund. This excellent performance received its due recognition, and NPS has won 'the Best Asia Pacific Selected as one of the Excellent Organizations in the KSQI Pension Fund of the Year’ award from the Asia Asset (Korean Industrial Services Quality Index) for call center Management magazine for three consecutive years. services six years straight Providing a personalized old-age planning services for Realizing ‘One-Stop’ service for Pension donations campaign for Selected as one of the Excellent preparing era of population aging the comprehensive welfare of the low-income classes Organizations in the KSQI for call disabled center services six years straight Preliminary social enterprise of ‘NPS Cafe 36.5°’ opened NPS realized ‘One-Stop’ service for the NPS’ executive and staff members have donated a By operating the system of direct connection with The highest level open employment of public institutions and comprehensive welfare of the disabled from disability portion of monthly pension premiums targeting lowagents that bypasses ARS and the three-party assessment to visiting services in order to support income families from their salaries and until now communication system for ‘the hearing impaired social equity-based human resource management independent living and social engagement of the sponsored 910 people, of which 148 people have won communication relay center NPS call center’, NPS disabled. As a result, the number of new applicants pension entitlements. In 2011, the 'National Pension was selected as one of the excellent organizations Beneficiaries exceeding 3.3 million for the activity support service has increased to 4.6 Donation Campaign' was started, and 63 people have six years straight, according to '2012 Korean Industrial thousand in 2012. donated about KRW 52 million as of September 2012. Services Quality Index (KSQI)' surveys. Owing to continued institutional improvement and service innovation, beneficiaries exceeded 3.3 million people in 2012. NPS encompasses the role of pivotal social welfare institutions through its lending emergency life fund, and 'Silverloan' project for pensioners in 2012. Providing a personalized old-age Preliminary social enterprise of ‘NPS The highest level open employment of planning services for preparing era Cafe 36.5°’ opened public institutions and social equityof population aging based human resource management NPS provides comprehensive old-age planning NPS, establishing the first public institution cafe for NPS newly employed 61% female, 52.1% local human Building up a comprehensive system services to help people prepare for 'Happy Old Age'. donation, 「NPS cafeteria, Cafe 36.5˚」, provided resources and put into action open employment Since starting the service in April 2008, NPS has jobs for 3 people from vulnerable groups such as without discriminating based age, gender and for privacy consulted 1.41 million cases of old-age planning and the disabled and multicultural migrant women. And it education in 2011 and achieved the highest level educated 22,000 times as of September 2012, so supports youth and multicultural families with 10% of its of employment rate for the disabled by employing NPS prevents inappropriate reading behavior in 380,000 people of the prospective non-pensioners or sales, or 'Dream Cultivating Donations'. allocated 10% of the disabled. As a result of these advance by establishing comprehensive measures low-pensioners have applied for the extension of the efforts, NPS was selected as the best human resource for privacy and minimizing information access to all subscription period. development organization (Best-HRD) in the public employees' personal information. In addition, NPS sector by the Ministry of Public Administration and strengthens internal training and improves employees' Security and the Ministry of Education, Science and awareness of personal information protection, so it Technology in 2011. was evaluated as one of the excellent organizations 6 by the Ministry of Health and Welfare in 2011. 7 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 1.NPS: Planning a Happy and Prosperous Future “NPS sees potential possibility in little seeds.” 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 1. NPS : planning a happy and prosperous future Allocation of Economic Value Introduction of NPS National Pension Fund is raised with premiums, operational profit of fund, reserves and the surplus amount on the result of final accounts of income and expense of NPS. During the period of 2011, NPS raised KRW 35,188.9 billion including pension premiums and operational profit of Established in 1987 with the objective of guaranteeing stabilized old age for all the people through the fund. In parallel with the expense of KRW 10,321 including pension payments and operational costs, NPS accumulated KRW 348,867.7 billion, pension payment’, NPS has delivered a variety of pension and welfare services to Korean people. which was an increase of KRW 24,876.9 billion against KRW 323,990.8 billion reserved in the previous year. Expenses of NPS are available only within the boundary of budget approved by the government. The budget approved in 2011 was KRW 10,300 billion, which was used for customers, employees, subcontractors, local communities, the government and other NPS businesses. Corporate Overview Money accumulated till the end of 2011 KRW 323,990.8 billion KRW 24,876.9 billion KRW 348,867.7 billion Introduction of Organization Money accumulated till the end of 2010 Fund increase in 2011 NPS (National Pension Service) was founded in 1987 to provide pensions in contingency of old-age, + + + + disability or death with an objective of contributing to stabilized livelihood and welfare enhancement. Expenses in 2011 Income in 2011 NPS’ business expanded to the area of old-age planning to promote the welfare of the insured and the Total KRW 10,312 billion Total KRW 35,188.9 billion beneficiaries with systematic preparation for old age. In the year 2011, NPS implemented assessments for Pension payment KRW 9,819.3 billion Premium KRW 27,434.6 billion registering the disabled and support services for assisting activities of the disabled. It also strives to help Support of operational cost KRW 491.7 billion Profit of fund management KRW 7,671.7 billion social involvement of the disabled. According to data in 2011, the number of the insured and the pension Others KRW 82.6 billion beneficiaries amounted to about 20 million and more than 3 million 300 thousand respectively. Organization National Pension Service Headquarter : 11 departments, 2 Centers, Fund name | Status of National Pension Fund | Management Center, Compliance Officer, and the Chairman Jun Kwang-woo National Pension Research Institute. Organizational Foundation status Regional offices : 91 local branches, 51 counseling September 18, 1987 date centers, Disability Assessment Center, and KRW 9,820.8 Location of 13 Olympic-ro 35da-gil, International Cooperation Center billion headquarters Songpa-gu, Seoul KRW 21.7 Employee National KRW 348.9 trillion (as of the end of 2011) billion Pensions paid 4,627 pension fund No. KRW 9,819.3 billion | Organizational overview | Taxes and utility bills Cheongpung Resort facilities Organizational Structure KRW 1.5 billion The NPS headquarters has 11 departments, 2 centers, a Fund Management Center, a compliance officer, and the NPRI (National Pension Research Institute). 91 regional offices, a Disability Assessment Center, KRW 81.4 Government and International Cooperation Center are operated separately. Overseas offices managed by the Fund billion Management Center are located in New York and London. Customer KRW 280.1 Purchase from SMEs Chairman billion Executive Auditor Secretary’s Office Personnel Employee benefits, expenses bonus, etc. Executive Director Executive Director Executive Fund KRW 256.8 billion KRW 21.6 billion Subcontractor for Planning for Operations Director Training costs KRW 0.5 KRW 1.7 billion billion Planning & Coordination Dept. Human Resources Management Dept General Administration Dept. Public Relations Dept. Customer Support Dept. Coverage & Contributions Dept. Benefits & Reviews Dept. Disability Administration Dept. Information System Dept. Basic Old-age Pension Support Center Social Insurances Information Portal Center Fund Management Center Compliance Officer National Pension Research Institute Audit Dept. Social contributions KRW 76.8 Employee Local billion community Working expenses, reserves Others fund 91 Regional 1 Disability International Regional Offices KRW 10,281.3 billion | Asset allocation of NPS in 2011 | Offices Assessment Center Cooperation Center (London, New York) 51 Counseling Centers | Organizational Chart | 10 11 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 1. NPS : planning a happy and prosperous future Status of Regional Operations Hope to create future for all people Our national pension was a true start for Korean welfare system that Headquarters could respond to accidents and diseases in a systematic way, Regional Headquarters and ensure old age income by replacing individuals or families. Regional Office NPS has sought to achieve everyone’s future happiness against unpredictable hazards and inevitable uncertainties of future. NPS, now in its youth, will make a leap forward for much more happiness of people. Status of Overseas New York office Offices Collection London office management Disability Support program transferred assessments for the disabled Applicable sites according to performed to implemented Consultant on Company extended to integration of register the National Pension successful aging Interrelated public Extended to urban workplaces where social insurance disabled History Scheme implemented (covering areas (nation-wide less than 5 persons (CSA) Service implemented pension scheme enforced collection pension scheme National Pension are employed workplaces where Commencement Extended to farming realized Fund established National not less than of paying Special and fishing areas Pension 10 persons are Old-age Pension Corporation employed) National Pension established Act proclaimed April October April November July January July May August 1, 2011 5, 2011 January January 1, 1999 5, 1999 1, 2003 1, 2011 1, 1995 1, 2009 7, 2009 September 1, 1993 December 1, 1988 18, 1987 31, 1986 12 13 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 1. NPS : planning a happy and prosperous future Current beneficiaries of activity Key Business of NPS Workplace insured Welfare Service -supporting service (persons) No. of workplaces •CSA service •Activity-supporting project for the disabled No. of disability 50,726 Service for the Insured 1,103,570 assessment (case) •Disability assessments performed against Welfare of Disabled (Up to the end of Voluntarily (and continuously) No. of employees at 211,372 •Managing and maintaining records of insured persons workplaces Persons Act September 2012) insured subscriber (persons) •Imposing pension insurance premiums 10,976,501 233,980 NPS provides CSA (Consulting on Successful Aging) service to ensure CSA education CSA consulting The National Pension scheme is a social security system for the purpose systematic preparation for old age and healthy old age lives of people. Year of 2011 (case) Total number (times) of life stabilization and welfare enhancement of all Korean people by Locally insured Since 2011, it has delivered disability auditing services which finally 413,199 of insured 7,876 paying old-age pension, survivor’s pension, disability pension etc. from subscriber (persons) identifies and determines disability grades for the registration of the financial source made with a certain amount of insurance money charged (persons)* disabled. Besides, NPS gives supportive help for independence of the CSA education Urban area to national pension subscribers, employers and the government. Starting 6,688.799 19,885,911 disabled and their enhanced life quality through providing activity(persons) in 1988 as a pension program for workplace employees and expanding Farming and fishing area supporting service for severely disabled persons. 333,565 the coverage boundary of pension subscribers, NPS has now opened the | Performance of welfare service activities | 1,986,631 age of nation-wide pensions. According to data in 2011, it has 19 million Total No. of research project 886 thousand people insured, facing an impending age of 20 million 8,675,430 | Status of the insured | subscribers insured. Research & Survey carried out (cases) 48 No. of contributions •Research of pension scheme and social securities to academic •Study on how to accomplish effectiveness of fund management publications Pension Payment Service No. of research (cases) NPS conducts a variety of researches and surveys through the National 25 events held (times) •Pension payment •Lump-sum payment Pension Research Institute (NPSI). NPSI makes contribution to policy 12 development with many researching activities related to the national NPS provides old-age pension, disability pension and survivor’s pension along with various beneficiary services. National pension is supposed to pension in a direct or indirect way. These activities include development Performance be paid to the insured in case his or her income decreases as a result of old age, disability or death. Up to 2011, the total accumulative number of of generic improvement plans of the social insurance system, performance in 2011 beneficiaries was 3 million and 300 thousand persons. Provided that the insured person is unable to receive any type of pension payment, he or she will assessment of fund management organizations, and financial accounting be rewarded with payment such as lump-sum returns, death lump sum, and disability lump sum. for stabilization of long-term pension schemes. | Performance of researching business | Survivor 491,916 Death 11,631 Disability 3,480 International Cooperation Disability 123,114 No. of pension No. of lump NPS carries out international cooperative activities to provide effective pension-related services for the Korean people and Koreans who live abroad, as Old age 2,685,251 sum Return 136,628 foreigners’ staying in Korea and Koreans’ immigration to foreign countries have both been on the increase. beneficiaries beneficiaries NPS has built a global network through signing up social insurance agreements to ensure institutional support and provide pension benefits without 3,300,281 stopping for Korean immigrants. Up to the year of 2011, NPS had signed social insurance agreements with 23 countries worldwide as part of an ongoing 167,714 endeavor to protect Korean beneficiaries’ rights. Denmark | Status of beneficiaries | Mongolia Bulgaria Holland Germany Uzbekistan Canada The United Kingdom China The United States Austria Ireland Japan Reserve Fund Welfare & Poland Revenue Projection Others Fund Management KRW 348.9 trillion KRW 419.3 trillion KRW 0.4 trillion Operational Profit, etc. •Stocks and securities trading KRW 148.400 trillion •Alternative investment in real estates and social infrastructure Financial Management of the National Pension Fund is delegated to and operated Section Pension Premiums France by NPS in compliance with the National Pension Act. Founded in 1988 KRW 270.9 trillion KRW 348.5 trillion Slovakia as a key financial source to support the finance of the national pension system, it has grown to become one of the world’s top 4 public pension India Italy The Czech funds. The operational profit of NPF was KRW 148.4 trillion at the end of RepublicMongol 2011, which occupies 35.4% of the total KRW 419.3 trillion collected. Belgium Pension Payments Rumania Expenses KRW 66.5 trillion KRW 70.5 trillion Management & Operation cost Hungary | Nations signing up social KRW 4 trillion Australia security agreements | | Detailed fund raising & reserve | ✽ Workers at worksites which subscribe not less than 2 types of national pension or worksite subscribers 14 (not less than 2 persons applied) of users are estimated by the unit of worksite. 15 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 1. NPS : planning a happy and prosperous future Vision and Strategy of NPS To Achieve Sustainability in the World The National Pension Service continues to make every effort to become a world-leading welfare pension Social Responsibility Management System In 2011, NPS established a new SR management division and a SR strategy in order to react to national and international initiatives, including service institution, embracing the values of trust, obligation and passion, and realizing customer satisfaction ISO 26000 in a proactive way, and to realize social responsibility as the fund and the pension scheme grows up. NPS’ SR management strategy and sustainable development. based upon its vision and key value has targets for action under the six strategy objectives of responsible investment, credible management, social service, ethical and incorrupt management, harmonized growth, and environmental management. All of these objectives and targets can be achieved by all employees’ active involvement. Objective and targets of labor and human rights area are established and operated separately NPS’ Way to the Future under overall corporate strategy. Enterprise Vision To become the best social security institution that helps people to live pleasantly into old age NPS 2020 NPS established a long-term vision of 'Global TOP NPS 2020' in September 2010 to gain a platform for a new leap by coping with the rapidly Enterprise Strategy Expanding the sustainable growth of infrastructure and enhancing socially responsible management changing business environment and to actively implement government policies. NPS will grow to become the world's second-largest public Objective of Socially To development a happy and prosperous community pension by implementing a systematic strategy, widening pension benefits through paying annual pensions of KRW 32 trillion to 4.7 million Responsible Management beneficiaries, and stabilizing the finances of the national pension fund by reserving funds of KRW 924 trillion. Responsible Credible Social Service Ethical and Incorrupt Co-growth Environmental Others(Labor & Investment Management Management Management Human Rights) NPS-Wide Strategy •ESG Research •System Improvement •Social Service •Anti-corruption •Equal Opportunity •Environmentally •Administrative NPS has an original mission to contribute to livelihood stabilization of people by providing a variety of pension and welfare services of high quality, •SRI Investment •Level of Satisfaction •Dissemination of •Dissemination of •Supporting Social Friendly Pension Halls Recruitment Donation Culture Ethical Culture Enterprise •Purchasing •Ensuring Labor and a vision to be the best pension and welfare service institution by facilitating a happy future for all. •Communication •Personal Information Protection Environmentally NPS established the long-term management strategy to be the best pension and welfare service institution that takes into account domestic •Reinforcement of •Fair Competition •Education Friendly Products Internal Restraints demographic trends, the international economic environment, and government policies. By implementing the five strategic objectives of •Green Investment strengthening national retirement income security, improving the value of pension service, expanding welfare service, enhancing its global Six Area-Specific Working Groups competitiveness on the global competitiveness of fund management and expanding infrastructure for the sustainable growth, and 13 detailed | Chart of SR management strategy | targets, NPS tries to achieve the vision of the world's leading pension and welfare service institution by facilitating a happy future for all Korean Organization and Activities of Social Responsibility Management citizens. The decision-maker at the highest level of social responsibility management is ‘Social Responsibility (SR) Committee’ expanded from the former ‘Ethical Management Committee’. It has a SR working group which establishes and implements action plans. Practical administrative enforcement To contribute to livelihood stabilization of people and help them to enter old age pleasantly Mission associated with SR is carried out by a designated sub-committee of each area. Using the SR Advisory Council consisting of external professionals by providing a variety of pension welfare services of high quality and consulting meetings with stakeholders, NPS receives many suggestions and reflects on them in its decisions. NPS developed a self-checking To become the world's leading pension and welfare service provider and help people to enjoy happy and fruitful futures. indicator for its inherent social responsibility based upon ISO 26000 in the year 2011. Through regular self-checking improvement of SR activities Vision (Nice Partner for Successful Life) is achieved and internal stakeholders’ ability is intensified. This year established rules of SR management are published and communicated to Enhancement of Ensured Strengthening the Global all employees through CSR cyber training. In response to the SR management level required internationally, NPS joined the UN Global Compact Strategic National Retirement Income Improving the Value Expanding Welfare Competitiveness of Expanding Sustainable of out Pension Service Services Growth of Infrastructure (UNGC) in October 2012. Accordingly, NPS has a plan to report continuously on the status of compliance with ten UNGC principles covering areas Objective of People Fund Management of human rights, anti-corruption, labor, and the environment. 5. Enhancing the Abilities of 8. D iversifying Domestic and 11. R einforcing Social Responsibility 1. Expanding  Pension 3. Improving Service Quality Management Social Responsibility Disability Assessors Overseas Investing Committee of NPS Entitlement for Pension Customers Social Responsibility Management Strategic 6. Establishing a Service System 9. Enhancing Risk 12. C ultivating and Enthusiastic Working Group of NPS 2. Expanding Supportive Section Executing Practical Administration 4. Diversifying Support for Supporting the Independence Management Organizational Culture (Social Responsibility Management Dept.) Tasks Projects of Old Age Services for Customers of the Disabled 10.Improving Abilities of 13. S trengthening the Base of Planning 7. Planning New Welfare Services Fund Management Research for Sustainable Growth Ethical & Incorrupt Environmental Others (Labor & Responsible Investment Credible Management Social Service Co-growth | Strategy chart | Management Management Human rights) Shared Value Fund Management Customer Support Social Responsibility Audit Dept., Social Social Responsibility Facilities Management Human Resource Center Dept. Management Section Responsibility Management Section Section Management Dept The core values shared by all personnel of NPS are Trust, Obligation and Passion. NPS provides pension Management Section services, prioritizing trust with all customers and stakeholders to prepare for the future. And it is making | Organization of SR management implementation | every effort to perform its obligation to enhance the value of services so that customers can enjoy happy old age and affluent lives. With passion to be the best, NPS is cultivating qualities and abilities as a ISO 26000 requires that organizations integrate SR management strategy into generic corporate Key Management pension expert to emerge as one of the world's leading institutions. strategy. What is the future plan of NPS for this? Values Philosophy Trust management by SR management system and generic corporate strategy cannot be considered as separate concepts. Now an important issue to be Trust sticking to the basics Management Philosophy considered is how clearly SR management is organized and consolidated in the overall management strategy. In establishing overall Value management by giving NPS performs management activities based on three management philosophies trust management management strategy, SR management strategy is considered and reinforced over time to reflect needs of stakeholders concerned with Obligation customers satisfaction sticking to the basics, value management giving customers satisfaction, advanced management for NPS. We must develop our key abilities and create sound in-house culture to achieve our essential obligations and social responsibility Advanced management for sustainable development. It contains the commitment of NPS that it enhances national trust by faithfully required by the government and the Korean people. If such a concept is internalized under our staff’s awareness and activities, it is Passion sustainable development thought that NPS can have a much more positive impact on stakeholders. fulfilling the basic mission, provides high-quality pension services until customers are impressed, and becomes an advanced national pension service by improving continuously. Answered by Yi Jong-shin, Head of Planning & Coordination Dept. | NPS Way | 16 17 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 1. NPS : planning a happy and prosperous future Stakeholders Standing with NPS Communication Performance Stakeholders’ needs are reflected at the planning stage planning management system for the effective communication to share with them NPS understands that all stakeholders are the center of all activities sought by NPS management objectives and activity performance. Systematic communication with authorities, the National Assembly, local governments and civil organizations is reinforced continuously. and the key of social responsibility management. Stakeholder Opinion suggestion (request) through communication Action taken Request for coordinating transference areas ● Publishing modified transference rules and giving appropriate Dialogue with Stakeholders ● consideration to each case of transference to improve internal satisfaction ● Suggestion of one-to-one job training for newcomers Employee such as disability auditors, etc. ● One-to-one mentoring, job coaching, off-job training, etc. Classification of Stakeholders & Communication Route ● Request for enhancing specialty of disability-concerned ● Disability trial programs and training provided by external experts workers, and need for motivation increased. (Yr. 2012) To achieve effective communication with concerned interested parties, stakeholders are classified in terms of a value chain into three categories of value creation (employees), value purchasing (customer), and value influence (subcontractor, local communities and the National Assembly). ● A method to spur use of emails established and performed. Communication through appropriate routes determined by stakeholder-specific characteristics spurs communication, and suggested opinions of ● Request for email of many forms of notices stakeholders are considered affirmatively in management activities. Customer ● Interests marked separately in levy notices. ● Request for marking returned interest of receiving reserve ● CSA consulting and presentation for the insured ● Providing professional CSA consulting service and enlarging chances to improve awareness of NPS businesses ● Recruitment support ● Holding a job fair Subcontractor ● Route-making for communicating opinions ● Launching Dudeurim Center Government Employee and the National The ● Request for a site survey to identify worksites rejecting ● Actual condition surveys on 54,000 sites completed, National Assembly Assembly national pension subscription of wage workers and 67,000 employees newly insured out of obligation. Employees, labor unions Local Ministry of Health Communities ● Individual notification based upon obtained construction & Welfare, Fund ● Request for actions to expand the pension Government site information of recruitment dept. Communication route Management Customer subscription boundary to day workers •Visiting vision school Subcontractor Committee, ● Site tour for checking reinforced •Use of VC (Value Communicator) * Health & Welfare NGO, civil •Online route(e-learning, Permanent Intranet, etc.) organization, ● Culture-sharing agreement signed with KFOD Committee in Civil ● R  equest for improvement of understanding and (Korea Federation of Organizations of the Disabled). •Labor-management council, Beneficiaries, insured persons academies, local Organization Fund trading bodies(e.g. the National awareness of the disabled labor-management conference. communities, etc. ● Listening & Feeling tour taken together with the disabled management company, Assembly, etc. •Grievance resolution committee Communication route securities company, •Junior board, site touring •VOC bank), call center, Communication Communication management, staff satisfaction •Customer suggestions route ● upport Center for the disabled opened in 60 regional offices. Cheoungpung Resort, route ● D  emand for expanding service accessibility for the survey •Information disclosure The Public •Round-table •Workshop disabled unable to move freely etc. ● Dedicated supporting staff for the disabled allocated •Advisory group conference •Public hearing •Visiting service •Briefing session | Stakeholders’ opinions reflected and actions taken | Communication •Round-table •Monitors conference route •Visiting & consulting on Value creation •Various committees cables and online. •Advisory groups •Homepage •Round-table conference Value purchasing Value influencing •Dedeurim Center | Stakeholder classification and communication route | ✽ VC (Value Communicator): Internal expert who shares, communicates and diffuses management issues, strategic issues, etc. 18 19 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 1. NPS : planning a happy and prosperous future Experts’ Opinions on NPS NPS makes listening to the opinions of various stakeholders and considering them an important indicator for social responsibility management. NPS conducted in-depth interviews with key stakeholders from each selected key stakeholders' group in order to identify the detailed issues for the social responsibility management of NPS. A Member of the National Assembly Yu Jae-jung, a Member of the National Assembly While controversial discussions continue on the exhaustion point of the pension fund, measures for improving the pension scheme should be actively discussed including whether benefits should be reduced or the allotment should be increased for the sustainability of the national pension. The improvement of the pension scheme, when the exhaustion point is at hand, will be embroiled in a huge backlash as shown in the case of Greece. I think a long-term approach is needed for the stabilization of national pension scheme. Board of Directors Beneficiary Kim Yeong-bae, Vice-chairman, The Korea Employers Federation Bae Sanghyeon, Songpa Branch, Volunteer Group of Pensioners, Because of the gap of the time between subscription and pension payment, NPS needs to manage expectations of I think NPS operating a nationwide network can contribute tremendously to the local communities through subscribers by providing more accurate product/service information. Especially in the case of changing the pension contributions for the society. But a lot of the social contribution of NPS ends in the form of short-term events. NPS scheme such as pensionable age and payment rate, NPS should establish the procedure to help subscribers fully is needed to have postures and efforts to truthfully contribute to the society by actively using volunteer groups that understand the relevant change and to elicit consensus in order to relieve distrust. NPS should guarantee the have full commitment to service. subscribers’ right to know by providing the information about the problems as well as benefits of national pension service. Personnel The Ministry of Health and Welfare Park Jong-pil, Policy planning Director, Labor Union Ju Cheol, Assistant Junior Official, Department of Pension and Welfare, the Ministry of Health and Welfare The governance of NPS consists of three groups such as employees, employers, and the government. The representative organizations in NPS are the Board of Directors, the National Pension Fund Management Committee, I think that the image that NPS should pursue is that of a mother. Where people can't carry out income activities the National Pension Evaluation Committee. Labor, civic, and social groups such as NGOs are included in the actively because of old age or disability, NPS is an institution to ensure income through pension. Therefore, a decision-makers of NPS. Therefore, NPS should consider various opinions through the continuous contacts with friendly and warm image, like that of a mother, should be embodied in NPS. various groups engaging in the governance, and through extensive management of the network ranging from the To do this, NPS should present a vision that it can ensure a stable life and relieve the worry for themselves and NPS' executives to working staff. their families when the people are in trouble caused by old age or disability. Fund Management Socially Responsible Investing Huh Jae-hwan, Senior Fellow, KDB Daewoo securities Ryu Youngjae, CEO of SUSTINVEST Inc. In the fund management, NPS should provide opportunities to leap upward by investing in promising small and NPS has created a responsible investment environment such as that found in financially advanced countries.. It has medium local businesses which have technologies but run short of capital, rather than by investing only in continuously expanded the scale of the responsible investment management for the past six years. NPS has played listed companies. Especially the companies which NPS invests in will grow more and more as the investment a leading role in the domestic responsible investment industry. In the future I hope NPS will be dedicated to the effect increases and the reliability on them in the community increases. In addition, not seeking the pursuit of an people by promoting the responsible investment appropriate to national pension and play a leading role as a global excessive short-term rate of return, NPS should consider long-term rates of return to discover and maintain good public pension institution. and great companies. 20 21 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 1. NPS : planning a happy and prosperous future Identification of Material Issues Related to Social Responsibility Result of Materiality Test A list of selected materiality issues is prepared by assessing impact NPS activities have and stakeholders’ concerns through social responsibility To review material issues or identify new ones of social responsibility, NPS identifies major issues in analysis and opinion collection process. With this list of issues, significant issues are identified with the use of a materiality test matrix that accordance with GRI Guidelines for identification and the identification process defined in ISO 26000. includes two factors, one of which is economic, social and environmental impact, and the other is the economic impact directly related to NPS’ These material issues are used to determine content of management reporting. management. The following diagram shows the methodology materiality issues that have been identified. This sustainability report seeks to show accurate and transparent information of the key concerns of stakeholders on the basis of identified materiality issues. Analysis Methodology Applied in Materiality Assessment of 2012 External materiality issue STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 ▶ Contribution ▶ Prioritization ▶ Enhancing ▶ Enhancing Recognition of Social Responsibility Stakeholders’ Engagement Materiality Assessment social responsibility communication with to education and establishment ▶ Supporting nationawareness of NPS stakeholders •Media Analysis High and cultural of implementation wide service and development of strategy •Interview with Professionals resolving complaints & •Analyzing Foreign Peer Companies local communities ▶ Reinforcement ▶ Old age income •Evaluating Significance conflicts •Trend-Impact Analysis •Questionnaire Survey of welfare service guaranteed through | Process for Identifying Material Issues of ▶ Increased significance •Checking the Level of SR Management of rights and roles of for socially pension payment Social Responsibility | ▶ Involvement in ▶ Expansion of SRI disadvantaged employees establishing public policies (social responsibility groups investment) ▶ Improving working ▶ HR development and conditions and social ▶ Expansion of SR Recognition of Social Responsibility ▶ Training of professional training enhancement ▶ Reinforcing antiwithin the sphere of protection of employees corruption activities NPS’ influence human resources for fund 2009 2010 2011 / Media Analysis management ▶ Response to global 450 415 3,120 relevant available articles dated from 2009 to 2011 were analyzed to identify important issues related financial market 400 ▶ Improving ▶ Contribution to national economic to SR management of NPS. Issues exposed to media proved to be customer concerns, fair operational reliability of NPS growth through fund management 350 practice, engagement in and development of local communities. ▶ Investment in local communities Medium ▶ Life-long learning 250 program for employees 224 200 / Benchmarking overseas peer companies ▶ Response to ▶ Mitigation of ▶ Expansion ▶ Fair ▶ Mitigation of 161 government’s SR of sustainable contracting with climate change and 150 139 SR reports and responsible investment reports prepared by overseas peer organizations such as climate change 121 ▶ Managing environmental assessment resource use subcontractors adaptation and adaptation 100 66 CalPERS (California Public Employees’ Retirement System), APG (Holland’s pension system) and factors including environment pollution 50 Norwegian GPFG (Government Pension Fund Global) were used to identify material social responsibility ▶ Protection of personal information of the insured and beneficiaries management 0 issues related to NPS. Fair marketing Supporting customer service Social responsibility in the General Economy Corruption prevention Applying expertise and / Analysis of trend and impact ▶ Nature protection, ▶ Enhancement of ▶ Support for ▶ Response to energy ▶ Consideration of biodiversity and recovery of communication with local social responsibility in Material issues related to SR are identified through a questionnaire of employee survey in aspects of the growth of and low carbon green natural habitat communities growth making decision trend, impact, and internal ability. NPS identified the internal ability issue and other material issues that subcontractors sphere of influence Low function to local communities NPS has impact on or those that have impact on NPS. / Self checking of ISO 26000 application level Low Medium High Using ISO 26000 application level checking tools developed under the sponsorship of Ministry of | Result of the Media Analysis | Knowledge & Economy, NPS identified its application level of social responsibility. Any improvement found Internal materiality issue out in this application level checking was utilized in determining reporting issues including vulnerable weaknesses. / Result of questionnaire survey 5 Points Scale 2 3 2 3 2 3 Stakeholders’ Engagement 1 4 1 4 1 4 / Expert interview 0 5 0 5 0 5 Key stakeholder groups are selected against legal, financial and operational responsibility and impact Overall image of NPS : 3.91 Issues related to social SR Customer communication : levels. An expert representing each stakeholder group is interviewed in depth to identify detailed issues management : 3.77 3.84 of SR management. 2 3 2 3 2 3 / Questionnaire survey 1 4 1 4 1 4 A questionnaire survey of opinions of NPS employees, customers, subcontractors, the government and local communities was conducted to gather various viewpoints of SR management of NPS. The period 0 5 0 5 0 5 implemented was from August 23 to September 6 in 2012. Issues related to SR management identified Subcontractor communication : 4.03 Communication with local Employee issues : 3.51 from thoughts of many stakeholders were identified and then reflected in the following materiality test. communities : 3.82 22 23 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 2.NPS: Implementing Responsible Management “Seeds meeting NPS today will spring up buds of hope tomorrow.” 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 2. NPS : implementing responsible management. Transparent Governance to Increase Corporate Value Jun Gwang-woo Chairperson Member Recommendation Executive Lyu Ji-hyeong Planning executive Committee Kim Min-su Business executive Organization : 1 nonTransparent governance to increase corporate value standing member and Yi Chan-woo Fund executive 4 specialized external As a public organization, NPS constitutes and operates a transparent board, a directing and reviewing group and Board members decision-maker for management activities. Reliability of NPS is ensured by establishing a reasonable management Yang Seong-il Pension policy officer, Ministry of Health & Welfare Social welfare Role : Recommending candidates for executive system centered with NPS’ board. Yi Seoung-cheol Executive Director, the Federation of the Korean Industries Management Organization: 4 Non-standing and non-standing Kim Yeong-bae Vice-president, the Korea Employers’ Federation Management executives and members 7 non-standing Kim Dong-man Deputy chairperson, Federation of Korea Trade Unions Labor, human rights members Expert Committee Jeong Ui-heon Senior vice-president, Korea Confederation of Trade Unions Labor, human rights (including 3 sections) Board Kim Ae-gyeong Director, Consumer Citizens’ Association CS Organization : 2 O Chung-han Financial executive, Korea Institute of Certificated Public Accountants Finance Executives and 3 nonstanding members Board Operation | Status of board members | under each System/ Management/Fund Internal restraint and independence of board for establishing a greater transparent SR management Section. system are obtained by engagement of non-standing board members gaining majority. Performance Evaluation and Reward Role : Discussing Executive directors are subject to evaluation of implementation performance against agreed objectives. intensively about current Two periodical board meetings are held in February and October, and provisional board meetings can be management issues held more frequently. In total, ten board meetings were held in 2011 and the attendance rate of members Management evaluation of public organizations includes assessment of efforts for and performance of and agendas under operational transparency, ethical enhancement, responsible management, fair society realization, and deliberation was 94%. Reinforced deliberation prior to a board meeting resulted in minimized percentage of decision amendment. Preliminary reporting on agenda was established to revitalize board activities. harmonized growth. Chairperson of the board and personnel assess executive members’ actions for Accounting Auditor accomplishing ethical management and management improvement. Then they pay bonuses differentiated Senior Committee Category 2009 2010 2011 by results of annual summarized assessment to executive directors. Reinforced performance evaluation Organization : All nonof actions performed by non-standing directors is undertaken under 8 categories including qualitative standing members of the No. of board meetings held 12 11 10 board and inspectors evaluation twice a year. Role : Appointing Attendance rate 96 95 94 accounting auditors Prior deliberation rate 100 100 100 | Structure and role of committees | Operational performance of board | Governance Structure of Fund under the board | Board Structure Introduction of Fund Management Committee Head of Fund The NPS board is made up of 11 persons of 4 executive members and 7 non-standing members. The The Fund Management Committee under the Ministry of Health & Welfare is the decision-maker at the Management Committee chairperson leading the board is CEO as specified in board regulation. Non-standing board members highest level of national pension management. This committee deliberates and makes decisions on Minister of Health & Welfare are appointed through recommendation by Minister of Health & Welfare. They are 2 representatives of significant issues related to national pension management. Members are 20 persons of 6 official members employers, 2 of employees, 2 of the self-employed and a government pension policy management officer and 14 appointed members. 14 appointed 6 official members of the Ministry of Health & Welfare. Under the board are Member Recommendation Committee, Expert members Committee, and Accounting Auditor Senior Committee. These committees fulfill their roles of controlling What Fund Management Committee Does •The Minister of Health & Welfare •3 representatives management. of users To ensure profitability and stability of national pension fund that has a large scale of influence on national •The Vice-Minister of •3 representatives of Strategy & Finance | NPS board meeting | economy and to consider the position of the insured in the decision making process related to fund •The Vice-Minister workers management, more than half (12 out of 20) of committee members are chosen as representatives of the of Food, Agriculture, •6 representatives of Reinforcement of Board Role Forestry & Fisheries local subscribers insured. •The Vice-Minister NPS retains a field-specific candidate pool for non-standing members to reinforce a board-centered •2 related experts Committee meetings must be held at least quarterly. Attendance of more than half of registered committee of Knowledge management system. Also, NPS accepts management recommendations from non-standing board Economy members is required to open a meeting, and consents of more than half of attendant members is needed members and reflects them in management policies. NPS upholds involvement of non-standing board •The Vice-Minister to make a decision. Agenda includes fund management guidelines, annual management planning, of Labor members in internal and external activities such as touring management and contributions to press to •Chairperson of NPS consultation of depositary interest rate, detailed management statements, and detailed statements of fund enhance specialty and improve management effectiveness. use. Fund Management Committee has a working evaluation sub-committee, investment policy sub| Structure chart of Fund committee, voting exercise sub-committee, and performance evaluation & reward sub-committee to Management Committee | 350 Unit: times improve professionalism and effectiveness. 227 34 Comment 28 5 Ministry of Health & Welfare 149 13 Management Fund Management Committee 1 recommendation Suggestion (consulting) Working Evaluation Investment Policy Voting right Exercising Performance Evaluation & Yr. 09 Yr. 10 Yr. 11 Sub-committee Sub-committee Sub-committee Reward Sub-committee | A meeting of Fund Management | Management involvement performance of non-standing board members | | Sub-committees under Fund Management Committee | Committee in 2011 | 26 27 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 2. NPS : implementing responsible management. Risk Management for Fund-Risk Management Crisis management and effective management responding to various types of risk are prerequisite for the survival of an Sound National Pension organization because of the trend of worldwide economic deterioration. Significant risk of overall management including fund management is determined in advance and managed in a systematic way. Through establishing corporate risk management system as specified above, NPS seeks to overcome negative influence derived from a worldwide economic recession. Improvement of Crisis Management System Scheme operation Organizational operation Internal Control System Fund management (Qualification & payment) (Personnel & accounting) NPS has enhanced continuously a basis for performing audits by ensuring the independence of audit activities and expanding compliance audit teams. As Risk-Management System Market Fund Management Center •Comprehensive risk •Pension clinic system •Management a quasi-governmental organization, NPS first outsourced a public reporting risk 1st defence management system •Authority information system Investment is decided and executed according to the investment policy service to prevent disclosure of internal reporter’s identity. In this way NPS takes 2nd defence •Internal controlling enhancement system •Servicing analysis established by Fund Management Committee and all management Credit 3rd defence system •Output management system the lead in creating organizational culture of anti-corruption and transparency. departments under the Fund Management Center are involved in. As risk •Commissioned system •Integrated fund For effective management of hazard and risk, NPS converted its focus from post management system management system part of an independent risk management system, a risk management exposures and disciplinary auditing into auditing management based on risk committee and a risk management task force implement risk Liquidity Fund Risk management. Also, an IT based audit system, including a pension clinic system risk Management Compliance e-auditing system (Computerization of the all audit activities in the audit process) management policy, and measurement and monitoring of risk awareness. Management Section Officer and an integrated risk management system, improved effectiveness of risk Dept. In addition, risk elements are classified on the basis of risk factors (e.g. Legal risk | IT-based internal management tool for each working area | management. market risk, credit risk) and controls of each risk are determined and implemented for systematic risk management. Operation Category Financial risk Business risk Management risk risk •Transparent decision making •Reviewing credibility of financial statements •Checking risk elements in the pension business | Risk-factor management process | •Disclosure of key management information such as Management •Limiting budget of each item and business •Analyzing risk elements of fund management on activities •Preventing inappropriate use of company the basis of data and managing classified risk company rules •Two-way monitoring of irrationalities Decision-Maker of Risk Management cards in restricted business types of trusted assets systematically •Prior monitoring of important management progress The organization established and operated to make decisions related Risk Management Committee to risk management is Risk Management Committee led by the CEO. To •Operation of internal financial management •Various committees such as board, risk improve transparency and professionalism, 5 to 7 external professionals •Establishing basic policy of •Managing activities related to establishing system and use of external accounting audits •Pension clinic system management committee, etc. risk management risk management system and its operation Management specialized in each business field around the CEO join the Committee for •Management information system •Commissioning operation system for integrated •Disclosure of management system in the homepage •Managing activities related •Managing activities related to risk system •A system for monitoring use of company risk management system •Public reporting program balance. to defining tolerable risk and management of a new fund management cards •e-audit system the limit of loss subject or introduction of a new system •Identifying and managing 45 items controlled •High satisfaction percentage (97.8 points) of users | Risk Management Committee | •3,005 numbered auto-abstracting, checking internally for improvement of opened management information and improvement of 176 risk items including Performance in •Taking actions to improve the cash bag •Use of ‘Web accessibility quality mark certified by new business areas 2011 system related to use of company cards National Information Society Agency Chairman •KRW 3,100 million won of budgetary saving by (Increased extra annual income of KRW 298 •Disciplinary actions taken to 24 employees for their performing routine audits million) breaches of service obligations A Task Force for Risk Management Risk Management Committee | Risk management system | NPS has two types of task force, that is, a risk management team and a Fund Management Center Compliance Officer Compliance Officer, which are operated separately for effectiveness of Introduction of Internal Controlling System and International Financial Reporting Standard (IFRS) risk management. Risk Management Dept. manages key issues of risk Asset Management Risk Compliance & management under the Fund Management Center and reports issues Management Internal Control NPS makes efforts to improve transparency of accounting information by adopting international standards of financial reporting. Such •Investment Strategy Division, directly to the Risk-Management Committee while the independent Equity & Fixed Income efforts help to improve reliability and create a positive company image both in the country and in international society. Compliance Officer under the chairperson of the board, separated from Investment Division, Alternative •Risk •Compliance For preparation of introducing international financial reporting standards ahead, reinforcement of expertise and case studies were Fund Management Center in January 2010, reports items related to Investment Division. Global Management Support Dept. completed in 2007. In 2011, a working task force was organized and impact analysis by a professional consultancy company prior to Investment Division. Investment Division internal controls and legal compliance directly to the chairperson. Operation Division introduction was carried out. Improvement of the computer system was achieved and introduction of international financial reporting standards was completed successfully in 2012. | Organizational chart of risk management | 28 29 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 3. NSP: Investing in Prosperity and Hope “The aim of NPS’investment in continuous growth is HOPE.” 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 3. NSP : investing in prosperity and hope Sustainable Fund to Prepare for Future Prospect of Fund Management In spite of global financial crisis in 2008 and European financial crisis in 2011, the trend of fund increase continues and generally the increase rate is also accelerated. According to data in March 2012, NPS The National Pension Fund is a valuable resource upholding finance of the national pension system. is one of the world’s largest four pensions, as its aggregated fund asset reaches KRW 365 trillion. It’s As NPS recognizes that national pension fund is a responsible reserve to ensure stabilized old age of estimated that the total amount of fund assets will increase to KRW 400 trillion at the end of 2012 and to all people, it does its best to fulfill care of duty as a good manager. more than KRW 1,000 trillion in 2020. As the amount of fund increases, preparedness for all types of risk and sustainability of pension are necessary. To meet such requirements and respond to the shifted paradigm of fund management, stock Stabilized Operation of Fund investment and alternative investment get to have more importance in the mid and long term investment and overseas investment is on the increase. Structure of Fund Management 17.9 16.7 Fund amount Fund Management Center enhances stability and profitability of fund management by reacting alertly 15.7 to a rapidly-changing investment environment. At present, the Fund Management Center operates Increase rate (%) 8 departments, 2 sections and 11 teams led by the head of the Center. Specialized organizations 7.2 7.6 of Investment Committee consisting of best experts and the Alternative Investment Committee assist professional decision-making concerned with fund management. 189.6 219.5 235.4 277.6 324.0 348.8 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Chairman & CEO | Historical record of accumulated fund (Unit : KRW 1 trillion, as of the year end) | Auditor National Pension Research Institute / Securing stability through diversified investment A balanced portfolio including a wider range of investable items was established to avoid oneAlternative 0.2 Unit : % Risk Management Committee (chaired by CEO) Compliance Officer sided bond-based investment and to improve long-term stability of pension finance amidst economic uncertainty through diversifying risk and securing an extensive base for the long-term profit of the fund. Equities 9.1 CIO Alternative Investment Committee Investment Committee / Expansion of overseas investment and commissioned management Overseas investment will be on the gradual increase and commissioned fund management will be 2003 Investment Strategy expanded to get over problems caused by the limited national market. New York office was launched in Strategy Research Risk Management Division Division June 2011 and London office in July 2012. These offices perform overseas investment activities including Fixed Incom General Settlement & Investment Investment Operation Alternative Investment Private monitoring international financial market and searching for investment opportunities. 90.7 IT team Real Asset Affairs Accounting Service Division Division Investment Domestic InDomestic External Equity Investment Global Equity & Fixed Global Fixed (Fund exceeded KRW 100 trillion) Global Equity house Equities Equities Division Income Investment Division Income Fixed Income Global Alternative Global Real Establishment of Crisis Response System Alternative 2.6 Global PEF Investment Division Investment Division Estate To minimize fund loss and improve crisis management ability that people can rely on during global financial crises, NPS has developed a crisis response program and a crisis indicator, which enables Equities 17.6 New York & London offices early perception of financial crisis and systematic reaction required at each stage of a crisis. An emergency task force made up of team leaders or department managers will be organized to respond 2007 | Organizational chart of fund management | to each level of crisis. Actually systematic and proactive responses to global financial crises were carried out during the crises of America’s credit downgrading, the European financial crisis, which began in 2011, Fixed Incom and the downgrading of credit ratings of 9 countries in the Eurozone in 2012. So the validity of NPS’ crisis 79.8 response system was demonstrated. Principles of Fund Management (Fund exceeded KRW 200 trillion) National pension fund is managed in compliance with Article 105 of the National Pension Act that defines Stage Response Stage Response Alternative 7.8 the five principles of profitability, stability, public benefits and welfare, liquidity and independence. ●  esponding organization A crisis response R ●  esponding organization A crisis response task force R NPS maximizes profit to ease the burden of the insured, especially the next generation (profitability), and task force (made up of team leaders) (made up of team leaders) secures pension fund within the permitted limits of fluctuation in total profit rate and loss risk (stability). ● Decision making Investment Committee ●  ecision making Investment Committee or Fund D As the customers of the national fund are all Korean people and the amount of reserved fund implies Equities 23.5 Reporting Risk Management Committee Management Committee Beginning ● a large importance in the national economy and the influence effect on the national economy and the 2011 Crisis Crisis Critical ● R  eporting Risk Management Committee or Fund financial market must be considered (public benefits and welfare). And harmonized pension payment ● Response activities Management Committee -M onitoring tolerable risk and establishing must be managed in consideration to liquidity for seamlessness. Above all, where invested assets are response to unacceptable risk ● Response activities Fixed Incom sold, appropriate actions must be determined to minimize the impact on the national financial market Maintaining trust of stakeholders Responding to unacceptable risk 68.7 -R eviewing coordination of tactical asset Reviewing change to annual fund management planning (liquidity). Principles mentioned above must be applied in fund management and cannot be compromised allocation (TAA) Reviewing coordination of strategic asset allocation (SAA) (Fund of about KRW 350 trillion) (independence). | Planning mid & long term asset allocation | | Historical diversification of fund portfolio | 32 33 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 3. NSP : investing in prosperity and hope Fund Management Performance Efforts toward Greater Transparency of the Fund During the three consecutive years from 2011, NPS was recognized for its excellent management performance by winning the prize of ‘Plan Sponsor of the Year in Asia’, awarded by ‘Asia Asset Improving national pension scheme for further transparency Management’, a technical journal of financial investment in the Asia-Pacific region. NPS also got the A compliance monitoring team for internal control was organized to carry Management & Parliamentary inspection prizes of ‘Investment of the Year’ from the ‘The Asset’ magazine, and ‘Institutional investor of the Year' out prior compliance review for fund management and to check employees’ Supervision of administration from the ‘Asian Investor’ magazine. (Fund Management National Pension (Regular session of the ethical working attitude. This compliance review team enhanced our Despite the global economic crisis, NPS achieved good fund management performance and enhanced Committee) Service National Assembly) monitoring functions and management transparency. Fund Management the sustainability of the fund. The profit from operations in the fiscal year of 2011 was KRW 7,671.7 billion, The compliance support team, independent of the Fund Management Center, Center and the profit rate was 2.3%. NPS accomplished 12.8% of the average management profit rate, 5.8% in was organized under the chairperson of the board to ensure transparent the bond investment area, and 7.4% in the alternative investment area. Being one of the world’s four fund management. Furthermore, as the boundary of fund management and Audit performed largest pensions, NPS was the top in the average profit rate of mid/long term (five years), and it is Risk Management the number of management personnel were on the continuous increase, an semi-annually (Risk Management anticipated that NPS will be able to be ranked as the world’s third largest pension by the time of 2014. (Audit Dept.) Committee) effective internal monitoring system was required. A computer system for internal control was established in August 2011 and the monitoring system Fund management 5.90 Unit : % including each investment stage (e.g. investment decision, contract signing, Average of Average of Yr. 2011 following up, etc.) was computerized. Infrastructure was established to ensure Internal audit three years five years Performance evaluation (Fund management Evaluation (The Research Institute / Item Estimate Occupying Profit routine monitoring of fund management including post-monitoring activities for Group, the Ministry of Strategy Profit rate External institution) (KRW 100 percentage (KRW 100 (2009~2011) (2007~2011) invested assets. & Finance (%) million)✽ million) (%) 2.33 2.13 Finance 2.31 3,484,681 99.9 76,631 7.33 5.90 0.55 Stock -9.46 818,600 23.5 -76,784 12.75 4.92 Anti-corruption Activities Audit performed by the Evaluation of fund management (Fund management -0.04 Domestic -10.34 621,395 17.8 -62,488 13.88 7.46 Board of Audit & Inspection Evaluation Group, the Ministry of For innovated fund management, NPS operates a task force of 15 members (Regular / Frequent) National ABP GDF-G Cal PERS GPIF Strategy & Finance) Overseas -6.90 197,205 5.7 -14,296 6.69 -3.52 that are officers of the Ministry of Health & Welfare, and civil experts in Pension (Holland) (Norway) (The (Japan) Bond** 5.73 2,394,141 68.7 131,017 5.79 6.11 order to prevent causing factors triggering corruption and maintain fair trading. The task force for fund Fund United | Fund management monitoring system | States) Domestic 5.67 2,248,513 64.5 121,448 5.82 6.16 management innovation established internal controls in August 2011 and amended company rules to meet | Comparison of average profit rates of mid/long Overseas 6.59 145,628 4.2 9,569 5.25 5.50 the controls. To enhance the transparent selection of business partners, selection criteria and results term among major pensions | Alternative 10.22 271,939 7.8 22,614 7.42 6.75 of selection are made public. In selecting a business partner, use of external experts is expanded and Domestic 9.02 155,442 4.5 11,973 7.35 6.69 granted privileges of former partners were prohibited. Overseas 12.03 116,497 3.3 10,641 7.55 6.89 Besides, re-employment of employees involved in corruption is restricted and lobbying organizations are Welfare -0.55 1,081 0.03 -7 -0.04 0.21 subject to ‘one-strike-out’ rule. Private transaction of a person related to fund management is monitored through total inspection of all stock firms in the open market. The range of inspection was extended to Others 1.39 2,915 0.1 93 1.85 2.69 spouses and lineal descendants as well as the relevant person. Detailed purchasing and selling was 2.31 3,488,677 100.0 76,717 7.31 5.89 reviewed and actions to prevent private trading were intensified. | Trend of fund management performance | Periodical or irregular checking of compliance with codes of practice of persons associated with fund management was performed with a view to restricting personal stock trading of the relevant persons, preventing conflicts of interest, and banning any convenience benefit. As an effort to stop reoccurrence of breaches and expand compliance culture, NPS provides compliance training for personnel concerned. Category Existing action Improvement Selecting • Points marked to each item of evaluation are made public • Detailed items, allocated marks and criteria of evaluation are made public business partners • A list of selected business partners is made open in the homepage • Evaluation marks are notified to each company • Stock purchasing is prohibited(stock selling allowed) • Any type of stock purchasing and selling are all prohibited Reinforcing internal • No checking for spouses’ stock trading • Detailed stock trading of spouses is checked annually. controlling system •T rading with companies that provides inappropriate convenience • ‘One-strike Out’ rule applied benefit can be restricted | Corrective actions for improving the task force for fund management innovation | | Prizewinning | Transparent Disclosure of Information The insured, beneficiaries, and other stakeholders can easily understand status and progress of fund management using the homepage, where NPS provides information including fund management planning, fund management regulation, monthly status of management, status of commissioned management, result of performance evaluation, financial statement, result of business partner selection, and details of exercised voting rights for the public. ✽ Cumulative profit of relevant period 34 ✽✽ Including profit and estimated value of short-term fund 35 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 3. NSP : investing in prosperity and hope Socially Responsible Investing to Implement Implementation of SRI Social Responsibility Management Expansion of Responsible Investment Unit : KRW 100 million / SRI fund management 34,497 NPS, a member of the UN PRI scheme and supporter of international initiatives, is aware of the importance of SRI (social Where decisions for investment are made, non-financial factors such as ESG together with the existing responsible investing) and has a plan to expand the boundary of SRI gradually. financial analysis are analyzed to invest SRI funds in sustainable companies. The amount of SRI funds 23,632 executed in 2011 was KRW 3.2 trillion. The investment performance of this SRI fund was 10.06 % of the annual average profit rate, which is 5.08% higher than the benchmarked profit rate. This performance 12,828 contributes to the improvement of the profit rate of the national pension fund. 4,134 5,947 Establishment of Infrastructure for SRI / Investment in green growth 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Principles of SRI Organizational Structure and Criteria of SRI Investment in green industries such as renewable energy, environmentally friendly facilities, and waste | Status of annual responsible investing fund resource management in active response to climate change is 150 % expanded from KRW 330 billion management (Unit : 100 million won) | Due to the public characteristics of NPS with preference of The fund management process includes planning management under in 2010 to KRW 830 billion, which was invested in 17 projects and 68 companies. Also, in determining long-term investment, establishment and implementation of a consideration of fund management principles at the management strategy overseas investment in real estate, environmentally friendly standards including high-efficiency energy system for responsible investing appropriate to the national planning stage including asset allocation. To implement responsible investing facilities and technologies to reduce environmental pollution are prioritized. For instance, KRW 2.8 trillion pension fund, is a target of every effort made by NPS. Unit : % more systematically in the future, NPS undertakes ESG researches and pursues was invested in green buildings, such as the HSBC of the United Kingdom. 15.47 The scale of the fund for SRI (Socially Responsible Investing) a SRI-related network with various national and international organizations. that considers ESG (environment, society, and governance) NPS already put emphasis on SR management in 2006. Elements of SRI are / Investment in SMEs and ventures 9.96 as well as financial performance has been continuously analyzed and the results of analysis are used for the operation of commissioned To contribute to assisting small competitive venture enterprises lacking in financial ability and improving enlarged since 2006. Thus NPS joined the UN PRI (Principles SRI stock fund. Also, the trend of expanding alternative investment, considering 5.41 their profit rates, a venture fund has been managed since 2002. The newly invested money of 2011 was 4.38 for Responsible Investment) in 2009 to perform more positive green growth, is identified now. KRW 329 billion, which increased more than 80 % against the previous year, and the total invested fund 1.48 activities. 0.21 As investing subjects are concerned, exercising stockholders’ rights is more money amounts to KRW 1.25 trillion. In addition, about KRW 3.2 trillion is executed for small and medium NPS established and implemented a strategy of responsible emphasized than playing the role of an investor. For this, NPS opened and 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Annual capitalized stock fund of which the investment boundary is limited to SMEs. investment through considering the characteristics of a operated a special channel to enhance professional exercising of voting rights. average national pension fund and internal and external environments Fund Management Committee has a sub-committee for exercising voting rights, | Annual surplus profit rate (%) against according to 6 principles of the UN. It strives to improve standard profit rate | where important issues are reviewed by experts and careful decisions are made. performance of long-term fund management and make In the future NPS will seek ardently to communicate and diffuse value of Exercising Voting Rights contributions to the long-term investing culture of the capital responsible investment by making social discussions on the value of responsible / Policy of exercising voting rights markets. investment, and to lead a mature and responsible investing culture. The instruction for the execution of voting rights issued in 2010 by the Fund Management Committee defines ESG principles and considers NPS’ effort to implement social responsibility. It also recommends that voting rights have to be executed to increase profitability of the fund and the long-term value of Voting right exercising sub-committee Fund Management Center (Headquarters) Social responsibility management stakeholders. The intention of increasing the value of stakeholders is not ‘to execute their voting rights in an active way’. The current trend, however, shows that much emphasis is put on stakeholders’ positions Management Fund Management Alternative Management Support Dept. to require more active execution because of NPS’ position as a public pension and its share in the stock Strategy Dept. Dept. Investment Dept. market. SRI fund investment Communication with stakeholders ESG Research Green growth investment Selection of business Reporting responsible investment Voting right exercising Venture SOC investment partner (Communication on progress) / Activities of exercising voting rights NPS, a pension management expert, maintains independence of professional exercising of voting rights ESG screening Implementing investment in consideration to elements of Communication & dissemination (Strategy establishment stage) responsible investment (Fund execution stage) (Feedback stage) and complies with detailed standards for exercising voting rights. It also carries out thorough analysis of each issue related to execution of voting rights to identify conformance with original objectives of fund Unit : times, % UN Principles of responsible management. investment (International Principles of national pension fund Strategy of social responsibility management management The number of voting rights exercised by NPS during the year No. of No. of Detail criteria of responsible stockexecuted No. of management) (Fund investment policy) (NPS’ strategic objective) of 2011 is 2,175 and on the annual increase. Among the cases Year invested stakeholder items Yes No Neutral of execution, dissenting votes occupy 7.0 % of total number of companies meeting (rate) (rate) (rate) | Organizational structure and strategy of SRI | executions, being increased against 3.7% in 2006. This shows the 2,022 153 0 trend of an ongoing increase. 2011 591 556 2,175 93.0% 7.0% 0.0% What is the objective of NPS’ SRI? 1,979 174 0 2010 563 528 2,153 91.9% 8.1% 0.0% Social responsible investing is a form of integrated investment for which both social responsibilities such as the environment, society and 1,865 132 6 governance, and sustainability are considered, along with financial indicators, in selecting an investment subject. The objective of SRI is to 2009 581 494 2,003 have a positive impact on long-term financial performance of an organization by considering ESG, non-financial potential risk factors when 93.1% 6.6% 0.3% decisions for investment are made. Therefore the final goal of NPS’ socially responsible investing is to increase profitability of the fund in the 1,899 109 2 Note: Stakeholders exercise their voting rights for the company in which they 2008 505 514 2,010 long term and reduce the financial risks of NPS. have a share ratio of not less than 1 %. If a stakeholder has less than 1 % of 94.5% 5.4% 0.1% share ratio, he or she is engaged only in important agendas. Answered by Yun Yeong-mok, Head of the Management Strategy Office at the Fund Management Center | Details of exercising voting rights | 36 37 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 3. NSP : investing in prosperity and hope Public Relationship with Stakeholders / Global network In the summer of 2010, NPS held the ‘Pensions 80 Seoul Summit 2010’ to discuss about responsible It is said that the national pension fund will be depleted. Is it really true? investment of pensions and ways to overcome global environmental crises, including climate change. NPS has an intention to revitalize exchange of opinions among relevant organizations and seek to encourage responsible management. Through transparent reporting on responsible investing, including progress and performance of responsible investment, internal and external reliability of NPS will be | Pensions 80 Seoul Summit 2010 | improved greatly and will allow for NPS to demonstrate leadership appropriate to the entitlement of ‘one of the world’s largest pensions’. NPS operates the financial accounting system to evaluate the financial soundness / Communication with stakeholders from a long-term perspective and explore the direction of system improvement. Various types of communication are carried out to increase stakeholders’ understanding of fund management performance and elevate domestic and international status of the national pension fund. NPS estimates historical fund reserves for the following 70 years every five years in accordance with this system. According to the financial accounting in 2008, if the current national pension premiums and annuity payments system are maintained, with the Category Key activities Content condition that the structure having more revenue than expenditure for the next 20-30 years until 2060, it is anticipated that KRW Round-table conference held Communication with external working experts 2,465 trillion will be reserved until the year of 2043. The deficit of the fund will occur from 2044 on, and the fund will be exhausted with stakeholders Internal Organization for consultation of by 2060. communication Improvement of understanding through communication with fund collecting methods among Based on this projection, NPS is making efforts to achieve a long-term stabilization of the national pension scheme. It is difficult to regional office staff who are internal customers regional offices achieve the long-term stability of the national pension scheme only by raising a profit rate, but it is possible to achieve it on the Discussion on current fund management issues with financial Discussion with CEO basis of system improvement and growth of the society along with such efforts. experts and business partners Partner Cooperative relationships with Establishing cooperative relationships not as the other side of The national pension system first started with low premiums and a high payment system. But as Korea’s low birth rate and aging business partners trading but as business partners Winning the prize of ‘Most population has become more entrenched, NPS operates the system in the direction of alleviating the burden on future generations Progressive Asset Owner’ International discussion on fund management, and sustainable Global conference through systematic improvements. NPS intends to cope with the issue of the fund exhaustion by comprehensively taking into investment in growth, etc. Expert Participation in PRI and undertaking extensive discussion with account population structure, concern about the welfare of current subscribers and future generation's ability to pay out, including Participation in global initiatives relevant organizations. national finances. Presentation for the insured such as undergraduates, and Presentation response to customers through collaboration with regional The insured Improvement of insured people’s understanding of fund through Response to press responding to press Unit : KRW 1 billion Feedback of stakeholder Implementation survey Procedure for collecting opinions of each stakeholder group 3,000,000 reporting Publication of information including reports to improve Publication of reports understanding of the fund. KRW 2,465 trillion 2,500,000 | Communication with stakeholders | 2,000,000 What do you think the role of the Fund Management Center (Management Support Division) is from a Fund accumulated perspective of social responsibility management? 1,500,000 As NPS incorporated SR activities throughout the organization and established an SR management system in 2012, discussion on the relevant role of the Fund Management Center will be progressed in further detail. In relation to ‘responsible investment’ applied peculiarly in the fund management business among 6 SR management areas, management showed commitment to implement internal and external responsible 1,000,000 investment as being stimulated by membership of UN PRI (UN Principles for Responsible Investment) obtained in June 2009. Total expenditure Therefore as a bridge of communication with stakeholders, and a channel of internal and external cooperative exchange of opinions, the Fund Management Center will carry out its supportive role of coordinating internal or external discussions for social awareness related to 500,000 responsible investment. Besides, it will establish policy of responsibility management and prepare a COP (Communication on Progress) report, Total revenue a sort of RI implementation report, considering all matters around NPS next year. Investment profit Premium income Answered by Kim Yong-guk, Head of the Management Support Dept. at the Fund Management Center 0 08 11 14 17 20 23 26 29 32 35 38 41 44 47 50 53 56 59 62 65 68 71 74 77 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 | Financial estimation of National Pension | ✽ During the regular session of Pension 8 Summit 2007 decision was made to expand membership to include public pensions in the region of Middle Eastern & Asia, which resulted in the launch of P80 Summit. Pension 80 Summit invites around 100 international participants that were representatives of various types of funds, pensions and sovereign wealth funds from over 30 38 countries such as the United States, the United Kingdom, Australia, Philippines and Pakistan along with officials of UNEP FI. 39 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 4.NPS: Our customers can rely on us “The taller a tree grows, the bigger happiness becomes.” 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 4. NPS : our customers can rely on us Customer Satisfaction Management to Deliver Happiness Improvement of Pension Service Quality / Implementation of innovated pension service and prevention of 10 types of VOCs To become amiable national pension to all people, NPS will cherish its connection with Various types and channels of VOCs are analyzed to select 10 key VOCs. For the cases of unsatisfactory service, the self-check sheet of customer satisfaction is prepared for regular review planning and customers and enhance customer value further through mutual communication. continual actions for customer satisfaction are implemented. In July 2011, a program of five practicing items for good impression was implemented to improve customer responses and enhance ability to realize good impressions. Program of five practicing items Customer Satisfaction Management of ‘Customer First’ (Focused target) Improvement Familiarity Setting up monthly CS targets and creating atmosphere of pleasant workplace. Customer Satisfaction Management System One-stop processing Information clerk placed in customer counseling room, and routine call-backs Vision of customer satisfaction is ‘NPS giving love and trust’. A key objective is to improve the quality of Applying an age-specific speech response method and operating a Customizing consultation group to handle multi-complaints. pension service, service capability, and the company image. Usher Using text message notices and sending Happy Calls Vision NPS giving love and trust Revitalizing learning groups and implementing temporary substitute works Specialization thoroughly Improvement of pension Improvement of service Improvement of company Objective service quality capability image | A program of five practicing items for good impressions | •Implementing innovated •Enhancing service capability •Revitalizing communication / Establishment of integrated VOC operation system pension service in facing customers directly channels for customers Target A customer complaint counseling program was included within the integrated VOC operation system •Establishing integrated VOC •Improving infrastructure of •Campaign to improve people’ operation system customer counseling s trust in NPS to respond to customers immediately in November 2011. Counseling is carried out in the two levels •Reinforcing protection of of regional offices and the Headquarter. Complaints raised at the regional office level can be shared customer information Unit : cases immediately among all regional offices. A basis for improving service mind and capability of local employees was established. 2009 1,085 | Customer satisfaction management system | Second stage : Counseling 2010 765 First stage : Counseling in regional offices in headquarters Organization and Role of Customer Satisfaction Management CustomerVOC settled Documentation of counseling history and closing Counseling with a person in 748 identifiable VOC ● 2011 The CEO, headquarters, and regional offices are interrelated to establish and operate organic customer ● VOC unsettled Registering 2 stage counseling (Automatic charge, recording result of notification counseling and closing | Status of handling complaints received | satisfaction management with the center of CS (Customer Satisfaction) Management Committee led by the CEO. CustomerGeneral management Statistics management Providing service unidentifiable VOC Customer-facing sites Resolving VOC Customer (CS Council7 regional (services and making | VOC management process | headquarters) Suggestions / VOC suggestions, VOC) CS board – 91 regional offices Service Capability Enhancement Monitoring Gathering and submitting Monitoring VOC Providing service Suggestions / Enhancing service capability in facing customers directly customer opinions Feedback Resolving VOC Training / VOC Program Person & performance Content NPS provides a variety of practical service training in a provider National Pension Reporting CS Customer Support Dept. Customer Support systematic way to improve the quality of customer service, and CounselingCall response, improvements Advisory Panel activities NPS Call 1,211 new and (Planning and directing overall CS Center enhances service quality by operating customer counseling experiential required, methods to respond Public relations management-Improving the pension (Call Center5 locations) Center existing employees Suggesting Checking training for which external professional training providers are program to complaining customers, etc. strategy meeting scheme and services) Basic opinions operation International Service Center used. A program for improving unkind attitudes of personnel 324 Employees A method to respond to Proposing and reviewing CS issues Notifying matters for decision Hanwha was introduced in February 2011, and service mind and Free private facing customers at customer complaint calls, Life (MOU counseling capability were improved. Evaluation standard of service training 91 regional offices making pleasant workplaces, CS Innovation & signed up) kind service was reasonably upgraded and control of unkind and 14 times etc. Working Committee personnel was reinforced along with enlarged incentives Service training Professional Upgrading service mind, (Improving and checking 7 unsatisfactory systems and procedures) for kind service. As a result, a significant increase in staff for unsatisfactory training changing customer attitude from employees in 2010 Advanced kindness was realized in 2011, and the number of employees employees provider complaining to faithfulness Reporting CS activities Suggesting direction that demonstrated his or her own kindness increased from 1,111 Introduction of following-up in 2010 to 1,510 in 2011. Professional 160 persons of CS Management monitoring of counseling CS Way Course training newcomers and Committee (CEO) provider applicants quality, service mind and emotional service | Operational organization of CS management | | Service capability training of employees | 42 43 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 4. NPS : our customers can rely on us / Improvement of infrastructure of customer counseling Counseling convenience and service accessibility must be improved to achieve the best service level. In Old Age Planning Service to July 2011, an immediate call response system established to satisfy customer complaints of non-received calling ensured 100% call back of non-received customer requests. By monitoring the status of receiving and immediate calling system, practical availability of customer calls was improved. Also, a historical Create an Affluent World counseling management program for all-life customers was improved to manage counseling details NPS sets up 'Happy Old Age Planning Center' to provide old age planning services for the elderly with systematically. insufficient preparation, and provides comprehensive information and services for all walks of life such as Good counseling practices are shard through reviewing CS programs of regional offices. Experts of call jobs, health and leisure, as well as finance. center operations are used to diagnose the counseling quality of NPS employees and 2,805 employees were provided with improvement trainings over 122 times. In 2011, Korean service quality indicator (KSQI) of Call Center was 93 points and NPS call center maintained the first place in the public area for five Unit : Points 2009 2010 2011 consecutive years. Providing Old Age Planning Service No. of beneficiaries Content Caracteristics Item (score) (score) (score) NPS promotes old age planning service in the active response to the One million Explanation of / Customer satisfaction reviews The first insured 20 thousand national pension, Centered with national demand for the preparation of people aging to 100 years of NPCSI (Internal (20s to 30s) persons per management of financial planning 86.6 85.3 86.5 Evaluation and analysis of service level of NPS as well as improved feedback can make customer age and to government policy toward Korea’s aging society. Old age survey) year income/expense satisfaction higher. The internal customer satisfaction survey apart from the one by the government is planning service is required to meet the need for the paradigm shift in The age of 40 NCSI performed twice a year. Result of monitoring CS and counseling quality is utilized in providing feedback. the performance of new customer value creation. 600 Needs of systematic High importance of (Turnover & (Governmental 81.3 84.3 87.0 The old age planning service, activities of counseling essential thousand preparation for old age, financial planning NPS’ national customer satisfaction indicator of 2011 was 87.0 points. Founding in 30s to Planning multi-layered Low importance survey) persons of non-financial personalized old age planning information, provides various and 40s) insurance planning Service comprehensive information on the old age life including finance, jobs, counseling 83.3 85.5 90.3 Improving Company Image and health as well as national pension through nationwide branches The age of 50 500 Diagnosing Balanced planning quality of NPS and 「Happy Old Age Planning Center」 established at NPS’ preparations of between financial ((Turnover and thousand / Revitalizing channels of customer communication persons old age, balanced area and noncounseling center. Founding in 50s) planning for later years financial area CS monitoring 93.4 93.5 93.8 NPS collects customer opinions by operating a customer counseling category in its homepage in addition It becomes possible to provide personalized old-age planning service to categories of customer opinion collection and amity reports. Personnel comply with standard of service by providing different information according to life periods. Age requesting old Balanced planning 180 Planning later years | Status of monitoring implementation and handle customer opinions within the specified duration of settlement. The trend age pension thousand between financial including jobs and person area and noncustomer satisfaction | of customer calling and public opinion is identified and communicated through the Gini-bulletin on a (60s) voluntary services financial area weekly basis to be utilized in practical activities performed by regional offices and to be shared with all employees. | Customized counseling according to life periods | Unit : Cases Anyone that intends to suggest his or her opinion for improvement can visit NPS’ homepage. Customer Education based on Human Life Cycle suggestions are reviewed quarterly to select best opinions. These best opinions are considered in the Yr. Yr. Yr. Since CSA service was implemented in 2011, education based on human life cycle has been provided using appointed training providers to Route system improvement process and given with rewards. The reliability of NPS was improved by expanding 2009 2010 2011 the routes customers could use for voluntary engagement in NPS activities. accomplish understanding of national pension system and support preparation for old age, which is out of the boundary of the financial planning customer based on the existing national pension. 245 246 196 suggestions / Campaign for improving reliability ‘Q&As’ in the 20,283 19,256 26,957 A nationwide campaign of ‘Own My Pension’, launched in July 1, 2010, to improve trust of the Korean homepage people was held 334 times in 2012 and 419 times in 2011 in the. The campaign of ‘Own My Pension’ was Reporting of conducted in subway stations, traditional markets, trail road entrances, local festivals, and fairs, which Performance of Old Age Planning Service 952 1,111 1,510 amities made it possible to contact with people very closely. The goal of such campaign was ‘To explain benefits Since the beginning of the CSA service provision in April 2008, 1,410,000 instances of counseling, and 22,000 instances of old-age planning | Key performance of each channel | of national pension and root away any misunderstanding.’ By carrying out easy and interesting activities education have been carried out. Also, 380,000 people have applied for extensions of entitlement duration to the national pension. All the such as dart games and Yes or No quiz, NPS communicates with people widely. Also, NPS provides performance above is evidence that NPS has contributed to preparing for people’s old age. counseling, CSA service, and pension estimate service to enhance civil response to national pension. Result of questionnaire given to people provided with CSA service on its effectiveness shows that more than 80% of opinions agree that CSA After completing projects for improving reliability in 2010, Trust on pension service increased 10.4 % service of NPS is highly professional and useful for preparing for old age. more against that of 2007. Result of public opinion analysis of CRM showed the increase rate of positive Professionalism Appropriateness opinion of 44.7% and the decrease rate of negative opinion of 7.1%. The voluntary insured 10,500 Points converted against maximum 100: 83.2 marks Points converted against maximum 100: 80.8 marks persons proved harmonization with people pursued by NPS. 53.3% 52.0% 32.6% 28.8% / Further protection of customer information 11.8% 13.8% 0.3% 2.0% 5.0% Facilities for IT system including an old server were replaced to provide stabilized service for customers 0.4% and achieve improvement. The improved IT system optimized customer information quality and enabled Absolutely Close to Average Close to Positively Absolutely Close to Average Close to Positively systematic management. All historical customer information is computerized and managed accurately and Not ‘Not’ ‘Yes’ Yes Not ‘Not’ ‘Yes’ Yes | The campaign ‘Own My Pension’ | safely during all life period from subscription to payment. Especially, membership of an internet homepage was excluded and a periodical internal monitoring system was established to prevent information spillage | Result of questionnaire on old age planning service | and secure customer information. 44 45 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 4. NPS : our customers can rely on us The Research Center to NPS Improving Welfare Increase Sustainability of of the Disabled the National Pension NPS is a professional institution providing welfare service for the disabled and practices 'Happy The Research Center makes contribution to improving sustainability of national pension by directing Harmony with the Disabled' through disability registration audits and activity support service for a way to strengthen social responsibility of fund management, and establishing programs of financial the disabled. stabilization through long-term financial estimation of national pension. Disability Assessment for Registration Fund Finance Estimation ● Account deficit in 2036 and fund depleted in 2047 1st financial ● Amendment of the National Pension Act including NPS began disability screening work for the severely disabled in compliance with 'Welfare of Severely Disabled Persons Act The Research Center prospects long-term finance of national estimation(2003) pension by carrying out financial estimation every four years changing of payment rate from 60% to 40%(July 2007) as it was recognized as an expert of more than 25 years of screening activities. It has performed overall registration audits of (1st in 2003, 2nd in 2008 and 3rd in 2013) to meet needs for all forms of disabilities from April 2011. financial stabilization interrupted by rapid aging and decreased 2nd financial ● Account deficit in 2044 and fund depletion in 2060, 13 Multiple doctors perform objective and standardized audits at the Disability Assessment Center and the regional headquarters. birth rate. It also tries to establish financial stabilization programs estimation(2008) years later than the result of previous estimation of 2047. For the cases they can't judge only by literal interpretation on the standards of and improve the existing pension scheme. In 2011, a virtual ● A Method for diversifying voluntary subscription to ensure financial estimation model was established in 2011 to guarantee Status of excluded the disability rating or the ones of which they must consider physical or mental groups and actions old age income of excluded persons was recommended, characteristics, the Disability Assessment Committee with welfare professionals the successful completion of the 3rd financial estimation. to ensure old age and this resulted in the increase of voluntary subscribers Currently Actuarial/Financial Estimation Committee, Pension reviews them intensively. income (2010) from 90 thousand(2010) to 170 thousand(2011). Scheme Development Committee, and Fund Management NPS prepared infringement remedies for disability rating drop, one of main Development Committee are operated under the Research ● A type of premium support was suggested for complaints in the process of determining and registering disability ratings and made Institute. Study on how to subscription of low-income temporary workers changing it obligatory to include the guideline of appeals in the notice of audit decision. Also, support premiums into site employees, and this suggestion was considered for mitigation of NPS strengthened the protection of the rights of the disabled by introducing the Research on Scheme Improvement for the blind deficiencies in the government’s comprehensive measures for nondissent application audit system, and the prior opinion statement system, etc. regular workforce (September 2011). These measures Disadvantaged (2011) were put in force in January 2012. | Disability Assessment Committee | The Research Institute develops a method of improving the Actions to guarantee ● Suggestions are made for integrating the pension scheme Expanding Disability Support Service national pension scheme for socially weak and disadvantaged old age income in strategy of social investment such as education, service and respond to people, and carries out studies to ensure enhanced public provision, and employment. A way to respond proactively to NPS promotes the 'Home Visiting Service' that employees of NPS visit their houses aging and income income for social groups excluded from subscription. It studies polarization (2011) low fertility and aging is suggested. for mobility disabilities and the disabled who live alone or in remote areas. on a plan of ensuring old-age income, an expanded method In addition, NPS strives to provide substantial benefits, such as 'Direct Medical Improvement of the ● Suggestions concerned with improvement methods are for guaranteeing public old age income of women, actions to Records Securing service' to obtain medical records directly from hospitals with pension payment made for the pension scheme related to vulnerable social improve the national disability pension scheme, and a premium scheme according a delegation of the disabled person, and 'Complementary Material Cost Support support program for low-income groups. Best effort is made to classes excluded from benefits of the family pension to changed Service' to support additional screening costs and examination fees so that the establish safe social protection for vulnerable social classes. marriageable ability payment of NPS disabled can avoid inconveniences in the course of disability registration audits. The universality of the national pension was expanded through enlargement of voluntary subscriptions, which was a measure | Summarized result of research on national pension | | Visiting service | to guarantee old age income for excluded persons. As premium support for the low income groups was considered in governmental policies from 2012, the national pension plays a What are key targets and performance of R&D pivotal role in ensuring old-age income of low income groups. related to social responsibility management? Supportive Activities for the Realization of the Independent Living of the Disabled Study on SRI Many people show concerns about pension exhaustion. The NPS implements the activities support system for the disabled to uphold the independent living of Research Institute carries out studies on foreign cases of After the Research Institute established a SRI policy of national the disabled and improves their quality of life from October 2011. This activities support system is a pension fund, it undertook a study on measuring SR elements sustainability and performs actuarial estimation to prevent such service to provide benefit for the disabled to carry out activities and participate in society. And NPS of the national pension fund portfolio in 2011, and performed accidents beforehand. The Research Institute seeks to find out a supports the pensioners by actively informing them of the system from the application stage and analysis of SR elements of SRI fund in 2012 in sequence. The solution to stabilize finances and communicate with stakeholders through various types of information services from local governments, local communities, and NPS Research Institute recommends a strategy needed for fulfilling through periodical seminars. itself. Especially, NPS secured dedicated staff and enhanced their abilities through intensive training. SR obligations imposed as public pension. Above all, during the research of SRI indicator development methodologies, The In terms of fund management, the Institute provides a selective It provided training for 436 activity supporting institutions and 2,517 activity assistants to improve the investment strategy of SRI of public pension, and improves Research Institute estimated an indicator appropriate to national level of payment benefits. In addition, NPS makes efforts to improve the service quality by providing pension on the basis of consideration of non-financial elements awareness of SRI through studies on selective indicator development. information in the dedicated website (www.ableservice.or.kr). such as environment (E), society(S) and governance (G). This In 2012, analysis of SR elements of SRI fund commissioned by NPS is NPS will faithfully fulfill its role as a hub of welfare services for the disabled and as a reliable partner indicator is used for fund management. in progress to determine how to expand SRI of the national fund. to practice 'Happy Harmony with Disabilities'. To meet ongoing social needs for SR obligations in fund | Personnel training for the activity support From an interview with Kim Seong-suk, Head of the National management of public pensions, including national pension program for the disabled | fund, a study on how to expand SRI of national pension is in Pension Research Institute progress in 2012. 46 47 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 5.NPS: Practicing to Share “NPS would like to harvest good fruit and share it with all citizens.” 48 49 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 5. NPS : practicing to share Involvement in Local Communities for Love-adding Performance of the Sharing Management NPS collects donations by deducting desired amount from their salaries to foster service culture among Unit : hours Sharing warm hearts and creating a happy world is a wish and responsibility of NPS. NPS is actively performing employees, and supports a certain percentage of employees' donations by applying matching grant for Item 2009 2010 2011 employees’ donations. In addition, NPS implements social contribution policy to encourage employees' various sharing activities which reflect the characteristics of NPS to build communities affluent with added love. voluntary involvement through allowing its employees to do social contribution activities during working Service 14,876 8,920 17,360 hours and to have vacation when donating blood, and developing a card points donating system. hours NPS spent KRW 467.5 million towards its social contribution fund and its 4,145 employees (89% of all | Annual service hours | employees) took part in social contribution activities in 2011. The voluntary service hours per employee Sharing Management to Practice Love are 4.2 hours. Unit : KRW 1 thousand Sharing Management System Item 2009 2010 2011 Contribution by staff 226,979 132,964 189,518 NPS' social contribution activities promote the supportive activities connected with tasks focused on volunteer groups. It also seeks to carry out supporting activities for the disabled, community-loving Matching grant 183,778 225,035 206,280 practice activities and social service activities. Donations collection for poor neighbors, etc. 36,135 27,881 54,308 Objective Realizing social responsibility through strategic social service activities Others 28,870 22,818 17,370 Total 475,762 408,698 467,476 Social service Providing intensive Strengthening Social service appropriate to the | Status of annual donation fund collection | 4 Strategies support for the tie with local together with characteristics of disabled communities customers pension What is the focus of NPS' social service activities? ● Enlarging support of ● S  upporting cultural ● F ocusing on ● S trengthening activites pension premium lives of the disabled strengthening tie of beneficiaries’ 8 Key Targets ●  Providing support with communities in volunteer group Social service activities meant donations through physical laboring in the past, but as the definition of it has expanded in recent years, it ● Diffusing pension for education of the the region to which ● Implementing internally becomes possible to carry out contribution activities in a variety of fields associated with the characteristics of NPS. NPS is engaged in various donation culture disabled. Headquarter is stable operation of activities related to its core business, such as a pension sharing campaign that beneficiaries give small part of their pensions to the elderly scheduled to move experience service for in need, activities of supporting pension premium for low-wage workers and a disabilities preferential hiring campaign. During the process of ● Revitalizing ‘One youths implementing these social contribution programs, NPS reflects stakeholder’s opinions by considering business relevance of these opinions as Company to One much as possible. Village’ sisterhood relationship Answered by Yi Su-min, Head of the General Administration Support Dept. | Systematic strategy of sharing management | Organization of Sharing Management NPS Corps, launched with 81 volunteer groups nationwide in August 30 2006 and composed of 92 groups, provided service of 2142 times as of Yr. 2011. The Corps reinforces social contribution programs connected with NPS’ businesses including supporting Social Contribution Activities that NPS Practices pension premiums for low-income subscribers generated by employee’s voluntary participation, policy considerations, and systematic organization. Each volunteer group promotes customized service activities Supporting Pension Premiums for Low-wage Workers maintaining close relationships with local communities. Person number Amount (KRW 1 million) Supporting pension premium for low-wage workers is a project which supports a certain portion of premium for people who agree on the necessity of national pension, but do not pay pension 179 Head of the NPS Corps (Chairperson) 162 premiums, with the employees’ donations deducted from their salary on a monthly basis. As employees first started it voluntarily and consensus was formed about it, now it becomes NPS' representative sharing 117 Organization for Overall Management Private Consultative Group activity program. In 2011, employees supported unpaid premiums for the family of disabled children using 69 (Social Responsibility Management Dept.) 51 their card points and NPS signed an MOU with the Community Chest of Korea and conducted a 'national 36 Talent Corps pension donation campaign' where both the social leaders and recipients were involved. This pension donation support program is developed into a government policy and now is a business to support 2009 2010 2011 pension premiums for low-income workers at small workplaces with less than 10 workers in 2012. Corps in Regional | Status of premium support for Corps of Beneficiaries in Emergency Disaster Corps in Headquarter Headquarters and low-income subscribers | Each Regional Office Relief Group Offices | Structure of service organization | 50 51 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 5. NPS : practicing to share Focused Support for the Disabled Job Creation With use of Cheongpung Resort operated by NPS, a program of listening and feeling tours was NPS, as the nation's largest institutional investor, organized a dedicated organization, the social developed, in which staff and the severely disabled become partners one to one. Four listening and responsibility management department in January 2012 and has promoted job creation in various ways. It feeling tours broadcast on TV were completed by 2011; an example of social sponsorship intended to created new employments through a job creation fund and the construction of the National Pension Hall disseminate sharing culture. and produced the effect of indirect job creation through social overhead capital (SOC) and expansion of Also, NPS sponsored professional education centers for the disabled as well as disabled children, and venture investment. It will clarify the expansion of investment scale and the direction of implementation provided opportunities for cultural experience by sponsoring musicals, theaters, and choirs. Moreover, after analyzing the performance of the employment creation fund. a total of 7,959 computers were donated to organizations of the disabled during the period from 2006 to In addition, NPS shared jobs with 752 people by outsourcing its non-core businesses such as the Hall 2011. As result of revitalized activity support for the disabled, NPS won the Prime Minister’s Award 2012 management and Cheongpung Resort operation. It created jobs for a total of 28,551 people in 2011. It in distinguished service in information and culture given by the Ministry of Public Administration and contributed to the development of local communities by focusing on creating qualitatively excellent jobs Security. of full-time work. Unit : persons Orders of Partnership Others Year Total Outsourcing invested with private (Fund business business area investment) Regular 2,919 713 2,206 2010 Temporary 4,192 42 4,150 Total 7,111 755 6,356 Regular 6,354 710 5,413 3 228 | Listening and feeling trip with the disabled | | Prizewinning of the Prime Minister’s Award 2012 in 2011 Temporary 22,197 42 22,144 2 9 distinguished service in information and culture | Total 28,551 752 27,557 5 237 Reinforcing Ties with Local Communities | Performance of employment-creation in private enterprises | NPS set up sisterhood relationship with nationwide 33 rural towns and supported the shorthanded farming season in order to contribute to the development of rural communities. It also strives to revitalize traditional markets by running direct dealing markets and setting up sisterhood relationship with local Assistance to Founding Social Enterprises markets. Moreover, NPS offered free medical service to underserved local residents together with a After NPS signed up a MOU with Korea Social Enterprise Promotion Agency and Saramlove Incorporated corporation named Korean Open Doctors Society and struggled for a way to live a stable retirement life Association for ‘growth of social companies and diffusion of awareness’, it established a donation Caf é through counseling about the national pension. named ‘Caf é 36.5˚ established for the first time by a public institution. Its establishment enabled provision Particularly, NPS is strengthening ties with communities focused on Jeollabukdo area to which its of jobs for three persons from vulnerable groups such as the disabled, multicultural emigrant women, and headquarters is scheduled to move. return of 10% of income to society under the title of ‘Dream Cultivating Donations’. NPS gives six youths With exemplary exchange activities with local communities, NPS’ social contribution program of ’One under 18 and a multicultural family KRW 100 thousand on a monthly basis for supporting their dreams | Cultural experience event for residents Village to One Institution was certified in 2010 and it was given the Prime Minister's Award of Labor and hope. | Ceremony for Dream Cultivating Donations | in a fishing village (Bangchuk Island) NPS Exchanges and the Rural Love Grand Prize and chosen as excellent organization of urban and rural has a sisterhood relationship with | exchanges in three consecutive years. Revitalizing Traditional Markets Social Service All Together As superstores nationwide are opened and traditional markets are neglected, NPS helps ensure the stability of the lives of the populace and contributes to the economic activities of local communities by Each nationwide regional office of NPS is running a Corps, Pension Sharer, centered around beneficiaries revitalizing traditional markets. NPS set up a sisterhood relationship with markets in Jeonju, Jeollabukdo to so that they can feel worth and pride in their old-age life. 4,399 beneficiaries nationwide participated which its headquarter is scheduled to move, and showed its commitment by holding a 'Go to Traditional in the activities and revitalized donating their talents in various sections such as education, culture, etc. Market Day' declaration. Each of the seven regional headquarters sets up sisterhood relationship with They carried out sharing activities in which employees could feel worth. NPS runs a variety of youth one market, signs an MOU with relevant organizations, holds a 'Go to Traditional Market Day' event service programs so that youths, future customers, can experience sharing and develop well adjusted once a month, and makes direct purchases of goods. Besides, NPS revitalizes traditional markets by personalities. converting staff incentives from cash into versatile (Onnuri) gift certificates. The purchase rate of versatile gift certificates was 0.54% in 2011, which exceeded the ratio (0.4%) recommended by the government (0.4%) | Ceremony for One division to | Kimchi-making service | one market affiliation | 52 53 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 6.NPS: Making a Fair Society “A tree can grow tall when surrounded by fertile land.” 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 6. NPS : making a fair society Ethical Management to Create a Clean Society Strengthening Ethical Standards Ethical code of practice is prepared at each level and each function on the basis of the Ethics Charter and published rules of ethical management NPS strives to be a reliable national institution by operating incorrupt practices. To promote practicability of ethical management, ethical standards, including internal reporting and reporter protection, were established and modified in 2011. Rules prepared by the National Pension Audit Committee and Alternative Investment Committee are reinforced organizations. for improvement of transparency in decision-making. Ethics Charter Efforts for Ethical Management Published rules of ethical management practice The Ethical Management Implementation System Ethical norm Ethical norm NPS spreads the ethical culture through employees' voluntary practice on the basis of the Chairperson's of each level of each function powerful commitment to promote the ethical management. NPS established the four implementation Level Applicable guidelines Function Applicable guidelines strategies advancing ethical system, training ethical human resources, settling down and establishing ethical culture, and strengthening anti-corruption and integrity activitiesin order to lay the foundation •Regulation on contract operating based on •Criteria of prohibiting profit-pursuing actions and Executive for sustainable growth through the establishment of ethical management. anti-corruption. multiple jobs Management •Standard of handling contracting activities in offices Objective Managers ranking in •Instructions on executing official expenses of ethical Realizing transparent management through dissemination of ethical culture 3rd rating or rating •Written anti-corruption pledge management higher than 3rd •Ethical code of fund management Fund •Compliance manual Establishing & Strengthening anti•Published rules of ethical management practice management 4 driving Advancing ethical Developing ethical •Instructions on exercising voting rights disseminating corruption and integrity •Code of conduct strategies projects human resources ethical culture activities All employees •Guidelines for practicing ethical management •Customer Service Charter •Written pledge of complying with code of Customer service •Standards of key service implementation Systematization of organizations •Ethical code of old age consultants Mind creating Monitoring & sharing conduct 8 targets for and corporate regulation implementation •Ethical principles of audit activities •Re-establishment of codes •Training of ethical •Risk management Auditing and organizations management system •Auditors’ Ethical Charter •Improvement focused on •Practice program •Voluntary improvement main causes of corruption •Declaration of management of management system | Ethical norm of each level and function | commitment Ethics Training and Practicing Programs •Sharing with stakeholders NPS operates programs of ethics training and practices it to increase the level of employees' ethics. NPS | Ethical management system | has improved the training effect by the development and operation of education curriculum in offline Objective and guidelines of ethical management are determined by the Ethical Management Committee, education, rather than theory-based education while it reformed the online education curriculum to the and Ethical Integrity Practice Committee implements and reviews departmental activities of ethical interactive contents so that all the employees can participate in the education. In addition, it performed management. A person is appointed in each department and regional office as Ethical Integrity Practice self-test for two items every week to check employees' ethics and established a new counseling entry Leader and all these leaders improve negative elements in their own departments or regional offices. about the codes of conduct. Also, NPS operates various practicing programs so that employees can A nation-wide campaign of anti-corruption practice was conducted in 2011. NPS led implementation of embody practice ethics in their daily lives. Toward this goal, it expands theme programs such as integrity ethical management of public institutes by spreading good practices of anti-corruption through auditor songs, integrity logo, ethical management practice guide e-book, and participatory programs including ethics yard archives, integrity cafe, and integrity mileage awards. | A resolution ceremony for meetings held by ‘Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission’. When signing in a contract, conditions of ethical management | integrity is obligatory. Conferences of anti-corruption take place with stakeholders including subcontractor employees, and NPS’ commitment to accomplish ethical management is shard in discussions. No. of Item Training course Trainee trainees Standing Auditor Ethical Management Committee (Chairperson) Voluntary A ethical training course selected personally All employees 2,440 Duty Officer for Basic Two courses including basic course of ethical management All employees, fund management personnel 1,194 Online Compliance with the Control Organization Code of Conduct Study on cases of ethical management and the Advanced Leaders of anti-corruption practice 108 dilemma settlement process Organization for Overall Management Organization for Practice Basic Two courses including itinerant training for regional offices All staff 2,860 A professional course provided by a governmental branch Advanced Ethical management personnel 24 Off-line Anti-corruption & Anti-corruption & or a private training provider Ethical Management Social Responsibility Ethical Integrity Ethical Integrity Integrity Steering Integrity Working Working Committee Management Section Practice Committee Practice Leader Reading conversation of ethical management Head of division at headquarters, 36 Group Group Specialized | Anti-corruption canpaign | Interactive training appropriate to each working duration Head of a regional office promoted 184 | Organization of ethical management | | Status of ethic management training | 56 57 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 6. NPS : making a fair society Activating the Anti-corruption Public Reporting System for the Public Transparent Information Disclosure to Protect Rights Interest NPS activates the anti-corruption reporting system for the public interest to foster a sound organizational NPS discloses its management information transparently through public notices, its homepage, etc., culture to guard against corruption. NPS arranged systematic devices related to the operation of the to meet people's right to know. anti-corruption reporting system through regulating identity protection for internal whistle blowers, such 2009 2010 2011 as banning disadvantages. NPS propagated its commitment for integrity to persons concerned with No. of trading such as commission management corporations. It also guided the public reporting process on 1 3 8 cases a regular basis against illegal or unfair misconducts by introducing a new system, NPS Clean Letter.” | Number of public reporting cases | Various channels such as website, phone, fax, etc. for the reporters' convenience are in operation now. Open-minded Transparent Management In particular, NPS prevents exposure of reporters' identities systematically and thoroughly by outsourcing the reporting channels for the purpose of providing assurances to internal whistle blowers. It's the first case among the quasi-governmental institutions. Promoting Transparency of the Management NPS is an institution responsible for an important task, the management of the people's retirement fund. It seeks to reassure people so that they can enjoy benefits from the pension welfare service. To meet Checking and Utilizing Ethical Management this, NPS focuses on enhancing the accuracy and timeliness of public notification, activates information A process for evaluating senior executives was established to check integrity of high-ranking officials, disclosure and improves users' convenience. including executives and heads of regional offices in 2011, and the result of this evaluation was utilized as part of personal management information. In addition, all employees are evaluated to check for their Operational Establishing a transparent image conforming to global top ethical perceptions and result of evaluation is reflected in personal service performance at the rate of objective pension welfare service provider 10%. Completion of anti-corruption training provided at each stage of the working cycle is compulsory. NPS investigates its anti-corruption level through anti-corruption survey conducted by Anti-Corruption & Enhancing accuracy Civil Rights Commission as well as reviewing policy of anti-corruption. Revitalizing information Providing user & timeliness of public disclosure convenience Internally, NPS undertakes monitoring of ethical awareness of all employees. Ethical management is Targeted announcement improved through monitoring and self-checking activities for transparency. direction •Operating channels of prior •Widening items of •Improving user Unit : points or post verification information disclosure accessibility Item 2009 2010 2011 •Strengthening cooperation •Diversifying information •Improving customerAnti-corruption survey by Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights system between disclosure routes oriented service 8.65 8.58 departments Commission (Comprehensive level of anti-corruption) External •‘Zero’ performance of errors Result of review of anti-corruption policies performed by Excellent Excellent in public announcement Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission Evaluation index of personnel’s ethical awareness 71.7 86.5 88.7 | Objective & targets of transparency improvement management | Internal The Management System of Public Notification and Information Disclosure Self-checking of transparency 80.0 86.0 NPS announces the 119 items of management disclosure about fund operation and fund management | Performance of internal/external monitoring | by establishing an operating system of public notification and information disclosure in the homepage specifying 34 items of integrated disclosure on the Alio system. Business information and administrative information are also announced to the public for information disclosure in a website in accordance with the disclosure process. An Example of Ethical Management Request Collection & Cooperative There are cases that employees in the Fund Management Center of NPS held or transacted stocks during their for public Identification of Routine audit review by related (3rd verification Provision of Notification of announcement information departments tenures and were pointed out during the periodical comprehensive audit performed by the Department of Health and (1st verification of (2nd verification of of information) following public feedback improvements Human Services. information) information) announcement Audit evidence According to the comprehensive periodic audit reports prepared by the Department of Health and Human | Public announcement process | Services, it was revealed that 36 employees, more than half of the total 66 personnel in the Fund Management Center, have held | Information disclosure homepage | stocks since 2008, and 12 of them have sold their shares. A request received Determining disclosure The Department of Health and Human Services pointed out, If personnel of the Management Headquarter are permitted for free Distribution of a request (All regional offices/ (Relevant department/Information by relevant department stock-for-sale, it is likely that impartiality of an audit is compromised in reviewing investment stocks. Customer support center) Disclosure Committee) Action taken As a result, NPS established the internal control regulation to prohibit stock trading in principle and Notification of disclosure Notification of closure strengthened preventive actions to stop private transactions of personnel involved in fund management. Information made public | Information disclosure process | 58 59 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 6. NPS : making a fair society Monitoring & Feedback Prior and Posterior to Public Declaration Improvement of Information Service Monitoring and feedback prior and posterior to a public declaration ensures accuracy of information. NPS increased processing speed up to 3 times by replacing equipment such as a server and Three-phrased review is carried out before public declaration to improve accuracy of declaration. A strengthening a support system to enhance the accessibility of the website users. And NPS abolished person responsible for each item is designated to clarify his or her responsibility by operating the formal/ the procedure of signing-up and the authorized certificate registration and redesigned its website for informal duty system in the public declaration management process. the convenient use of the disabled and the elderly. As a result, in recognition of an excellent website After and before an announcement, collaborative review by all responsible departments is performed for users to have access to, its website won a quality mark certification of web accessibility in the quarterly to prevent insufficiency of public announcement. Currently, a total of 7 cases of insufficient public institution area. In addition, NPS received a high score in the website satisfaction survey and had announcement have been revealed and complemented. At the same time NPS makes efforts to operate significant increase in average monthly visitors. a dual checking system through auditors’ frequent reviews intended to modify disclosed information and improve accuracy. In addition, the Public Announcement Management Committee is in operation for the provision of 910 870 feedback and improvement of deficiencies. The Committee endeavors to establish a proactive response. No. of monthly average visitors 4.91 4.89 Planning public 1st stage 2nd stage 3rd stage Public Score (Maximum five points) announcement verification verification verification announcement Financial Planning Department related Planning & Audit Dept. Financial Planning Division to declared item Coordination office (Reviewer) department 2010 2011 | Quality certification mark of (Writer) (Superviser) | Results of satisfaction survey of homepage users | web-accessibility | | Responsibilities of three-phrased verification process | Improving Timeliness of Public Announcement NPS accomplished ‘ZERO’ performance of announcement delay by operating the prior notification process and using a checklist, including items to be announced publicly to check the process frequently Performance of Information Disclosure Activities at any time for the purpose of proactive prevention of announcement delay. As a result of an ongoing effort to increase the percentage of information disclosed in accordance with disclosure requests and provide information constantly and proactively, the number of information disclosure requests showed a declining trend in 2011, and the lead-time of disclosure decisions was an Prior notification Announcement within two weeks average of 6.3 days, which continued to be shortened each year. NPS will expand the percentage of information disclosure and shorten the period of decision making continuously. A notice dispatched for monthly A notice received Check and Review Information announcement and information (3rd verification) posting gathered 160 137 Duration required for decision | Prior notification service process | of disclosure (average day) | Homepage for 86.3 97 92.8 80.3 Information mobile phone users | disclosure rate (%) Diversified Information Disclosure Routes 6.8 6.45 6.3 No. of requests for NPS prepares various disclosure channels to meet the people's right to know by activating information information disclosure disclosure. These are online channels such as a website, e-brochure, webzines, and newsletters for 2009 2010 2011 management information disclosure, and offline channels such as the magazine, 'National Pension', | Performance of information disclosure activities | and leaflets, which provide information of the national pension at any time. In addition, NPS tries to communicate with people through mobile route operations, including a smartphone-only website and Twitter 60 61 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 6. NPS : making a fair society Win-win Management with Business Partners process is assessed in the 1st audit and other relevant person in the 2nd audit performed on a routine basis by the Audit Committee. And to guarantee appropriate profit of the disabled producers and small IT companies, not a single preliminary price but multiple preliminary prices are used to determine a supplier of private contract for purchasing goods produced by the disabled. The percentage of use of persons from small NPS pursues establishment of trust and co-growth with subcontractors through commissioning IT service companies expanded from 30% to 50%, and payment of service fee is divided into three stages of advance, intermediate and balance for improvement. companies, activating a call center, resort operator, and outsourcing companies. Strengthening SMEs’ abilities Co-growth with Subcontractors NPS purchased equipment worthy of KRW 3.87 billion for new building construction in 2011 and support suppliers through payment check and direct debit payment. To promote abilities of SMEs in the fund management area, NPS expanded the use of trusted management operated by new SMEs, and established use of preliminary trusted management, which secured involvement opportunity for small trust companies. KRW 360 billion Objective and Strategy of Co-growth was trusted to 12 selected trust management companies. Management companies achieving good performance are going to be upgraded to net NPS established a strategy of co-growth linked with its vision. The objective of co-growth with small and equity trust companies. medium enterprises (SMEs) is to accomplish mutual sustainable growth through established partnership. Focused targets are set up under the three goals of co-growth culture creation, development of NPS’ Item 2009 2010 2011 own system, and ability enhancement of SMEs. Purchase Total amount of purchase(A) KRW 63.5 billion KRW 70.7 billion KRW 81.4 billion of goods produced Total budget of purchase(B) KRW 93.8billion KRW 101.8 billion KRW 112.3 billion Objective Interrelated sustainable growth through establishing partnership with SMEs by small Percentage of purchase from small companies 67.7% 69.4% 72.5% companies Strengthening capabilities Advance payment 100% (KRW 2.6 billion) 100% (KRW 4.6 billion) 100% (KRW 5.6 billion) Driving strategy Creating co-growth culture Developing NPS’ own system of SMEs Financial Direct debit payment to suppliers KRW 2.4 billion assistance Targeted •Establishing •Alleviating burden of •Implementing policies trusted management KRW 360 billion direction infrastructure planned social premiums recommended by the •Creating culture of •Involvement in fund government | Performance of assisting SMEs | win-win cooperation management •Reinforcing support of SMEs Purchase Policy Implementing Social Responsibility | Strategy of co-growth | NPS prioritizes purchase of products from social or female-owned companies. In the year of 2011 direct purchase of products produced by social Also, organization of co-growth management is established including all departments and internal companies increased to KRW 635 million with the increase rate of 81.4% against the previous year. Consumables used by Cheongpung Resort are evaluation process included in KPI is managed to obtain driving factors. Civil consulting meetings such as all purchased from social companies. Purchase from female-owned enterprises amounts to KRW 6.41 billion, a 38% increase from the previous a fund management conference, an IT Outsourcing Management Committee meeting, and Cheongpung year. Resort management strategy meeting are utilized to implement active communication with subcontractors. Purchase performance Item Purchase goal CEO in 2011 (Unit : KRW 1 million) Product of SMEs More than 70% of total purchase amount of goods, services and construction 81,376 VOC & suppliers (External monitoring) Social Responsibility Management Technology development product More than 10% of total amount of purchase from SMEs 1,095 Audit Dept. (Monitoring fair business) Section (Responsible Department) Product of female-owned company More than 4% of total purchase amount 6,041 Product of social enterprise More than 3% of total purchase amount of goods and services 635 Facilities Information Fund Management International Accounting Dept. Goods made by the severely disabled More than 1% of total purchase amount of goods and services 1,466 Management Dept. System Dept. Center Cooperation Center Goods made in Self-supported Retired Soldiers’ Village More than 5% of total purchase amount of goods buyable from Soldiers’ Village 155 Contracting and Strengthening Expanding Promoting SMEs Supporting overseas purchasing goods cooperation in the involvement in the IT for commissioned expansion of Green product More than 90% of total purchase amount of the relevant item. 3,270 construction area section operations domestic companies Onnuri gift certificate More than 0.4% of operating cost of an institution 115 (agreement) | Summary of obligatory/prioritized purchase | Managing workplaces and subscribers Regional offices Old age planning for SMEs What do you think NPS does well to develop joint growth with business partners and what does it | Organization of co-growth management | need to improve on in the future? Transparent Contracting and Fair Relationship Purchasing products of disability employment companies is encouraged as part of policy of preferential rights if only reasonable profit and more than 80% of the highest quality are ensured. Currently, NPS evaluates financial areas in selecting business partners, but I think it's Principle of human rights protection is considered in making decisions related to significant investment necessary in the future that NPS should establish a policy that enables preferential treatment to companies as partners focusing on investment or trading with subcontractors. Lately, introduction of both naming the person responsible for contracting for social contribution such as women's welfare and senior preferential policies and complement the policy of partnership to ensure trading process and IFRS(international financial standard) are sought to improve transparency of contracting and with sustainable businesses. | A meeting for co-growth accounting process. In 2011 Cross conformance audit was used to ensure the accuracy and transparency Answered by Yi Su-min, Head of the General Administration Support Dept. with business partners | of contract auditing process. During this audit process, the most relevant person in charge of contracting 62 63 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 7.NPS: Holding People Dear “With our warm reaching hands we will make a greener forest.” 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 7. NPS : holding people dear Human Resource Management to Share Hope Item Unit 2009 2010 2011 Total number of employees Person 4,817 4,762 4,627 NPS secures excellent human resources through a transparent recruitment process, supports open recruitment for No. of temporary employees Person 625 417 13 vulnerable classes, and operates fair personnel management through a comprehensive advanced personnel system. No. of employment of the % (2.6) (3.3) (4.4) disabled(percentage) Average length of service Year 16.8 17.7 17.0 People-oriented Management Absence rate % 0.005 0.012 0.005 Retirement rate % 0.95 16.42 * 1.75 Executives and Staff Members ✽ 712 Employees of Health Insurance Service were transferred according | Status of employment | The employees of NPS are a total of 4,627 people. NPS contributed to stabilizing employment by to the integrated collection of four social insurances changing 322 non-regular workers to full-time status in 2010 and reducing 417 non-regular workers to 13 in 2011. The number of women workers is 1,937, 41.9% of the total full-time workers and that of the women management as team leaders or higher positions accounts for 11.2% of 104 persons. The number Open Recruitment to Consider the Socially Weak of new women recruits was 399 out of 654, 61% of the total full-time workers in 2011. NPS seeks for social equity-based recruitment by open employment for the disabled, local human Unit : persons resources, and high school graduates. It gives convenience such as expanded questionnaires for the disabled candidates and instructions for the deaf, and provides assistive technology devices for Senior Officials in general service Researching Fund Technical the disabled employees to increase their work efficiency. NPS took the recruitment trips mainly at Category Total the provincial colleges and universities and increased the recruitment of local human resources in management 1st 2nd 3rd 4th 5th 6th service management service Jeollabukdo area to which the Headquarter is going to move. And to expand high school graduate Employee number 4,627 5 56 205 664 1,583 1,096 881 33 102 2 recruitment, it implements various kinds of support such as paying a wage of 92.5% level of college graduates’ starting salary. Male 2,690 5 55 200 566 1,045 437 283 20 77 2 Unit : persons Female 1,937 0 1 5 98 538 659 598 13 25 0 Indicator 2009 2010 2011 | No. of employees classified by the type of job and rating | Persons newly employed 35 15 654 Unit : KRW 1 thousand No. of female employees 10(28.6%) 6(40%) 399(61%) (percentage) Item 2009 2010 2011 No. of the disabled employed 3(8.6%) 59(9%) Basic pay 12,564 12,564 13,862 (percentage) Fixed allowance 8,448 8,448 8,852 No. of employees for local 8(22.9%) 3(20%) 341(52.1%) impartiality (percentage) Performance allowance 11,131 1,131 1,248 No. of employees specialized in Employee benefit payment 425 430 440 16(45.7%) 5(33.3%) 328(50.2%) science and engineering Total 22,568 22,573 24,402 | Status of annual social and fair recruitment | | New employees’ commencing salary | What efforts do you think NPS should make to embrace the socially weak? NPS hires actively vulnerable classes like the disabled and high school graduates more than the statutory standards established by the Fair Recruitment government. NPS does not discriminate against treatment, and supports the disabled after employment so that they can adapt well to the working environment, and provides the high school graduates workers with educational opportunities and opportunities for promotion NPS is in compliance with the International Labor Organization conventions and domestic and international depending on task performance. labor acts, and prohibits child labor and forced labor. Throughout the personnel management process In the case of the socially weak, NPS steadily recruits female workers, which are about 40% of all employees, and in the case of married such as recruitment and employment, NPS prohibits discriminations and abolishes restrictions on gender, female employees, it established maternity and parental leave systems. NPS recommends them to utilize the leave, if necessary, in age, education, and majors, and pursues abilityand competency-based recruitment. NPS applies consideration to the balance between home and work. NPS doesn't discriminate for men and women in promotion. The company history wage and welfare in equality without discrimination based on gender in the same position, and the new shows that it had women of general directives of divisions and the heads of the Research Institute. Women can have opportunities to receive employees’ basic salary is the level of 225.22% compared to the statutory minimum wage* in 2011. foreign dispatch education and women's leadership training if they want to be leaders to improve women’s rights and encourage their social involvement. Answered by Kim Mu-yeong, Head of the HR Management Dept. ✽ Statutory minimum wage: based on criteria provided by the Ministry of Employment & Labor (KRW 902,880 per month and 40 hours per week) 66 67 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 7. NPS : holding people dear Developing Human Resources to Grow Together 2009 2010 2011 Type of jobs Person Hour Person Hour Person Hour Efforts to Strengthen Human Resources 1st rating 134 3,686 69 1,395 143 5,048 NPS strives to strengthen the capabilities of its employees as people's happiness partners and excellent pension experts on the base of the human image of the ‘Expert in pension welfare who creates a happy and prosperous future with trust and passion.’ 2nd rating 577 17,243 486 8,368 833 12,989 3rd rating 2,336 51,469 2,062 32,620 3,348 53,041 Image of NPS’ human resources An expert in pension welfare who creates a happy and prosperous future with trust and passion 4th rating 5,348 104,810 4,953 70,627 8,554 109,107 A partner for happiness The best pension professional Open-minded personnel of NPS 5th rating 4,640 977,57 3,939 60,599 5,573 81,322 Objective of personnel management Advancement of human-resource management based on competence and performance 6th rating 1,785 417,39 1,565 30,714 6,127 102,283 Others(Fund, research, Line-circulatory HR Developing specialized Performance-oriented personnel 167 3,340 85 1,503 487 4,224 Driving strategy management human resources management technology, service, etc) Establishing a plan to ·Enhancing specialized leadership ·Ensuring impartiality of personnel Total 14,987 320,044 13,159 205,826 25,065 368,014 advance personnel ·Disseminating shared value of NPS management system management ·Training key personnel ·Personnel focused on competence and | Average annual training hours per person by each type of job | ·Creating learning culture within performance organization ·Reinforcing link between evaluation and reward Support for Cultivating Female Workforce | HR enhancement management system | In December 2011, NPS abolished the restrictions in the promotion of employees who have childcare leave as the rate of female workforce increases, and expanded the flexible workweek in consideration to the balance between home and work. And NPS constantly tries to enhance the capabilities of female Strengthening the Capabilities of Employees Through Training leaders by holding workshops and giving opportunities for training. •Officials suspended : All employees that have NPS encouraged employees to have more children and raise them by shortening working hours for used maternity leave in the relevant year. NPS was selected as the best Human Resource Development Institutions (Best-HRD)* in the public sector in 2011 as result of establishing pregnant women, running child care centers and providing parenting time. It established a route of systematic human resource development planning, reflecting employees' needs and capabilities and operating HR management process. NPS •Officials reinstated : Number of employees that communication for employees by 'Parenting Information Room'. And NPS provided various family-friendly are reinstated within the relevant year. reorganized a Cyber Training Institute for learner-centered regular learning, set up a Mobile Training Institution, and introduced smart-learning. education programs such as ‘Happy Parents Coaching School’ and ‘Education for Happy Fathers’. In addition, NPS cultivated professionals specialized in each core business through operating systematic training process based on common •NPS ensures the maternity leave period of not NPS was certified as an excellent organization of family-friendly companies from the Ministry of Gender more than 3 years per a child and reinstatement competence, leadership competence and working competence. Various educational opportunities through the collaboration between industry and Equality and Family in November 2011. of officials suspended. education organizations providing professional training are provided by NPS. Indicator Unit 2009 2010 2011 Competence Leadership competence Working competence Common competence Rating Training by Promotion of strategy Practical working Specialty Training of key Organizational Basic No. of female employees(percentage) Person 1,681(34.9%) 1,673(35.1%) 1,937(41.9%) rating leaders personnel competence Training for No. of managers ranking higher than team leaders (percentage) Person 77(7.8%) 77(7.9%) 104(11.2%) Training commissioned to strengthen 1st promoted senior rating management (1st rating) No. of female officials suspended with maternity leave (percentage) Person 136(8.09%) 132(7.89%) 142(7.33%) Training on personal information protection and information security Qualification courses for old age planning (CSA Class 1 & Class 2 Preventive discipline against sexual harassment and prostitution Rate of reinstatement after maternity leave % 100% 100% 100% Advanced leadership course Training on ethical management and cyber integrity training Training for 2nd NPS Forum for Hope(training for internal revitalization) promoted senior Overseas training courses and commissioned education specialized competence of leaders rating management (2nd rating) No. of female employees using maternity leave Person 176 191 215 e-learning for self development training Departmental training by commissioned professionals e-learning of visions and strategies Specialized training course relevant to new service for the 2nd and 3rd ratings No. of officials reinstated after a maternity leave Person 91 119 125 Advanced financial course Training for e-learning for job training NPS educational lectures Leadership training for 3rd first-assigned promoted senior Education for training rating | Status of promoting support for women resources | Functional working training by each regional management women / AFPK course) Advanced functional training provided by domestic colleges 4th PDW working training function-specialized lecturers rating Self-leadership Functional personnel training training for the 4th and 5th headquarter ratings 5th rating Basic induction for new 6th employees rating Refresher training for new | Certification for Best-HRD | employees | Structure chart of training | | Ceremony for excellent organization of family-friendly companies | | Certification for excellent organization of family-friendly companies | ✽ Best-HRD: A certification scheme in the human resource development area of public sectors. It is a scheme for certifying a good organization in the 68 HR development area through audits performed by government and educational experts. 69 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 7. NPS : holding people dear Supportive on-the-job Education for Retired Officials Open-minded Communication between Labor and Management NPS operates retirement-preparation programs for its employees to support and improve the quality of their lives after retirement. It provides education that they want such as business start-up, reNPS does best to make worksites more pleasant and to improve working conditions and the welfare of employment training and old life planning education. Until now it has supported education in a variety of fields, including education for interpreter, translator, social worker, care worker, realtor, career counselor, employees on the basis of positive communication between labor and management. housing manager, and returning to farming. Reasonable Reward-paying based on Performance Harmonized Labor-management Culture NPS operates a personnel management system based on abilities and performance, and relates evaluation result to promotion, assignment and payment. As result of the management evaluation in 2011, Establishing Sound Relationship between Labor and Management 6 out of 11 department managers are promoted with their excellent performances while 13 managers of low-performance were downgraded. The annual salary system started in 2011 and was applied more NPS recognizes right of freedom of association. 3,302 employees occupying 71.4% of the potential broadly to employees over 3rd rating. 658 persons in the position of directives or at higher levels (14.2%), union members* of the national pension division under the National Public Transportation Society whose rating ranges from 1st to 3rd, are subject to annual salary system. Differentiated performanceService Labor Union are union members at present. In 2011, NPS management and its labor union based bonuses are applied to all employees regardless of the type of rating, and the highest bonus is signed up to a reasonable collective agreement, which became a platform to jump high to progressive over two times more than the lowest one. relationship between labor and management. Management must notify important changes to management within seven days according to Article 20 of the collective agreement. Open-minded management Result of evaluation Use of result is implemented to consider voices of worksites through active communication between labor and management. Evaluating Personnel Promotion, transference, Upgraded/ organizational performance of management downgraded assignment, re-contracting, etc. Item 2009 2010 2011 each department & its assessment Training/ No. of employees joining labor union 3,399 3,329 3,302 Performance Domestic/Overseas subcontracted training, etc. evaluation Education Percentage 70.6% 70.0% 71.4% MBO(personal performance | Status of labor union members | ▶ Basic annual evaluation) Accumulative difference of wage increase rate salary Communication Route PerformanceAbout 2.2 times differential gap between the NPS makes positive effort to settle grievances of employees. Grievances input to the management based annual Evaluating highest and the lowest information system are reviewed by the Grievance Management Committee where both labor and individual ability salary management participate. Result of review is notified to a relevant individual within ten days. A selfAbility Ranking-based Expanded to the range of 1st to 3rd rating from checking program, including issues concerned with maternity protection and gender equality, is operated evaluation as precautionary action. Reviewers of gender equality grievances and counselors handling grievance bonus 1st to 2nd rating of sexual harassment respond actively to cases of damage occurring in NPS. As a result of such effort, Multilateral performance of ‘Zero-Grievance’ associated with sexual equality was accomplished in the past three evaluation PerformanceOver 2 times differential gap between the years. based bonus highest and the lowest Grievance Grievances ● Personal direct input to the management information system | Rewarding process | Management management ● Individual reception through the CEO Hot-line Committee Reviewers of gender equality grievances Gender Equality Audit of Headquarters (6 persons) Does NPS make any effort to make it a happy workplace for employees? Grievance gender equality grievances Counselor of sexual harassment Review Regional office /Center grievance (194 persons) Committee I think it's important to implement a fair personnel policy without discrimination against all the employees so as to make NPS a happy workplace. So NPS always strives to set up systematic systems so that employees enjoy impartial opportunities to contribute to the organization as much as | Grievance management process | they have exerted their capabilities and made effort. Answered by Kim Mu-yeong, the Head of HR Management Dept. ✽N  PS Labor union: The senior union is public transportation union under the Korean Confederation of Trade Unions. A person who is employed by NPS and specified in the Code of the Union can be a union member. (Member qualification of employees ranking in the 2nd rating, 3rd rating employee assigned upward, 3rd rating assigned directives (including Center Heads), and personnel allocated in the Union is suspended during the assignment period.) 70 71 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 7. NPS : holding people dear 단위 : 건 Discussion on and 2011 2012 resolution of current Purpose Communication route Formal route Test-operated in seven regional On-line stress measurement for all employees 3 issues related to •Group negotiation headquarters and analysis of result. labor & Management •Labor & management council 2 2 Settling On-line stress measurement Support of expertcurrent •Labor-management working Briefings Expertsurvey of user session for all employees and consulting for highly issues carried out consulting satisfaction •Labor-management workshop analysis of result. stressful groups Informal route | Operating an EAP program | 2009 2010 2011 System of labor •Interview with representatives | Status of industrial accidents and management of labor and management related to personnel | •Interview with management Sharing communication Difficulties and a labor leader management •Strategy meeting of labor and Providing Various Benefits to employees resolved information management NPS help employees to lead happy and stable lives by providing various benefit programs which ranges from health care support, livelihood •Business consultation of labor stabilization support and family affinity support to leisure support and self development support. In 2011, NPS converted its paradigm into focused and management non-monetary support to operate a more reasonable employ benefit system. A new point system for employees who has at least three children is Communication route Communication route included in the flexible benefit plan of NPS. Off-line route Off-line route Purpose •Discussion with CEO •Touring management Purpose Support •Special lecture of by CEO(management) Support for Support for for self CEO(management) •Grievance Management health care Support for Improving Difficulties at sites livelihood Support for development •Meeting of Heads of regional Committee leisure understanding and personnel stabilization family affinity offices in the whole nation •Grievance review of current grievance are •Briefings on current process related to •Group health •Revitalizing club activities management handled. management issues gender equality insurance, health •Loan •Summer operation of the •Support of self-development issues •Allowance for embryo •Strategy workshops •A mentoring system •Providing checkup resort training accommodation in examination On-line route On-line route •Reward of accident •All-the-year-round •Domestic or foreign graduate away-from-home •Support allowance for •Letters to CEO(management) •CEO Hot-line on duty operation of the resort course •Sending communication letters •Suggestions •Prevention of locations infant care •Railway discount •Financial aid •Notification of management •Request of grievance musculoskeletal •Support of fee charged •Childbirth grant agreement meeting minutes settlement system disorders by an estate agency •Financial aid for middle •A bulletin of current issues •Grievance counselor and high school students | Employee benefits | | System of labor and management communication | No. of grievance Grievance Acceptance rate Year Note requested accepted (%) 2009 365 233 63.8 Grievances of serious 2010 170 122 71.8 diseases and maternity How can NPS form the organizational culture in order to fulfill its social responsibilities? are acceptable. 2011 203 142 70.0 I recognized the importance of organizational culture again in the desirable management of NPS as I witnessed that all the activities became | No. of grievance and content | rigid due to the labor-management conflicts. So NPS included social responsibility management in the induction of the organizational culture to the 614 recruits. In addition, since employee satisfaction is directly related to the formation of social responsibility, strengthening motivation is essential, but Occupational Health & Safety NPS is forming an active organizational culture by revealing emotional aspects such as sticky camaraderie and high self-esteem about their workplace to overcome limitation which makes it difficult to expand incentives such as promotion and salary. NPS operates ‘Occupational Safety and Health Committee’ under ‘Occupation safety and Health Act’ and provides comprehensive medical NPS will lead employees continuously to the contribution to the society in the future, by recognizing NPS' social responsibility and enhancing check-ups every two years to employees aged 30 and over who have worked for more than three years and gives accident compensation for employees' awareness of mission related to their tasks. In addition, if awareness of social responsibility and the organizational culture are occupational injury or illness. As the employees’ mental stress has increased due to public service work and the number of staff with skeletal integrated, we will be able to cope with the changes of government policy and communication with stakeholders more effectively. illnesses by using computers for a long time has increased, it introduces an EAP( Employee Assistance Program) and provides preventive training and protection equipment in order to prevent musculoskeletal disorders. Furthermore, by conducting stress tests and individual counseling for Answered by Kim Baek-gi, Head of the Strategy Management Section at the Planning & Coordination Dept. mental health of employees, NPS helps them solve problems that have a negative influence on their job satisfaction and productivity. 72 73 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 8.NPS: Thinking of the Environment “We will open a future world where people and the environment coexist.” 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 8. NPS : thinking of the environment Environmental Management to Save the EARTH Item Unit 2009 2010 2011 Fuel tCOe/yr 320.79 299.43 278.66 Direct NPS leads a response to global climate change by striving to GHG Vehicle tCOeq/yr 50.93 70.01 38.78 save energy and minimize GHG emissions emissions Indirect Electricity tCOeq/yr 2,472.33 2,693.53 3,027.10 Total emissions tCOeq/yr 2,844.07 3,008.98 3,344.54 GHG emissions in basic unit t/㎡,㎞ 0.2278 0.2396 0.2694 GHG Reduction rate % 0 5.9% 6.6% Responding to Climate Change | Geo-thermal electricity system 1 | Note: the application boundary of estimated data above is from headquarters. | Annual GHG emissions | 2013 Enhancement ● Advancing green management Environmental Management System Expanding Use of Recycled Energy system NPS strengthens environmental management over generic management activities to be loved by people. ● Cultivating green culture NPS’ compliance is accomplished by monitoring current status of environmental acts*. To be cooperative It tries to save resources and energy, to minimize greenhouse gas emissions and environmental pollution, to a low-carbon green growth policy of government, NPS prepares for certification of environmentally and to fulfill its responsibilities for the environment through promoting green purchases in everyday life friendly construction and constructs a new pension hall in consideration to nature-friendliness. The geo2012 Institutionalization and environmentally friendly lifestyle. ● R  e-establishment of strategy thermal electricity system was applied in designing the Suwon and Yangsan pension halls. Chuncheon and organizational structure for pension hall reduced cost of 120 million won by restricting GHG emission and was awarded with Objective To become an amiable public service by promoting green management Green management certification as it adopted the 1st rating energy efficiency. ● Preparing detail plan on energy Disseminating Item Environment-friendly characteristics and resources Saving resources Reducing GHGs and Expanding green environmentally and energy environmental pollution purchase | Geo-thermal electricity system 2 | friendly life culture Suwon Pension Hall Adopting geo-thermal electricity generation(322kw) Management 2011 Building foundation strategy •Resource-saving •Preventing •Purchasing •Increasing support of Yangsan Pension Hall Adopting geo-thermal electricity generation(161kw) ● Energy management (including water use) environmental pollution green products green-minded friends’ ● Electricity saving •Energy-saving •Reducing GHGs associations Chuncheon Pension Hall Adopting the 1st rating energy efficiency(Annual use of less than 300kw per ㎡) •Reducing waste and •Complying with | Status of environmentally friendly construction | | Mid & Long term road map of expanding use of environmental acts environmental management | recycled material •Publishing sustainability Making Effort to Save Energy reports NPS-wide Implementation of Energy Management | Environmental management system | NPS-wide energy management planning is established and implemented to restrict GHG emissions and Organization of Environmental Management reduce overuse of energy. NPS saves energy used in building maintenance and transportation areas Task force teams that implement the environmental management appropriate to their roles are operated for effective environmental management. in addition to use of products, and performs active training promotion activities aimed at improving An energy-saving promotion meeting is held twice a year to discuss about and decide key agendas. Energy-custodians designated throughout awareness of energy use. | Geo-thermal electricity system 3 | NPS perform practical energy-saving activities and diffuse energy-saving awareness. Category Planning Key performance Chairperson •Over 30% of lighting devices are replaced with LED lighting products from now to the year of 2012 Energy Saving Promotion Committee •Establishing obligatory use of high efficiency 9,721 LED lightings (30.5%) are exchanged. (Headed by Planning Director) •High efficiency energy equipment and material are purchased energy equipment and material Head of General Administration Support Dept. •Installment of outdoor beauty lightning is banned •Overnight turn-off of outdoor advertisement boards(From 23:00 to sunrise) Strategy Planning Dept. Building •Use of elevators at floors under the 5th is prohibited and operation by the even/odd number •Reasonable operation of elevators above 4th is applied (Elevators for patients and the disabled are excluded) Social Responsibility Emergency Planning Management Section Facilities Business Section Accounting (2 persons) Public relations & Planning •Maintaining adequate indoor temperature •Heating temperature is maintained below 19°C, and cooling temperature above 27°C (2 persons) (2 persons) (1 person) (1 person) •Water saving •Water-saving devices are equipped Establishing the strategy of Managing status of resources Preparing guidelines for Public relations for green Emergency training including environmental management, and energy use, managing purchasing green products and management •Revitalizing use of hybrid or small cars fire drills •Searching for a method for limiting car use •Use of small or hybrid cars are revitalized(5 cars) providing training on the greenhouse gases and operating green purchase Transportation environmental management, environmental pollution •Riding a bike and Increasing use of public •‘Day Selection for using a car ‘ is enforced managing breaches of legal transportation requirement, etc. •Attending training provided by a specialized •Public relations for energy saving are reinforced(e.g. intercom, promotional literature, Training & organization publications, etc) 6 Regional Headquarters Communication •Designating every Wednesday as ‘Green Day’ •Wednesdays are designated as ‘Green Day’ and a energy-saving campaign is conducted | Organizational structure of environmental management | GHG Emissions Management •Use of presentation slides in the meeting or training, summary sheets for approval, individual •Decreasing paper use saving of printer use, etc. Others As a basis for effective management of GHG & energy objective, the GHG emissions performance management system was established in May •Restraining use of disposables • Disposable materials consumption is measured to offer incentives of saving money 2011. Emissions from GHG emission sources, such as buildings and vehicles used at all regional offices, are monitored and managed by NPS. •Environmental allotment is imposed to use of disposables, and using personal cups is encouraged. GHG emissions in 2011 were 6.6% reduced to 3,344.54t of CO2 against emissions in 2010. | Corporate energy-saving planning and performance | ✽ Environmental  acts applicable to general construction located in the metropolitan area: Water Act, Sewage Act, Waste Management Act, 76 and Hazardous Chemicals Management Act 77 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 8. NPS : thinking of the environment Energy Management and Environmental Investment Environmentally Friendly Green Management Continual improvement is implemented by analyzing the root cause of basic unit emissions and total energy consumption. High-efficiency energy materials are substituted and water-saving devices are installed to save energy. The energy-saving system was established to carry out controls Ecology Preservation Activities of cooling and heating temperature, lighting management, and energy-saving activities. To practice energy saving in everyday life, every Although worksites of NPS include no ecological preservation area, a strategy of responding to climate change is established as a start and much Wednesday is designated as ‘A Practice Day of Green life’. Active effort including restriction of car use is sought for reduction of GHG emissions attention is paid to ecology protection activities. The annual planting event in a Planting Day contributes to the formation of forests, and Green from vehicles. A management system for effective environmental management is established and investment related to environment is expanded. Like-minded Friends’ Association continues its activities for environment protection, such as picking-up waste. For example, activities for monitoring installed equipment are performed and energy-saving facilities are substituted. In 2011, equipment used in 11 regional offices are maintained and exchanged, which caused cost-saving of about 789 million 94 thousand won. 1,525 A System for Responding to Environmental & Safety Accidents 1,300 1,370 149 6,492 Due to the latest occurrences of heavy snow, localized torrential downpour, and typhoons, response to contingency and emergency training 139 130 5,728 5,354 Total system are modified. Prior safety checks of equipment prevent elements causing disasters and enable the precautionary awareness of hazard Fuel Electricity energy use and active response to natural disasters resulted from climate change. Periodical safety tours twice a year as well as monthly internal safety ton/yr. MWh/yr. ton/yr. checks are conducted to check equipment used in operation buildings of NPS. Also at occasional times when accident occurrence is possible, 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 independent self-checks by regional offices or a travelling inspection by staff from headquarters is conducted at the same time. NPS provides fire prevention training for its employees and visitors not less than once a year and undertakes simulated response training against a safety accident. | Annual energy use | ● Sanitary facilities, water-supply and drainage facilities Quarterly ● All types of pumps, motor operation, etc. Waste Management Daily check ● Boiler, hot and chilled water machine check ● Cleaning(glass, fan coil, filer, etc.) ● Parking facilities, meters, indoor temperature NPS manages and processes domestic waste, food waste, and designated waste in compliance with legal procedures, and makes effort to Half yearly ● Building structure(floor, wall, column) reduce emissions. It has installed waste bins for separate collection and storage boxes for paper cups/batteries/waste fluorescent lamps as well Weekly check ● Landscape trees, generator, lighting facilities check ● Precise inspection of fire protection system, etc. as outdoor waste storage facilities. In case that separate collection is impossible at the waste generation stage, staff members in full charge of separate waste collection are designated for thorough waste management. ● Fire protection equipment, water supply pump ● Periodic inspection (Boiler, hot and chilled water machine, Unit : ton Monthly ● Elevators and automatic control equipment Annual check elevators, and measurement of indoor air quality) check ● Preventive disinfection, broadcasting & 50ℓ 3,300 3,750 3,320 421 ● Gas monostat (three years), electricity facilities(three years) 385 373 communication facilities 100ℓ 710 920 820 | Preventive checking activities for equipment management | 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Training of Environmental Management | volume-rated plastic used(bag) | | Amount of domestic waste | NPS-wide trainings and sharing activities through communication improve internal awareness of environmental management. A training program of ‘Cyber Green Management’ is operated for all Air Pollution Management employees and training related to overall environmental management improves professionalism of environment management personnel. Also, emotional consensus is diffused throughout NPS by activities NPS’ effort to establish systematic management including periodical monitoring of indoor air quality and pollutants of pension halls to identify including poster-making, energy reduction campaigns, and individual practice vows. status of indoor environment is without stopping. As a control of indoor air pollution, ventilation facilities are complemented and regulation on handling indoor pollutants is established. A categorized activities plan is prepared to manage indoor air quality of publicly-used facilities, and air conditioning devices are cleansed and disinfected on a regular basis to ensure pleasant and safe indoor air. Expanding Green Purchasing NPS buys products certified with either an environmental mark or good recycling (GR), which occupies 90% of the purchased products. NPS encourages environmentally friendly production activities of Public water supplies suppliers. Reduction of maintenance and disposal cost, and safety of human bodies are accomplished by Underground water green purchasing. Especially, prior review of prioritized purchases is a must to form the basis of green Total amount of water used Unit : ton products purchase at the planning stage. At the contracting stage a special condition of purchasing Water Management 22,284 green products is included in contract terms and conditions. Purchasing performance is managed by a 20,333 19,333 computer system. The amount of purchasing green products in 2011 was KRW 3,270 million, 93% of total Water used in the Headquarter and regional offices is either supplied publicly 11,325 purchase amount. or extracted from underground. Terminal treatment of wastewater is carried | A poster of an energy reduction 11,617 11,457 out through urban sewage treatment plants. Additional wastewater recycling 10,959 campaign | 8,716 Item 2009 2010 2011 7,876 facilities are not operated because NPS has no hazardous materials of various types that can have a negative impact on the environment. Amount of green purchasing (KRW 1 million) 3,987 3,227 3,270 2009 2010 2011 Green purchasing percentage (%) 97.7 89.7 93.0 | Status of water use | | Status of green purchasing | 78 79 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 9. APPENDIX Summary of Economic Performance (Unit : KRW 1 million) Summarized Category 2009 2010 2011 Financial Liquid asset 63,454 85,672 87,430 Asset Non-liquid asset 491,219 504,016 524,999 Statements Aggregated asset 554,673 589,688 612,429 2012 Liquid liabilities 41,748 79,582 56,828 Pension business Liabilities Non-liquid liabilities 619,844 629,368 652,644 Aggregated debt 661,592 708,950 709,472 Capital money 0 0 0 NPS Sustainability Report Capital Others Aggregated capital -106,919 -106,919 -119,262 -119,262 -97,043 -97,043 APPENDIX Asset Liquid asset Investment asset Other non-liquid asset 52,517,470 228,257,770 321,994 79,915,230 249,425,058 324,725 73,248,853 276,848,679 360,609 Aggregated asset 283,097,234 325,665,013 350,458,141 Summary of Economic Performance Liquid liabilities 3,836,283 690,207 453,156 Fund business Liabilities Other non-liquid liabilities 1,618,567 984,055 1,137,293 Aggregated liabilities 5,454,850 1,674,262 1,590,449 ISO 26000 Compliance Diagnosis Report Basic net assets 335 335 335 Reserve & surplus 264,555,950 294,788,855 325,,439,479 Net asset Assurance Statement of the Third Party Verifier Net asset coordinated 13,086,099 29,201,560 23,427,878 Aggregated net asset 277,642,384 323,990,750 348,867,692 GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index Business Item 2009 2010 2011 Operation Total number of the insured* 18,623,845 19,228,875 19,885,911 UNGC & UN PRI Principles Workplace 979,861 1,031,358 1,103,570 Performance No. of the Workplace subscriber The insured 9,866,681 10,414,780 10,976,501 insured Urban area 6,754,838 6,722,625 6,688.799 Certification, Prizewinning, and Membership (person) Local subscriber Farming & fishing area 1,925,023 1,951,867 1,986,631 Sub-total 8,679,861 8,674,492 8,675,430 Voluntary subscriber(continual) 77,303 139,603 233,980 Old age 2,288,580 2,496,122 2,685,251 Disability 109,564 116,767 123,114 Pension beneficiarie Survivor 410,538 450,852 491,916 No. of Sub-total 2,808,682 3,063,741 3,300,281 beneficiaries Disability 3,836 3,447 3,480 Lump sum Return 154,119 141,347 136,628 beneficiaries Death 9,759 9,893 11,631 Sub-total 151,739 154,687 167,714 Item 2009 2010 2011 All financial sections Unit 10.41 10.39 2.31 Stocks % 45.40 21.86 -9.46 Domestic % 51.00 25,41 -10.34 Overseas % 26.50 13.04 -6.90 Operational profit Bond % 3.98 7.52 5.73 rate by each Type Domestic % 4.09 7.59 5.67 of asset** Overseas % 2.23 6.52 6.59 Alternative % -0.92 8.66 10.22 Domestic % 4.06 7.71 9.02 Overseas % -21.09 10.47 12.03 ✽ Workers  engaged in workplaces which subscribe to at least two types of national pension or workplace subscribers 80 (at least two workplaces applied) of users are both estimated by the unit of workplace. 81 ✽✽ Based on the profit rate of booked average balance 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 9. APPENDIX ISO 26000 Compliance Diagnosis Report ISO 26000 Compliance Diagnosis Report Dear NPS Management and Stakeholders, Criteria of Assessment I. Assessment of Social Responsibility Management III. Recommendation for Subject-specific KSA (Korean Standards Association) developed a ‘Checklist Process: 310 points out of maximum 360 Improvement to evaluate implementation level of social responsibility’. The On the basis of management commitment of social responsibility, The following is recommendations for improvement in the area checklist provided by ISO 26000 includes the performance NPS established a new social responsibility management division of each core subject. evaluation of the social responsibility implementation process and strived to publish the first social responsibility management and 7 core subjects of social responsibility; organizational ① Organizational governance ⑥ Consumer issues report to show its tendency to enhance implementation activities. governance, human rights, the environment, labor practices, Especially, NPS manifested its commitment of social responsibility NPS-wide strategy of social responsibility management is NPS collects VOCs of Korean people on a monthly basis and fair operating practices, consumer issues, and community management through supporting international initiatives, including implemented with a one-sided line. In terms of mid and longtries to use them to achieve management improvement. Also involvement and development. KSA checked the implementation term prospective, NPS should integrate social responsibility an advanced monitoring system for information protection UN Global Compact and UNPRI. level of social responsibility of the NPS (National Pension management strategy into overall corporate strategy to is implemented to promote personal information protection implement operation in the future. Service) in accordance with the ISO 26000 checklist. Result of Process Assessment management. Nevertheless, a customer-related training program should be developed, including a program associated Achievement ② Human rights Boundary of Assessment 8 stages of SR management process percentage (%) with customer health and safety protection, and the promotion KSA carried out evaluation of the areas of generic internal Working conditions and management of training of employed of sustainable consumption should also be pursued. Recognition of social responsibility 88.00 women is satisfactory. As documentation of separated policy, activities, mid and long-term strategies, social responsibility activities, and the implementation process of the sustainability Identification of and engagement with stakeholders 90.00 guidelines and audit criteria of human rights is insufficient, and ⑦ Community involvement and development documentation of both relevant policy including suppliers and NPS contributes to creating new employments related to management strategy. The result of check is determined on Analysis of core subjects and issues of social responsibility 93.33 guidelines is recommended. business working and establishing enhanced credibility the basis of reviewing internal documentation including relevant policies, activities, performance data and estimating system. Prioritization, establishment of strategy for implementation and planning 80.00 through local community assistance activities determined ③ Labor practices by considerations of business characteristics. To satisfy Implementation 90.00 A Method of Assessment NPS’ effort to manage physical and mental health of personnel the reinforcement of consultation with local stakeholders KSA performed the 1st stage preliminary check through Communication 80.00 including introduction and operation of an EAP (Employee during engagement activities performed in local communities, Assistance Program) is outstanding. However, accusations consultative groups should be organized and revitalized to interviews with internal stakeholders in the departments involved Verification 93.33 and labor-management disputes occur continually because of identify needs of local communities and support meeting these in publication of social responsibility management reports. Improvement 80.00 opinion difference existing between labor and management. needs. During the 2nd stage evaluation, the verification team visited Communication with internal stakeholders for harmonized the headquarters of NPS, investigated documentation related agreement between labor and management should be Conclusion II. Assessment of 7 Core Subjects: 574.9 points to internal evaluation and review, and interviewed relevant promoted in the future. out of maximum 640 The implementation level of social responsibility is generally personnel. excellent. Recognition of social responsibilities is disseminated NPS’ implementation level of expectations in relation to 7 ④ The environment throughout the organization and establishment of implementation Result of Assessment core subjects of ISO 26000 is generally seamless. Especially With the operation of Energy Saving Committee, NPS responds processes in conformance with ISO 26000 is very positive. To As result of evaluation, NPS achieved 884.9 points out of implementation of fair operating practices such as antito environmental issues such as greenhouse gases. Also NPS consider opinions of various types of stakeholders, integrated maximum 1000 points, which showed the 4th implementation corruption activities is excellent. Implementation of engagement implements policy of use of high efficiency energy products in management of stakeholders’ opinions through communication stage of social responsibility management. Such result in local communities and improvement is also considered to be compliance with government policy. But areas for improvement with society and clear understanding of stakeholders’ demonstrates that awareness level of personnel required to on an excellent level. are limited to management of environmental performance expectations should be accomplished in the future. implement social responsibility is very high and that policies according to governmental policies and absence of designated and practices of NPS’ operational system are well established. Result of Subject-specific Assessment personnel. An environmental performance management system including allocation of designated persons should be Core subject Maximum score Evaluation score Achievement established in the future. 7 core subjects percentage (%) Process 360 310 Organizational governance 90.0 ⑤ Fair operating practices Performance 640 574.9 Level of both the institutional operation of fair operation Human rights 91.4 October 1 2012 Total 1000 884.9 practices such as the internal irrationality reporting practice and Labor practices 95.2 the transparency related to contracting process is very high. Kim Chang-yong, The environment 74.0 However, as bureaucratized characteristics seem to exist in the President of Korean Standards Association institutional operation, NPS should pursue the improvement of Fair operating practices 97.4 effectiveness in the institutional operation and mid/long term Consumer issues 93.3 revitalization of social responsibility for suppliers. Community involvement and development 96.7 82 83 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 9. APPENDIX Assurance Statement of the Third Party Verifier Assurance Statement of the Third Party Verifier Assurance Statement related to The National Pension Service’s, Sustainability Report 2012, for the calendar LRQA’s Opinion year ending 31st December 2011 Based on LRQA’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that NPS’s Report does not Terms of Engagement meet GRI G3.1’s application level A+. This Assurance Statement has been prepared for National Pension Service. It is also our opinion that NPS has not excluded any material issues and that their reporting processes provides reliable sustainability performance data and information. Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by National Pension Service (NPS) to assure its Sustainability However, whilst performance data in our opinion is reliable, it was determined that the environmental data was not complete; Report 2012 for the calendar year ending 31st December 2011 (“the Report”). The Report relates to the sustainability performance only the environmental data for NPS’s head office was reported. data and information for NPS’s activities in Korea. Our terms of engagement covered NPS’s head office in Seoul and its domestic branch offices where NPS has operational LRQA’s Recommendations control. NPS should consider : Management Responsibility •Improving the data management systems to ensure accuracy and reporting consistency with the requirements of GRI NPS’s management was responsible for preparing the Report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the data Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3.1. and information disclosed. LRQA’s responsibility was to carry out an assurance engagement on the Report in accordance •Including environmental performance data from those branch offices under its operational control with our contract with NPS. •Increasing, throughout its organisation, the understanding of what social responsibility is. NPS could do this by providing Ultimately, the Report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of NPS. further awareness training and ensuring that their sustainability strategies and commitment to reporting are embedded in day to day activities. LRQA’s Approach Our verification has been conducted against the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI G3.1 ). Dated: 4th December 2012 The objectives of the assurance engagement were to: •Confirm that the Report meets the requirements of GRI G3.1’s application level A+ Verifiers •Validate NPS’s self-declaration for GRI G3.1’s application level A+ Signed •Evaluate the reliability and accuracy of specified sustainability data and information. To form our conclusions the assurance was undertaken as a sampling exercise and covered the following activities: •Reviewing NPS’s stakeholder engagement process, material issues and related information Hack-Ryang Kim Dave Mateo •Benchmarking NPS’s material issues against our own independent analysis of stakeholder issues which was done by evaluating external media reports and reviewing other sustainability reports written by NPS‘s peers in comparable industries On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance •Understanding how NPS determine, respond and report on their material issues 17th Floor, Sinsong Building, 67 Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea •Interviewing senior management to understand NPS’s reporting processes and use of sustainability performance data within their business decision-making processes LRQA Reference: SEO 6016402 •Interviewing key personnel to understand NPS’s processes for setting performance indicators and for monitoring progress made during the reporting period This document is subject to the provision below : This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. •Verifying NPS’s data and information management systems and reviewing supporting evidence made available by NPS at their head office Kukmin-Yeonkum Building, 13, Olympic-ro 35 Da-gil, Songpa-gu, Seoul, Korea in accordance with our Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as the 'Lloyd’s Register Group'. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or contract for the verification of data and information disclosed in the Report. Note 1: Economic performance data was taken howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd’s Register Group entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. direct from the audited financial accounts •Checking that the GRI G3.1 index allows stakeholders to access sustainability performance indicators. Due to inherent limitations in any internal control it is possible that fraud, error, or non-compliance with laws and regulations may occur and not be detected. Further, the verification was not designed to detect all weakness or errors in internal controls so far as they relate to the requirements set out above as the verification has not been performed continuously throughout the period and the verification carried out on the relevant internal controls were on a test basis. Any projection of the evaluation of control to future periods is subject to the risk that the processes may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with them may deteriorate. The English version of this statement is the only valid version. The Lloyd’s Register Group assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. 84 85 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 9. APPENDIX GRI G3.1/ISO 26000 Index GRI G3.1/ISO 26000 Index ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported N/A Not Applicable ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported N/A Not Applicable Profile G3.1 Content Index ISO 26000 ISO 26000 Core Social Responsibility Page Reporting Profile G3.1 Content Index ISO 26000 ISO 26000 Core Social Responsibility Page Reporting Subjects & Themes Level Subjects & Themes Level Stakeholder Inclusiveness Principle 6.8.2 Community involvement 18-19 ● 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance Boundary Protocol 6.6.5 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain Overview ● 4.1 body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 6.2 26-27 ● Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an 1. Strategy and Analysis 4.2 executive officer. 6.2 26-27 ● For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 6.2 4-5 ● 4.3 number and gender of members of the highest governance body 6.2 26-27 ● Organizational Governance that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 6.2 4-5, 28-29 ● 4.4 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 6.2 26-27 ● Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, 2. Organizational Profile 4.5 senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the 6.2 26-27 ● organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). 2.1 Name of the organization. 10 ● Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure 4.6 conflicts of interest are avoided. 6.2 26-27 ● 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 14-15 ● Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating 4.7 members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any 6.2 26-27 ● 2.3 companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 6.2 Organizational Governance 10 ● consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 12 ● 4.8 conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and 6.2 16-17 ● social performance and the status of their implementation. Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of Organizational Governance 2.5 countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the 12 ● Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's sustainability issues covered in the report. identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, 4.9 including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with 6.2 27 ● 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 26-27 ● internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types 10 ● 4.10 particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 6.2 27 ● of customers/beneficiaries). Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or 4.11 6.2 28-29 ● 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 10 ● principle is addressed by the organization. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or 4.12 or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 6.2 17, 36 ● 2.9 ownership. 10 ● Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ ● international advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 92 4.13 governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive 6.2 92 ● funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 3. Report Parameters 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 6.2 18 ● 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Overview ● 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to 6.2 18 ● engage. Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). N/A 4.16 engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 6.2 18 ● ● Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Overview 4.17 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 6.2 19 ● 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Overview ● Economic (Disclosure on Management Approach) 11 ● 3.5 Process for defining report content. 22~23 ● Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating 6.8/6.8.3/ Community involvement and EC1 costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, 6.8.7/6.8.9 development / Community involvement / Wealth and 11 ● Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. income creation / Social investment 3.6 joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. Overview ● Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see EC2 organization's activities due to climate change. 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation and action 76-77 ● 3.7 completeness principle for explanation of scope). Overview ● Conditions of work and social protection / Community EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. 6.4.4/6.8 involvement and development 70 ● Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 3.8 operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from Overview ● EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 11 ● period to period and/or between organizations. Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to Conditions of work and social protection Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques EC5 local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. 6.4.4/6.8 Community involvement and development 66 ● 3.9 underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Overview ● 6.6.6/6.8/ Promoting social responsibility in the value chain / Community involvement Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based EC6 suppliers at significant locations of operation. 6.8.5/6.8.7 and development / Employment creation and skills 63 ● Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier development / Wealth and income creation 3.10 reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, N/A Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management Community involvement and development / Employment change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). EC7 hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. 6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7 creation and skills development / Wealth and income creation 67 ● Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services Economic, social and cultural rights / Community involvement and 3.11 N/A 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.3/6.8.4/ or measurement methods applied in the report. EC8 provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or 6.8.5/6.8.6/6.8.7/6.8.9 development / Community involvement / Education and culture / Technology 51-53 ● pro bono engagement. development and access / Wealth and income creation / Social investment 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 86-90 ● 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.6.7/ Economic, social and cultural rights / Community involvement Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, and development / Community involvement / Education 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the 7.5.3 Verification 84-85 ● EC9 including the extent of impacts. 6.7.8/6.8/6.8.5/ and culture / Employment creation and skills development / 53 ● report. 6.8.6/6.8.7/6.8.9 Technology development and access / Wealth and income creation / Social investment 86 87 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 9. APPENDIX GRI G3.1/ISO 26000 Index GRI G3.1/ISO 26000 Index ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported N/A Not Applicable ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported N/A Not Applicable Profile G3.1 Content Index ISO 26000 Core Social Responsibility Reporting Profile G3.1 Content Index ISO 26000 ISO 26000 Core Social Responsibility Page Reporting ISO 26000 Subjects & Themes Page Level Subjects & Themes Level Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work ● Environmental (Disclosure on Management Approach) 76 ● (Disclosure on Management Approach) 66, 68, 71 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 78 ● LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. Labour Practices / Employment and employment 66 ● 6.4/6.4.3 relationships EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 77 ◐ LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 67 ● Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided Labour Practices / Employment and employment EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 77 ● LA3 to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 relationships / Conditions of work and social 73 ● protection EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 77 ● Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/ Labour Practices / Employment and employment relationships LA4 agreements. 6.4.5/6.3.10 / Conditions of work and social protection / Social dialogue / 71 ● EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 77-78 ● Fundamental principles and rights at work Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based 6.5/6.5.4 The Environment / Sustainable resource use Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, Labour Practices / Employment and employment EN6 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a 77-78 ● LA5 including whether it is specified in collective agreements. 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/6.4.5 relationships / Conditions of work and social 71 ● result of these initiatives. protection / Social dialogue Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and EN7 77-78 ● LA6 safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. 72-73 ● achieved. 6.4/6.4.6 Labour Practices / Health and safety at work Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 78 ● LA7 and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. 72-73 ● EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 78 ● LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community 6.4/6.4.6/6.8/6.8.3 Labour Practices / Health and safety at work / Community involvement and development / Community 73 ● members regarding serious diseases. /6.8.4/6.8.8 involvement / Education and culture / Health EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 78 ● Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 6.4/6.4.6 Labour Practices / Health and safety at work 72-73 ● EN11 to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside N/A Labour Practices / Human development and training protected areas. LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 6.4/6.4.7 in the workplace 68-69 ● Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued Labour Practices / Human development and training in the Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services LA11 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. 6.4/6.4.7/6.8.5 workplace / Employment creation and skills development 70 ● EN12 on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value N/A Labour Practices / Human development and training outside protected areas. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. 6.4/6.4.7 in the workplace 70 ● EN13 Habitats protected or restored. The Environment / Protection of the environment & N/A 6.5/6.5.6 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per Discrimination and vulnerable groups / Fundamental Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts biodiversity, and restoration of natural habitat LA13 employee category according to gender, age group, minority group 6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4/6.4.3 principles and rights at work / Labour Practices / 26-27 ● EN14 N/A membership, and other indicators of diversity. Employment and employment / relationships on biodiversity. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee 6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4/ Discrimination and vulnerable groups / Fundamental principles and Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list LA14 category, by significant locations of operation. 6.4.3/6.4.4 rights at work / Labour Practices / Employment and employment 66 ● EN15 species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of N/A relationships / Conditions of work and social protection extinction risk. Discrimination and vulnerable groups / Economic, LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. social and cultural rights 69 ● EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 76~77 ● EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 6.5/6.5.5 The Environment / Climate change mitigation and 76~77 ● Social: Human Rights (Disclosure on Management Approach) 62, 71 ● action Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and Human Rights / Due diligence / Avoidance of EN18 achieved. 76~77 ● HR1 contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or 6.3/6.33/6.3.5/6.6.6 complicity / Promoting social responsibility in the value 36-37, 62 ● that have undergone human rights screening. chain EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. N/A Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business Human Rights / Due diligence / Avoidance of complicity 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.5/ HR2 partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions / Employment and employment relationships / Promoting 62 ◐ EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. N/A taken. 6.4.3/6.6.6 social responsibility in the value chain Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. ○ HR3 rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. 6.3/6.3.5 Human Rights / Avoidance of complicity 57 ● 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/ Human Rights / Resolving grievances / Discrimination and 6.5/6.5.3 The Environment / Prevention of pollution Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 78 ● HR4 taken. 6.3.10/6.4.3 vulnerable groups / Fundamental principles and rights at 71 ● work / Employment and employment relationships EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. N/A Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/6.3.5/ Human Rights / Due diligence / Human rights risk situations / Avoidance Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed HR5 exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be 6.3.8/6.3.10/6.4.3/6.4.5 of complicity / Civil and political rights / Fundamental principles and rights 71 ● violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. at work / Employment and employment relationships / Social dialogue EN24 hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, N/A and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk Human Rights / Due diligence / Human rights risk situations Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water The Environment / Sustainable resource use / HR6 for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the / Avoidance of complicity / Discrimination and vulnerable 66 ● effective abolition of child labor. 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/6.3.5 groups / Fundamental principles and rights at work EN25 bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting 6.5/6.5.4/6.5.6 Protection of the environment & biodiversity, and N/A organization's discharges of water and runoff. restoration of natural habitat Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant /6.3.7/6.3.10 Human Rights / Due diligence / Human rights risk situations Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, The Environment / Sustainable resource use / HR7 risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to / Avoidance of complicity / Discrimination and vulnerable 66 ● EN26 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6/6.7.5 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain / N/A contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. groups / Fundamental principles and rights at work and extent of impact mitigation. Sustainable consumption Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies Human Rights / Avoidance of complicity / EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are 6.5/6.5.4/6.7.5 The Environment / Sustainable resource use / N/A HR8 or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant 6.3/6.3.5/6.4.3/6.6.6 Employment and employment relationships / 57 ● reclaimed by category. Sustainable consumption to operations. Promoting social responsibility in the value chain Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/ Human Rights / Resolving grievances / EN28 6.5 The Environment N/A Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. HR9 Discrimination and vulnerable groups / Civil and N/A people and actions taken. 6.3.8/6.6.7 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials The Environment / Sustainable resource use / political rights / Respect for property rights EN29 used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 77 ● Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to HR10 Due diligence / Human rights risk situations 62 ◐ human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 6.5 The Environment 79 ● Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed HR11 and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Resolving grievances 58, 71 ● 88 89 2012 NPS Sustainability Report 9. APPENDIX GRI G3.1/ISO 26000 Index UN Global Compact & UN PRI Principles ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○ Not Reported N/A Not Applicable Profile G3.1 Content Index ISO 26000 ISO 26000 Core Social Responsibility Subjects & Themes Page Reporting Level The UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the four areas Social: Society (Disclosure on Management Approach) 50, 56, 62 ● In October 2012, the National Pension Service signed up the ‘UN Global Compact’, an international agreement on corporate social Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.5/ Economic, social and cultural rights / Community involvement and responsibility under a UN scheme. Now NPS supports and implements the UN GC’s ten principles in the four areas of human rights, SO1 impact assessments, and development programs. development / Employment creation and skills development / 50-53 ● 6.8.7*/6.6.7 Wealth and income creation / Respect for property rights labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related ◐ SO2 35, 58 to corruption. Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies SO3 and procedures. 6.6/6.6.3 Fair Operating Practices / Anti-corruption 57 ● Principle 1 : Businesses should support and respect the protection of SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 35, 58 ● internationally proclaimed human rights; and Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and Human Rights SO5 lobbying. Fair Operating Practices / Responsible political involvement / 47, 51 ● Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. 6.6/6.6.4/6.8.3 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, Community involvement SO6 N/A politicians, and related institutions by country. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and Fair Operating Practices / Fair competition / Respect for Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the SO7 monopoly practices and their outcomes. 6.6/6.6.5/6.6.7 property rights 62 N/A effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Fair Operating Practices / Respect for property rights / SO8 6.6/6.6.7/6.8.7 N/A sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. Wealth and income creation Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local SO9 Community involvement and development N/A Labour communities. Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; and SO10 Community involvement and development N/A significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Social: Product Responsibility occupation. (Disclosure on Management Approach) 42 ● Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to PR1 services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant 45 ● environmental challenges; Economic, social and cultural rights / Promoting social products and services categories subject to such procedures. 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.7 responsibility in the value chain / Consumer Issues / /6.7.4/6.7.5 Protecting consumers’ health & safety / Sustainable Environment Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and consumption PR2 voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products N/A and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Type of product and service information required by procedures, Consumer Issues / Fair marketing, factual and unbiased PR3 and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information and fair contractual practices / Protecting 42-44 ● Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including information requirements. 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.4/ consumers’ health & safety / Sustainable consumption extortion and bribery Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 6.7.5/6.7.6/6.7.9 / Consumer service, support and complaint and dispute resolution / Education and awareness PR4 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and N/A labeling, by type of outcomes. Consumer Issues / Protecting consumers’ health & safety / Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys 6.7/6.7.4/6.7.5/ Sustainable consumption / Consumer service, support and PR5 measuring customer satisfaction. 6.7.6/6.7.8/6.7.9 complaint and dispute resolution / Access to essential services / Education and awareness 42-44 ● UN PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment) Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes The National Pension Service obtained membership of the UN PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment) in 2009, and PR6 related to marketing communications, including advertising, Consumer Issues / Fair marketing, factual and unbiased 42-44 ● promotion, and sponsorship. 6.7/6.7.3/ information and fair contractual practices / Consumer service, endeavors to improve its long-term management performance of fund and enroot a long-term investing culture in the Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and 6.7.6/6.7.9 support and complaint and dispute resolution / Education capital market with commitment to the following six principles for responsible investment of the United Nations. and awareness PR7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including N/A advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of PR8 customer privacy and losses of customer data. 6.7/6.7.7 Consumer Issues / Consumer data protection and privacy 44 ● Principle 1. We will incorporate ESG issues into investment analysis and decision-making processes. Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws Principle 2. We will be active owners and incorporate ESG issues into our ownership policies and Consumer Issues / Consumer service, support and complaint PR9 and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and 6.7/6.7.6 N/A services. and dispute resolution practices. Principle 3. We will seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by the entities in which we invest. Principle 4. We will promote acceptance and implementation of the Principles within the investment industry. Principle 5. We will work together to enhance our effectiveness in implementing the Principles. Principle 6. We will each report on our activities and progress toward implementing the Principles. 90 91 2012 NPS Sustainability Report Certification, Prizewinning, and Membership Key performance of certification & prizewinning (2011.1.1 ~ 2012.6.30.) Date Description Awarding body Questionnaire on Public Opinion Winning the 1st prize in the section of the ‘Most Reliable Company KMAC (Korea Management Association We wait for your valuable opinion. 2011 Pension and Fund in Korea’ Consulting) NPS seeks to listen to many voices of stakeholders to publish an improved social responsibility management report in the Selected as the ‘Excellent Organization in the Korean Industrial Services KMAC (Korea Management Association 2011 Quality Indicator (for call center services)(for five consecutive years) Consulting) future. Please tick the boxes for your answers and send the questionnaire to the address below. Ministry of Education, Science and Technology/ 2011 Certified with the ‘Best-HRD’ in the public section Address: National Pension Service, 13 Olympic-ro 35da-gil, Songpa-gu, Seoul Ministry of Public Administration and Security Phone: 02-2240-1908 2011 Certified with the ‘Family-Friendly Organization’ Ministry of Gender Equality and Family Fax: 02-3485-9812 2011 Certified with the ‘Web Accessibility Quality Mark’ The National Information Society Agency Email: nps0621@nps.or.kr Winning the ‘Best Asian & Pacific Pension Fund of the Year’ award (in 2011 The ‘Asia Asset Management’ magazine Relevant department: Social responsibility management section, General Administration Support Dept. three consecutive years) 2011 The ‘Pension Investor of the Year’ The ‘Asset’ magazine 2011 The ‘Institutional Investor of the Year’ The ‘Asian investor’ magazine 1. Which group are you in? Asian Sustainable and responsible Investment  Customer(Beneficiary)  Personnel  Subcontractor  Organization related to fund management 2011 ‘2011 Model Investor‘ of Asian Responsible Investor Award Association(ASrIA)  NGO and civil organization  Relevant Institution  Community inhabitant The ‘Prime Minister’s Award of ‘I Love Farm’ (Selected as excellent The ‘I Love Farm’ pan-national Campaign Cutting line 2011 organization of urban-rural exchange in three consecutive years) Center(Corporation) 2012. 3 The ‘Best CEO of the Year’ in Asia Region The ‘Asia Asset Management’ magazine 2. For which purpose do you use this report? 2012. 3 The ’Best CIO of the Year’ of the ‘Korea Awards 2012’ The ‘Asian investor’ magazine  To obtain information on NPS  To use as reference 2012. 5 The “Best Institutional Investor”(Real Estate Section) IP Real Estate  To use for study or education  To identify social responsibility management activities of NPS 2012. 6 The 2012 Grand Prize of Global Financial Management The Korea Daily of JoongAng Ilbo 3. Which issue do you have the most interest in?  Result of materiality assessment  Governance  Social responsible investing Membership  Human resource management  Environmental management  Responsibility management Organization & Association Organization & Association  Customer satisfaction management  Engagement in local communities  Social responsibility management The Korean Social Security Association Korea Insurance Research Institute  Others( ) Korea National Council on Social Welfare Korea Employer’s Federation Korean Academy of Social Welfare PPI (Pacific Pension Institute) The Korean Association of Public Finance The Korean Association for Survey Research 4. Did this report help you understand social responsibility management of NPS? Korea Development Institute IPC (International Pensions Conference)  Absolutely unhelpful  Unhelpful  N/A  Helpful  Very helpful Korean Association of Social Welfare Policy The Korean Economic Association Russsell 20-20 (20-20 Investment Association) Seoul Economist Club 5.Please write down your own opinion on this social responsibility management report below. The Korean Labor Economic Association KIFA (Korea International Finance Association) Korea Labor Institute Korean Pension Association 92 Publication of 2012 NPS Sustainability Report Person responsible : An Seong-geun, Head of Social Responsibility Management Section Person appointed : Kim Chang-jun, Deputy Head of Social Responsibility Management Section Seon Jeong-hyeon, Manager Contact Address : National Pension Service, 13 Olympic-ro 35da-gil, Songpa-gu, Seoul Phone : 02-2240-1908 Fax : 02-3485-9812 Email : nps0621@nps.or.kr Relevant department : Social responsibility management section, General Administration Support Dept. Homepage : http://www.nps.or.kr
