Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 A Better Way to Go Special Feature: Our approach to CSR Energy Efficiency Healing & Caring Fuel efficiency equation: The answer we sought and Economic car=green car found in 2012 From Supplier to Partner China Report Our definition of partnership Looking back on our first decade in China Customer Focus Why have CEO-chaired quality meetings and why get service training at a hotel? Contents 02 Kia around the World Yancheng, with an economic growth rate of 14% and a population of 850,000 as of 2012, is being touted an emerging industrial city. And Future vehicles should either curb at the center of Yancheng’s reclaimed glory are energy consumption or do away with Kia Motors and our 90 partner companies. CO2 emissions altogether. Review of Kia Motors’ Future Vehicles: First Decade in China Progress & Plans 20 52 12 Challenges & Opportunities The Green Light Project is a community A discussion on climate change and development endeavor through which we offer practical vehicles leads to one conclusion: opportunities to become self-reliant to those the need to improve fuel economy. Fuel with limited access to education, medical economy and CO2 emissions have a 99% care, and cultural events and activities. correlation. That is, raising vehicle fuel We aim to be a steadfast presence and economy and lowering CO2 emissions remain a long-term partner in the effort to make up the equation of affordable and resolve social challenges. green mobility. Special Feature: Technologies for Enhanced Our Approach to CSR Fuel Economy 22 56 In a business environment where innovation Cars are becoming safer with airbags Appendices has become routine, the scope of business and reinforced bodies, and smarter competitiveness extends across the entire with cutting-edge accident prevention business ecosystem. Some 95% of the features. Cars now self-diagnose parts that make up a car come from partner against hazards and automatically companies. In the auto industry, where apply safety measures. Kia Motors technological competency is key to success, uses technology to keep people Winning Employees’ Hearts & Minds 34 mutual growth with partners has become a prerequisite for survival and growth. safe while spreading motor safety awareness. Safety & Environmental Assessments 66 Reader’s guide With healing as our goal and theme in 2012, Mutual Growth: Defining Smarter Vehicles for Icons are used to indicate additional information. An interactive Kia Motors worked with our employees to seek Partnership Greater Safety In 2012, Kia vehicles have become safer and PDF version of 2013 MOVE is also available. The interactive PDF solutions and put them into action. 38 greener. We introduce our green lineup of vehicles 62 version includes videos that could not be included in the print version as well as shortcuts and links to websites. The interactive with verified safety and environmental performance. PDF version can be downloaded from the Kia Motors website. M This report (2013 MOVE) e Website Terminology or additional information PROFILE Kia around the 15 27 24 World 13 3 14 16 4 30 20 12 2 6 11 10 7 9 5 Since our founding in 1944, Kia Motors has grown into a leading global automaker with 26 19 8 28 23 25 annual sales of over 2.7 million vehicles in 166 countries. Through continuous R&D and 29 investment, we have come to possess a full lineup of vehicles spanning all segments and 1 31 22 21 types, including passenger cars, RVs, and commercial vehicles. With production facilities and R&D and design centers in the United States, China, Europe, and other major regional 32 markets, we recently entered Interband’s Top 100 Best Global Brands list, debuting in 87th place. Kia Motors will fulfill our corporate social responsibilities of sharing the fruits of our growth, maintaining stakeholder trust, and drawing on our research and technological competencies to realize sustainable mobility. 17 18 No. of vehicles produced based on annual production volume 10 One of the world’s top 10 2.72 million Sales volume. 8.8% global market share (Hyundai Motor Group total) 87 One of the world’s top 100 brands Business Domain PASSENGER CAR Morning (Picanto), Ray, Venga, cee’d, Pride (Rio), K2, K3 (Forte/ Cerato), Forte Koup (Cerato Koup), K5 (Optima), K7 (Cadenza), K9 (Kia Quoris) RV Soul, Carens (Rondo), Carnival R (Carnival/Sedona), Sportage R (Sportage), PRODUCTION Korea S  oha Plant (340,000 units), Hwaseong Plant (620,000 units), Gwangju Plant (450,000 units), Original equipment manufacturing (250,000 units) Overseas China Plant (440,000 units), Slovakia Plant (300,000 units), Georgia (USA) automakers (sales volume) (Interbrand) Sorento R (Sorento), Mohave Plant (340,000 units) COMMERCIAL VEHICLE Bongo III (K-Series trucks), New Granbird (commercial bus) Kia Motors Manufacturing Georgia (3,002 employees) 19 | Slovakia Plant/Kia Motors HYBRID VEHICLE Forte LPi Hybrid, K5 (Optima) Hybrid Slovakia in Žilina (3,696 employees) 20 | China Plants 1 & 2 in Yancheng (4,941 ELECTRIC VEHICLE Ray EV employees) | Corporate Headquarters in Seoul (Korea: 3 plants, 2 R&D centers, 19 47,104 21 90.7 % CKD (Complete Knock Down) Automobile components (engines, etc.) regional service centers, 338 dealerships, 32,921 employees) 22 Recycling rate of Global Network No. of employees waste generated during SALES & SERVICE R&D manufacturing process Korea Sales 20 regional headquarters, 338 regional sales offices, 399 dealerships, Korea Hyundai Motor Group Technology Research Institute (Hwaseong, Gyeonggi(domestic plants) 9 shipping offices do), Eco-Technology Research Institute (Yongin, Gyeonggi-do) Service 19 regional service centers, 239 comprehensive service providers, Overseas Technology research and design centers (United States, Europe, Japan) 2 562 partial service providers Technology research centers United States (Ann Arbor, Irvine) | Europe Kia Green Light +15 % 23 47 trillion won Overseas S  ales 166 countries, 18 sales offices, 150 distributors, 4,485 dealers (Rüsselsheim) 24 | Japan (Yokohama) 25 Center (service & sales) Design centers United States (Irvine) 26 | Europe (Frankfurt) 27 | Japan (Yokohama) 28 Sales Offices Kia Motors America 1 | Kia Canada Inc. 2 | Kia Motors Deutschland OTHER School/community Year-on-year 3 | Kia Motors UK 4 | Kia Motors Iberia 5 | Kia Motors France 6 | Kia Motors Italy Central & South America Regional Headquarters (Miami, USA) 29 | Eastern Europe/CIS centers built in Africa as increase in CSR 7 | Kia Motors Austria 8 | Kia Motors Hungary 9 | Kia Motors Czech 10 | Kia Motors Regional Headquarters (Kiev, Ukraine) 30 | Middle East & Africa Regional Headquarters part of the Green Light investment Sales revenue (K-IFRS) Slovakia 11 | Kia Motors Polska 12 | Kia Motors Belgium 13 | Kia Motors Sweden 14 | (Dubai, UAE) 31 | Asia Regional Headquarters (Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia) 32 M Project Kia Motors Netherlands 15 | Kia Motors Russia 16 | Kia Motors Australia 17 | Kia Motors New Zealand 18 2 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 3 LETTER TO STAKEHOLDERS CEO Message Despite the fast-changing business environment, Kia Motors has been realizing sustainable shared growth with local communities in order to move beyond ‘customer satisfaction’ and offer ‘customer value innovation’. Kia shattered our own business performance highs once again for yet another record-breaking year in 2012. Nevertheless, Kia Motors puts the environment before business performance and continues our efforts at mutual growth with Hyoung-Keun (Hank) Lee society at large. Vice Chairman & CEO On the environmental front, Kia Motors actively invests in and strives to realize safe, May 2013 economical, and eco-friendly mobility in the form of hybrid, electric, and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles. In the meantime, we launched the Green Light Project and expanded the scope of sustainability management to do our part as a responsible corporate citizen. We continue to strive to realize sustainable mutual growth with all our stakeholders. Customer Value Innovation Practices for Global Environmental Protection culture that encourages voluntary employee Despite the global economic slowdown, strong Kia Motors is steadfast in practicing green Green Light of Hope in Africa participation. We look forward to a 2013 in which Korean won, and domestic production challenges, management despite the growing challenges in the The year 2012 was meaningful in terms of our CSR our sincere efforts as a responsible corporate citizen Kia Motors posted the highest sales revenue and business environment. Reaffirming our commitment efforts as Kia Motors’ social outreach projects in reinforce customer trust. operating profit in our history. With the successful to tackling climate change, Kia Motors’ Gwangju Tanzania and Malawi went into full swing. With the launch of the all-new premium full-size luxury K9 (Kia Plant became the first in the Korean auto industry to launch of the Green Light Project, Kia Motors is By putting ourselves in our customers’ shoes, Kia Quoris) and the compact K3 (Forte/Cerato) as well as receive the ISO 50001 energy management systems bringing hope to Africa where even basic human Motors provides true value that customers really facelift models, including Sorento R (Sorento) and K7 certification, a comprehensive standard on business rights are forfeited due to limited mobility. Through want. We will also continue to practice socially (Cadenza), Kia Motors’ sales rose 7% year-on-year to planning, practices, and implementation for curbing the Green Light Project, local communities are responsible management, fulfilling our responsibilities 2.72 million vehicles. We not only met our sales target energy use. Coupled with the already-completed provided with schools, modes of transport, medical toward customers, investors, business partners, local but we also joined the ranks of the world’s top 10 enterprise environmental management systems (ISO facilities, and other infrastructure that improve communities, and other stakeholders. M automakers. 14001), energy management systems are expected to their quality of life. Kia Motors aims to extend Moreover, Kia Motors’ brand value grew 50% from the enhance the operational efficiency and environmental opportunities for a better life to local residents and previous year to 4.1 billion dollars, securing a position performance of Kia Motors’ worksites. We plan to ultimately build a basis for self-sufficient growth for among the global top 100 brands for the first time expand the scope of the certification to the Soha local communities. since our founding. All this was possible thanks to and Hwaseong Plants as well service centers in 2013 To Kia Motors, social outreach is not just about mere our employees’ hard work and stakeholders’ devotion while setting up energy management systems at all giving but rather social investment for long-term and support. With 2013 projected to be yet another our overseas worksites. Kia Motors will spearhead mutual growth. We want to contribute to building a difficult year for the global economy, Kia Motors efforts to creating a green society by minimizing sustainable society by working together to resolve will endeavor to extend win-win value to all our energy consumption and maximizing energy social challenges. We especially value ‘togetherness,’ stakeholders and practice sustainable management efficiency. which is why we collaborate with NGOs and local for continued enhancement of our brand value. agencies and work on creating a social outreach 4 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 5 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CSR Committee Trust Management Human Resources / Procurement / Accounting / Auditing Corporate Overseeing Unit Heads of respective departments/divisions CSR Environmental Management Team Environmental Management Chair Social Responsibility R&D / Production (worksites and service centers) CEO Heads of respective departments/divisions Social Outreach Administrative Affairs / Sales Kia Motors regards corporate social responsibility (CSR) as an overarching principle Heads of respective departments/divisions guiding all our business activities and strategic decisions. Following the creation of the CSR Committee in 2008, we spent the next three years devising and fine-tuning our CSR scheme. Green Light Project & Green Trip Our CSR initiatives went into full swing in 2011, and in 2012, we launched our flagship In 2011, Kia Motors embarked on our CSR mission of fulfilling our corporate social responsibility and embracing challenges to contribute to creating a better world. ‘Mobility’ and ‘challenge’ were designated as the common projects—Green Light and Green Trip. CSR is an essential tool for bringing our corporate values for this mission. As per our principles of respecting diversity, supporting self-realization, and providing philosophy and vision to life. Kia Motors will offer new value through the automobile, equal opportunity, Kia Motors strives to realize universal mobility, which is our duty as an automaker, and to which has evolved into a lifestyle space, and share greater and more innovative value with provide opportunities to take on challenges, which is our corporate identity. To this end, we launched Green stakeholders through socially responsible management. Light Project and Green Trip, our global and domestic flagship CSR projects, respectively. The Green Light Project builds schools and provides school buses to children without access to education and runs disease prevention programs and mobile clinics. Green Trip provides vehicles for travel to those with limited mobility. By ensuring universal access to mobility, Kia Motors endeavors to amplify the value of mutual growth by raising CSR Scheme & Objectives the quality of life and laying the basis for the self-sufficient growth of local communities. In 2013, we plan to Upon declaring our commitment to CSR in 2008, Kia Motors has promoted the widespread adoption of the expand the scope of our global CSR activities to new areas and strengthen the mobility aspect of our domestic core values of our CSR scheme—trust management, environmental management, and social outreach. We CSR programs. We will also work on encouraging voluntary employee participation and reinforcing internal and integrated our management paradigm, which had been separated into management policies and sustainability external CSR communication to put our CSR slogan ‘A Better Way to Go’ in practice. M management, and organized the specific implementation measures into three core values with the following aims: carry out transparent and ethical business management (trust management), spearhead efforts to tackle global environmental challenges (environmental management), and contribute to social development as a corporate citizen (social outreach). The CSR Committee, headed by the CEO, is composed of the CSR Environmental Management Team and sector-specific teams spanning the full range of our business CSR Roadmap operations—human resources/procurement, accounting, and auditing (trust management); R&D, production, and service (environmental management); and administrative affairs and sales (social outreach). Our 2012 objective 2008 2009 2011 2012 2013-14 2015-16 was to set up a global social outreach unit and formulate an implementation scheme. Based on the social Declaration of CSR Enactment of Strengthening of CSR Launch of flagship Promotion of Internalization of outreach values scheme set up in the beginning of the year, Kia Motors launched our flagship social outreach commitment and Social Responsibility implementation scheme: CSR projects – Global global CSR: Full-on organizational establishment of CSR Charter Establishment of CSR (GLP), Domestic implementation of CSR culture, projects, thereby starting the full-fledged implementation of enterprise-level social outreach initiatives. In 2013 Committee assessment system and (Green Trip) global projects Stabilization of global and 2014, we will expand the size and scope of our social outreach projects and focus on raising internal and global social outreach CSR scheme values scheme external commitment and participation. Midto Long-Term CSR Strategy CSR Honors and Awards Overseeing Organization Honor/Award Vision Become a global CSR leader SAM DJSI Asia Pacific Incorporated (3 years running) / DJSI Korea – Industry no. 1 (4 years running) Korea Standards Association Sustainability Conference – Auto industry no. 1 Korea CSR Expert Committee 2012 Korea CSR 30 – Incorporated (3 years running) ERISS (Economic Research Institute for Sustainable Society) 2012 Top 100 Listed Korean Businesses Sustainability Index – No. 10 Sustinvest (SRI consulting firm) Korean business sustainability management assessment Auto industry no. 1 Environmental Global Corporate Social Responsibility Forum: China Most Socially Responsible Business in China – awarded (2 year running) [Hyundai Motor Group] Trust Management Social Outreach Management Contribute to social GRI & Korea Standards Organization Sustainability reports award (KRCA) – Manufacturing segment Core Practice transparent Spearhead efforts to tackle Values and ethical business development as LACP (League of American Communications Professionals) Vision/Spotlight Awards Gold global environmental management a corporate citizen Mercomm (awards organization for corporate reports) Galaxy Awards Silver challenges 6 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 7 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance standing directors. The Board Nominating Committee has the authority to recommend candidates for non-standing directors to the General Shareholders’ Meeting, and in 2012, it exercised this authority upon fair and careful deliberation. Ethics Committee Composed of five non-standing directors, the Ethics Committee monitors transactions between Kia Motors strives for transparent and sound business operations through an institutional affiliated persons as per the Monopoly Regulations and Fair Trade Law and the Capital Market and Financial Investment Business Act. It also reviews the company’s program for voluntary compliance with fair trade regulations; framework for evenhanded coordination and regulation of manager, shareholder, and executes major ethical management and CSR policies; and enacts, revises, and monitors the implementation of employee interests. To this end, we guarantee the independence of the Board of Directors, ethics codes and regulations. Kia Motors actively incorporates the committee’s recommendations in our CSR and under which there are three specialized committees. The Audit Committee and Board ethical management policies and activities. The Ethics Committee convened seven times in 2012 to be briefed and Nominating Committee convey outside stakeholder feedback and monitor the company’s deliberate on 20 items, including CSR programs and donations and employee compliance with the ‘Regulation of business activities. The Ethics Committee reviews the transparency of internal transactions Workplace Ethics.’ M and the progress in ethical management. Board of Directors as of Dec. 31, 2012 Appointed through the General Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors is our top decision-making body. Major Shareholders It promotes shareholder and stakeholder interests while also supervising and voting on key business issues with Shareholder No. of shares Holdings ratio Kia’s long-term growth in mind. As of the end of 2012, the Board was comprised of three standing directors, one Hyundai Motor 137,318,251 33.88% special non-standing director, and five non-standing directors. Employee stock ownership 1,090,056 0.27% Regular meetings are held to vote on key issues and to make policy decisions in consideration of shareholder Private investors (excluding employees) 68,011,853 16.78% and employee feedback gathered at the General Shareholders’ Meeting and via investor relations activities and Foreign investors 143,449,423 35.39% Other (e.g., financial institutions) 55,493,764 13.68% channels such as the Q&A section found on the investor relations website. Total 405,363,347 100.00% Special meetings are convened when issues requiring the Board’s deliberation arise. The Audit Committee, Board Nominating Committee, and Ethics Committee support the operations of the Board for enhanced professionalism and efficiency. The Board convened 12 times in 2012 with the non-standing directors’ as of Dec. 31, 2012 attendance rate at 98%. The directors were briefed on the status of the internal accounting management system Board of Directors and voluntary compliance with fair trade regulations and voted on the 2012 business and investment plans as Name Position Background Standing directors (3 persons) Hyoung-Keun Lee CEO, Chairman of the Board of Directors, well as the convening of the 68th General Shareholders’ Meeting (2011) and its agenda. In 2011, the Board Chairman of the Board Nominating Committee reviewed and voted on 41 items. Sam-Ung Lee CEO The CEO chairs the Board at Kia Motors as fast decision-making is crucial for an automaker given the short Special non-standing director (1 person) Han-Woo Park Head of the Finance Division Non-standing directors (5 persons) Euisun Chung Member of the Board Nominating Committee product cycle, need for large investments, and fast-changing business environment. To ensure the Board’s Hyeon-Guk Hong Chair of the Audit Committee, Member of the Ethics Committee (current) Vice Chairman, Gaduk Tax Consulting Associates independence, directors are briefed before board meetings so that non-standing directors can voice their (former) Auditor, National Tax Services respective opinions with a full understanding of the issues at hand after a thorough review. Dong-Sung Cho Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the Board Nominating (current) Professor of Business Administration, Seoul National University; Standing and non-standing board directors receive annual base salaries according to respective position levels Committee, Member of the Ethics Committee Director, The Hope Institute and performance-based bonuses within set wage ceilings authorized by the General Shareholders’ Meeting. (former) Chairman, Korean Academic Society of Business Administration Keon-Su Shin Member of the Board Nominating Committee, (current) Of Counsel, KCL (Kim, Choi & Lim) Not only financial but also social and environmental indicators are used to evaluate the Board members’ Chair of the Ethics Committee (former) Chief Prosecutor, Supreme Prosecutors’ Office performance. In 2012, the compensation cap was set at 10 billion won. The actual payout was 4.8 billion won. Doo-Hee Lee Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the Ethics Committee (current) Professor of Business, Korea University (former) President, Korea Advertising Society Committees Won-Joon Kim Member of the Board Nominating Committee, Member of (current) Of Counsel, Kim & Chang the Ethics Committee (former)Director of Competition Policy Bureau, Fair Trade Commission Audit Committee Three non-standing directors comprise the Audit Committee. It is stipulated that the Audit Committee be chaired by and composed entirely of non-standing directors to ensure transparency and independence. The Audit Committee monitors the transparency and fairness of Kia Motors’ accounting and Board of Directors & Its Committees business practices. It has the authority to demand sales-related reports from the Board of Directors and examine the company’s financial standing. Kia Motors has an internal system in place providing the Audit Committee with Board of Directors easy access to information pertaining to the company’s business operations. The Audit Committee convened five times in 2012 to deliberate on seven items, including the 2011 settlement of accounts and the status of the accounting management system. Board Nominating Board Nominating Committee Two standing directors and three non-standing directors make up the Board Audit Committee Ethics Committee Committee Nominating Committee as per the stipulation that at least one-half of this committee be comprised of non8 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 9 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGUE Communication Channels Materiality Test Results & Issues HIGH For Kia Motors, sustainability management is not merely one area of business management but a means of fostering dialogue and engagement with stakeholders. Communicating and trust-building with stakeholders give us the power to navigate our way into an uncertain future. This sustainability report is yet another means of engaging stakeholders in dialogue. EXTERNAL INTEREST In MOVE 2013, we identify the issues of interest to stakeholders and present our answers. We also discuss our point of view and areas of focus. We hope this report serves as a means of sharing our views and responses to narrow the differences and expand cooperation between Kia Motors and our stakeholders. MEDIUM INTERNAL INTEREST HIGH Stakeholder Communication Channels Stakeholder IPS Materiality Test™: MultiMateriality Test Customers level assessment scheme The results of the materiality test undertaken in 2013 show that the focus of our management activities coincides developed by the Institute for in large part with the issues of interest to stakeholders. By organizing and reviewing the findings of the test, Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) we were able to look back on our activities from our stakeholders’ perspective. The relevant pages in the main Shareholders & Investors in 2006 for identifying issues report linked to each issue in the table above detail our standpoint on the given issue, the pertinent activities we Employees material to a given company’s have carried out, and our performance relative to set objectives. characteristics and situation The materiality test was conducted as per the following six assessment categories comprising the IPS Materiality Partner Companies for the formulation of Test™: company policies, direct and indirect economic impact, regulations and laws, stakeholder survey, sustainability management performance and issues of the respective industry, and media reports. M Local Communities strategies and sustainability reports 10 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 11 AGENDA & APPROACH The global economic downturn that started in 2008 is lingering on. With advanced economies failing Protracted Economic to rebound and emerging economies posting slower growth, the World Bank projected that global Downturn & economic growth in 2013 will be a mere 2.4%. Experts are saying that sovereign debt and austerity measures taken by governments around the world have reached a tipping point. Uncertainty has Growing Uncertainty further intensified with regime changes in key nations, growing tension over trade protectionism and exchange rates, regional instability in the Middle East, and North Korea’s nuclear brinksmanship. The global economic slowdown is dragging on, and the gap between the haves and have-nots is widening. We are experiencing climate change firsthand in the form of natural disasters and extreme weather conditions, which are growing ever more potent and frequent. Through sustainability management, we seek and practice measures to resolve these challenges. Kia Motors believes that if each of us fulfills our duties and responsibilities, such combined efforts will lead to a sustainable future. MOVE 2013 details the efforts and progress we have made over the past year based on that belief. This section outlines the global challenges of special interest to us and the measures we have taken to address them with relevant links to the main stories of this report that detail how these measures In early 2012, Kia Motors laid out Vision 2016 and designated quality and brand as the key were implemented. Global challenges affect not only Kia Motors; M objectives. Our stellar performance over the past five years owes itself to our commitment to they affect everyone. We look forward to your enthusiastic interest quality. We will stay true to the basics and expand our qualitative growth for another five years. In and participation. 2012, Kia Motors made it onto Interbrand’s Global Top 100 Brands list, and our vehicles received high marks in American, European, and Chinese quality assessments. Our competitive edge is spread over a regionally diversified portfolio and an impressive lineup of subcompacts whose popularity is growing in the current economic downturn. This year, Kia Motors will expand R&D investment and employee training and education programs to reinforce our foundation for the future. Profit generation is a business’ foremost duty and prerequisite for survival. The economic ecosystem functions properly when a business pays its suppliers; shares the profit generated with employees, shareholders, and investors; pays taxes; and shares value with local communities. Kia Motors will always keep in mind the power of our growth as we do our very best today to create a better tomorrow. 12 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 13 AGENDA & APPROACH The World Economic Forum pointed to severe income inequality as one of the greatest challenges According to the World Meteorological Organization, climate change is no longer what ‘will be’ Intensifying Income Accelerated Climate facing the world. Income inequality intensifies social polarization by widening class gaps and but ‘what is’ very much a part of our everyday lives. Heavy rain and drought, heat waves and cold Inequality & limiting equal access to opportunities. The Gini coefficient points to greater inequality the closer it is Change & spells, typhoons and hurricanes, and other extreme weather conditions are growing increasingly to 1, with 0.4 or greater signifying a high level of inequality. In 2010, the Gini coefficient was 0.44 for more potent and frequent. During the 20th century, the earth’s average temperature rose 0.74˚C. Social Polarization the world at large and a whopping 0.6 for Africa, attesting to just how serious a challenge income Resource Depletion If greenhouse gas emissions continues to grow at the current rate, the earth will be 2˚C warmer inequality has become. The global youth jobless rate is more than double that of the overall jobless in 30 years and 4˚C warmer by 2060, with 50% of living organisms projected to become extinct. rate. Korea, in the meantime, has the following urgent issue to tackle: suicide and poverty among The world is cooperating to ensure that the earth does not grow warmer than by 2˚C—a point the elderly, whose rates are the highest among OECD nations. beyond which experts say our ecosystem may not be able to withstand. There are also continued concerns that the demand for natural resources will soon outstrip supply. Unless these concerns are unfounded or we can develop an unlimited alternative energy source, the only solution is to curb consumption. How can a business contribute to alleviating inequality and expanding access to opportunities? Direct emissions from industrial sectors and emissions from the transportation sector combined M M By creating new, stable, long-term jobs; supporting its business partners; and helping resolve account for more than 40% of total CO2 emissions, which is regarded as the main culprit of climate challenges facing local communities. Kia Motors strives to continue expanding hiring while creating change. Automobiles, which run on oil, are made from iron ore and other natural resources as an enjoyable work environment conducive to enhancing employee competencies. We support our well as petroleum-based materials. With sustainable mobility as our goal, Kia Motors is striving business partners and local communities not through simple donations but through measures that for a green and clean automotive life cycle—from vehicle design and materials production to lead to self-sufficient growth. We transfer technologies to our partners, run training and education manufacturing, use, and disposal. To this end, we enter into green partnerships with our suppliers, programs, and enter overseas markets with them. We create jobs for local residents and senior minimize resource input during the manufacturing phase, and recycle waste. We also invest in citizens to build a system wherein the profit we generate is distributed to low-income households. innovative technologies to realize our ultimate goal of zero emissions. And we streamline our We also provide opportunities to persons with disabilities to enjoy a life of quality and dignity. distribution system for greater efficiency and carry out research to retrieve and recover resources in In Africa, where poverty has endangered the survival of vast regions, we build schools, supply the vehicle disposal phase. M vaccines, and run education programs aimed at self-reliance. 14 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 15 CREATION & DISTRIBUTION CREATING We met our target in 2012 with sales volume of 2.72 million units, a 7.1% yearon-year increase. Our sales revenue posted at 47 trillion won for 9.4% growth VALUE from the previous year, while our operating profit grew 0.7% from 2011 to 3.5 trillion won. In the United States, Europe, and China, our double-digit growth in sales outpaced the growth rate of each respective market. In Russia and Africa, whose growth potential is under the global spotlight, Kia Motors sales grew a whopping 38% and 26%, respectively. Although the global economy did not rebound in 2012, Kia Motors continued to grow. It is anticipated that low growth will set in and uncertainty will intensify for the global economy in 2013. Against this backdrop, Kia Motors will focus on enhancing our core competiveness rather than extrinsic growth while continuing our efforts aimed at creating a Creation & tomorrow that is better than today. Distribution million vehicles Sales Volume 2010 2011 2012 2.13 2.54 2.72 billion won Sales Revenue 2010 2011 2012 35,827 43,191 47,243 M 16 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 17 CREATION & DISTRIBUTION DISTRIBUTING Growth is prerequisite to corporate sustainability because the more value a company creates, the more it can share with stakeholders. With the profit VALUE generated, a business pays its employees, buys the products and services of partner companies, makes dividend and interest payments to shareholders and creditors, and pays taxes to the government. A business also helps create a virtuous cycle for the society at large through investments and job creation as well as for sustainability through its products featuring advanced technologies made possible by R&D investments. billion won 2013 Outlook & Strategy persons Investments for a Shared Future Operating Profit Yet another gloomy year is forecasted for the global economy, and in turn, the auto industry. Employment Kia Motors continues to create new jobs, build or refurbish production facilities, and expand Emerging markets like China, which had maintained an impressive rate of growth, are expected R&D investment. In 2012, Kia Motors’ workforce grew 4% from the previous year to some to fare not much better than their advanced counterparts in 2013. As such, the contraction of the 47,000 persons, with 33,000 working in Korea and some 14,000, overseas. We hired 1,580 new Korean auto market is expected to continue, and the global auto market is projected to grow a employees in 2012, a 97% year-on-year increase. We also continue to expand our training and meager 3.1%. The Middle East, North Korea, and other sources of geopolitical instability coupled education programs for employee competency enhancement and self-development. We invested with extreme weather conditions come with the potential for dramatic fluctuations in oil and 18.2 billion dollars in our employee education in 2012, a 21.3% increase from 2011. The average commodities prices. Successive crises have intensified competition and emerging signs of trade annual increase in employee education investment over the five-year period from 2008 to 2012 protectionism are fueling stronger regulatory control and growing tension over exchange rates. was 30.3%. 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Kia Motors has put in place a risk management system to keep abreast of the changes in the While technology innovation is important for any industry, for automakers, their very survival 2,490 3,499 3,522 44,098 45,312 47,104 business environment and to devise timely response strategies. The system is overseen by the rides on it. Population growth, environmental changes, and other social and global challenges Chief Risk Office (CRO) comprised of eight enterprise-level bureaus and some 30 working groups also demand the ongoing evolution of the automobile. Kia Motors operates seven technical and ● 2011 figure revised after official announcement that are responsible for identifying, classifying, and monitoring key risks. The CRO’s findings design centers in Korea, the United States, Europe, and Japan. Under the Hyundai Motor Group are used in upper management’s decision-making considerations. The CRO also develops and R&D Division is a workforce of around 9,300 specialists. R&D specialists accounted for some distributes standardized emergency response protocols by business area. We continue to make 30% of the Group’s new hires over the past three years. In 2012, 1.5 trillion won was allocated to billion won billion won Net Profit improvements to the system for effective risk management. R&D & Facility Investment R&D investment, which was 58% of the total investment budget of 2.6 trillion won (5.5% of sales In 2013, Kia Motors will reinforce our global competitiveness through qualitative growth while revenue). systematizing customer-oriented management and strengthening core competencies. We will Of the 1.1 trillion-won budget for ongoing investments, 71.9 billion won went to efforts aimed work toward the enterprise-wide adoption of a system aimed at enhancing customer value and at mutual growth with partner companies and to domestic and overseas production facilities. implement multi-pronged strategies to effectively respond to external changes. We will diversify We expanded the Gwangu Plant (Korea), raising the annual capacity from 460,000 to 620,000 settlement currencies and increase overseas production to hedge against currency fluctuations. vehicles. We are also building China Plant 3 (annual capacity of 300,000 vehicles), planned for We aim to reinforce our core competitiveness by cutting costs through the use of common, completion in 2014. The investments a business makes impacts the larger society. The Gwangju standardized parts and by expanding the number of integrated-platform vehicles. We will also Plant is responsible for 30% of the region’s total exports. As for Yancheng, home to our China 2010 2011 2012 2011 2012 2013 continue to seek new markets while gradually increasing investment for next-generation vehicles planned Plants, 60% of the city’s tax revenue comes from Kia Motors and our partner companies. In the 2,698 3,519 3,865 and an expert workforce. 2,494 2,649 2,973 United States and Slovakia, Kia Motors and our partner firms along with related businesses are estimated to have created 10,000 jobs. Kia Motors’ 2013 budget is 2.9 trillion won, or 6.2% of sales revenue. Our R&D budget of 1.7 trillion won for 2013 is 14% greater than that of 2012. We also plan to continue expanding our production facility investments. Kia Motors will continue to M devise and execute plans toward balanced growth with society and increase the value we share % Sales Breakdown by Region with stakeholders. M Other Korea Korea 18 Economic Value Generated & Distributed (EVG&D) North America 21 Europe 12 Economic Value Generated 100% (47,999,794 million won) China 18 79.6% 20.4% Other 32 Partner Companies Added-value Generated North America 38,197,219 million won 9,802,575 million won China Economic value distributed Europe to local communities only includes charitable contributions as per tax Kia Motors 41.8% Employees 43.3% Government 10.4% Local Communities 0.2% Shareholders & Investors 4.3% regulations. (4,092,104 million won) (4,245,509 million won) (1,022,822 million won) (22,092 million won) (420,048 million won) 18 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 19 CHINA REPORT From Salt City to the Detroit of China vehicles as of 2012, a 28.6% average annual From Global Manufacturing Hub to As a latecomer, we managed to overtake Most Socially Responsible Business in China While the city’s salty air is a reminder of its increase. In the meantime, Yancheng has Global Consumer Market our competitors through localization and by the Chinese press and government in past, heavy-duty vehicles can be found on experienced remarkable economic growth China’s 2012 automotive sales volume was differentiation. We have continued to increase recognition of our local CSR efforts. the newly-paved roads, headed to and from driven by the auto industry. There are currently 14.68 million vehicles, and the country has the annual production volume at our China countless building and plant construction some 100 Korean auto parts and servicenot relinquished its title as the world’s largest Plants, enhanced quality through strict quality 2013: Another Decade in the Making sites. related businesses in Yancheng. In addition auto market since overtaking the United control, and released models customized In 2013, Kia Motors plans for another decade In 2002, Kia Motors built a plant on to the 6,000 direct hires by Kia Motors, Kia States in 2009. In 2013, China is projected to local tastes and preferences. We have of growth in China. We will plan for the future Yancheng’s swampland and made our inroad Motors and our partner companies have to claim the top spot on the production front raised the Kia brand value by proactively and continue our investments from a longinto the Chinese market. A decade later, created over 10,000 jobs. Kia Motors and as well. Be that as it may, China’s vehicle reinforcing the dealer network through a term perspective while staying true to the our two plants have raised our local annual our partners are also responsible for around ownership rate is still only 5%. Given that thorough analysis of local economic growth basics to bolster our core competencies and production capacity to 430,000 from 130,000 60% of the city’s tax revenue. With the goal of the average vehicle ownership in advanced and industrial demand and rolled out tailored lay the foundation for sustained growth. vehicles. Our third plant in Yancheng, with an becoming one of China’s top five automotive economies stands at 70%, the average region-specific marketing campaigns. Kia Motors’ 2013 sales target in China is annual capacity of 300,000 vehicles, is under hubs, Yancheng is gifting the land for China annual growth in China’s automotive sales 500,000 vehicles, a 4% increase from 2012. construction and set to be completed in 2014. Plant 3 and offering Kia Motors lower tax rates volume is expected to be at least 6% until Principled Responsibility This year, our focus will be on achieving Our annual sales volume, which started at and other incentives. 2020. Another driving force of Kia Motors’ growth stable growth. We will reinforce our 50,000 vehicles, has skyrocketed to 480,000 The power of China as a global production in China has been our commitment to social production capabilities in preparation for a hub has long been palpable in all corners of responsibility. We believe that a business rise in demand anticipated in 2014. We will the world. Now, the world’s leading brands is socially responsible for helping resolve expand the dealer network in central-west are in cutthroat competition for a piece of community challenges and contributing to China, a region expected to drive the growth Review of Kia Motors’ First the world’s largest consumer market which economic growth to create a virtuous cycle of of the larger Chinese market. We are also Decade in China consists of a middle class population of 300 value through which we can grow alongside running a dealer development program to Yancheng, literally “Salt City,” is a small city located on China’s eastern coast. million. For the auto industry, the competition society. When Kia Motors’ local offices and enhance our sales competency in anticipation China While it used to be a hub of the salt trade as recorded in Sima Qian’s Record is expected to intensify further as oil prices plants hire new employees, priority is given of the growing demand for compact and are projected to rise and the Chinese to local residents. At the plants in Yancheng, premium vehicles. We will work to operate of the Grand Historian, the city’s decline came as the economic significance of government is planning to cut the number of for instance, only 1% of the workforce our plants at over 100% capacity as we did salt started to wane with industrialization. By the early 2000s, it was but a small new car registrations and actively promote is dispatched from Korea while 99% is in 2012 for production competitiveness, rundown rural community of 300,000 residents, most of whom were either salt or Report Chinese auto brands. comprised of local hires. Kia Motors builds strengthen employee competency, and cotton farmers. Some 10 years later, Yancheng, with an annual economic growth Against this backdrop, Kia Motors aims schools to expand access to education and raise quality and brand value for palpable rate of 14% and a population of 850,000, is touted as an emerging industrial city. to strengthen our foothold in the Chinese builds homes in lower-income or disastercustomer value enhancement. M And at the center of Yancheng’s reclaimed glory are Kia Motors and our 90 partmarket as the eighth largest automotive stricken areas. In 2011 and 2012, Kia Motors ner companies. brand and sustain our growth momentum. and Hyundai Motor Group were named the vehicles 2012 Sales Volume 2012 Market Position 8.62x 10 spots ▲ 50,000 2003 No. 18 2007 481,000 2012 No. 8 2012 20 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 21 SPECIAL FEATURE Our approach to CSR Why do businesses have to give back? A successful business is built not only on its own painstaking efforts but also on the support from society at large. Kia Motors’ growth is the result of a collaborative effort made possible by our technological competencies and purchasing power along with employee expertise as well as social institutions and infrastructure. Today’s society demands that a business takes into consideration the interests not only of shareholders but those of all stakeholders in the value chain. Consumers, too, consider a business’ CSR track record an important factor in their buying decision. Against this backdrop, Kia Motors puts our commitment to CSR in action, moving beyond simple giving to making investments for mutual growth. Kia Motors systematized our CSR value scheme in 2011 and put it into full-fledged action in 2012. The Green Light Project is a community development endeavor through which we offer opportunities to become self-reliant to those with limited access to education, medical care, and cultural events and activities. We aim to be a steadfast presence and remain a long-term partner in the effort to resolve social challenges. In the process, we hope to boost company pride and strengthen customer trust, enabling all of us to work together toward sustained mutual growth and a virtuous cycle of ever-growing value. 22 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 23 Malaria is the number one cause of child mortality in Africa, SPECIAL FEATURE killing one child every 60 seconds and 60 children every hour. Africa’s Tears of While Africa is often associated with conflict and famine, it is a vast continent of endless possibilities. The continent’s population growth rate is twice that of the world average, Despair with the youth (under 24 years old) accounting for some 60% of the total population of 1 billion. Moreover, the economy is expected to grow at an average annual rate of 5.8% until 2020, and the continent is rich with natural resources. In Sub-Saharan Africa, however, chronic poverty prevails. Children, whose immune systems are still weak, suffer from starvation and die of easily preventable diseases. If Secondary school they manage to stave off diseases, they are forced to work long and grueling hours for entrance rate their family’s survival, stripped of their right to education; poverty is thus passed down from one generation to the next. In some areas, entire villages find themselves in this vicious cycle of poverty. Coupled with lacking infrastructure and a deficient healthcare 1 hour Only 20% of children who manage to go to system, there is no room for hope to take root. primary school go on to secondary school. Time it takes for 60 children to die of malaria We consume around 395 ℓ of Surface area: 20.4% of world’s water a day while children in land surface Africa have to forgo education Population: 14.3% of world’s population as they have walk barefoot Nations: 54 countries for hours every day to find 1 ℓ Desertification: Sahara Desert of water. Moreover, the water expanding by 20,000 km2 annually they do find is often polluted, from chronic drought since 1986 Biodiversity: Continent with largest Africa’s rural villages lack schools, health clinics, and waterborne diseases number, type, and concentration s tr i ke c o u ntl e s s c h i l d re n markets, and other basic infrastructure. Access Africa’s daily water of wildlife every year. to transportation is often limited too. People walk consumption relative to an average of four hours a day to get to and from advanced nations Africa schools, seek medical attention, or buy daily necessities. Africa, home to 15% of the world’s population, has a mere 3% of the world’s doctors, nurses, and midwives. Percentage of population living on less than 1.25 dollars a day Primary school education 1 day Time spent walking Medical specialists in Africa every day Some 14% of the world’s population still subsists relative to global total Half of the world’s children who are denied on less than 1.25 dollars a day, and 50% of the access to primary education due to poverty, nations that comprise Africa suffer from abject parents’ death, or lack of schools live in Africa. poverty. 24 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 25 SPECIAL FEATURE 40% illiteracy rate, 10% secondary school entrance rate Among the 15,000 residents, around 7,000 are children, but the town only has one primary school. There are 100 students to a class. They sit on dirt In 2012, Kia Motors headed to Tanzania, located in the Horn of Africa, so floors as the school lacks chairs and desks. To get to the nearest secondary named for the East Africa’s peninsula’s likeness to a rhino’s horn. The region school, children walk for two hours. Basic infrastructure such as running water, was reeling from a famine that struck in 2011, the worst to hit in 60 years. electricity, roads, and public transportation is nonexistent, and hardly any Tanzania’s Nagashanqui area is home to the urban poor, whose dreams of Babies are left unattended due to NGOs operate in this poverty-stricken town. But what the town’s residents making it big in the city have been thwarted and are eking by on less than 2 want most is education for their children. dire poverty, and children walk for dollars a day as day laborers or food vendors. hours to fetch muddy water. Ending Despair and Bringing Hope Here, Kia Motors built the Kia Green Light School and donated four vehicles. Jun.-Dec. 2012 26 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 27 10% → 30% SPECIAL FEATURE Kia Motors donated four specially outfitted Bongo (K-Series trucks) to the community. The vehicles are serving as school buses as well as shuttles to markets and hospitals, which would take the residents several hours to get to on foot. Most low-income settlements in Tanzania lack sewerage systems and restrooms, so after the biannual rainy season, the fetid water that pools breeds carriers of infectious diseases. The donated vehicles go around town to provide fumigation and disinfection services as well as health and hygiene education programs. Aiming to raise secondary school entrance rate to 30% by 2017 Jul. 2012 Feb. 2013. In July 2012, Kia Motors launched our second Green Light Project in Aiming for 50% malaria infection Salima, Malawi. With 72% of the nation’s population living on less than 2 dollars a day, Malawi is one of the world’s poorest countries. It also rate by 2017 Kia Green Light School offers has the world’s tenth highest AIDS mortality rate. In Salima, comprised of five villages whose combined population is 6,000, there is only one secondary education to 250 children and also hospital bed to every 1,000 people. The Kia Green Light Center built serves as a daycare center for infants who would here is designed primarily to serve as a community center. The vehicles Kia Motors donated will each serve as a mobile library, mobile clinic, otherwise be left unattended. and mobile theater. The services-on-wheel offered include afterschool programs for children and health education programs for area residents. Kia Green Light School also acts as a community center and health We also plan to work with the Salima Health Center to offer children health clinic. Malaria, one of the deadliest diseases afflicting Africa, has an checkups and meals. infection rate of 89%. However, 90% of malaria infections can be prevented by the use of simple mosquito nets. Green Light School gives Kia Motors supports the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP). The eight MDGs and corresponding icons out insecticide-treated mosquito nets to residents, offers vaccinations are listed below. The MDG goals of relevance to the Green Light Project are marked in green. We have marked our social outreach activities detailed in the following and medical supplies, and provides prenatal care to expectant mothers. pages with the relevant icons to indicate which MDGs they are helping to realize. We also run awareness programs on health and hygiene awareness, We now have a well, soup kitchen, library, and 1 Eradiate abject poverty and hunger 2 Achieve universal primary education 3 Promote gender equality and empower education, and children and women’s rights so that people can lead women 4 Reduce child mortality 5 Improve maternal health 6 Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria, and other diseases healthier, higher-quality lives. clean restrooms. 7 Ensure environmental stability 8 Build global partnership for development 28 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 29 SPECIAL FEATURE Green employee feedback. Kia Motors will continue donating to Donorschoose.org to support the advancement of public Trip education in the United States. Halfway across the globe Kia Motors’ CSR efforts focus 2011 2017in China, where social polarization is intensifying, we are · Realize self-reliance of local communities: on realizing the shared values of · Instituted global CSR values scheme and building Hope Primary Schools through Project Hope, a devised implementation strategies Build combined total of 10 schools/provide ‘mobility’ and ‘challenge.’ Launched vehicles Chinese state-run public service project for children in · Designated flagship projects and set up in June 2012 with the goal of putting implementation plans · Set up sustainable project model based on poverty-stricken communities. We joined the project in review of completed projects our commitment to mobility (universal 2012 2010, and work is currently underway with the goal of · Expand project to Asia/South America right to mobility) in action, Green Trip · Selected areas for the project and rolled building or refurbishing 30 Hope Primary Schools, 14 of out pilot project 2013-2016 helps people with disability go on family trips. As of 2011, : Built two centers and donated seven · Secure foundation for self-reliance for local which have been completed. And through the ongoing Kia persons with disability accounted for 5.4% (2.68 million vehicles to communities in Tanzania and communities where project is ongoing Village Construction Project launched in 2009, we have built Malawi · Expand project to other African nations persons) of the Korean population, but only 0.12% of the 90 homes in Sichuan and Guangdong. welfare budget was earmarked for this sizeable group. This is one of the lowest among OECD nations. Given the lack Social Enterprise of public awareness, social infrastructure, and institutional support, a simple family trip is often an unthinkable luxury to Easy Move a person with disability in Korea. Founded with the goal of contributing Green Trip is not a group travel program that could be to ensuring unfettered mobility for What We Do Best & In 2011, Kia Motors instituted a CSR values scheme to integrate the social construed as a publicity stunt of photo-friendly outings of people with disabilities, Easy Move outreach activities that had been undertaken separately by individual worksites What We Must Do large groups of persons with disabilities. This joint effort is Korea’s first social enterprise or areas. We set up the CSR Environmental Management Team and a specialized with Able Welfare Foundation helps people with disabilities that manufactures assistive and body compromised of outside experts. Our global CSR values scheme imbues go on family trips when they want and with whom they rehabilitation equipment. Easy Move our CSR efforts with a sense of purpose and brings together our once-diffused want. Selected applicants are provided with an Easy Move aspires to be a competitive export-oriented business CSR competencies. Our two core CSR values are mobility—the realization of vehicle (Grand Carnival [Carnival/Sedona]) equipped with a specializing in driving aids and other advanced assistive universal mobility—and challenge—the internalization of a can-do attitude hand controller for driving assistance and a wheelchair lift. products and technologies for persons with disabilities and toward challenges. Ultimately, we strive to nurture individual growth and enable The program also offers chauffeur service and gas or travel the elderly population. It reinvests over 2/3 of operating allowance. Applicants and respective program packages profit in technology R&D and employment expansion for a self-reliant growth of local communities. are selected based on the type or level of disability marginalized segment of society. In so doing, Easy Move and income level. In 2012, 310 families (1,341 persons) realizes the mutual advancement of the economy and social took advantage of the Green Trip program and enjoyed welfare. meaningful getaways. In 2013, Kia Motors plans to expand Kia Motors, along with the Hyundai Motor Group, founded Green Light Project the scope and target of the program and add field trips, Easy Move and provided 2.9 billion won over a three-year In 2012, we named our flagship CSR endeavor ‘Green Light Project’ and The following section deals pioneering trips, and other special travel packages to the period. In January 2012, Shinhan Bank invested 1.2 billion put our values into action in Tanzania and Malawi. We built a school in primarily with social outreach two-day family trip, holiday homecoming, and other existing won in the venture. Currently an independent operation, Nagashanqui, Tanzania and a community center is Salima, Malawi. We activities undertaken as per packages. Easy Move posted 5 billion won in sales in 2012. Kia Motors donated vehicles to undertake education and public health programs and our CSR values scheme. will share business management know-how, set up joint enhance the mobility of area residents. Kia Motors is providing food, water, Those activities that Programs to Expand Access procurement arrangements, and offer other indirect support and medical supplies to children and other local inhabitants suffering from correspond with the principle for Easy Move to grow into a self-reliant and competitive malnutrition and disease. We are also running educational programs designed to promote selfto Education of mobility or challenge have enterprise. M reliance. The Green Light Project, Kia Motors’ collaborative effort with Good Neighbors, Food for Kia Motors undertakes CSR projects been marked accordingly the Hungry, and SBS’ Africa Schools of Hope Project, will continue to expand its scope, helping a to address challenges facing local with the relevant icon(s). growing number of African communities stand on their own feet. communities in Korea and overseas where our worksites are located. In the United States, we donated ‘Green Light Project’ is the name of Kia Motors’ global CSR endeavor that aims to extinguish the 1 million dollars to Donorschoose. ‘red light’ of limitations and despair and illuminate the ‘green light’ of hope. To officially declare our org, an online charity for classroom projects, to help public commitment to this goal to ourselves and our stakeholders around the world, we came up with the schools struggling from budget cuts with the growing US Green Light Project logo. The logo will act as a traffic light indicating our steadfast dedication to and budget deficit. Our decision to contribute to an education continued expansion of the project. charity was based on a survey of 219 US dealers and 30 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 31 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION M Refer to p. 74 for more on customer satisfaction assessments and results. Quality & Service: Twin Engines of Customer Satisfaction Customer Focus On the first floor of Kia Motors’ Corporate Headquarters is a room that has been used exclusively for our monthly product quality meeting since 1999. After each meeting, attended by upper management and M the heads of product development and manufacturing, every effort is made to address the issues raised within one month. In 2011, Kia Motors entered into a customer service agreement with the Ritz-Carlton to receive regular feedback and advice on our service quality. So why do we hold product quality meetings presided by the CEO and turn to a hotel to learn about service? While it is important for us to sell more cars, it is even more important that our customers are satisfied with our products and services. That is why we continue to make improvements and seek verification. 32 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 33 EMPLOYEES Winning Employees’ Hearts & Minds Korea has the highest suicide rate among OECD nations, its happiness index ranks 32nd among 34 nations assessed, 87% of Korean workers complain of work-related stress, and work satisfaction stands at a mere 69%. These figures indicate an unhappy society, and social discontent has put the notion of ‘healing’ in the spotlight. In the early 2000s, a sense of optimism and determination prevailed in Korea as demonstrated by the ‘well-being’ trend. A decade later, Korea is determined to find a remedy that will heal a society languishing in pessimism and despair. Have we been too focused on moving forward, neglecting the various problems that have required our attention? In 2012, Kia Motors and our employees mulled over this question and found a solution. With our newfound insight, we plan to heal from within and then work on long-term solutions to heal society at large. HE AL NI G IN G A R M & C 34 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 35 EMPLOYEES M 36 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 37 PARTNER COMPANIES Mutual Growth: Defining Partnership From Supplier to Partner In a business environment where innovation has become routine, the scope of business competitiveness extends to the business ecosystem. Some 95% of the parts that make up a car come from partner companies. In the auto industry, where technological competency is key to success, mutual growth with partners has become a prerequisite for survival and growth. In Korea, Kia Motors’ direct hires total around 30,000 persons, but our direct and indirect hires in auto-related industries amount to 1,750,000 persons (as of 2010). That is to say, our support for partners is not merely a larger company helping its smaller counterparts but rather a means for Kia Motors, our partner companies, and the society at large to grow together. 38 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 39 PARTNER COMPANIES Mutual Growth: Decade of Progress (Hyundai Motor-Kia Motors combined total, primary partners) Duration of Partnership (as of 2011) Sales Growth Average duration of Partners’ average sales partnership revenue growth Partners included in survey 289 2001 73.3 billion won Partners whose partnership has lasted 20 years or more 214 2011 211.3 billion won Business Size Growth Market Capitalization Growth No. of large enterprises Partners’ market capitalization growth rate 2001 2011 Large enterprises 46 133 2001 46 partners 1.5 trillion won SMEs with sales of 100 billion won or more 23 35 2011 62 partners 15.6 trillion won M Financial Soundness Net asset Debt ratio growth rate 2001 50.9 billion won 2001 152% 2011 163.0 billion won 2011 112% 40 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 41 ENVIRONMENT Environment Management Framework & Objectives Since declaring our commitment to a global environmental management framework in 2003, environment has been Kia Motors’ foremost consideration in all our business strategies. Our cars are designed to facilitate resource circulation, and we have entered partnership agreements with suppliers for the green production of the materials we use to build our cars. Meanwhile, we endeavor to create a clean production environment, raise the transport efficiency of raw materials and manufactured cars, and disclose environmental details of our products to customers. And we set environmental management objectives and assess our progress against key performance indicators (KPI) while drawing on enterprise-wide competencies to continue improving our environmental performance. Action Plan Environmental Green Risk Green Resource Management Growth Management Production Circulation ·Set up enterprise·Develop and supply ·Strengthen comprehensive ·Reduce pollution and raise ·Reduce waste and raise wide environmental KPI green vehicles risk management efficiency recycling rate management system competencies ·Cut energy consumption and ·Enhance eco-efficiency ·Curb water usage ·Set up information system greenhouse gas emissions ·Expand communication on global environmental with internal and external regulations stakeholders ·Foster green partnerships with suppliers Design Phase The programs applied to the design phase affect the rest of the vehicle’s life cycle. We limit the use of hazardous chemicals and use green substitutes while creating designs that minimize resource input and optimize the disposal process. Kia vehicles, which are the products of rigorous green design considerations, continue to receive recognition for their impressive environmental performance. In 2012, we set up GrEEN, a network of environmental experts at Kia worksites across the globe, and organized a workshop for 68 employees specializing in environmental fields from Corporate Headquarters, R&D centers, and worksites. GrEEN is a consultative body for sharing the latest in environmental regulations and environmental performance at Kia worksites and for discussing Efforts to Curb Use & Waste regulatory response measures and means for making our worksites greener. In 2013, we plan to delineate the details of these proposed measures and means and apply them to our work Green & Clean processes. choices. We use digital blueprints to assess recyclability. Components with low recyclability are enhanced or replaced, and we subject vehicle prototypes to the actual dismantling process and There are some 1 billion vehicles on the roads across the globe today. That is one for every seven compare their recyclability to existing vehicles. The people. Around 80 million cars were sold worldwide in 2012, and Kia Motors alone sold 2.72 million. assessment results are used as reference materials in A single car is made up of around 20,000 components, and large amounts of raw materials and developing follow-up models. natural resources are needed to manufacture these components and assemble them to make a car. Chemical Management System And resources inputted inevitably generate waste. The sheer size of this process and the volume of Regulatory restrictions on hazardous chemicals resource input and waste output remind us of the weight of our responsibility. Green Design System are growing tougher worldwide. The EU instituted Kia Motors develops and applies means of cutting consumption and waste across the entire Kia Motors applies Design for Environment (DfE) the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of automotive life cycle. We continually monitor our results and make improvements to realize our standards to improve our vehicles’ environmental Chemicals (REACH) in 2007, while the United States goal of being green and clean. performance and enhance recyclability. Developers passed the Green Chemistry Initiative, banning ozonefollow set guidelines to determine the environmental depleting substances and regulating hazardous impact of raw materials and make green design chemicals. China, in the meantime, has put into 42 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 43 ENVIRONMENT Kia Motors’ Eco-efficiency new cee’d, Sorento R (Sorento) and K3 (Forte/Cerato), have been certified by TÜV NORD in Europe and UL labels. The amount of direct and indirect greenhouse which were designed using this system, received in the United States, both of which are authorized gas emissions at each stage of a product’s life cycle regional certifications. All newly released models meet certification service providers. Among them, cee’d is measured, converted into equivalent CO2 emissions recyclability and reusability certification standards and the all-new cee’d were also given ISO 14062’s amount, and affixed on the product in the form of and relevant regulations in Korea, Europe, and China. Design for Environment (DfE) certification by TÜV a certified label. Our new product releases were The data managed via ProdTect is not only used to NORD. assessed to emit less CO2 than previous models. K5 satisfy regulatory requirements but also serves as a In Korea, we are part of the Carbon Footprint Labeling (Optima) Hybrid, whose CO2 emissions are around standard for various environmental assessments. certification program overseen by the Ministry of 27% lower than its gasoline counterpart, was certified 2004 2010 2011 2012 Environment. Starting with K7 (Cadenza) in 2009, as a low-carbon product in 2012. 100.0 140.1 144.3 149.1 Eco-efficiency all new Kia models have received carbon footprint Since 2007, Kia Motors has been tabulating the ecoefficiency of our company at large by comparing the International Material Data effect regulatory restrictions on the use of hazardous economic value (sales revenue) generated against automotive chemicals (four major heavy metals, resource consumption and CO2 emissions. EcoParts Procurement Phase System (IMDS): Parts and materials management system methyl bromides, and flame retardants). The use of efficiency is an umbrella concept encompassing The parts (materials) manufacturing phase generates the most CO2 emissions (10-15% of CO2 total operated jointly by auto four major heavy metals (lead, mercury, cadmium, both economic efficiency and ecological efficiency. emissions during a vehicle’s life cycle) after the usage phase. Kia Motors and our partners have manufacturers around the world and hexavalent chromium) is banned in Korea, while With the eco-efficiency of the base year of 2004 entered into green partnerships whose terms are in accordance with Kia Motors’ self-developed to meet regulatory standards on in Canada, reporting controlled chemicals is required set at 100%, our eco-efficiency in 2005 came in at environmental standards that are tougher than global regulatory standards. We regularly monitor hazardous substances. Through by law. 103%, a marked enhancement. In 2012, our ecothe level of compliance at our partner companies and provide support for the establishment of IMDS, raw materials suppliers, Since 2002, Kia Motors has banned the use of efficiency shot up 49.1% from 2004 and increased 4.8 environmental management systems at partners that need assistance keeping up with the latest parts suppliers, and auto the four major heavy metals and developed safer percentage points from 2011. green trends in the automotive industry. manufacturers share information substitutes. Kia Motors’ self-developed e-CMS In addition to assessing our enterprise-wide ecoon the weight and chemical (e-Chemical Management System) is a database efficiency, Kia Motors discloses certified information composition of automotive parts. comprised of information on chemical substances on the environmental impact of each of our products processing infrastructure needed to set up EnMS. collected from the International Material Data System to help consumers make green and smart choices. (IMDS). From the vehicle design phase, Kia Motors Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) is a method of Support for Regulatory Compliance uses e-CMS information on chemicals and hazardous assessing the environmental impact of every stage Through IMDS and the self-developed e-CMS, Kia substances used in vehicle components. of the automotive life cycle. A newly-developed Motors shares information on controlled chemicals In 2010, we developed ProdTect, which makes use of Kia vehicle is subjected to the LCA, the findings of with our partners. We not only regularly organize IMDS data for the assessment of the recyclability of a which are compared to those of the previous model. education and training programs on the latest vehicle in the design phase through an analysis of the Moreover, we get outside assurance of our findings environmental regulations and industry trends but composition and weight of the raw materials. In 2012, for ISO 14040s certification. So far, 10 Kia vehicles also undertake random inspections of our partners’ production facilities and request corrective measures Support for Environmental Management if controlled substances exceeding permissible levels Since 2003, Kia Motors has being helping our partner are detected. Furthermore, we assist with the analysis 10 ISO 14040s–certified models (TÜV NORD) co 2 · SCEM: Supply Chain companies set up environmental management of controlled substances around the world and work Year Model Environmental Management systems (EnMS) through the SCEM program. Until with our partners to eliminate the use of hazardous 2008 cee’d models 2010 Soul, Venga, Sportage R (Sportage) · SCEP: Supply Chain Eco 2010, we assisted our partner firms in building substances and opt for substitutes. And in addition Partnership integrated EnMS for determining and managing the to signing the Agreement on the Supply of Eco2011 K5 (Optima), Pride (Rio), Morning (Picanto) carbon footprint of their products and production Friendly Automotive Parts in 2007 with our primary 2012 Sorento R (Sorento), K5 (Optima) Hybrid, new cee’d processes. Moreover, we also advised our partner partners, setting forth standards for environmental Sorento R (Sorento), K5 (Optima) [certified by UL] firms for ISO 14001 certification, and as of the end of management practices, we regularly update and 2012, all our primary partners are ISO 14001–certified. distribute environmental guidelines for proactive Since 2006, we have been expanding the scope of response to global environmental regulations our environmental management support to include pertaining to automotive parts manufacturing. With Ministry of Environment’s Carbon Labeling-certified models 11 secondary and tertiary partners, co-operating with the goal of expanding the scope of our environmental co our primary partners in the SCEP program. In 2013, management support, which is currently focused 2 Year Model 2009 K7 (Cadenza) we plan to sign an agreement with the government on predominantly on our domestic partners, Kia Motors models 2010 K5 (Optima), Sportage R (Sportage) an integrated energy/greenhouse management pilot runs environmental education and training programs, 2011 Morning (Picanto), K5 (Optima) Hybrid, Pride (Rio), Ray system for large, medium, and small enterprises. With provides support for environmental certifications, 2012 K9 (Kia Quoris), Sorento, K3 (Forte/Cerato), Ray EV the aim of enhancing energy efficiency, Kia Motors and builds environmental monitoring systems for our K5 (Optima) Hybrid [certified low-carbon product] will share energy-related data with 10 partners and partners overseas. supply them with instrumentation and computer 44 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 45 ENVIRONMENT Production Phase (value generated) to monitor our performance and received the Minister of Environment Award for Kia Motors strives to put in place a clean production system that minimizes resource input, cuts waste and emissions, and raises the recycling rate. Raising resource input efficiency and the 123kg make improvements. The diagram below provides an overview of the resource input, output, and outcome Resource Circulation for doing its part to protect the environment and cut costs by recycling and curbing recycling rate in auto manufacturing can make a huge difference as the process requires large Per-unit CO2 emissions in 2012. waste. In 2012, 90.7% of the 230,336 tons of waste reduction since 2008 amounts of steel and other raw materials as well as energy. Kia Motors consistently makes generated at our three Korean plants was recycled. improvements to our facilities and work processes to enhance our environmental performance. Raw Materials The waste generated per vehicle manufactured was In 2012, we built a pilot carbon capture and storage (CCS) plant at the Namyang R&D Center. We Raw materials that go into manufacturing a car 177 kg, a 23% decrease from 2003 levels. The waste are currently testing the technological applicability of the plant, whose annual CO2 processing include steel, paint, thinner, and plastics. Raw materials from our Korean plants taken to landfills or capacity is 18 tons. In 2015, we plan to commercialize CCS and resource regeneration materials consumption grows with the increase incineration facilities in 2012 stood at below 1% of in production operations and volume. Kia Motors the total waste generated. Of note, the Soha Plant technologies as a means of curbing the Hyundai Automotive Group and subsidiaries’ greenhouse focuses on cutting per-unit resource input to raise has been maintaining its zero (0%) landfill waste gas emissions while undertaking research to apply bio material regeneration technology to the number of products manufactured for the record for several years now. With the ultimate goal automotive parts. resource inputted. We also make improvements to of generating zero waste for incineration, we plan to our production processes to curb the rate of increase lower the share of incinerated waste, which currently Material Balance of the Auto Manufacturing of total resource consumption and work to raise the stands at 8.4%, to less than 3% of total waste Process recycling rate to cut the amount of disposed waste. generated by 2016 through recycling, improved Kia Motors strives to reduce the input of energy We tabulate our resource consumption and track our packing methods, and heat recovery. and natural resources and other raw materials while progress annually, focusing on steel, paint, thinners, curbing the output of waste materials, greenhouse and Wrap-Guard film. In 2012, we recycled 9,887 Energy & Greenhouse Gases gases, and environmental pollutants. We are tons of steel. We will continue our efforts to raise The global population continues to grow, and also concurrently enhancing the efficiency of the manufacturing process for greater production volume. 25.8 % the recycling rates of all resources that go into our production process. consumption is growing at an even faster pace due to economic growth and urbanization. This is why Kia Motors makes a concerted effort to minimize We tabulate our yearly resource input (resources Decrease in water resource used), output (waste and emissions), and outcome consumption since 2003 Water Resources environmental pollution by curbing emissions, waste, Although 70% of the earth’s surface is covered by and natural resource consumption. Based on our water, only 0.5% is accessible for consumption. belief that tomorrow is not predetermined but made, Emission figures based on Scope 1 (direct) and Scope 2 (indirect) emissions of three Korean worksites (Soha, Gwangju, Hwaseong Plants) According to the World Health Organization we continue to seek measures for improvement. Input & Output Flow (WHO), half of the world’s population suffers from Energy consumption is responsible for more than diseases stemming from limited access to clean 80% of total CO2 emissions, the culprit of climate Input Outcome Output water supplies. The UN found that some 0.9 billion change. Kia Motors is undertaking multi-pronged people worldwide do not have access to clean efforts to cut CO2 emissions and we are fully Discharged Materials Water Resources Total discharge [ 230,000 t ] water and that water shortage will affect half of the committed to the government’s greenhouse/energy [ 6,475,000 m3 ] Taken to landfills [ 2,137 t ] world’s population by 2025. With annual per-capita target management initiative launched in March 2011. TRI chemicals [ 1,836 t ] precipitation that is only 1/10 of the global average, In 2012, the Gwangju Plant adopted the ISO 50001 Korea is classified as a country with potential water global energy management standard and set up a Raw Materials Press Vehicle Body shortage problems. Kia Motors strives to protect the plant-wide energy reduction scheme. We plan to [ 306,724 t ] world’s valuable water resources by encouraging expand the scope of this effort to all domestic plants employees to make water conservation a part of in 2013. In 2012, our Korean worksites generated Atmospheric Emissions the Kia lifestyle and by making ongoing capital 819,000 tons of CO2, which marks a 123 kg per-unit Chemicals Greenhouse gases [ 818,897 tCO2 ] [ 3,321 t ] Atmospheric pollutants [ 781.9 t ] investments and upgrades. Kia Motors’ water reduction (753 kg → 630 kg) since the base year resource consumption in 2012 decreased 25.8% of 2008. The per-unit reduction is equivalent to the 23% TRI chemicals [ 937 t ] Painting Assembly from the base year of 2003, with total consumption annual carbon intake of 22 30-year-old pine trees, Energy of 6.475 thousand m3 and per-unit consumption of and the total CO2 emissions reduction for 2012 [ 16,548 TJ ] Vehicle Production Per-unit waste reduction from 2003 5.0 m3. amount to the annual carbon intake of around 28.36 [ 1,300,502 units ] Engine Production million pine trees. [ 1,349,740 units ] Transmission Production Wastewater Discharge Waste TRI Chemicals [ 508,862 units ] Total discharge [5.07 million m3] Waste materials that are not reused or recycled are Environmental Pollutants [ 47,626 t ] Sales Revenue Water pollutants [162.6 t] [ 28.0079 trillion won ] buried or incinerated, so they have a direct impact Through our emissions monitoring system, Kia on the environment. Kia Motors has put in place Motors manages atmospheric and water pollutants a streamlined waste management system while generated in the automotive manufacturing process Recycled we consistently improve our waste recycling rate against self-developed standards that are more Heat Recovery Recycled Raw Materials (Steel) [ 9,887 t ] Recycled Waste 90.7% [ 209,000 t ] and work to curb per-unit waste generation. As stringent than government standards. We use raw a result of our efforts, Kia Motors’ Gwangju Plant materials with low toxicity, optimize work processes, 46 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 47 ENVIRONMENT recycle and reuse byproducts, and efficiently process accidents. In 2012, the per-unit biological oxygen Distribution Phase 49% Per-unit reduction of waste materials to curb per-unit emissions and minimize the impact on local communities. demand (BOD), suspended solids (SS), and chemical oxygen demand (COD) declined between 25.4% and In 2012, some 1.3 million Kia cars produced in Korea were transported to reach our customers in Korea and abroad. These cars were made from the parts and materials our partners transported to atmospheric pollutants 33.5% from 2003 levels. our plants. And even at the plants, the parts and materials were moved around as per production since 2003 Atmospheric Pollutants Atmospheric pollutants schedules. A single car is comprised of tens of thousands of parts, and transporting these parts generated during the automotive production Hazardous Chemicals Hazardous chemicals require costs money, consumes energy, and generates CO2 emissions. Given that our annual production process include paint particles and volatile organic careful management as they damage the environment volume is over a million vehicles, a streamlined distribution system is a must. Kia Motors has a compounds (VOC) from painting and coating, dust and human health. Registration, Evaluation and particles from materials processing, and gases from team dedicated to making ongoing improvements to the efficiency of our distribution system, Authorization of Chemicals (REACH), launched by combustion. Kia Motors continues to reduce the and we set annual cost targets to track our performance. We met our 2012 target of cutting the EU in 2007, is aimed at minimizing the impact emission of atmospheric pollutants by replacing distribution costs by 15.1 billion won (actual reduction: 14.5 billion won). Our 2013 reduction target of chemicals and strengthening accountability over existing raw materials with those of lower toxicity, is 15.5 billion won. their management. In Korea, hazardous chemicals installing equipment that blocks the emission of are regulated by the Toxic Chemicals Control Act. Kia pollutants, improving work processes, and adopting Motors has completed the early REACH reporting clean production technologies. In 2012, our Korean process and continues to monitor the use of REACHWin Collaboration Portal System. In 2013, the system worksites generated 781.9 tons of atmospheric controlled chemicals. We are also committed to the will also be made available to our secondary and pollutants, a 49% per-unit decline since 2003, and Ministry of Environment’s Toxic Release Inventory tertiary partners. We plan to set up a pilot parts 7,577 tons of VOCs, whose recovery rate was 58%. (TRI) program, a voluntary reporting scheme for the tracking system at the Gwangju Plant 2 in 2013, and ·BOD/COD: Amount of oxygen needed for volume and types of controlled chemicals used. later, at Hwaseong Plant 1 and Soha Plant 1 as well. microorganisms to break Water Pollutants Kia Motors minimizes the discharge In 2012, our Korean worksites used 3,321 tons of When quality issues arise over a given automotive down organic matters in the of water pollutants by treating our wastewater and chemicals, a 10.1% per-unit decline since 2003, and component, the system will allow us to track the water. Used as a measure of applying rigorous self-developed standards for handled 47,626 tons of TRI-controlled substances. relevant cargo and transport vehicle. water pollution. The lower the wastewater management. To maintain an optimized value is, the lower the level of wastewater treatment process, we undertake Production Logistics: Streamlining Inventory pollution. ongoing repairs, maintenance, and upgrades. The Management Supply Logistics: Streamlining Procurement ·SS: Concentration of solids concentration of pollutants in the discharged water is Production logistics involves the movement of parts Supply logistics involves the transport of parts and suspended in water monitored around the clock to prevent environmental within a plant to make them available in accordance materials to Kia Motors from our partners. We operate integrated distribution centers for enhanced transport with the production schedule. We have three main and loading/unloading convenience. We also have systems in place for efficient inventory management. in place a real-time delivery order system at all our First is the One-kit System, which completed a pilot domestic plants for the efficient supply of parts run on a sub-line in 2012, will be applied to the main on a timely, as-needed basis. Kia plants and 310 production line in 2013. This system, which enables primary partners currently share logistics information the production of up to three vehicle models per line, pertaining to parts and materials through the Winwas adopted to effectively respond to the lack of Logistics Collaboration System Real-time parts order Automated transmission of data on parts used in (info. on status of production lines and parts used) each production process Production Management Department Real-time management of parts delivery and delivery vehicles Maintain optimal inventory level (less warehouse space needed) Integrated Distribution Parts Warehouse Kia Motors’ Center for Parts Suppliers Production Line 48 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 49 ENVIRONMENT storage space and installation errors stemming from vehicles to shipping centers and the storage of these Disposal Phase the increasingly diversifying inventory of components. vehicles at production facilities or regional shipping Refrigerants and heavy metals are used to manufacture cars. Unless properly processed in the Through the system, the parts for a single vehicle centers. The key is cutting travel distance. To this end, vehicle disposal phase, these substances pollute the environment. Furthermore, it is estimated that are put in a box (kit) and automatically fed to the we are replacing existing transporters with models of the optimized reuse and recycling of the parts and materials from around 700,000 vehicles that are relevant assembly line. We also set up a conveyer greater cargo capacity and rerouting outbound cargo decommissioned every year can generate an economic value of 11.5 trillion won, including some 1.8 system for the automatic supply of heavier parts for to export ports closer to our plants. trillion won from rare metals. In February 2013, Kia Motors signed an agreement with the Ministry more efficient use of logistics equipment and human of Environment on the Advanced End-of-Life Vehicle Resource Regeneration Pilot Program, whose resources. goal is a 95% recycling rate for 168,000 end-of-life vehicles (ELV) by 2015. As part of this effort, we A parts shortage forecasting system, which was put plan to supply ELV service partners with free equipment to retrieve and process 100% of disposed into pilot operation in 2012 at the Soha Plant’s engine refrigerants as well as guidelines on recycling steel, non-steel metals, and airbags. line, will be expanded to the said plant’s engine transmission line this year. In 2013, we plan to build a system for forecasting modules. We have also developed specially designed customer demand and determining the short-term production plans of individual vehicle models to more 95% parts connectors that are easy to dismantle. Based on our current progress, we expect to cut waste effectively manage the inventory of unused imported 2015 ELV recycling residue generated per unit (midsize car) from the rate target parts. current 19% to 13% by 2015. Our ultimate goal is to raise the ELV recycling rate to 95% by recycling Sales Logistics: Streamlining Cargo Transport 85% of ELV residue into automotive components or Sales logistics involves the transport of assembled building materials and recovering the rest as heat or steam energy. Automobile Resource Regeneration Center Recycling Green Vehicles Founded in 2005, Kia Motors’ Automobile Resource To facilitate the recycling of electric and hybrid Regeneration Center develops diverse dismantling vehicles, we have developed a manual on the safe and recycling technologies and features an ecodisposal of high-voltage lithium-polymer batteries and friendly dismantling system comprised of eight distributed it throughout the automotive dismantling continuous-flow processes, from ELV registration to and recycling industry. We also developed a discharge the compression process. With the goal of raising the system to retrieve residual electric power from these ELV recycling rate to 95%, we dismantle some 1,000 batteries. We will continue developing and sharing test vehicles every year and share the technologies processing technologies that will ensure the safe and we develop with ELV service providers. efficient recycling of end-of-life green vehicles. M ELV Recycling Technologies An auto industry-wide consensus has been reached on ISO 26021, an international standard on the removal airbags using on-board diagnostics (OBD). In 2012, Kia Motors developed our own OBD-based airbag removal device as well as a technology to retrieve and recycle the nylon bag from air bag End-of-Life Vehicle Processing Sequence 01. 02. 03. 04. 05. 06. 07. 08. Identify vehicle Remove parts with Remove hood, Retrieve liquids Dismantle exterior Dismantle interior Dismantle engine, Compress model and explosion risk battery, tires components components transmission specifications (airbags, seats, pretensioners) Retrieve over 90% of liquids to prevent Over 85% of dismantled parts recycled upon environmental pollution being sorted by material type Explosives Liquid collection Vehicle rotation Vehicle processing device device compressor chamber 50 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 51 PRODUCTS: INNOVATIONS FOR THE FUTURE EcoDynamics av Roadmap M e FC M Fo a s s ry (O a s s EV pt i m p ro D Ru a) d u r te p 20 F C e ve n 11 H ce EV K pi L P ro d E V Pr r M 5 ow E V lo pi ide fo a s c p lo co as oh rp s i l o p ro tf lo (R i H uc nc e an pr tf tp d ep le io) M ro u c e d op le 20 Future Vehicles: EV e tc et n 14 gr am Ra H et E V r i et a Ru y GO S h H M a EV st -7 co ss a Progress & Plans 86 f ir 03 05 08 09 11 m pr pa o 20 20 20 20 20 ct du E V ce 19 Energy consumption and the transportation sector are responsible for 84% and 23%, respectively, of CO2 emissions, the culprit of climate change. These figures point to the goals toward which automakers should strive: Stage 1: -2005 Stage 2: 2005-2009 Stage 3: 2010Develop prototype (HEV), Research Build mass production system (HEV), Diversify lineup (expand exports), curbing energy consumption or doing away with CO2 emissions altogether. platform technology (FCEV) Launch pilot fleet (FCEV) Start mass production (EV) Enhancing motor vehicle fuel economy leads to lower energy consumption and CO2 emissions relative to the distance traveled. This is what hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs) are designed to do. As for the goal of zero Hybrid Electric Vehicle (HEV) emissions, electric vehicles (EVs) and hydrogen fuel cell electric vehicles HEVs are powered by an internal combustion engine and an electric motor. Compared to existing (FCEVs) hold the key. Kia Motors is laying the groundwork for cars to cointernal combustion engine cars, HEVs boast higher power and fuel economy as well as lower CO 2 evolve with the changing planet as we believe the opportunity to shape a emissions. The electric motor supplies the power (EV mode) when the vehicle starts or is traveling EcoDynamics! positive future still remains open. We are investing in a brighter future for humankind by enhancing the eco-friendliness of our vehicle lineup and at low speeds. The electric motor assists the engine during acceleration, and either the engine or motor powers the vehicle when it is traveling at a constant speed. Electricity consumed at starts and during acceleration is recharged by the braking energy generated during deceleration. contributing to the realization of sustainable mobility. The engine shuts down to cut unnecessary fuel consumption when an HEV comes to a stop, thus raising fuel economy during stop-and-go city driving, while EV mode driving and enhanced efficiency reduce CO2 emissions. However, unless an alternative fuel source free of CO2 emissions is commercialized, HEVs will never realize zero emissions because they still rely on the internal combustion engine. K5 (Optima) Hybrid simultaneously. The key to this technology is Harnessing the technologies secured the speed of the connection. After extensive through the Pride (Rio) pilot fleet program we trial and error, Kia Motors managed to lower launched in collaboration with the Ministry of the connection speed from over 1 second Environment in 2005, Kia Motors released the to 0.6 second or less, thus enabling the Forte LPi Hybrid in 2009 and the K5 (Optima) successful commercialization of the powerHybrid in 2011. split electric hybrid drivetrain. The K5 (Optima) HEV features Kia’s proprietary The battery determines an HEV’s performance parallel hard-type hybrid system. A hardas the energy stored powers the motor. Like K5 HEV type HEV is only powered by the motor when the Forte LPi Hybrid, the K5 (Optima) HEV is traveling at low speeds while a soft-type HEV equipped with a lithium-ion polymer (Li-poly) is powered by both the engine and the motor battery pack, which is lighter than its nickelat all times. The motor is what sets the K5 metal hydride (Ni-MH) counterpart but has (Optima) Hybrid apart from existing HEVs. The higher output and energy density. The K5 power-split system of existing HEVs features (Optima) HEV is the world’s first hard-type two motors, one to recharge the battery and HEV employing Li-poly battery technology. the other to power the vehicle. However, The battery system has a quadripartite safety a single motor does both in the parallel feature extending from the battery cells to the configuration Kia Motors has adopted, and vehicle control mechanism. The K5 (Optima) this motor is smaller and lighter than those of HEV also provides a more comfortable driving the power-split drivetrain, thereby raising fuel experience and higher fuel economy with EcoDynamics: Technologies for the Future economy. The secret behind Kia’s success its HEV-specific six-speed transmission. We Kia Motors launched EcoDynamics in 2009 and released the Forte LPi Hybrid under this green sub-brand. The name with the parallel system is the engine clutch have succeeded in producing all the electric EcoDynamics is comprised of the terms eco from ecology (nature and environment), economy (efficiency), and dynamics technology, which other automakers had given power components in Korea, thereby laying (energy and vitality). It embodies our commitment to contributing to the betterment of humanity and the earth by adding up on due to technical difficulties. When a the foundation for sustained technological sustainable mobility to the existing value of cars. The K5 (Optima) Hybrid and Ray EV, both released in 2011, are following vehicle needs more power to accelerate or advances and enhancing the competitiveness in the footsteps of the Forte LPi Hybrid. We have also been running a Mohave hydrogen FCEV pilot program since 2008. go uphill, the engine clutch connects to the of our partners. engine to make the motor and the engine work 52 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 53 PRODUCTS: INNOVATIONS FOR THE FUTURE Electric Vehicle (EV) Mohave’s Fuel Cell Technology The Mohave FCEV’s durability and EVs run solely on electric energy supplied by a high-voltage battery. It takes around six hours Kia Motors started R&D on fuel cell technology technological superiority were proven with to charge the battery at a general charging station and 25 minutes at a high-speed charging in 1988. With the successful certification of our the successful completion of the 2,655 km station. As they run only on electric power, EVs are zero-emission vehicles. However, given low-temperature (-20˚C) startup technology, we U.S. Hydrogen Road Tour 2009. We have that most electric power is currently generated through fossil fuel-based systems, EVs are managed to overcome what was considered a succeeded in the local production of 99% of responsible for indirect CO2 emissions. Other drawbacks include the lack of charging stations major hurdle in FCEV commercialization. hydrogen fuel cell technologies. With some and the charging time, which is longer than what it takes to refuel internal combustion engine In 2009, we succeeded in developing the 120 partner companies, we are working to vehicles. Mohave FCEV, a second-generation FCEV reduce the size of the fuel stack, enable featuring a 115 kW fuel cell stack and a startup at -30℃, and raise the system’s Mohave FCEV Specs supercapacitor, a next-generation energy efficiency. M Motor | 110 kW induction motor storage unit. The fuel cell stack is built into Temperature | -20˚C startup the underfloor for even weight distribution, Storage | 700-bar hydrogen storage system enabling more dynamic driving performance Speed | Max. 160 km/h and more stable maneuverability. With its 700Distance | 690 km per charge bar hydrogen storage system, the Mohave Ray EV full-time car ownership to communal asFCEV can travel up to 690 km on a single Kia Motors released the Besta EV in 1986 needed usage. Service users can rent a car at charge and has a maximum speed of 160 km/h. and the Sportage EV in 1999. Kia Motors has a charging station nearby and then return the The vehicle is designed to minimize damage thus spent over 20 years researching and car to the station they designate at pickup. to the hydrogen tank and pipes in rear-end developing EVs and EV batteries. Drawing on The Car-sharing Service is currently being collisions and is equipped with a sensor to this accumulated knowledge and know-how, operated as a pilot program at eight charging detect hydrogen leaks caused by impact, thus we launched the Ray Electric Vehicle (EV) in stations in the Seoul Metropolitan Area. fulfilling U.S. collision safety requirements. 2011. The Ray EV was named Top 10 Technology of The Ray EV is a multi-purpose compact Excellence in the green energy segment at the CUV well-suited for urban driving and cargo Top 10 Green Awards co-hosted by the Korea Ray EV Specs transport. It comes with a built-in GPS Institute of Energy Technology Evaluation Motor | 50 kW max. output navigation system that indicates nearby and Planning and the Ministry of Knowledge Battery | 16.4 kWh charging stations and the remaining distance Economy in June 2012. It also received the Speed | Max. 130 km/h the vehicle can cover as well as the status of Green Innovation Award (Environmental Distance | 139 km per charge energy flow and usage. The Ray EV features Minister’s Award) in January 2013 at The Asia Efficiency | 5.0 km/kWh energy efficiency wheels with low rolling resistance tires that Economy Daily’s 3rd Green Car Awards. We MOHAVE FCEV minimize air resistance. A sophisticated safety are operating a pilot fleet of 2,500 Ray EVs to system lowers the risks posed by high-voltage test performance and lay the groundwork for components. By producing all the key parts an EV market with the goal of mass-producing in Korea, Kia Motors has laid the basis for the a compact EV model for the general public by advancement of homegrown EV technologies. 2014. Kia Motors is working with government Fuel Cell Electric Vehicle (FCEV) ministries and agencies to expand FCEVs run on the electricity generated by the chemical reaction between hydrogen and opportunities for the public to experience Stack: Fuel cells stacked on oxygen. Since the only by-product is water, FCEVs can tackle the twin challenges of the Ray EV. With the Ministry of Knowledge top of one another to obtain environmental degradation and energy depletion. Moreover, the FCEV system is twice Economy, we joined a pilot program run by a desired power output as efficient as that of the existing internal combustion engine drivetrains. For FCEV consortium led by the Korea Electric Power commercialization, however, the hydrogen-generation process has to become more energyCorporation in August 2012 through which efficient and a network of hydrogen fueling stations must be set up. Korean and global we provided a fleet of 20 Ray EVs for free automakers are working toward the goal of commercializing FCEVs and putting a network of public trial rentals. 86% of users said they charging stations in place by 2015. There are also discussions on turning to wind power as a were satisfied with the Ray EV’s quiet driving means of making the hydrogen production process less costly and more eco-friendly. experience, driving performance, and ecofriendliness. Since February 2013, we have been part of Seoul City’s Car-sharing Service RAY EV program. Car-sharing is an effort to move away from the existing paradigm of private 54 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 55 PRODUCTS: PROGRESS UPDATE Technologies for Enhanced Fuel Economy Energy Efficiency Fuel economy has taken center stage amidst the global economic crisis and the lower the friction coefficient of automobile components, and reduce the weight global consensus on the need to tackle climate change. Fuel economy and CO2 of the vehicle body. Aerodynamic design considerations must also be made, and emissions have a 99.9% correlation. That is, raising vehicle fuel economy and a system limiting idle revolutions has to be put in place. Kia Motors focuses on lowering CO2 emissions make up the equation of affordable and green mobility. technologies for greater efficiency and seeks continued market verification to Enhancing fuel economy requires advanced and complex technologies to make improve on present developments for an even better future. the engine smaller, enhance transmission performance, 56 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 57 PRODUCTS: PROGRESS UPDATE Global Fuel Economy Regulations & Kia Motors DIESEL Tougher government regulations on fuel economy went into effect in 2012 around the world. In Korea, 30% of The new generation of diesel cars sold must meet average fuel economy or CO2 emissions standard of 17 km/ℓ or 140 g/km, respectively. By cars—also known as ‘clean diesels’—maintains the classic 2015, this will apply to all cars sold in Korea. In Europe, 65% of cars sold must have average CO2 emissions diesel advantage of high of 130 g/km or less. By 2015, 100% of cars sold in the region will have to fulfill this standard. Japan and China fuel economy but generates have set their target average fuel economy for 2015 at 17.0 km/ℓ and 16.9 km/ℓ, respectively. The United States, significantly less exhaust in the meantime, set its Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) target at 34.1 mpg (14.5 km/ℓ) for 2016 than their predecessors. Clean diesel vehicles have and will be raising the current minimum by 5% annually. Government regulations worldwide will continue to 20-30% higher fuel economy strengthen as per respective roadmaps that extend out as far as 2025. and around 20% lower CO 2 In the October 2012 corporate average fuel economy report issued by the U.S. National Highway Traffic emissions than their gasoline counterparts. Safety Administration (NHTSA), Kia Motors posted an average fuel economy of 36.2 mpg (15.4 km/ℓ), thereby surpassing both the business-specific target (33.1 mpg) and the 2016 target. Meanwhile in Europe, newlyregistered Kia vehicles in 2011 had average CO2 emissions of 137 g/km, an 18% decline from 167 g/km in 2004. Our improved performance is the result of meticulous technological innovations applied to even the smallest details of our cars as described in the following pages. GDI + TURBO When turbochargers meet gasoline direct injection (GDI) technology that injects fuel directly into the cylinders for greater engine absorption efficiency, engine downsizing is realized as displacement is lowered while performance is enhanced. 58 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 59 PRODUCTS: PROGRESS UPDATE Driving Performance: Limiting Resistance & Idle Revolution Idle Stop & Go (ISG) is an idle-revolution control system that Air resistance and surface friction raise a vehicle’s fuel automatically shuts down the engine when the car comes consumption. Kia Motors applies aerodynamic designs, to a stop and restarts the engine when the car begins to controls the amount and direction of air inflow, and uses tires move. ISG is especially effective for stop-and-go city driving, LIGHTWEIGHT with low rolling resistance. Lowering drag resistance by 10% raising fuel economy by around 10%. Kia Motors has been increases fuel economy by 2%, while reducing the tires’ rolling applying manual transmission ISG in cee’d and Venga—our In 2012, we instituted a plan resistance results in a 1.5% fuel economy enhancement. The flagship models in Europe—as well as in Morning (Picanto) to expand the application of ultra-high-strength steel 2012 K3 (Forte/Cerato) boasts a drag resistance of only 0.27 and Sportage R (Sportage). For the Korean market, automatic to over 50% of our mid-size cd thanks to its streamlined design and undercover and wheel transmission ISG or CVT ISG can be found in Morning (Picanto), lineup (currently, 20%) by 2015 deflector optimized for smooth air flow. It also features ultra Ray, Pride (Rio), Soul, K3 (Forte/Cerato), and K5 (Optima). M and reduce vehicle weight by low-rolling resistance tires with 10% lower rolling resistance over 10 kg. than the tires on the previous model. Drag coefficient: Measure of an object’s air resistance on a scale of 0 to 1. A figure closer to 0 means lower resistance. Most passenger AERODYNAMIC cars and RVs have drag DESIGN resistance of around 0.3 and 0.35, respectively. Lowering drag resistance by 10% increases the fuel Transmissions: Multi-stepping & CVT collaborative research among our materials, powertrain, and economy by 2%, while The transmission, which delivers the force generated by the vehicle research departments. We are thus making continued reducing the tires’ rolling engine to the wheels, plays an important role in determining and diverse efforts to go lightweight, applying lighter yet resistance results in a 1.5% fuel economy enhancement. fuel economy. The more gears there are, the better optimized durable materials, developing new fabrication methods, and a vehicle becomes for more specific driving conditions. This, optimizing component structures. in turn, raises not only fuel economy but also enhances In 2012, we instituted a plan to expand the application of acceleration performance and driving experience. While a ultra-high-strength steel to over 50% of our mid-size lineup gear-free continuously variable transmission (CVT) results in a (currently, 20%) by 2015 and reduce vehicle weight by over decline in transmission performance and driving experience, 10 kg. While regular automotive steel can withstand a force CVT boasts higher fuel economy and allows for smoother of around 35 kg (tensile strength), ultra-high strength steel transitions between gears. can bear over 60 kg. Ultra-high strength steel is twice as Kia Motors completed the development of our own CVT in strong but 10% lighter than regular steel, so increasing its 2012. We are selectively applying multi-step transmissions share of the vehicle body makes the vehicle lighter but over and CVTs in consideration of their respective advantages 20% more durable. To this end, there are two key tasks to be and drawbacks. We are using the CVT for city cars and undertaken: increasing the formability of ultra-high strength subcompacts whose foremost consideration is fuel economy. steel, whose cosmetic alterations are difficult due to its We applied the Kappa CVT developed in 2012 to the Morning firmness, and increasing its tensile strength while reducing (Picanto) and Ray, thereby enhancing fuel economy by around weight using the hot stamping method to quickly cool the 7-8% from that of the previous models. steel after processing it at high temperatures. Kia Motors and a Hyundai Motor Group subsidiary specializing in steel Vehicle Body: Going Lightweight production have set a common goal of reducing vehicle body A lighter car travels farther than a heavier one with the same weight and are cooperating on that front. amount of power. That is, the lighter the vehicle body is, the greater the fuel economy becomes. A 10% reduction in weight results in a 3.2% fuel economy enhancement, 8.5% boost in acceleration performance, and 3.2% decrease in CO2 emissions. Kia Motors is working on a midto longterm roadmap for vehicle body weight reduction through 60 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 61 CUSTOMERS: SAFETY Crash Tests: Process & Results High performance in crash tests is the foremost factor determining the safety of a vehicle. At the crash test laboratories of Kia Motors’ Smarter Vehicles for Greater Safety Hwaseong Plant and Namyang R&D Center, we undertake tests for a wide range of motor accident scenarios. From the early phase of Safety development, we create computer simulations to predict a vehicle’s It is estimated that 50 million people around the world sustain injuries and 5 safety and raise passenger and pedestrian safety in collision million lose their lives from motor vehicle accidents every year. Korea’s traffic situations. Around 100 crash tests of the actual vehicle are performed fatalities are twice that of the OECD average. Around 1 million motor accidents prior to its release as a new model. In a crash test, a vehicle with a First occur in Korea every year, and 70% of these accidents occur because drivers fail test dummy inside is crashed into a wall. After the impact, researchers check the extent of the damage, including whether or not the doors to observe safe driving habits. That is why it is important to take a multi-pronged can open and close as well as the state of the dummy and the fuel approach to automotive safety. We install airbags and enhance the durability of Crash Test tank. The entire process is captured by high speed cameras attached the vehicle body to protect passengers. We apply technologies to safely control to either ends of the wall. We then analyze this footage along with the the vehicle and keep the driver alert and aware to prevent traffic accidents. impact data collected by the 80 sensors on the dummy. We take into We install systems to make driving less demanding and carry out campaigns consideration occupants’ possible responses upon impact as well to promote safe driving habits and pedestrian safety. Kia Motors enhances the their weight, height, and other physical traits. We focus especially on safety of our products and contributes to the spread of motor safety awareness women and children as they are more susceptible to severe injuries to make our roads safer. than men. The results of these detailed and specialized crash tests are then applied to our vehicles. Every year, Kia Motors releases new or updated models with strengthened safety features that we subject to outside assessments for verification. Soul, Sportage R (Sportage), and Sorento R (Sorento) passed four safety tests and were named 2012 Top Safety Picks by 1. The active headrest 2. folds toward the occupant’s the U.S. Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS). K5 (Optima) head in rear-end collisions was designated as a Top Safety Pick-Plus by also passing the fifth test that simulates collision situations with a tree and a telephone pole and that applies standards tougher than U.S. government standards. Meanwhile, Ray, Pride (Rio), and K9 (Kia Quoris) were classified as first-grade safety vehicles by K-NCAP (Korea), which is comprised of five crash test categories. In the meantime, new cee’d was put in the highest rating class in Euro NCAP, which consists of four assessment categories: adult passenger safety, child passenger safety, pedestrian safety, and safety features. 3. to prevent the neck from bending backward. Airbags The airbag is one of the most basic automotive safety features. Front airbags protect the driver and front-seat passenger in headon collisions while the side and curtain airbags minimize injuries in side-impact collisions. The curtain airbags wrap over the sides of the windows, protecting the occupants’ heads in side-impact collisions and rollovers. Occupant safety in collisions is higher when there is a greater distance between the occupant and the body of the car, so airbags are especially important in smaller cars. All new Kia releases since 2011 have six or more airbags as a standard feature. K7 (Cadenza) is equipped with eight airbags while K9 (Kia Quoris), released in 2012, has nine airbags, including a knee airbag for the driver. Airbag Layout 62 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 63 CUSTOMERS: SAFETY Center for remote vehicle control and assistance. Through UVO, the driver can start the engine, turn on the heater, or check where the vehicle is parked via his/her smart phone. The UVO Center offers Smarter Safety Technologies road direction, remote diagnostic, and maintenance alert services. Along with strong vehicle bodies and airbags, advanced safety technoloMoreover, when airbags are deployed in an accident situation, the gies for motor accident prevention are making cars smarter and safer. Kia UVO Center is automatically alerted and dispatches emergency roadMotors develops and applies technologies to our production vehicles so side assistance. that drivers can focus solely on the road and avoid motor accidents even if they are not experienced drivers. Cars now self-diagnose against hazards Adaptive Front Lighting System (AFLS) and automatically apply safety measures. The following is an introduction AFLS adjusts the headlamps left-right and up-down according to to Kia Motors’ progress in automotive safety through the diverse safety vehicle speed, angle of the steering wheel, tilt of the vehicle body, features found in K9 (Kia Quoris). and road conditions to secure a greater field of vision for the driver. High Beam Assist (HBA), in the meantime, dims the headlamps when a vehicle approaches from the front to prevent the headlamps from blinding the driver in the approaching vehicle. Advanced Vehicle Safety Management (AVSM) AVSM is a safety system that detects hazards and controls the vehicle accordingly. The embedded radar monitors the road situation. When collision risk is detected, the driver is alerted and the system automatically reduces vehicle speed and retracts the seatbelts for occupant safety. When the vehicle shakes as it negotiates a sharp curve, the electronic steering mechanism is automatically activated to readjust the vehicle to a safe, upright position. Head-up Display (HUD) HUD projects key dashboard data onto the windshield so that the driver does not have to look away from the road to check current speed, alerts and warnings, GPS navigation data, rear and side hazard alerts, and Advanced Smart Cruise Control (ASCC) and Lane Advanced Vehicle Safety Management (AVSM) Departure Warning System (LDWS) information. ASCC is a radarbased system that automatically brings the car to a stop or returns it to cruise-control mode depending on where the car in front is positioned. LDWS alerts the driver when the vehicle veers off or changes lanes without the turn signal on. Motor Safety Campaigns Blind Spot Assist (BSA) The School Zone Safety Campaign (S.L.O.W.), launched in 2005, was expanded in 2010 into a child motor BSA calls the driver’s attention to potential hazards in blind spots. A safety campaign. Some 33.3% of child traffic fatalities occur when children are crossing the road, and radar sensor system detects vehicles approaching at high speeds to running is to blame for 81% of child motor accidents. Kia Motors runs education programs, holds poster the rear and side blind spots. When risk is first detected, the warning contests, and produces and distributes ads and manuals for heightened motor safety awareness among lamps on the rearview mirror and HUD are activated. When a collision children. In 2012, we entered into a service agreement with SAFIA and expanded our child motor safety is anticipated, audible alert signals are activated and the seat starts efforts to all primary schools in Gwangmyeong. In addition to educational programs, we also offer a safety to vibrate. The Around View Monitoring (AVM) system, which comes consulting service wherein safety experts identify hazards and risk factors around schools and work with with the BSA system, can be activated when the vehicle is traveling local governments to make improvements or apply corrective measures. In 2013, we plan to institute the at 20 km/h or less, providing a 360-degree all-around view in eight program in the cities of Hwaseong and Gwangju, where our production facilities are located, and gradually different viewing modes from videos captured from the four cameras expand the program to other areas thereafter. In 2011, the scholarship program for children who have lost installed on the vehicle’s exterior. their parents in motor accidents went into full-fledged implementation. As agreed upon between Kia Motors and the Kia Motors Labor Union, 5 billion won in scholarships will be extended over a ten-year period (2012UVO Telematics System 2021) to low-income households with children of motor accident victims. Since 2009, we have also been Telematics is a combination of the words telecommunications and running the Kids Auto Park in the Seoul Children’s Grand Park. Kids Auto Park is an experiential motor informatics, and its automotive application brings together cars and S.L.O.W. safety learning center featuring a simulation center and driving and pedestrian learning centers. Children wireless communication for automotive IT services. UVO is linked learn about traffic and everyday safety from a fun puppet show, put themselves in the driver’s seat of to the GPS navigation system, driver’s smart phone, and UVO specially designed cars, and practice pedestrian safety tips in simulated environments. M 64 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 65 LINEUP LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) evaluates a product’s potential LCA environmental impact throughout its life cycle, from production and Safety & Environmental Assessments use to disposal. LCA has been adopted as an ISO 14040s standard, and Green Lineup Kia Motors received our LCA assessment from Germany’s TÜV NORD and the United States’ Underwriters Laboratories (UL). (Related information: pp. 44-45) DfE (Design for Environment) is an international standard (ISO DfE 14062) used to verify the environmental friendliness of a product’s design. (Related information: pp. 44-45) Kia Motors boasts a full lineup of passenger cars, RVs, and commercial vehicles Carbon Footprint Labeling is a Korean certification program based CO 2 on CO 2 emissions from all stages of a product’s life cycle. Products whose eco-friendliness and safety are verified through domestic and international Green-certified models that have further reduced CO 2 emissions or whose CO 2 emissions are lower assessments. are based on accumulated than the average emissions of the relevant product segment are given the performance/findings. Safety‘Low-emissions Product’ certification. (Related information: pp. 44-45) certified models are based on 2012 performance/findings. Euro is an EU emission standard. Euro-V is currently in effect, and Sorento R LCA CO 2 Euro IIHS Euro Euro-VI, with more rigorous restrictions, will go into effect in 2014. (Related information: p. 59) Fuel economy and CO2 Composite fuel economy: 13.4 km/ℓ (City: 12.1 km/ℓ, emissions are based on the Ministry of Knowledge Highway: 15.5 km/ℓ) cee’d LCA DfE Euro NCAP K5 (Optima) Hybrid LCA CO 2 IIHS (Insurance Institute for Highway Safety) conducts crash tests Composite CO2 emissions 148 g/km IIHS of newly released vehicles and publishes the findings. A vehicle Economy’s New Energy (R2.0 diesel 2WD A/T) Composite fuel economy: 16.8 km/ℓ (City: 16.2 km/ℓ, Efficiency Standards while CO2 emissions: 97 g/km that passes four crash test assessments is named a ‘Top Safety Pick.’ As Received European certifications (LCA, DfE) and Korea’s Highway: 17.5 km/ℓ) for European models, Energy efficiency grade: A+ of 2012, a vehicle that passes the newly-adopted fifth test is given the ‘Top Carbon Footprint Labeling Composite CO2 emissions: 100 g/km only CO2 emissions are (1.6 DIESEL 2wd M/T) Safety Pick-Plus’ rating. (Related information: p. 63) Named IIHS ‘Top Safety Pick’ in 2012 (2.0 HEV) indicated as per local market 2012 cee’d, Kia’s localized European model, received Certified ‘Low-emissions Product’ in 2012 with 27% NCAP (New Car Assessment Program) evaluates the safety standards. LCA and DfE certifications and Euro NCAP’s top rating lower CO2 emissions compared to gasoline counterpart NCAP performance of new vehicles through crash tests. The Korean version is K-NCAP, while in Europe, there is Euro NCAP. A five-star rating is the highest assessment grade. (Related information: p. 63) Sportage R LCA CO 2 Euro IIHS Composite fuel economy: 14.4 km/ℓ (City: 12.9 km/ℓ, Highway: 16.7 km/ℓ) K5 (Optima) LCA CO 2 IIHS Composite CO2 emissions: 137 g/km Composite fuel economy: 11.9 km/ℓ (City: 10.2 km/ℓ, (R2.0 diesel 2WD A/T) Highway: 15.1 km/ℓ) LCA-certified in Europe and the United States in 2012 Composite CO2 emissions: 147 g/km Released model with 60% lower NOx emissions, which (Nu 2.0 A/T) meets Euro-VI standards set to go into LCA-certified not only in Europe but also in the United effect in 2014 States (2012) Passed strengthened IIHS safety test and named ‘Top Safety Pick-Plus’ 66 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 67 LINEUP Morning (Picanto) Venga K9 (Kia Quoris) Ray LCA CO 2 LCA CO 2 NCAP CO 2 NCAP Composite fuel economy 15.2 km/ℓ (City: 14.3 km/ℓ, CO2 emissions 140 g/km Composite fuel economy 9.3 km/ℓ (City: 7.8 km/ℓ, Composite fuel economy 13.5 km/ℓ (City: 12.9 km/ℓ, Highway: 16.6 km/ℓ) (1.4 M/T) Highway: 12.0 km/ℓ) Highway: 14.4 km/ℓ) Composite CO2 emissions 112 g/km Composite CO2 emissions 192 g/km Composite CO2 emissions 126 g/km (1.0 A/T) (3.8 GDI A/T) (1.0 A/T) Pride (Rio) LCA CO 2 NCAP Forte (Cerato) Hatchback Soul LCA IIHS Carens (Rondo) Euro Composite fuel economy 14.0 km/ℓ (City: 12.6 km/ℓ, Composite fuel economy 13.0 km/ℓ (City: 11.7 km/ℓ, Composite fuel economy 12.3 km/ℓ (City: 11.2 km/ℓ, Composite fuel economy 13.2 km/ℓ (City: 12.1 km/ℓ, Highway: 16.2 km/ℓ) Highway: 15.0 km/ℓ) Highway: 13.8 km/ℓ) Highway: 14.9 km/ℓ) Composite CO2 emissions 123 g/km Composite CO2 emissions 133 g/km Composite CO2 emissions 141 g/km Composite CO2 emissions 150 g/km (1.6 GDI A/T) (1.6 GDI A/T) (1.6 GDI ISG A/T) (1.7 diesel A/T) Forte (Cerato) Koup Forte LPi Hybrid Carnival R (Carnival/Sedona) Euro Mohave Euro Composite fuel economy 13.0 km/ℓ (City: 11.7 km/ℓ, Composite fuel economy 14.0 km/ℓ (City: 12.8 km/ℓ, Composite fuel economy 10.9 km/ℓ (City: 9.7 km/ℓ, Composite fuel economy 10.7 km/ℓ (City: 9.5 km/ℓ, Highway: 15.0 km/ℓ) Highway: 15.9 km/ℓ) Highway: 12.9 km/ℓ) Highway: 12.7 km/ℓ) Composite CO2 emissions 134 g/km Composite CO2 emissions 93 g/km Composite CO2 emissions 185 g/km Composite CO2 emissions 189 g/km (1.6 GDI A/T) (1.6 LPi) (R2.2 diesel A/T) (3.0 diesel 2WD A/T) K3 (Forte/Cerato) K7 (Cadenza) New Granbird Bongo (K Series Truck) CO 2 CO 2 Euro Euro Composite fuel economy 14.0 km/ℓ (City: 12.7 km/ℓ, Composite fuel economy 10.4 km/ℓ (City: 8.7 km/ℓ, Composite fuel economy 10.0 km/ℓ (City: 9.9 km/ℓ, Highway: 16.1 km/ℓ) Highway: 13.5 km/ℓ) Highway: 10.2 km/ℓ) Composite CO2 emissions 122 g/km Composite CO2 emissions 170 g/km Composite CO2 emissions 201 g/km (1.6 GDI ISG A/T) (Based on 3.0 GDI A/T model) (2.5 2WD M/T standard 1.0 ton cab) M 68 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 69 Sustainability Management a p p e ndice s Appendices UN Global Compact Kia Motors is committed to upholding the principles of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption of the UN Global Compact (UNGC), which we joined in July 2008. Our progress and commitment are detailed in the pages listed in the table below. We also designated CSR management as a core strategy for Kia Motors’ mutual growth with society at large and set specific tasks based on the ten UNGC principles. UNGC Index Area Ten Principles Relevant Page(s) Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 34-41, 75-79 Principle 2: make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 34-41, 75-79 Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of 34-36, 75-77 the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 77 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and 77 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 36-37, 75-77 Environment Principle 7: Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 43, 85 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 43-50, 80-89 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 51-61 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 78-79 Membership to Associations & Organizations Association/Organization Purpose of Membership Federation of Korean Industries (FKI) Exchange information on management activities; cooperate on CSR activities Korea Automobile Manufacturers Association (KAMA) Promote the auto industry; pursue intersectoral joint projects (serve as KAMA president) Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry Mandatory membership as per the Chamber of Commerce & Industry Act (Seoul, Gwangmyeong, Hwaseong, Gwangju) Korea Auto Industries Coop. Association (KAICA) Cooperate with relevant businesses to advance the auto industry Korea Management Association (KMA) Acquire business information Fair Competition Federation (KFCF) Share information and opinions with government and businesses to observe fair trade regulations BEST Forum: Business Ethics and Sustainability Engage in ethical management and CSR work exchanges management for Top performance Global Compact Network Korea Uphold the 10 UNGC principles The Korean Association for Industrial Security (kaitS) Promote efforts aimed at protecting industrial technologies Korea Economic Research Institute (KERI) Conduct comprehensive research on longand short-term development issues pertaining to Korean businesses and economy Sustainable Society & Kia Motors’ CSR Indicators A sustainable society Kia Motors envisions is one in which there are balanced discussions on social responsibility in all sectors of society as well as shared efforts to raise the level of responsibility in a fair and practical manner. Kia Motors is especially aware of the responsibilities a business has toward society and believes that stakeholder interest and participation help us fulfill these responsibilities. The greatest task at hand for businesses and other organizations prescribing to the principles of CSR is moving beyond a passive commitment to ISO 26000 (international CSR standard) or merely using it as a PR tool and embrace it as a means of not only improving the respective businesses and organizations but also contributing to sustainable development and social welfare. In 2011, Kia Motors developed our own CSR indicators based on the seven core subjects of ISO 26000. Drawing on the progress we have made thus far, we are promoting enterprise-wide CSR initiatives. We also made CSR involvement a key performance indicator to heighten employee awareness and encourage participation. 70 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 71 Economy a p p e ndice s a p p e ndice s ㆍ As of the 2011 fiscal year, consolidated financial statements for corporate headquarters and overseas subsidiaries were drafted as per the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). million won million won vehicles Business Performance Financial Standing Production Volume by Worksite 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Production volume (vehicles) 2,138,802 2,542,181 2,723,915 Assets 26,275,144 30,255,179 32,398,314 Soha 247,659 258,087 304,056 Sales Volume (vehicles) 2,129,948 2,538,020 2,719,500 Current assets 9,763,671 11,075,187 11,139,430 Hwaseong 547,894 584,407 553,137 Sales revenue 35,826,955 43,190,942 47,242,933 Fixed assets 16,511,473 19,179,992 21,258,884 Gwangju 411,285 488,032 443,389 Operating profit 2,490,028 3,499,088 3,522,251 Liabilities 16,027,027 16,745,469 15,550,252 OEM 209,928 253,136 285,183 Cash flow 5,272,537 4,745,189 4,345,425 Current liabilities 11,627,539 11,421,924 10,000,239 Georgia (USA) 153,665 273,751 358,520 Ordinary income 3,323,047 4,721,650 5,164,056 Fixed liabilities 4,399,488 5,323,545 5,550,013 Slovakia 229,505 252,252 292,050 Net profit 2,698,330 3,519,236 3,864,704 Equity 10,248,117 13,509,710 16,848,062 China 338,866 432,516 487,580 Equity ratio (capital/assets) 39.00% 44.65% 52.00% Total 2,138,802 2,542,181 2,723,915 Debt ratio (liabilities/capital) 156.39% 123.95% 92.30% % % Share of Production Volume by Worksite Share of Sales by Vehicle Type million won Value Distributed to Stakeholders Detailed Breakdown 2010 2011 2012 Commercial & specialSoha purpose vehicles China Soha 11.2 Total value generated 36,154,980 43,636,261 47,999,794 Hwaseong Sales revenue 35,826,955 43,190,942 47,242,933 Hwaseong 20.3 RV Other income Other income-(other costs+depreciation costs) 328,025 445,319 756,861 Gwangju 16.3 Passenger cars 58.6 Slovakia OEM 10.5 RV 37.7 Partner companies Product & service costs 29,184,591 34,935,073 38,197,219 Value-added generated 6,970,389 8,701,188 9,802,575 Georgia (USA) 13.1 Commercial & special-purpose Employees Wages and benefits 3,335,577 3,764,447 4,245,509 Slovakia 10.7 vehicles 3.7 Passenger Georgia (USA) China 17.9 Shareholders Dividends 198,738 242,167 263,240 cars Gwangju Investors Interest costs 289,752 192,494 156,808 OEM Government Tax payments (corporate tax+other taxes) 296,639 561,682 1,022,822 Local communities Donations 13,485 21,063 22,092 vehicles vehicles Sales Volume by Year Production Volume by Year Kia Motors Retained value 2,836,198 3,919,335 4,092,104 ● Other income = (Other operating income+income from investment in affiliated companies+financial income) Other costs (other operating costs+financial costs minus interest Korea Overseas Korea Overseas 2,238,675 1,138,150 2,046,308 958,519 costs and donations) Depreciation costs (depreciation cost+depreciation cost of intangible assets) 1,646,536 722,036 % Economic Value Generated & Distributed (EVG&D) 1,583,662 1,585,765 1,416,766 Kia Motors Local communities Government Shareholders & investors 483,412 491,712 480,825 Employees Partner companies 79.6 Employees 8.8 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Shareholders & investors 0.9 2,129,948 2,538,020 2,719,500 2,138,802 2,542,181 2,723,915 Government 2.1 Local communities 0.1 Kia Motors 8.5 Partner companies million won % Sales Revenue by Region Share of Sales Revenue by Region 2010 2011 2012 Other Korea Sales revenue 35,826,955 43,190,942 47,242,933 Korea 9,143,864 9,363,030 9,466,102 Korea 20.0 Overseas regions 26,683,091 33,827,912 37,776,831 North America 35.6 North America 9,848,574 13,695,781 16,799,524 Europe 25.0 Europe 9,728,780 11,433,786 11,797,175 Europe Other 19.4 Other 7,105,737 8,698,345 9,180,132 North America 72 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 73 Society / Customers Society / Employees a p p e ndice s a p p e ndice s ㆍ With the exception of the total number of employees and data specific to overseas employees, all data pertains to Korean worksites (Corporate Headquarters/R&D centers/Sohari, Hwaseong, Gwangju Plants/ service centers) as of December 31, 2012. Customer Satisfaction Assessments persons persons KSQI ‘Excellent Call Center’ Nine Years Running Call Center KSQI, overseen by the Korea Management Association, Employees (Korea & Overseas) Employees by Occupational Area rates 203 domestic call centers in 33 industries in 16 categories, including accessibility, attitude, and professionalism. Other Korea Sales General The Kia Customer Service Center designated 2012 as the year of ‘Smart Customer Service Center’ and strove to make 14,183 12,756 11,355 32,743 Overseas Technical General 6,378 our service improvements palpable to customers. The CEO and executives from Corporate Headquarters took part in Production 21,402 the Voice of Customers Experiential Training program, listening to customer feedback and sharing their commitment 32,556 32,921 Technical 1,616 to quality customer service with the rest of the staff. We have in place a 3-step follow system for expedited handling Sales 3,193 and prevention of customer grievances, and plan to set up a new customer service system to further strengthen our Other 332 customer-oriented services. 2010 2011 2012 Total 32,921 Production No. 1 in KS-SQI Nine Years Running Our continuous customer service improvements have been recognized by the 44,098 45,312 47,104 Korean Standards Association, having maintained the number one position in the Korea Standard-Quality Index (KSㆍ R&D centers and activities are run collectively with the rest of Hyundai Motor Group, so most R&D employees are classified as Hyundai Motor Group employees. SQI) for nine consecutive years. In 2012, we further enhanced customer convenience with the launch of SMART Q, a R&D employees classified as Kia Motors employees are included under ‘General’. vehicle repair and maintenance service accessible via smart phone or telematics. We also run the Smart Consulting Center, which is linked to a network of around 800 service centers nationwide. The center provides real-time persons Female Employees Overseas Employees by Region maintenance and repair consultation as well as emergency dispatch services. Other Internal & External Customer Satisfaction Surveys In 2012, Kia Motors came in first place in the city car, subcompact No. of female employees (persons) United States car, and midand full-sized car segments of the Korean Productivity Center’s National Customer Service Index (NCSI). Share of workforce (%) 2.54 2.62 2.70 China United States 3,174 We were also the first in the industry to receive the Customer-Centered Management certification from the Fair Trade 831 853 880 Europe 4,794 Commission. We review our annual progress through customer service index (CSI) surveys commissioned to an outside China 6,095 agency. We also run a mystery shopper program to identify issues at our sales and service centers from the customers’ Other 120 point of view. Every month, we survey customers who have just bought our vehicles (monthly avg. 3,013) and collect Total 14,183 voice-of-customer feedback on the telephone service of all customer contact points. We analyze the feedback to Europe 2010 2011 2012 identify areas for improvement, and the findings are relayed to the relevant departments for corrective measures. ㆍ Other: Asia-Pacific (excluding China), Middle East, Africa Customer Privacy Protection persons million won In 2011, Kia Motors established the Personal Information Protection Council to lay the necessary management foundation Job Creation Wages for customer privacy protection. The council’s sector-specific subcommittees, each overseen by a chief privacy officer 2010 2011 2012 (CPO), went into full-fledged operation in 2012. The council reinforced the company’s internal privacy management plan 598 Avg. period of continuous 16.5 17.3 17.8 and set up contingency plans for personal information leaks. It is working on an integrated management system and service (year) 328 regularly monitors privacy protection issues and progress. In 2012, we deleted around 830,000 potential customers’ Annual wage 2,846,650 2,971,414 3,179,579 180 personal information files without consent forms and are setting up a system for regulatory compliance management. We Per-person wage 87.3 91.3 97.6 also plan to complete a web-based personal information search solution in April 2013 and are working on an integrated 2010 2011 2012 Entry-level wage 54.0 57.8 61.6 monitoring system. Kia Motors did not receive any complaints or grievances for violating the duty to protect our customers’ ㆍ Wages includes retirement allowance. The average per-person wage for entry-level personal information in 2012. employees is 3.98 times higher than that of the legal minimum wage. Product Labeling persons persons Job Creation by Local Area Retirement & Resignation All Kia Motors’ product labels come with CO 2 emissions (g/km) and fuel economy data so that customers are well informed 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 and can take CO2 emissions and fuel economy into consideration in their purchasing decisions. As of January 2013, all Corporate Headquarters 136 103 312 Corporate Headquarters 126 38 29 newly released vehicles will come with a label indicating the weighted composite fuel economy (55% city fuel economy, Soha 9 41 100 Soha 48 87 77 45% highway fuel economy) as per changes to fuel economy calculation standards. Hwaseong 23 115 39 Hwaseong 27 318 43 Gwangju 12 30 92 Gwangju 39 54 52 Customer Marketing Communication R&D centers R&D centers 16 7 In carrying out diverse marketing events and other marketing communication activities, Kia Motors strives not to infringe Other 39 55 Other 70 59 upon customer privacy, apply double standards, or exercise undue influence on children. We also endeavor to conform Total 180 328 598 Total 240 583 267 to generally-accepted cultural and ethical norms. Kia Motors undertakes prior research and canvasses local opinions so that our marketing activities overseas conform to local sensibilities. Kia Motors did not violate any regulations or receive any fines in regards to our marketing communication activities in 2012. 74 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 75 Society / Employees Society / Employees a p p e ndice s a p p e ndice s Benefits Announcement of Management Changes Kia Motors provides the same benefits package to full-time and temporary (or part-time) employees. In addition to the Article 17 of the Collective Agreement provides that Kia Motors must announce management changes in writing. Changes legally mandated welfare benefits, we offer a wide range of other benefits in order to raise the quality and security of requiring disclosure include changes to the company name or the articles of association; revisions to, enactment of, or employees’ lives and boost morale for labor-management trust building. In 2012, 71 employees took maternity leave, annulment of employment and human resource policies and other company regulations that affect the condition or status a legally stipulated benefit. We offer a mid-term severance payout program to assist with living costs and enhance of employees; appointment, dismissal, or change in position or status of executives; business performance; and the convenience. In 2012, 12,305 employees took advantage of the program, and the combined total payout was 406.6 billion decisions of the Board of Directors. We also disclose our business performance (monthly/quarterly/every two quarters) to won. We also provided holiday transportation and holiday allowances of 52.2 billion won and 9.9 billion won, respectively. the labor union to strengthen mutual understanding and cooperation. million won Itemized Benefits Combined Benefits & Per-person Benefits Industrial Accident Prevention & Response Amount Kia Motors’ foremost priority is the prevention of industrial accidents to ensure the safety, health, and welfare of our National Pension 67,114 Total benefits (100 million won) employees as stipulated in Article 78 of the Collective Agreement. Every plant has an Industrial Safety and Health National Health Insurance 93,199 Per-person benefits (million won) 11.98 13.33 14.72 Committee composed of seven representatives each from labor and management to promote a safe and pleasant work Industrial accident insurance 39,641 Employment insurance 36,167 environment. In the meantime, the Comprehensive Industrial Safety and Health Committee, comprised of one labor 4,826 Long-term group accident insurance 1,102 3,924 4,340 representative and one management representative from each plant, decides on major health and safety issues based Assistance & convenience measures 177,815 on labor-management consultation. Kia Motors also has in place industrial health and safety systems at our worksites Other 67,583 (Soha and Gwangju Plants: KOSHA18001-certified; Hwaseong Plant: OHSAS18001& KOSHA18001-certified) for the Total 482,620 systematic and effective prevention of industrial accidents. Production managers and musculoskeletal specialists in charge ㆍ Other: Safety/health/hygiene: 30,140 million won, Culture/recreation: 3,210 million 2010 2011 2012 of employee safety and health receive regular training. Every three years, worksite inspections are undertaken to identify won, Incentives: 27,260 million won, Other: 6,973 million won and improve work processes that may cause musculoskeletal disorders. We consult with medical specialists to rearrange and improve the work environment. We also operate programs to prevent hearing loss from worksite noises and respiratory 2012 Education & Training damage from hazardous airborne substances. In accordance with the Industrial Health and Safety Act, we require regular, With our midto long-term global HR development strategy as the basis, Kia Motors developed and implemented a special, random, and pre-employment health checkups. We also provide customized rehabilitation care for employees new HR development system in 2011. The system is comprised of the Leadership Curriculum, Professional Curriculum, returning to the workplace after receiving treatment for injuries sustained in industrial accidents. Value Curriculum, and Global Curriculum. The Leadership Curriculum is made up of a program to enhance leadership skills at each position level and a program for leadership position candidates to prepare themselves for their new role Industrial Accidents & Leave and responsibilities. The Professional Curriculum is comprised of a program to enhance work expertise by job area and At Kia Motors’ domestic worksites (including Corporate Headquarters, sales offices, and service centers), there were 463 the InnoBiz School program for heads of teams to hone problem-solving skills. The Value Curriculum is designed for industrial accidents in 2012, 1 fewer than in 2011. A total of 61,244 days of leave resulted from the industrial accidents, employees who have just received promotions to reinforce executive competencies as regards the company’s core values. 3,762 days fewer than in 2011. Kia Motors is enrolled in a group insurance plan that provides employees with medical The Global Curriculum is made up of programs for the internalization of the company’s core values, developing global expenses for injuries sustained from accidents in non-working situations. We have in place a system to manage followleaders, embracing cultural diversity, and boosting global communication skills. To effectively assist overseas offices in up measures taken after health examinations. When we reorganize production lines, we install equipment and machinery their efforts to develop local talent, part of the common global education and training program is offered online. We have designed to prevent musculoskeletal disorders. also expanded language training for employees in Korea. Kia Motors strives to provide systematic and tailored human ㆍ There was a mistake in the tabulation of 2011 figures regarding industrial accidents and leave. The corrected figures are as follows: 464 industrial accidents and resources development programs (HRDs). 65,006 days of leave. % Education/Training Industrial Accident Rate 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Total education/training expenditure (100 million won) 99 150 182 Kia Motors 1.67 1.42 1.42 Per-person education/training expenditure (10,000 won) 30 46 55 Manufacturing industry average 1.07 0.97 (Unavailable) Per-person education/training hours 41 42 40 Transport machinery & equipment industry average 1.23 1.00 (Unavailable) Protection of Employee Human Rights ㆍ Industrial accidents are tabulated by industry for the relevant reporting period based on data analyzed by the Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency (KOSHA). Data on 2012 averages not yet compiled for general manufacturing and transport machinery & equipment industries will be reported next year. Kia Motors strives to protect employees’ basic human rights. We run a grievance processing system via the company ㆍ Industrial accident rate = Total no. of industrial accident victims / Total no. of employees x 100 (as of Dec. 31, 2012) intranet for convenient tracking of the progress and outcomes. We hold a semi-annual sexual harassment class for the entire workforce on relevant laws and company regulations. The Sexual Harassment Counseling Center within the System for Environment, Safety, & Health Employee Counseling Center works to prevent and resolve sexual harassment incidents at the workplace. The Committee Kia Motors developed the Integrated System on the Environment, Safety, and Health (i-ESH) for the effective management for Female Employee Counseling is also dedicated to resolving problems and challenges unique to female employees. of information, work processes, and inspections related to the environment, safety, and health at our worksites. Employees can use i-EHS to access relevant information and reference materials. The Kia Safety Academy (KSA) offers courses on the Ban on Child Labor & Forced Labor legal aspects of worksite health and safety as well as a program designed to foster internal health and safety inspectors. Kia Motors only hires employees aged 18 and above as stipulated in the company’s employment regulations. As per Article 65 of the Collective Agreement, Kia Motors does not force employees to take holidays or work overtime nor do we unfairly treat our employees for not taking holidays or not working overtime. 76 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 77 Society / Partner Companies Society / Partner Companies·Local Communities a p p e ndice s a p p e ndice s Support & Assistance through the Foundation for Payments for Goods & Services Education on Fair Trade & Voluntary Compliance Korea Parts Industry Promotion Payment Method Payment Cycle Topic Date Target Beneficiaries Parts for domestic use Small & medium partners Cash Weekly In-house Fair Trade Act Jan.-Dec. (12 sessions) Guest speaker from KFTC, CP staff and execs Technical assistance (Quality/ Technology Volunteer Corps) 111 companies e-promissory note (4,392 hours) Feb. Guest speaker Kim Won-jun (non-satdning director), Hyundai Motor Group staff and execs Large partners Weekly (60 days) Business management instruction (Partner Support Corps) 44 companies May Guest speaker from KFTC’s Cartel Investigation Bureau, members of Voluntary Compliance Level-up education for secondary partners 302 companies Council and 200 staff and execs Parts for export Cash Monthly Academic seminars 25 times Oct. Guest speaker, 79 members of Voluntary Compliance Council Nov. Regular in-house training, 150 domestic sales staff and execs 100 million won Mutual growth Feb. 200 team heads and managerial staff of Procurement Division Bulk Buying by Year Fair Franchise Transactions Act Feb. 86 team heads and execs of Customer Service Division Large Partners 2010 2011 2012 Small & Medium Partners 2010 2011 2012 Fair Subcontract Transactions Act Mar., May, Jun. 680 Soha, Hwaseong, Gwangju plant managerial staff Amount 721 800 1,036 Amount 1,036 1,166 1,849 Nov. Information session on amendments to the Act, 304 staff and execs of Procurement Division Fair Labeling and Advertising Act May 140 managers of Domestic Sales Division branches Cyber education for entry-levels with college May 151 persons Key Education Programs for Partner Companies (including overseas plants, 155,863 partner company employees) degree Nov. 90 persons Program Details Manager/staff programs Quality education Quality seminars & education for quality enhancement of parts 158 courses / 41,918 persons Organization Topic Date & Target Job training Job performance enhancement & assistance education External (118 hours) Seoul National University Specialized Fair Trade Act research study program Mar.-Jun., staff (1 person) 186 courses / 85,048 persons Korean Fair Competition Federation Fair competition, education and information session Feb./Apr., CP officer Values & vision education Transparency/ethics education 2012 CP rating and standards, information and conference Mar., CP officer Disclosure regulation on large-scale insider trading and on status of business groups, training Apr., staff (2 persons) 26 courses / 28,897 persons Fair competition, education and seminar Oct./Nov., staff CP Forum Nov., CP officer Anti-corruption Programs Korea Fair Trade Commission Fair competition, education and information session Mar./Jun./Oct., CP officer Kia Motors enacted the Code of Ethics and Regulation of Workplace Ethics in 2001 and has been working to promote International cartel prevention, overseas local training Oct., 5 staff and execs of U.S. office employee compliance. We conduct classes on the Fair Trade Act to raise enterprise-wide awareness of ethical won management. We adopted the fair competition Compliance Program (CP) in 2002 for the proper implementation and CSR Expenditure 2010 2011 2012 Accumulated Total oversight of ethical management practices. CP is an internal corporate regulatory system designed to ensure voluntary Social welfare 4,899,769,073 10,309,212,172 11,257,313,358 26,466,294,603 compliance with fair competition regulations. With full and unwavering support from upper management, Kia Motors Medical care, public health 228,700,000 164,665,814 214,220,000 607,585,814 has in place the Voluntary Compliance Council comprised of executives and key departments heads. The Board of Education, schools, academic research 4,195,156,046 2,838,311,290 4,015,090,540 11,048,557,876 Directors receives regular reports on CP-related progress. CP operational regulations are part of Kia Motors’ official Arts, culture, sports 3,220,006,000 3,019,797,600 3,454,705,045 9,694,508,645 work standards. Through regular internal oversight and education, we strive to do away with unfair business practices Environment 146,523,092 281,460,930 439,267,000 867,251,022 and promote a culture of fair competition. Emergency & disaster relief 859,000,000 1,142,000,000 730,000,000 2,731,000,000 The CEO’s message of commitment to voluntary compliance was delivered eight times in 2012 via the company International programs & activities 1,834,761,346 2,217,676,599 4,296,958,843 8,349,396,788 groupware. We also shared relevant news on fair competition on the intranet voluntary compliance board and reinforced Other 739,383,250 1,247,238,306 64,218,000 2,050,839,556 the internal oversight system, carrying out CP education and training for 71 pertinent departments and inspecting 42 Total 16,123,298,807 21,220,362,711 24,471,772,786 61,815,434,304 pertinent departments. To encourage voluntary participation and initiative, we awarded departments with exemplary ㆍ Only expenditures qualifying as donations as per tax laws and expenditures for public campaigns and sponsorships of academic, arts and culture, and sporting events were voluntary compliance performance. We also expanded the company fair competition education program for the tabulated (domestic worksites). employees of sales and procurement departments and provided a wide range of outside education and training opportunities on latest fair competition trends applicable to everyday business operations. CSR Program Participation Based on these efforts, Kia Motors’ CP received an A-rating from the Korea Fair Trade Commission (KFTC) in 2009 and 2010 2011 2012 2011 and an AA-rating in 2012. The 2012 AA-rating is not only a means of sharing our progress on voluntary compliance Annual participation (persons) 8,044 13,091 13,169 with outside stakeholders and the public but also comes with the benefit of a 15% reduction in fines and a 1.5-year Total service hours 29,971 47,993 48,612 Per-person service hours 1.8 1.5 1.5 waiver on misfeasance investigations. In 2012, Kia Motors was cleared of all charges in one case involving contractual terms and conditions and in four general complaint cases. Employees found guilty by the Cyber Audit Office and other ㆍ Annual participation and total service hours do not include global campaign participation and service hours. Per-person service hours are total number of service hours divided by total number of employees for each respective year. internal anti-corruption mechanisms were subjected to disciplinary action as per the severity of the offenses. Kia Motors will continue to undertake thorough preemptive and preventive measures to advance fair competition and ensure transparent work processes and business transactions. 78 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 79 Environment Environment a p p e ndice s a p p e ndice s ㆍ Data pertains to three Korean worksites (Soha, Hwaseong, Gwangju Plants). Refer to pp. 86-89 for more on environmental data for each domestic and overseas worksite. ㆍ Unit: Used as a basic unit as regards the materials or fuel needed to manufacture one vehicle. The lower the value is, the higher the productivity is. It is also used to calculate unit cost. Environmental Targets & Performance Waste Reduction & Recycling Kia Motors sets targets for key indicators based on the core tasks of environmental management and monitors our The total amount of waste generated at the three domestic worksites (Soha, Hwaseong, Gwangju Plants) in 2012 was performance. 230,000 tons, 90.7% (209,000 tons) of which was recycled to make cement and other materials while 8.4% (19,000 tons) was incinerated. While the total amount of recycled waste increased 2,000 tons given the increase in the amount of 100% of target 85% or higher of target Lower than 85% of target waste generated, the recycling rate dropped 2.6% from the previous year because of the limited processing capacity of 2012 Performance & 2013 Targets recycling service providers. The amount of waste generated per vehicle decreased 23% to 177 kg in 2012 from the base Category Subcategory Basis of Measure 2012 2013 year of 2003. Target Performance (%) Result Target (%) Green growth Energy (GHGs) tCO2eq Unit reduction from 2008 level 20.0% 16.0 20.0 % Waste Waste Recycled, Incinerated, & Taken to Landfills Green production Air PM Unit reduction from 2003 level 60.0% or higher 70.3 70.0 93.7 93.2 90.7 94.0 231 8.6 SOx 20.0% or higher 17.5 20.0 177 Total waste (1,000 t) 171 170 Recycling rate 8.4 167 84.9 NOx 20.0% or higher 17.6 20.0 Unit waste (kg/vehicle) Incineration rate 222 230 227 6.5 197 206 5.3 5.8 Water BOD 25.0% or higher 33.5 30.0 Landfill disposal rate 5.2 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.8 COD 25.0% or higher 25.4 25.0 SS 30.0% or higher 29.3 30.0 2003 2010 2011 2012 2013 2003 2010 2011 2012 2013 Controlled chemicals Usage 15.0% or higher 10.1 15.0 target target Resource Waste Recycled Share of total waste generated 94.0% or higher 90.7 94.0 regeneration Taken to landfill 0.8% or lower 0.9 0.8 Incinerated 5.2% or lower 8.4 5.2 Water Resources Water Consumption 6.7 5.0 4.9 VOCs Emissions Unit reduction from 2005 level 40.0% or higher 46.3 48.0 Kia Motors receives water from Paldang Dam (Soha, Total consumption (1,000 m 3) 4.6 6,475 Thinner recovery Improvement from 2005 level 25.0% or higher 20.9 25.0 Hwaseong Plants) and Juam Dam (Gwangju Plant). Since Groundwater 5,904 6,092 5,719 consumption (1,000 m 3) 2000, Kia Motors has carried out campaigns and made Raw Materials facilities investments to improve cooling tower overflow, Unit consumption (m 3/vehicle) In 2012, Kia Motors used 226,000 tons of steel (not including partner companies’ steel usage), a 10.6% increase and increase the water recovery rate from condensed steam, 1,323 1,456 1,460 1,562 a 27.5% unit (based on the number of units produced; same applies to the figures that follow) decrease from the base and conserve water in lavatories. As a result, we cut our 2003 2010 2011 2012 year of 2003. While paint and thinner consumption grew 41.2% and 40.3%, respectively, compared to 2003, unit unit water consumption 25.8% from 2003 levels. consumption dropped 7.5% and 8.0%, respectively. We track the usage of aluminum, sealer, deadener, and Wrap-Guard film under ‘Other.’ The total 2012 consumption under ‘Other’ was 57,000 tons, and 89% of it was aluminum consumption Energy & Greenhouse Gases at the light alloy plant in Hwaseong. Leftover zinc-coated steel is sent to iron manufacturers while uncoated steel is In 2006, Kia Motors became the first Korean business to undertake a third-party assurance of greenhouse gas recycled at the foundry in Gwangju. In 2012, 9,887 tons of steel were recycled. As for thinners, they are recovered and (GHG) emissions of our service and production facilities and set up a GHG inventory for emissions management. In taken to recycling service providers. accordance with the Basic Law on Low Carbon Green Growth, which went into effect in 2011, GHG emissions and energy consumption (from 2007 onward) are calculated per regulatory standards and reported to the government. The Steel Paint 240 14.7 total GHG emissions in 2012 of all domestic plants, service centers, sales offices, shipping offices, and training centers 174 13.0 13.2 13.6 Total consumption (1,000 t) 165 157 Total consumption (1,000 t) amounted to 834,337 tons, 98% (818,897 tons) of which came from Soha, Hwaseong, and Gwangju Plants. We have Unit consumption (kg/vehicle) Unit consumption (kg/vehicle) 204 209 226 16 18 18 been getting third-party assurance of Scope 1, 2 GHG emissions of the Slovakia Plant and China Plants 1 & 2 since 198 12 2007. With the completion of the assurance of GHG emissions of the Georgia Plant (USA) in 2010, all our domestic and overseas worksites are now independently assured. The total GHG emissions of our overseas worksites in 2012 stood at 2003 2010 2011 2012 2003 2010 2011 2012 378,593 tons. Curbing Energy Consumption & GHG Emissions Upon joining the Voluntary Agreement (VA) for Energy Conservation Thinner Other in 2000, Kia Motors has been steadfast in our efforts to cut energy consumption and GHG emissions, regularly 5.1 71 Total consumption (1,000 t) 4.3 4.6 4.7 Total consumption (1,000 t) 44 reporting our progress to the Korea Energy Management Corporation (KEMCO). We also joined the Greenhouse Gas 38 Unit consumption (kg/vehicle) 6 6 Unit consumption (kg/vehicle) 95 and Energy Target initiative in 2011, reporting our annual GHG emissions and energy consumption to the government 5 18 4 46 57 and negotiating annual emissions caps. Our GHG emissions in 2012 amounted to 821,385 tCO2, outperforming the 15 agreed-upon target of 871,366 tCO2 by 6%. The 2012 emissions cap included emissions from the three domestic plants, 2003 2010 2011 2012 2003 2010 2011 2012 Siheung Service Center, Apgujeong Office, and Nam-Suwon Office. The government will be readjusting the reporting scope as per new regulatory standards. The government-authorized 2013 emissions ceiling for Kia Motors is 895,000 ㆍOther: Aluminum, sealer (adhesive), deadener (soundproof laminate), Wrap-Guard film, etc. 80 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 81 Environment Environment a p p e ndice s a p p e ndice s tCO2. The government’s midto long-term goals for the automotive industry include a 7.8% reduction of GHG emissions Environmental Pollutants from BAU levels by 2020. To this end, Kia Motors set a 30% reduction from 2008 levels by 2020 as our own target. Kia Atmospheric Pollutants In order to minimize atmospheric pollutants, Kia Motors has equipped all our worksites with Motors will continue with our efforts to meet both the government and self-set targets. particulate matter (PM) filtration systems. At the Soha and Hwaseong Plants, we installed tele-monitoring systems (TMS) In 2012, we cut 11,125 tCO2 of GHG emissions by carrying out 46 repair and improvement measures, including replacing for round-the-clock monitoring of boilers and other high-polluting systems to meet the total atmospheric emissions cap for old boilers, installing heat recovery systems, enhancing the efficiency of compressors, and adopting temperature control metropolitan areas. In 2012, we installed multi cyclone equipment and made other improvements to the filtration systems systems. We are doing away with unnecessary energy consumption at our worksites by turning on only alternating at our foundries to reduce PM emissions. The total amount of atmospheric pollutants emitted in 2012 was 781.9 tons, interior and exterior lights and minimizing the unnecessary operation of equipment and machinery. We have in place similar to the previous year. However, unit emissions stood at 0.6 kg, a 49% reduction from the base year of 2003. SOx, systems and practices to minimize greenhouse gas emissions from employee commutes and business trips. We operate NOx, and PM unit emissions in 2012 also decreased 17.5%, 17.6%, and 70.3%, respectively, from the base year of 2003. shuttle buses, restrict parking pass issuance, and run a rotating parking system. We have also set up videoconferencing systems at all domestic and overseas worksites to encourage videoconferencing over business trips. Based on Korea’s Particulate Matter (PM) SOx average CO2 emissions (170 g/km, 2011, KEMCO) of a passenger car in Korea, getting from one worksite to another 694.0 Total emissions (t) Total emissions (t) 1.3 (avg. distance of 137 km) generates 23.3 kg of CO 2 emissions, the amount absorbed in a year by four 30-year-old Unit emissions (g/vehicle) 262.7 209.6 208.2 Unit emissions (g/vehicle) 1.0 1.0 1.1 1.0 206.0 pine trees. Because Kia Motors’ worksites are scattered all over the globe, minimizing work-related trips, especially 591.5 those involving plane travel, can greatly contribute to CO2 emissions reduction efforts. Kia Motors will continue to 1.4 1.4 1.4 317.0 1.2 promote videoconferencing and work to raise efficiency across the entire spectrum of our business operations, from 278.9 267.9 278.4 1.1 manufacturing to office work. For the systematic management of energy consumption, we are in the process of getting ISO 50001 (energy 2003 2010 2011 2012 2013 2003 2010 2011 2012 2013 management systems) certifications for all our worksites. ISO 50001, which went into effect in June 2011, is an target target international standard on corporate energy conservation plans and implementation. Kia Motors’ Gwangju Plant was certified in 2012, and we plan to get certification for our Soha and Hwaseong Plants as well. Thereafter, we plan to NOx expand this effort to all our overseas worksites. 478.4 Total emissions (t) 394.2 382.3 374.6 382.7 1,000 TJ 1,000 tCO 2 Unit emissions (g/vehicle) Total Energy Consumption Total GHG Emissions 512.7 511.7 15 498.5 16 461.3 0.3 17 0.3 15 407.7 Plants 0.3 Plants 0.3 797 819 742 Other 16.5 Other 677 15.5 14.4 13.1 2003 2010 2011 2012 2013 2008 2010 2011 2012 2008 2010 2011 2012 target 13.4 14.6 15.8 16.8 692 759 814 834 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Kia Motors strives to minimize VOC use and emissions in our manufacturing ㆍ BAU (Business As Usual): Expected increase in total and unit GHG emissions and energy consumption if no reduction measures are taken ㆍ Plants: Soha, Hwaseong, Gwangju Plants processes as VOCs contribute to global warming, destroy the stratospheric ozone layer, and emit foul odors. In 2012, VOC ㆍ Other: Corporate Headquarters, service centers, sales offices, shipping offices, Osan Training Center, Pyeongtaek Port emissions dropped 2.8% year-on-year to 7,577 tons while unit emissions were 5.8 kg/vehicle, similar to the previous year. The 58% recovery rate for organic solvents was similar to the 2012 rate. Kia Motors will continue to work toward curbing Unit GHG Emissions of Korean Worksites unit emissions and raising the recovery rate. GHG emissions (1,000 tCO 2) 802 785 Unit emissions (kgCO 2 /vehicle) 818 VOC Emissions VOC Recovery 765 767 797 809 768 753 745 742 10.8 728 61 696 706 59 60 692 691 Total emissions (t) Recovered amount (t) 58 667 669 677 630 615 5.9 5.9 5.8 48 691 685 643 605 Unit emissions (g/vehicle) 5.6 Recovery rate (%) 620 599 10,385 2,323 599 2,266 2,244 2,142 7,796 7,577 7,548 1,779 7,121 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 target ㆍ Scope: Korean worksites (Soha, Hwaseong, Gwangju Plants) 2003 2010 2011 2012 2013 2003 2010 2011 2012 2013 ㆍT  abulation standards: Scope 1, 2 emissions based on lower heating value (2000-2006) / Operating Guidelines on Greenhouse Gas, Energy Target Management System target target [Notification No. 2011-29 of the Ministry of Environment] (2007-) ㆍ Unit emissions grew in 2012 due to a decline in production caused by enlargement/expansion of Korean plants. 82 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 83 Environment Environment a p p e ndice s a p p e ndice s Water Pollutants & Hazardous Chemicals To minimize the use of chemicals harmful to human health and the Environment Management System environment, Kia Motors applies stringent monitoring and management standards throughout the entire vehicle life cycle. All Kia Motors’ domestic and overseas worksites are ISO 14001 (environmental management standard)-certified. Kia Motors runs e-CMS, a self-developed database of the chemicals in the automotive parts of all vehicles produced Every year, we undertake an internal evaluation and an environmental audit to assess our progress on environmental since 2005. We also have in place an inspection system at every worksite to monitor and manage the use of hazardous management, identify problems, and make improvements. In 2012, we started the implementation of an IT-based chemicals. The unit emissions of BOD (biological oxygen demand), COD (chemical oxygen demand), and SS (suspended environmental system for managing the environmental targets and progress at our overseas worksites. The system will be solids) in 2012 dropped 33.5%, 25.4%, and 29.3%, respectively, from 2003 levels. The total amount of chemicals used ready for a pilot run at the Slovakia and Georgia (USA) plants in 2013. in 2012 was 3,321 tons while unit emissions stood at 2.6 kg/vehicle, a 10.1% decline from 2003. In the meantime, the The Soha Plant was given an enforcement order to curb noise pollution in 2012. We built additional noise barriers and consumption, atmospheric emissions, and generated waste of TRI (Toxic Release Inventory) chemicals were 47,626 tons, adjusted the direction of the ducts. We will continue to devise new noise-reduction measures and make steadfast 937 tons, and 1,836 tons, respectively, in 2012. improvements. BOD COD Environmental Expenditure 39.2 72.9 Kia Motors organizes our annual environmental expenditure into five categories. Through a streamlined investment Total emissions (t) Total emissions (t) Unit emissions (g/vehicle) 29.0 31.8 Unit emissions (g/vehicle) 54.7 54.3 54.7 evaluation system adopted in 2004, we evaluate the cost-saving benefits and returns on our environmental investments 26.1 27.5 51.0 by category and use the findings to draw up environmental investment plans for the following year. In 2012, the total 70.7 73.1 42.3 66.0 67.9 62.1 environmental expenditure for our three domestic plants was around 34.7 billion won, a 31% year-on-year increase 35.0 36.8 33.4 33.9 attributable to the rise in environmental facilities investment involving the replacement of old equipment and plant expansion. 2003 2010 2011 2012 2013 2003 2010 2011 2012 2013 1,000 won target target Domestic & Overseas Environmental Expenditure Category 2010 2011 2012 Environmental load reduction (direct) (Investment in environmental facilities & maintenance) 15,515,210 22,615,421 30,786,453 SS Other 60.0 9.0 Environmental load reduction (indirect) (Employee environmental education & environmental assessments) 787,750 919,966 960,754 Total emissions (t) Total emissions (t) 42.6 Waste processing & recycling (Waste processing outsourcing) 3,708,919 4,223,260 4,812,285 6.9 39.0 Unit emissions (g/vehicle) 6.3 6.4 6.3 Unit emissions (g/vehicle) 38.2 35.5 Environmental risk management (Environmental regulatory compliance & accident prevention) 31,511 116,500 100.082 51.2 51.5 52.2 Environmental protection & conservation (CSR programs & afforestation) 127,854 179,070 26,000 9.2 49.7 8.3 8.5 47.2 7.7 7.7 Total 20,171,244 28,054,217 36,685,574 ㆍ Investment expenditure: Exclusive of R&D centers 2003 2010 2011 2012 2013 2003 2010 2011 2012 2013 target target Afforestation In order to raise the eco-friendliness of our production facilities, Kia Motors works to expand green areas in line with the Hazardous Chemicals ㆍ Other: n-H, T-P, T-N expansion of building areas. Thanks to our stringent management of soil-polluting facilities since 2000, there has not been 2.8 ㆍB  OD/COD: Amount of oxygen needed for microorganisms to break down organic a single case of soil contamination for 13 years, and we continue to strengthen our inspection standards. Total emissions (t) matters in the water. Used as a measure of water pollution. The lower the value is, 2.6 the lower the level of pollution. Unit emissions (kg/vehicle) 2.4 2.3 2.4 ㆍ SS: Concentration of solids suspended in water Afforestation Status 3,321 3,232 3,086 2,881 Soha Hwaseong Gwangju Slovakia (KMS) China 1 (DYK1) China 2 (DYK2) Georgia (KMMG) 2,283 Site area (m2) 498,908 3,199,636 1,022,244 1,974,079 405,256 1,449,752 2,596,130 Building area (m2) 217,508 1,162,072 537,211 274,432 89,464 272,496 211,554 Green area (m2) 74,850 663,848 89,509 1,202,331 36,752 310,437 793,187 2003 2010 2011 2012 2013 target Green rate (%) 26.6 32.6 18.5 71.0 10.4 26.0 33.3 Afforestation (trees) 55,856 248,245 114,950 1,100 3,599 2,234,841 1,418 ㆍ Errors in 2003 figures have been corrected. 84 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 85 Environment Environment a p p e ndice s a p p e ndice s Environmental Management by Worksite Soha Plant Community Outreach CO2 (Energy) Reduction Waste Reduction Location 781-1, Soha-dong, Gwangmyeong, The Soha Plant runs a teen education program 101 0.6 Gyeonggi-do for creativity and character building as well as Total emissions (1,000 t) 0.5 0.5 Total amount processed (1,000 t) 91 the KIA Happy Dream scholarship program. The Unit emissions (t/vehicle) Total amount recycled (1,000 t) Employees 5,710 persons 86 plant’s Hope Car project helps those with limited 164 Unit amount (kg/vehicle) Foundation July 1973 156 26 25 28 129 23 Flagship products Grand Carnival (Carnival/ access to mobility. Through kimchi-sharing and 19 21 Sedona), K9 (Kia Quoris), Pride (Rio) Children’s Day special events, the plant engages and Environmental Director & Plant Superintendent Site area 498,908 m2 communicates with the local community. Senior Vice President 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Building area 217,508 m2 Kwang-Sik Park · Environmental Accidents or Lawsuits: None ISO14001 certification December 2003 · Enforcement or Corrective Orders: 2 instances of administrative orders on noise violation Hwaseong Plant Community Outreach CO2 (Energy) Reduction Waste Reduction Location 1714 Ihwa-ri, Ujeong-eup, Hwaseong, As a leading local business, the Hwaseong 0.9 0.9 0.8 Gyeonggi-do Plant provides scholarships to students who are Total emissions (1,000 t) Total amount processed (1,000 t) 241 241 235 household breadwinners, makes and delivers kimchi Unit emissions (t/vehicle) Total amount recycled (1,000 t) Employees 12,005 persons 488 502 Unit amount (kg/vehicle) Foundation April 1989 to single-dwelling senior citizens, and assists with 469 132 130 137 134 126 120 Flagship products K3 (Forte/Cerato), K5 (Optima), cleanup efforts in and around nearby seawalls K7 (Cadenza), Sorento R (Sorento), Mohave and piers, thus contributing to the efforts to make Environmental Director & Plant Superintendent Site area 3,199,636 m 2 steadfast improvements in the local community. Senior Vice President 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Building area 1,162,072 m2 Cheon-Gwon Song · Environmental Accidents or Lawsuits: None ISO14001 certification April 2003 · Enforcement or Corrective Orders: None ㆍ Hwaseong Plant’s unit energy consumption and waste generation figures are higher than those of other worksites because the plant complex includes casting, light alloy production, and engine manufacturing plants. Gwangju Plant Community Outreach CO2 (Energy) Reduction Waste Reduction Location 700 Naebang-dong, Seo-gu, Gwangju The Gwangju Plant extends funding and assists with 0.4 156 0.3 0.3 Employees 6,675 persons cleanup activities to protect Gwangju Stream through Total emissions (1,000 t) Total amount processed (1,000 t) 129 Foundation July 1965 an MOU with the Gwangju Metropolitan City. The Unit emissions (t/vehicle) Total amount recycled (1,000 t) 119 plant is actively involved in the Green Gwangju 21 154 153 Unit amount (kg/vehicle) 69 Flagship products Soul, Carens (Rondo), Sportage 144 58 64 53 54 49 R (Sportage), Bongo III (K-Series) trucks, buses, Council and sponsors the Mount Mudeung Protection military vehicles, engine blocks, heads Group and other environmental organizations. Environmental Director & Plant Superintendent Site area 1,022,244 m2 Through an agreement with the Yeongsan River Basin Senior Vice President Building area 537,211 m2 Environmental Office, the Gwangju Plant provides 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Jong-Woong Kim eco-tour vouchers to those in need. Some 400 ISO14001 certification November 2003 persons received the vouchers in 2012. ㆍ There was a spike in generated waste (scrap metal) with the construction of a new · Environmental Accidents or Lawsuits: None foundry and expansion of the plant complex. · Enforcement or Corrective Orders: None Service Centers Community Outreach CO2 (Energy) Reduction Location 546 Yeondeok-dong, Giheung-gu, Kia service centers undertake community outreach Yongin, Gyeonggi-do & 18 other activities that elevate the corporate image and put Total emissions (1,000 t) locations our CSR management vision of value sharing into 9.0 8.5 8.3 Employees 1,927 persons practice. Our service centers’ employee volunteer Foundation 1958 corps work with local government offices to organize Key services Warranty and repair & maintenance and implement programs tailored to local needs. Environmental Director & Plant Superintendent Site area 210,067 m2 Vice President Building area 168,470 m2 · Environmental Accidents or Lawsuits: None 2010 2011 2012 Keun-Sun Hong · Enforcement or Corrective Orders: None ISO14001 certification December 2003 86 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 87 Environment Environment a p p e ndice s a p p e ndice s Environmental Management by Worksite Slovakia Plant (KMS) Community Outreach CO 2 (Energy) Reduction Water Pollutant Reduction 3.0 Location Teplicka n/Vahom, Slovakia The Slovakia Plant carries out diverse activities 2.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 Total emissions (1,000 t) Total emissions (t) 1.5 to strengthen ties with the local community. As Employees 3,696 persons our flagship community project, we are building a Unit emissions (t/vehicle) Unit emissions (kg/vehicle) Foundation March 2004 57 59 681 bicycle path in Žilina. The Slovakia Plant regularly 620 48 Flagship products Sportage, cee’d, Venga invites local residents for special events, plant tours, 385 Site area 1,886,732 m2 and meetings. We sponsor skiers competing in the Environmental Director & Plant Superintendent Building area 254,163 m2 Special Olympics as well as the Old Town Festival, a Senior Vice President ISO14001 certification March 2011 traditional local festival. 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Eek-Hee Lee · Environmental Accidents or Lawsuits: None · Enforcement or Corrective Orders: None China Yancheng Plant 1 (DYK 1) Community Outreach CO 2 (Energy) Reduction Water Pollutant Reduction 0.4 0.4 Location Yancheng, Jiangsu Province, China DYK 1 and DYK 2 run safety education classes and 0.4 0.3 0.3 Total emissions (1,000 t) Total emissions (t) 0.3 Employees 4,941 persons (combined total of DYK plant tours for local students and carry out a wide 1 & DYK 2) range of other community outreach activities. The Unit emissions (t/vehicle) Unit emissions (kg/vehicle) 58 51 Foundation July 2002 plants also sponsor the Lantern Festival and other 47 54 53 42 Flagship products Sportage R (Sportage), Soul, cultural and sporting events and have remained Rio, Cerato actively committed to the Hope School project. Environmental Director Site area 405,256 m2 CEO Building area 89,464 m2 · Environmental Accidents or Lawsuits: None 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Nam-Young So · Enforcement or Corrective Orders: None ISO14001 certification June 2007 China Yancheng Plant 2 (DYK 2) Community Outreach CO 2 (Energy) Reduction Atmospheric Pollutant Reduction 0.6 0.3 Location Yancheng, Jiangsu Province, China DYK 1 and DYK 2 run safety education classes and 0.5 0.4 0.2 0.2 Employees 4,941 persons (combined total of DYK plant tours for local students and carry out a wide Total emissions (1,000 t) Total emissions (t) range of other community outreach activities. The Unit emissions (t/vehicle) Unit emissions (kg/vehicle) 1 & DYK 2) 147 55 52 49 131 Foundation December 2007 plants also sponsor the Lantern Festival and other 115 Flagship products Cerato, Forte, K5, K2, K3 cultural and sporting events and have remained Site area 1,467,752 m2 actively committed to the Hope School project. Environmental Director Building area 272,496 m2 · Environmental Accidents or Lawsuits: None CEO ISO14001 certification December 2009 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 · Enforcement or Corrective Orders: None Nam-Young So Georgia Plant (KMMG) Community Outreach CO 2 (Energy) Reduction Atmospheric Pollutant Reduction 0.5 Location West Point, GA, USA KMMG is involved in a volunteer cleanup program 0.6 0.2 0.2 Employees 3,002 persons in West Point and paints houses for low-income Total emissions (1,000 t) 0.4 Total emissions (t) 0.3 families in LaGrange. The plant also organizes Unit emissions (t/vehicle) Unit emissions (kg/vehicle) 87 Foundation October 2006 72 Flagship products Sorento, Optima, Santa Fe school supply and toy drives for students from 120 107 Site area 2,596,129 m2 low-income households. The plant funded post86 41 Building area 211,554 m2 tornado recovery efforts in Georgia and funds Environmental Director & Plant Superintendent ISO14001 certification March 2011 math and science programs at public schools. Executive Vice President KMMG sponsors local school, fire department, 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Hyun-jong Shin and community events and works with diverse local agencies and organizations on many different community improvement efforts. · Environmental Accidents or Lawsuits: None · Enforcement or Corrective Orders: None 88 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 89 Environment About This Report a p p e ndice s a p p e ndice s Since 2003, Kia Motors has been publishing an annual sustainability report (MOVE) to inform our stakeholders of our efforts at maintaining and enhancing sustainability and to demonstrate our commitment to continued action and improvement. We asked ourselves whether the stuffiness and formality of the contents and formats of existing reports may hinder reader interest or access to necessary information. As an answer to this question, we adopted a sleek magazine-style layout in 2009 and named the magazine MOVE. With MOVE, we strive to enhance reader accessibility with easy-to-follow contents and a reader-oriented layout. We hope MOVE serves to inform stakeholders not only of our efforts and progress but also to deepen the understanding of sustainability and its importance. After all, sustainability has to be realized for the benefit not only of Kia Motors but of all stakeholders, and to this end, stakeholder interest and involvement is indispensable. Reporting Standards Reporting Targets Kia Motors’ 2013 sustainability magazine MOVE follows This report covers Kia Motors; subsidiaries that are the ‘GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 2011 (G3.1).’ joint stock companies in which Kia Motors owns 50% Item-for-item coverage ratings and relevant pages can be or more shares; and overseas offices, which are jointfound in the GRI Index in ‘Appendices.’ venture corporations. Reporting targets that fall under * GRI: Global Reporting Initiative (www.globalreporting.org) these categories are domestic worksites (Corporate Headquarters; Soha, Hwaseong, and Gwangju Plants; Reporting & Assurance technical centers; and service centers) as well as All information disclosed is based on verified materials Dongfeng Yueda Kia, Georgia Plant (USA), Slovakia gathered by pertinent Kia Motors’ departments. For Plant, overseas technical centers, and the overseas enhanced reliability, this report has been verified by the worksites of overseas offices. The data collection Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS), a third-party scheme was first applied to Korean worksites and is assurance agency. The assurance statement can be being expanded to overseas worksites, so some of the found in ‘Appendices.’ coverage in this report is limited to domestic worksites. We used footnotes to indicate those sections in which the Reporting Scope & Period coverage is limited to domestic worksites. The report covers the period from 2010 to 2012. It contains quantitative performance data from the past Publication Schedule three years to provide a convenient overview of the The Korean version of the 2013 MOVE (issue no. 11) positive and/or negative progress. The base year is listed was published on March 22, 2013 and distributed at the for systems whose year of implementation or adoption General Shareholders’ Meeting. The English version is is clear. As for qualitative performance, this report scheduled to be published on April 30, 2013. Kia Motors’ focuses on 2012 activities and efforts. The reporting sustainability report is an annual publication. period corresponds to Kia Motors’ fiscal year, which is January 1 to December 31. There were no significant Additional Information changes during the reporting period of Kia Motors’ 2013 Please refer to the following resources for additional sustainability report. information: Kia Motors’ official website (www.kia.com/kr/) Accounting Standards Business report: The tabulation of environmental and CSR investments Kia Motors’ IR website (www.kmcir.com) or the and expenditure meet the accounting standards assured Repository of Korea’s Corporate Filing of the Financial by the Board of Directors, Audit Committee, and external Supervisory Service (dart.fss.or.kr). auditors and follow the investment assessment standards Department in charge: CSR Environmental Management adopted in 2004. Details on environmental and CSR Team, Planning Division (Refer to ‘Contact Us’ for contact expenditures can be found in the main body of the report information) as well as the ‘Data Sheet’ in ‘Appendices.’ 90 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 91 Independent Assurance Statement Independent Assurance Statement a p p e ndice s a p p e ndice s To the Management of Kia Motors • Efforts to create a broad stakeholder engagement channel that can collect Level of Application the opinions and views of all stakeholders surrounding Kia Motors e.g. Relative to the GRI G3.1 Guidelines, the Report was found to The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (hereafter “Auditor”) was engaged by Kia Motors to review information specified customers, shareholders, investors, management and employees, business conform to an “A+ level” of application. Relative to the BEST in its 2013 Sustainability Management Report (hereafter “Report”) to provide an independent third-party assurance on partners, and the local community Guidelines, in view of the coverage and depth of information the reported content. On the basis of the above, the Auditor presents the following independent statement of assurance. • Efforts to reflect stakeholder feedback back into business management provided, the Auditor finds the Report to fulfill 94.2% of the decisions in order to help fulfill the Company’s social responsibilities reporting requirements necessary to qualify for a Level 4 Report Responsibility and Objective -O  n-site review primarily of the Company Headquarters and local (ex. Project supporting education/training) (from Level 1 to 5) Going forward, the Auditor suggests putting in place a set of strategies Kia Motors is responsible for all information and claims contained (Soha Plant) workplace (Mar.8/11, 2013) in the Report regarding the establishment of its sustainability -L  evel of application against GRI/BEST sustainability reporting and processes for stakeholder engagement while further strengthening the Recommendations management goals, performance management etc. The guidelines Company’s overall stakeholder engagement strategies. As the eleventh Report by Kia Motors, the Auditor found its “2013 responsibility of the Auditor is to deliver the findings from its -A  review of the completeness and accuracy of the reported Sustainability Report” commendable in the following respects. The assurance undertaking to the management of Kia Motors. The information by sample testing issues of material importance [Materiality] Does the Report contain information of the highest material Report (1) focuses on the key issues identified to be of material key objective of the assurance is to check whether there are any · Data on the current status of greenhouse gas emissions and importance to Kia Motor stakeholders across the economic, social, and importance while also providing links between the key issues material bias or errors present in the Report; assess whether the management environmental dimensions? and the reported content to enhance the understanding of its underlying data collection system is in proper working order; · Health and safety data for executives and employees It is the Auditor’s view that the Report does not omit or exclude issues stakeholders; (2) reflects Company efforts to expand its stakeholder while undertaking in an overall review of the Company’s process · Data on customer satisfaction training necessary for stakeholders to make informed judgments or decisions engagement channels for greater stakeholder convenience; and for identifying issues of material importance to sustainability regarding Kia Motors. (3) incorporates stronger application of reporting guidelines while management as well as the produced results so that the Auditor Limitations We verified efforts to reflect material issues of the highest importance in the offering a broader scope of activities and outcomes to illustrate its may deliver recommendations that can help improve the quality of For the purpose of this assurance, an on-site review was carried out Company’s Report through the following: an analysis of internal corporate commitment toward sustainability management policies, laws and regulations, stakeholder surveys, direct and indirect future reporting. on Kia Motor’s Headquarter office and the Company’s local plant located in Soha. The review was based on available and disclosed economic impact studies, peer benchmarking, and media research etc. For future reports, the Auditor recommends considering the Assurance Type and Scope data for the relevant reporting period and does not include online following. The following points were found to be particularly commendable. • Provide more details on the linkage between Kia Motor’s company-wide For the purpose of this assurance, the Report was reviewed against data. Financial and greenhouse gas-related data validated by • The Report categorizes material issues by major stakeholder group to make corporate vision and strategy and its vision and strategy for sustainability the following reporting criteria. third party providers were not included within the scope of this it easier to assess the demands and interests of different stakeholders management in the respective economic, social, and environmental 1) AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008)1 assurance. • The Report reflects the Company’s efforts to minimize the omission of any dimensions 2) BEST Reporting Guidelines2 material issues regarding stakeholder demands and interests by carrying out • Establish a system for managing the performance of newly emerging issues 3) GRI G3.1 Sustainability Management Reporting Guidelines3 Assurance Findings an internal/external analysis of the Company while reinforcing time-series analysis on key materiality findings by year Based on the assurance scope, methodology, and criteria outlined • The Report highlights the Company’s key materiality findings in the order • Strengthen management of key material issues by including Tier 1, 2 Scope of Assurance above, the Auditor did not find the Report to contain any material of established priority, while structuring the Report around its highest-priority business partners within the value chain and create shared growth outcomes Compliance with the three core AA1000S (2008) principles of misstatements or bias. The reported performance data was issues • Strengthen reporting on the qualitative performance of anti-corruption and Inclusivity, Materiality, and Responsiveness also found to be adequately derived and reported upon without Going forward, the Auditor recommends outlining key changes to its highestethical business management activities Self-declared GRI reporting level/BEST Guideline reporting level distortion based on the Company’s underlying system for data priority materiality findings so that stakeholders can track trend data on issues • Establish direct channels of communication e.g. expert interviews, collection and reporting. The material findings from the Auditor are of key relevance to the Company. stakeholder committee etc. to collect stakeholder views and comments Assurance Type/ Level included herein, and a detailed account of the results and follow-up Type I/ Moderate recommendations has been submitted to Kia Motors. Moderate [Responsiveness] Does the Report provide an adequate response to Independence [Inclusivity] Does Kia Motors adhere to the principle of stakeholder stakeholder demands and interests? Apart from this independent assurance undertaking, the Auditor Assurance Criteria engagement to ensure a responsible and strategic response toward The Auditor confirmed efforts by Kia Motors to be more responsive to was not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report, The three AA1000AS (2008) principles and IPS Assurance Manual sustainability management? feedback collected from stakeholders such as formulating counter measures and has no commercial affiliation with Kia Motors that might standards The Auditor took note of various processes put in place by the Company specific to the demands and concerns of respective stakeholder groups while compromise our independence. also working to provide solutions to stakeholder demands and concerns. IPS Performance Indicators Assurance Criteria™ for stakeholder engagement, based on the recognition that stakeholder GRI G3.1 Sustainability Management Reporting Guidelines participation is crucial to the implementation of sustainability management. It Qualifications of the Auditor is the Auditor’s view that Kia Motors has succeeded in identifying key issues of The following points were found to be particularly commendable. Commissioned by Kia Motors as the Auditor for this assurance Work Undertaken material importance to its sustainability management initiatives by expanding • The Report outlines the current status of the Company’s response to various undertaking, the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) was -A  review of the source of disclosed data and department its channels of engagement with stakeholders and reflecting key engagement materiality findings (ex. Social contributions, environmentally-friendly products) established in 1993 and has since developed into a specialized responsible for data management findings. • The Report categorizes key materiality findings by stakeholder group while institution with broad expertise in the areas of business ethics, A review of the data collection system for each of the reporting offering a detailed account of the response taken by Kia Motors including CSR, and sustainability management since 2002. The Auditor dimensions and a review of the adequacy of the reporting process The following points were found to be particularly commendable. relevant activities and outcomes is composed of experts in business management, accounting, A review of the Company’s platform for responding to material issues • Efforts to utilize not only online channels such as SNS, but also offline • The Report indicates the Company’s proposed response and plans and environmental science including professors at Korea’s top Interviews with persons responsible for the performance of channels to broaden its likely engagement with stakeholders while establishing with regard to changes identified in stakeholder demands and the market universities and practitioners with professional accreditation and respective dimensions a channel that facilitates two-way communication with stakeholder groups environment extensive experience in sustainability management. Going forward, the Auditor suggests creating a system designed specifically 1 AA1000AS is an assurance standard for social and sustainable reporting developed by the U.K.-based Institute of Social and Ethical AccountAbility in November 1999 that to address issues relevant to respective sustainability dimensions so that promotes corporate social responsibility, business ethics and responsible business practices, aiming to improve the quality of social and ethical accounting, auditing and the Company can provide a more pre-emptive response to all stakeholder reporting. The 2008 amended version entered into effect as of 2010. requirements and concerns. 2 BEST Sustainability Management Guidelines: The BEST Sustainability Reporting Guideline was jointly developed by the SM Forum, the Ministry of Knowledge Economy (MKE), the Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), and the Institute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS) in 2006 and provides for five levels of reporting coverage and depth (Level 1 ~ 5). Mar 14, 2013 3 The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s Sustainability Reporting Guideline was jointly convened by the Coalition for Environmentally Responsible Economies (CERES) and UNEP Jae-Eun, Kim in 1997. Building on the G3 version which was launched in Oct. 2006, the newly revised G3.1 version was released in Mar. 2011 with an expanded emphasis on human rights, President, The Institute for Industrial Policy Studies gender, and the local community. G4, the fourth version is set to be introduced in 2013. 92 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 93 GRI (G3.1) Index GRI (G3.1) Index a p p e ndice s a p p e ndice s Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported Not Applicable Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported Not Applicable Performance Description Reported Cross-reference Best Performance Description Reported Cross-reference Best Indicator Indicator Profile Economic Performance Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. ● 4~5 A_1 Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee ● 16~19 EC1 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. ● 12~15 A_2 compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. ● 2 A_3 providers and governments. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. ● 3, 66~68 A_4 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. ● 12~15 EC2 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ● 2~3 A_5 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. ● 76 EC3 ventures. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. ○ not reported EC5 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. ● 3 A_7 Market EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of ● 75 EM4 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or ● 3 A_7 presence operation. that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. ● 36, 75 EC4 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. ● 3, 9 A_8 EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant ● 36, 75 EC4 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). ● 3 A_9 locations of operation. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. ● 2~3, 66~68, 70~93 A_10 Indirect EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through ● 23~31 EC6 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. ● 91 B_8 economic commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. ● 7 CO8 impacts EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. ● 19 EC7 Report 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. ● 91 B_3 Parameters 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). ● 91 B_8 Environment Performance 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) ● 91 B_6 Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. ● 46, 80 EV10 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. ● 91 B_9 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. ● 46~47, 51, 80, 81 EV11 3.5 Process for defining report content. ● 11 B_4 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. ● 46, 81~82 EV7 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See ● 91 B_1 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. ● 82 EV8 GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. ● 46~47, 51, 80~82 EV5 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for ● 91 B_2 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in ● 46~47, 51, 80~82 EV5 explanation of scope). energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities ● 91 A_6 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. ● 46~47, 51, 80~82 EV5, EV25 that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. ● 47, 81 EV9 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying ● 79 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. ● 81 EV20 estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. ○ not reported EV18 decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high ● 85 EV22 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for ● 91 biodiversity value outside protected areas. such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and ○ not reported EV22, EV26 methods). areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied ● 91 B_5 EN13 Habitats protected or restored. N/A EV27 in the report. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. ○ not reported EV6, EV26 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. ● 94~96 B_10 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by N/A EV28 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. ● 92~93 B_7 operations, by level of extinction risk. Governance, 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body ● 8~9 GR1 Emissions, effluents EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. ● 46~47, 80~81 EV12 Commitments, responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. and waste EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. ● 46~47, 80~81 EV13 and 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. ● 8 GR1 GR3 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. ● 46~47, 80~81 EV4 Engagement 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance ● 8~9 GR2 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. ● 83 EV14 body that are independent and/or non-executive members. EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. ● 83 EV15 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest ● 8 GR12 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. ● 48 EV17 governance body. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. ● 80~81 EV16 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and ● 8 GR7 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. ● 85 EV21 executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel N/A EV29 environmental performance). Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. ● 8 GR13 EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected ○ not reported EV19 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for ● 8 GR4 by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Products and services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. ● 52-55, 56-61 EV23 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, ● 7, 30, 53 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. ● 51 EV24 environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with ● 85 EV31 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of ● 9 GR5 environmental laws and regulations. economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the ● 49 EV30 compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to ● 8 GR6 Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. ● 85 EV1 economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. ● 12~15 GR11 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the ● 71 GR10 organization subscribes or endorses. Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. ● 64 EM1 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy ● 71 A_11 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. ● 75 EM5 organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as operations. ● 76 EM20 strategic. Labor/ LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. ● 36 EM12 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. ● 10 C_1 C_2 management relations LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective ● 77 EM13 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. ● 10 C_1 agreements. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder ● 10 C_2 Occupational health and LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees ● 77 EM14 group. safety that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization ● 10~11 C_3 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by ● 77 EM19 has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. region. 94 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 95 GRI (G3.1) Index Contact Us a p p e ndice s a p p e ndice s Fully Reported Partially Reported Not Reported Not Applicable Performance Description Reported Cross-reference Best Supervisory Board of the Sustainability Economy Society Indicator Occupational health and LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, ● 28~30, 35 EM18 Gui-Hyun Choi Sung-Jin Ko Se-Cheon Lee safety their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Director, Management Strategy Group Manager, Management Strategy Team Staff, Human Resources Administration Team LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. ● 77 EM15 Goan-Soo Shin So-Young Um Seung-Chul Lee General Manager, CSR Environmental Management Team Staff, Management Strategy Team Assistant Manager, Human Resources Support Team Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. ● 76 EM27 Chang-Muk Choi Seok-Kee Baik Ju-Hyung Ryu LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees ● 76 EM28 General Manager, CSR Environmental Management Team General Manager, Global Planning Team Manager, HRD Planning Team and assist them in managing career endings. Keuk-Jin Bang Sang-Eun Lee Dong-Woo Shin LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. ● 76 EM29 Deputy General Manager, CSR Environmental Management Team Manager, China Biz Policy Planning Team Assistant Manager, Procurement Planning Team Diversity and equal LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age ● 36~37, 75 EM2 Jong-Tae Lee Soon-Dae An Sung-Hyun Ahn opportunity group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Deputy General Manager, CSR Environmental Management Team Manager, Securities Finance Team General Manager, Supplier Cooperation Team LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. ● 36, 75 EM17 Kye-Hwan Roh Jang-Hong Min Jeong-Kyu Seo Manager, CSR Environmental Management Team Assistant Manager, Securities Finance Team Staff, Supplier Cooperation Team LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. ● 76 Young-Sun Ki Sun-Kyoo Han Bae-Sik Hong Social: Human Rights Assistant Manager, CSR Environmental Management Team Manager, Quality Planning Team General Manager, Customer Satisfaction Planning Team Hyun-Jin Cho Jin-Young Park Jae-Woon Hwang Investment and HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that ○ not reported PN2 Assistant Manager, CSR Environmental Management Team Manager, Accounting Team Staff, Customer Satisfaction Planning Team Procurement Practices have undergone human rights screening. Sang-Yul Park Yong-Sik Kim Staff, CSR Environmental Management Team Manager, Occupational Safety Planning Team HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and 39~40 PN3 Yong-Been Kim actions taken. Staff, CSR Environmental Management Team HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are ● 67 EM30 Sun-Ueok Kim relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Staff, CSR Environmental Management Team Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. ● 36~37 EM7 Freedom of association HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at ● 35~36 EM8 and collective bargaining significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Environment Reference Materials Design Supervision Yong-Deuk Lee Jae-Woo Kim Min-Joon Kwak Child labor HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to ● 77 EM9 Assistant Manager, Safety & Environment Management Team Manager, Corporate Culture PR Team Manager, Brand Communication Team the elimination of child labor. Ki-Dong Lim Myung-Eun Song Ji-Youn Kim Forced and compulsory HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to ● 77 EM10 Manager, Safety & Environment Management Team Staff, Communication Team Staff, Brand Communication Team labor contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Dong-Keun Choi Hye-Jin Lee Deputy General Manager, Safety & Environment Management Team Staff, Overseas Communication Team Security HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of ○ not reported EM31 Sung-Won Choi Hye-Young Shin practices human rights that are relevant to operations. Research Engineer, Eco-Technology Research Team Research Engineer, R&D Planning Team Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. N/A CO2 Jong-Tae Kim Myeong-Ro Lee Deputy General Manager, Production Innovation Team Research Engineer, R&D Planning Team Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact 39~40 Gi-Seong Kim assessments. Senior Research Engineer, R&D Planning Team Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance 40, 76 Eun-Hye Jeon English Editing mechanisms. Research Engineer, R&D Planning Team Michael Choo Gi-Seong Lee Social: Society Senior Research Engineer, Energy Efficiency Engineering Team General Manager, Overseas Communication Team Byung-Hwan Jung Local SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of ● 22~31, 79 CO1 Part Manager, Vehicle Analysis Team Communities operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. Ji-Young Park Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. ● 78 CO5 Senior Research Engineer, Powertrain Project Management Team SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. ● 78 CO5 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. ● 78 CO5 Public policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. ● 19, 81 CO6 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by N/A CO7 country. Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their ● 78 CS3 outcomes. Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws ● 78 CO9 and regulations. Local SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities ● 15 Communities SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative ● 15, 20~21, 45~51 impacts on local communities. Social: Product Responsibility C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria listed for Same as requirement for Level B GRI Application Level 1.1 Level C plus: Customer PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, ● 62~65 CS4 2.1~2.10 1.2 health and and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. 3.1~3.8, 3.10~3.12 3.9, 3.13 Kia Motors’ 2013 sustainability Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured 4.1~4.4, 4.14~4.15 4.5~4.13, 4.16~4.17 safety PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and ● 74 CS11 report was prepared in accordance safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Not Required Management Approach DiscloManagement Approach Disclosures for each Indicator Category sures for each Indicator Category with the ‘GRI G3.1 Guidelines.’ Kia Product and service PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and ● 66~69 CS5 Motors’ self-rating was A+ as per the labelling services subject to such information requirements. ‘GRI Application Level Table.’ The A+ PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and ● 74 CS12 rating received third-party assurance service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. Report on a minimum of 10 PerReport on a minimum of 20 Report on each core G3 and Sector by the Institute for Industrial Policy PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 74 CS9 formance Indicators, including at performance Indicators, at least Supplement* Indicator with due regard ● Studies (IPS). least one from each of: Economic, one from each of Economic, Ento the materiality Principle by either: a) Marketing PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, ● 74 CS13 Social and Environmental. vironmental, Human rights, Labor, reporting on the Indicator or b) explainSociety, Product Responsibility. ing the reason for its omission. communications including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing ● 74 CS14 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer ● 74 CS15 Publication Information privacy data. Publication date May 8, 2013 (annual) | Publisher Kia Motors +82-2-3464-1114 | Publications director Hyoung-Keun (Hank) Lee | Planning & design Intonation Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and ● 74 CS15 +82-2-3144-0133 | Printer Young-Eun Printing +82-2-2274-9250 use of products and services. 96 Kia Motors Sustainability Magazine 2013 CSR Environmental Management Team Kia Motors Corporation 231, Yangjae-dong, Seocho-gu, Seoul, 137-938, Korea E-Mail yongbeen.kim@kia.com www.kia.com/kr www.kia.com/worldwide
