United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 The CSR Agency The CSR Agency Consultants for Responsible Business Address: 21st Gheorghe Lazar street, Building A, 1st Floor, 1st District, Bucharest, Romania Mobile: +40735010099; Phone and fax: +4021314.66.15; E-mail: contact@thecsragency.ro http://www.thecsragency.ro Contents The 10 PRINCIPLES of the Global Compact ........................................................ 4 Message from the General Manager .................................................................. 5 About The CSR Agency ................................................................................... 6 Compliance with the 10 UNGC Principles ........................................................... 7 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ........................................................................ 7 LABOR STANDARDS..................................................................................... 8 ENVIRONMENT.......................................................................................... 10 ANTI-CORRUPTION.................................................................................... 12 How will we publicize the 10 Principles? .......................................................... 13 The CSR Agency Consultants for Responsible Business Address: 21st Gheorghe Lazar street, Building A, 1st Floor, 1st District, Bucharest, Romania Mobile: +40735010099; Phone and fax: +4021314.66.15; E-mail: contact@thecsragency.ro http://www.thecsragency.ro The 10 PRINCIPLES of the Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals. LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We fully support and promote these principles! The CSR Agency Consultants for Responsible Business Address: 21st Gheorghe Lazar street, Building A, 1st Floor, 1st District, Bucharest, Romania Mobile: +40735010099; Phone and fax: +4021314.66.15; E-mail: contact@thecsragency.ro http://www.thecsragency.ro Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility [Training] + [Strategy] + [Reporting] + [Assurance] Message from the General Manager Our company was founded on business ethics, and I am pleased to confirm that The CSR Agency reaffirms its support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. A sustainable business can only be built on Human Rights, Labor Standards, Environment and Anti-Corruption principles, and our company not only respects these, but we promote it in our actions and partnerships. As a CSR consultancy we should be a model in business ethics and corporate citizenship and we do our best to accomplish those goals. This is our first annual Communication on Progress and we will describe our actions about integrating the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. We did a great step by adhering the Global Pact and this annual report is very useful for us too because we could measure our improvements and progresses. We will observe how we assumed and implemented the 10 ethic principles and how we engaged with employees, environment and community members. Yours sincerely, Dragos Tuta General Manager The CSR Agency, Romania, COP for 2013 The CSR Agency Consultants for Responsible Business Address: 21st Gheorghe Lazar street, Building A, 1st Floor, 1st District, Bucharest, Romania Mobile: +40735010099; Phone and fax: +4021314.66.15; E-mail: contact@thecsragency.ro http://www.thecsragency.ro Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility [Training] + [Strategy] + [Reporting] + [Assurance] About The CSR Agency The CSR Agency is a management consultancy from Romania specialized in Corporate Social Responsibility and Sustainability. We are advising organizations of all sizes about CR and Sustainability, helping them to understand and embed it into their operations. We will always find the balance between the short-term advantages and the longer-term value of putting sustainability at the heart of other organizations. Our training and mentorship services range from short introductory briefings and workshops dedicated to professionals up to providing a strategic vision and an integrated action plan for companies who desire to act responsible. The CSR Agency provides a comprehensive service, a sort of one stop shop for CSR and sustainability. We do everything from training to assessment, to reporting (ISO, GRI) all the way up to stakeholder engagement (employee, supply chain etc.) and strategic planning. We have also created and currently managing CSR Think Tank, which is the largest community of CSR representatives in Romania, trying to advocate sustainability across the Romanian business sector. The CSR Agency Consultants for Responsible Business Address: 21st Gheorghe Lazar street, Building A, 1st Floor, 1st District, Bucharest, Romania Mobile: +40735010099; Phone and fax: +4021314.66.15; E-mail: contact@thecsragency.ro http://www.thecsragency.ro Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility [Training] + [Strategy] + [Reporting] + [Assurance] Compliance with the 10 UNGC Principles HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Human Rights acts like a statement in our company. Dignity and Respect are key principles of Human Rights and our company understands and applies that. Through all our actions we are conducting our policies according to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We have an internal Code of Conduct regarding these principles. To our employees we offer all the benefits imposed by national laws and other regulations. Assessment, policy and goals The CSR Agency is respecting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights through an internal regulation document, named Code of Conduct. This document is available to all our employees and is respected by them without any exception. Through our consulting services we are trying to integrate this approach in strategies and CSR management for our clients. It is very important for us to have customers and partners that had assumed Global Compact principles. We do not have business relations with organizations that do not respect human rights. For the upcoming year we will keep our ethic formula concerning Human Rights requests and we will try to inspire our clients and partners through our consultancy services. Implementation Any new employee of The CSR Agency has written in his contract about our obligations concerning the respect of human rights. That policy is also available for anyone who is interested in at our office. Likewise, all our partners and clients are informed about our policies through the contracts that we sign with them. The CSR Agency Consultants for Responsible Business Address: 21st Gheorghe Lazar street, Building A, 1st Floor, 1st District, Bucharest, Romania Mobile: +40735010099; Phone and fax: +4021314.66.15; E-mail: contact@thecsragency.ro http://www.thecsragency.ro Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility [Training] + [Strategy] + [Reporting] + [Assurance] Every year our employees are trained about our policies and regulations, which include also the human rights aspects. For their conduct we encourage integrity and honesty. We are also very proud about our UNGC membership. We have made it a standard and actively informed all our clients and partners about this commitment and encouraged them to commit as well. Each human rights violation can be communicated to our HR Director, through email, by any of our employees or partners. Measurement of outcomes Up to this moment The CSR Agency did not encountered complaints about Human Rights violations. In any case all our internal evidences about Human Rights are yearly reviewed by the HR Director and delivered as a report to our top management team. LABOR STANDARDS Assessment, Policy and Goals The CSR Agency respects national and international laws concerning labor rights, especially the laws related to the freedom of association and collective bargaining. The policies about Labor can be found in our Code of Conduct. In this official document are clearly written the rights and responsibilities of the employees, along the compensations and benefits in terms of labor. We also maintain good labor rights with our customers and partners. We have signed with each employee an individual Labor Agreement that specifies the labor rights and obligations. According to Romanian Labor Code, the normal length of the work time for the full-time employees is 8 hours per day and 40 hours per week. For overtime work, the written consent for employees is required. The CSR Agency Consultants for Responsible Business Address: 21st Gheorghe Lazar street, Building A, 1st Floor, 1st District, Bucharest, Romania Mobile: +40735010099; Phone and fax: +4021314.66.15; E-mail: contact@thecsragency.ro http://www.thecsragency.ro Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility [Training] + [Strategy] + [Reporting] + [Assurance] The Romanian Labor Code describes that a person could work at the age of 16. A legal contract can be required at the age of 15 with his/her parents’ agreement or legal representatives for activities that correspond with his/her physical development, skills and knowledge with the condition that his/her health, development and vocational training are not affected. The CSR Agency does not have employees less than 18 years. All these documents and the Code of Conduct are available to our employees, implemented and respected by all of them. Our customers and partners are aware about our policies and we don’t work with companies that don’t respect labor rights. Through our consulting services, we advise all our clients and partners to implement good labor policies and become a member of UN Global Compact. For the next year, we will respect the same principles and try to improve our policies according to the new labor practices. The CSR Agency takes all necessary measures to prevent risks for health and safety, and makes efforts to improve work conditions. Implementation The Human Resources manager is in charge of monitoring the labor rights develop the content of regulations and create awareness. Each employee can complain about violations of labor rights through multiple channels and the HR manager, together with the General Manager, decide how to resolve the problems. Each employee has the right to negotiate his/her salary and the freedom to join any trade union or association. The CSR Agency is offering yearly training about policies and regulations that include the labor rights policies, providing basic legal concepts related to discrimination at work. This training is prepared by the Department of Human Resources from our organization and is based on annual internal surveys. We do not apply any type of discrimination based on gender, age, race, or religion and we encourage equal opportunities between employees. Compulsory work in our agency is strictly forbidden and according to the contract our employees are paid for their holydays. The CSR Agency Consultants for Responsible Business Address: 21st Gheorghe Lazar street, Building A, 1st Floor, 1st District, Bucharest, Romania Mobile: +40735010099; Phone and fax: +4021314.66.15; E-mail: contact@thecsragency.ro http://www.thecsragency.ro Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility [Training] + [Strategy] + [Reporting] + [Assurance] Measurement of outcomes Until now, no incidents related to labor rights occurred. The CSR Agency has positive feedback about the employment contracts and 100% compliance about work conditions. We apply internal audits frequently and we try to improve our labor practices every year. ENVIRONMENT Assessment, policy and goals As a consultancy agency in Corporate Social Responsibility, we are the main promoters of the environment protection for our customers and partners. We are aware of our environmental responsibilities and we want to be as sustainable as possible knowing that any wrong action will lead to a negative impact on the environment. We continuously educate ourselves and also our clients about new opportunities in protecting the environment and about new strategies they could implement in their daily actions. We constantly attend conferences and seminars about environmental issues and solutions. The knowledge that we accumulate through these participations we try to introduce it in our consultancy services and advise our clients to be more responsible on environmental issues. We also tried to find “green” solutions that we could implement at our office to reduce the waste of energy, paper and other finite materials. Being partner in many environmental projects we have very often the occasion to plant trees, collect and recycle garbage and do environmental education with kids and grownups. For the upcoming year we want to be more prepared, give better advice and continue participating to national or international conferences, workshops and trainings that could educate us on environmental issues. The CSR Agency Consultants for Responsible Business Address: 21st Gheorghe Lazar street, Building A, 1st Floor, 1st District, Bucharest, Romania Mobile: +40735010099; Phone and fax: +4021314.66.15; E-mail: contact@thecsragency.ro http://www.thecsragency.ro Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility [Training] + [Strategy] + [Reporting] + [Assurance] Implementation The CSR Agency is trying to minimize the environmental impact of its activities. In this respect we use waste sorting system at our office trying in this way to recycle as many materials as we can. We had changed all our light sources to LED spotlights. LED spotlights are using a lot less energy and are lasting much longer. All the normal spotlights and batteries that we used were introduced in the waste sorting system. Because we create, verify and deliver lots of documents, as a first step we decided to print double side so that we could use all the paper and then give it to a recycle point. Slowly we give up on proofing on paper sheets and do that work electronically. At the beginning was a little hard, but in time we did it so we stop using the printer. Since then we don’t have and use a printer at the office anymore. We turn off the light when we don’t need it and switch off the energy source from our desktops and laptops when we leave the desks for lunch or for the end of work program. Moreover, The CSR Agency encourages all employees to use the bicycle instead of personal car during summer-time. In our daily activity we do what we can to encourage our customers and partners to always think more environmental friendly and to avoid all unnecessary use of energy and other non-renewable materials. Measurement of outcomes Our Code of Conduct encourages employees to be environmental friendly at the office and no reports have been filed from this point of view. We don’t have a measurement of energy wasted or reduced but we can find differences in our administrative costs. They dropped with 30% in the last year and we are very proud by that fact not only because that we saved money, but especially because we save environmental resources. The CSR Agency Consultants for Responsible Business Address: 21st Gheorghe Lazar street, Building A, 1st Floor, 1st District, Bucharest, Romania Mobile: +40735010099; Phone and fax: +4021314.66.15; E-mail: contact@thecsragency.ro http://www.thecsragency.ro Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility [Training] + [Strategy] + [Reporting] + [Assurance] ANTI-CORRUPTION Assessment, policy and goals We support United Nation Global Compact principles on anti-corruption and we strongly work against corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery. It is our company policy that bribery must not be offered, accepted or demanded at any time by any whom. According to Romanian laws, bribery is forbidden and no employees at The CSR Agency are allowed to receive any personal gifts from customers or business partners. We do not have any procedures to monitor our employees, but we have mail boxes where that kind of action can be reported. Our Code of Conduct has a chapter dedicated to anticorruption and there is written that all the employees have to respect the demand. Implementation Our Code of Conduct includes our policies on anti-corruption and our HR Manger is responding to incidents. We have an anonymous box system where anyone can write about violations of the Code of Conduct or anti-corruption facts that will be analyzed with the General Manger. If an incident appears in terms of corruption, the Human Resources and the General Manger, together with the top management team take the needed actions, specified in above mentioned Code. Measurement of outcomes The CSR Agency offices have an anonymous boxes system that encourage employees, clients and partners to report back if they suspect any wrongful doing in regards to corruption. The CSR Agency has never been involved in bribery or corruption incidents of any kind, and we are confident that we comply with the Romanian legislation in this respect. We perform internal audits during which we control the correspondence between our policies and procedures and the actual implementations. Since the anonymous boxes system has been implemented no incidents have been reported and until now, our company did not face any incidents of corruption issues. The CSR Agency Consultants for Responsible Business Address: 21st Gheorghe Lazar street, Building A, 1st Floor, 1st District, Bucharest, Romania Mobile: +40735010099; Phone and fax: +4021314.66.15; E-mail: contact@thecsragency.ro http://www.thecsragency.ro Sustainability and Corporate Responsibility [Training] + [Strategy] + [Reporting] + [Assurance] How will we publicize the 10 Principles? The 10 Principles will be made available to employees, suppliers, shareholders, stakeholders, mass-media, as well as to the public opinion that we have access to. This will be made through all the formal channels that we have, including our website (www.thecsragency.ro), our social-media pages, the press-releases or the business relation that we will establish. Additionally, we have been and will continue to be very careful about mentioning the UNGC principles through the dialogue that we will have with our partners of other third parties. The CSR Agency Consultants for Responsible Business Address: 21st Gheorghe Lazar street, Building A, 1st Floor, 1st District, Bucharest, Romania Mobile: +40735010099; Phone and fax: +4021314.66.15; E-mail: contact@thecsragency.ro http://www.thecsragency.ro
