Communication on Progress -November 2013Page 1/13 SUMMARY The United Nations Global Compact * Short description of the company * Pernod Ricard Italia’s CEO statement * Communication On Progress Covered areas Page 2/13 The United Nations Global Compact ten Principles The United Nations Global Compact, also known as Global Compact or UNGC, is a strategic policy initiative but also the world’s largest voluntary corporate citizenship. Announced in 1999 by Kofi Annan and officially launched by the United Nations in 2000, it aims at encouraging businesses to commit themselves in adopting responsible and sustainable policies, in line with ten core principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Since 2003, one of the Global Compact commitments establishes that, every year, all participating companies have to publish a Communication On Progress (COP). This disclosure expects businesses to share their efforts in implementing the United Nations Global Compact and its principles. Pernod Ricard Italia, who joined the Global Compact in 2008, is now fulfilling its duty, and communicating on its own efforts and accomplishments through its fourth COP. Global Compact 10 Principles: * Human Rights * Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. * Labour Standards * Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. * Environment * Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. * Anti-Corruption * Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page 3/13 Description of Pernod Ricard Italia  Presentation: Pernod Ricard Italia is the Italian subsidiary of the French group Pernod Ricard, world’s co-leader in Wines and Spirits, and number one in Premium Spirits. The company resulted from the evolution of the Distillerie Fratelli Ramazzotti, a company established in 1815 which grew up steadily to finally become leader on the Italian market. In 1985, it joined Pernod Ricard Group and kept on developing itself in Italy. A strong commercial network allowed an international success for some of its brands, among which Ramazzotti bitter, number one of imported spirits in Germania and Sambuca Ramazzotti, number one of the Sambuca market in Canada. The plant of the company is based in Canelli (Piedmont), where 24 persons work to produce the Ramazzotti range (5 different products: Bitter, Sambuca, Black, Menta and Aperitivo). Headquarters are based in Milan, comprising 90 people, plus 30 more dispatched on the territory (sales force). On top of Ramazzotti, the Italian affiliate distributes key international brands on the Italian market such as Havana Club, Absolut Vodka, Chivas Regal, Ballantine’s, G.H. Mumm, Malibu, Ricard, Wyborowa, Beefeater, Jameson,The Glenlivet and Royal Salute.  History: 1815 Birth of the Amaro Ramazzotti with the creation of the Distillerie Fratelli Ramazzotti 1985 Ramazzotti joins Pernod Ricard Group 2001 Acquisition of Seagram. Chivas Regal, Martell and the Glenlivet are included in the Italian portfolio 2005 Acquisition of Allied Domecq. G.H Mumm, Perrier-Jouët, Ballantine’s and Malibu are included in the Italian portfolio 2008 Acquisition of V&S Group (Vin & Sprit). Absolut Vodka is included in the Italian portfolio Page 4/13 Statement of Michel MAURAN Chief Executive Office After having just completed my second year as CEO of PR Italia I am happy to confirm that our Company actively supports the Global Compact and renews the commitment to its initiatives regarding the four principles related to Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anticorruption . I believe that in this past year, in a context marked by recession and other economic difficulties, managing aspects of business in a responsible and sustainable way has been even more important. This approach is not only value creating but helps ensure the health, longevity and credibility of our business in the long term. This is why I have put my efforts in taking steps to lead PR Italia towards further progresses in each of the four issues areas. One of the biggest introductions this year has been in the area of transparency with the creation of an impartial and independent Supervisory Board to monitor and report violations of the newly introduced Ethic Code. Moreover in terms of improving labour conditions the Company introduced a new level agreement which establishes a variable salary scheme based on the same criteria for all employees in different company functions serving as a guarantee for clarity and objectivity. Thanks to this, Pernod Ricard Italia created the conditions for more merit recognition. On top of this, the Company has continued working in the areas specifically linked to its CSR platform, with the promotion of responsible alcohol consumption being in key position. This is why a number of activities targeted to young adults have been put in place. It is therefore with much pride and satisfaction that, together with the Management Committee of Pernod Ricard Italia and all our employees, I submit the Communication On Progress that describes more in detail our Company’s efforts in this past year. Michel MAURAN CEO Pernod Ricard Italia Page 5/13 Human Rights Principle 1: To support and respect the protection of international law on human rights within its sphere of influence. With regard to the respect of International law on human rights, Pernod Ricard Group bases its strategy on three pillars: promoting and requiring ethical behaviours on its employees’ side; promoting Responsible Drinking; promoting entrepreneurial spirit. In line with these policy, Pernod Ricard Italia has implemented the following actions: 1. Code of Ethics On January 11th 2013 Michel Mauran, Chairman and CEO, sent an message to the entire Company explaining that the Board of Directors of Pernod Ricard Italy had approved and adopted a model compliant to the Legislative Decree 231/2001 , which regulates the administrative liability of legal entities for crimes committed in its interest or its advantage. The Company's decision was, therefore, to adopt a defensive shield for the prevention of crimes covered by the decree and to adopt a code of ethics, appointing a Supervisory Board in the position of impartiality and independent from other company functions, with the objective of monitoring compliance area as well as updating and dealing with the reports regarding violations of the Ethic Code. Following this, the Company has organized a number of training sessions on the subject, during which all managers and all those who cooperate in the pursuit of the goals of the company have received and signed a copy of the Code. Moreover the topic is part of the induction program for all new employees. The alerts can be made through electronic mail address (odv-it@pernod-ricard-italia.com) or calling a direct line. → Objective for next year: organize more training sessions to raise awareness of all the beneficiaries of the model regarding adoption of new procedures to contrast non-ethical behaviours and potential risks linked to non-application of the Code. 2. Promote Responsible drinking Responsible drinking has always been a priority for Pernod Ricard, being a key component of its values and ethics. It is one of the main pillars of the Pernod Ricard CSR platform. All subsidiaries are committed to promoting responsible alcohol consumption. This year Pernod Ricard Italia carried out several initiatives on this subject, to make young people aware of the potential risks linked to alcohol misuse. 1/ Responsible Party: Pernod Ricard Italia, continued the partnership with ESN (the Erasmus Student Network), a voluntary organization involving 50.000 students in the world, and has contributed to organizing 4 parties in 4 Italian cities, Padova, Castellaneta Marina, Rome and Milan, with the aim of promoting Responsible Drinking among young adult people. The mechanic of the initiative in 2013 was based on strong student involvement: a contest was launched among the different ESN sections to create a promotional activation and the creativity material for Responsible drinking during ESN Parties. A press conference was held in November 2012 to present the activity: the winning ESN group was from the city of Benevento and the claim proposed was “Bere senza (S)cadere” (Drink without Falling). During the party ESN students were in charge of breathalyzers distribution, gifts and carried out a test on responsible drinking. Key results: 7.000 students involved and exposed to the Responsible Drinking message. → Objective for next year: continue partnership with ESN association with Responsible Parties mechanics Page 6/13 2/: Bring Moderation to Your Celebration: An initiative that was addressed, with a familiar language and tone-of voice, to young adult consumers, in one the most trendy and animated areas of the Milanese night life, Colonne di San Lorenzo square. The activity, held in collaboration with the Milan municipality had two main objectives: to make young people aware of responsible drinking and prevent dangerous behaviours to self and others; to obtain the involvement of external stakeholders, like local authorities and media. For two weeks during the month of September 2013, from 6 pm to midnight, 4 hostesses distributed breathalyzers and showed young adults passing by how to access the interactive videos on show. The video were tutorials on how to use Malibu to make responsible cocktails and have fun drinking in moderation. A free wi-fi spot also allowed to download the application and to watch the 6 videos. Key results: over 21.000 contacts, 4200 participants and 1.400breathalyzers distributed during the period. 3/: Responsib’all Day Celebration Furthermore, Pernod Ricard Italia joined the Pernod Ricard Responsib’all Day 2013. The theme this year was based on the 5 Commitments announced at the ICAP conference in October 2012 by the CEO’s of the major spirits companies. The 5 commitments which are going to be carried out in the years 2013-2018 are: 1. Reducing under‐age drinking 2. Strengthening and expanding marketing codes of practice 3. Providing consumer information and responsible product innovation 4. Reducing drinking and driving 5. Enlisting the support of retailers to reduce harmful drinking Key results: 120 Pernod Ricard Italia employees followed a seminar on Ethical Marketing, thus being given the skills to be Responsible Ambassadors of the Company brands. → Objective for next year: continue involving all of Pernod Ricard Italia employees in activities to promote Responsible drinking. 3. Responsible and sustainable sourcing Pernod Ricard Italia contributes to the group’s social responsibility program with the launch of its fair biological purchasing project for aromatic plants in the Indian region of Kerala Initially promoted for the production of Amaro Ramazzotti, this innovative pilot project is based on the successful teamwork involving Planet Finance (an international no-profit organization based in Paris whose mission is to fight poverty through micro-credit projects), the German federal enterprise GIZ, ( a federal company that offers sustainable and effective solutions in political, economic and social change processes) and the local Indian production unit PDS, all of whom are taking part in a mission with Pernod Ricard. The main objective is to improve the quality of life and encourage the business initiatives of the small Indian producers, from whom PRI buys the aromatic plants directly. In Italy, this commitment mainly involves the purchase of biologically grown white turmeric, cardamom and cloves. The security of long term business prospects will enable these small producers (most of whom are currently living below the poverty threshold) to free themselves from the highly volatile conditions of the spice market by exporting their production. Access to micro-credit and rural development projects will help the Page 7/13 local farmers to set up small companies. Key results achieved in FY 2013 were the following: The participating farmers are able to better manage and plan their finances, since at least 500 farmer women have participated in a financial education program. A vetiver weaving unit has been built and farmer women have been trained to produce vetiver handicrafts as an additional source of income (20 farmers involved) A Pernod Ricard workshop was organized in Canelli in October 26th and PDS cooperative participated to Salone del Gusto fair in Turin, where there was a dedicated booth and a seminar on Indian spices to offer the Indian producers the opportunity to find new commercial windows. The project has now taken on group dimensions, as a result of the interest and involvement of other subsidiary companies. → Objective for next year: continue the project extending the supply to other market companies within the Group. Principle 2: To ensure that business is not complicit in human rights abuses 1. Suppliers Assessment Process Pernod Ricard has a process that must be adhered to in order that the control of the supply base is maintained and to minimise any future risk to Pernod Ricard through the supply of materials, services etc. Prior to the introduction of a new supplier, the proposed supplier must complete the necessary documentation before being considered for approval. They should also be aware of other commitments and policies that guide the way business is conducted within Pernod Ricard. Whilst other documentation may be required to meet the buyers’ specific requirements, it is essential that the CSR documentation is fully completed by the supplier and returned to the Pernod Ricard representative prior to any discussions taking place. The Purchasing Department now supervises every purchase of any nature, in collaboration with the different Company functions involved, in order to guarantee transparency and fairness of the tenders. Labour Standards Principle 3: To uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Respect for freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining and promotion of labour relations is of a great importance for Pernod Ricard Italia. Collective bargaining in Italy is mainly focused on remuneration, organization, working-hours and pensions. At company level, the main subjects of bargaining are production bonus, time management (particularly in case of motherhood), and personal health of employees. Pernod Ricard Italia has a positive and constructive relationship with the all the trade unions both with the internal representatives and the external ones. Furthermore, Pernod Ricard Italia aims to offer a comfortable working environment for its employees and to respect labour standards. 1. Improve Working Environment In order to create a more comfortable working environment by acting on key drivers, Pernod Ricard Italia implemented the following activities: a second level agreement which established a variable salary scheme. Considering that the former Page 8/13 system was created in a manufacturing context more than a commercial dimension and that it was complex, difficult to understand and not motivating, Pernod Ricard Italia developed a new system for the FY14. The system is based on the same criteria for all the company functions and it is guaranteed by the clarity and objectivity of the evaluation process. Its main feature lies on the link between performance, motivation and objective: objectives motivate and lead people to achieve greater performances. Thanks to this, Pernod Ricard Italia created the condition for more recognition, even in economic terms, of individual and company performance on the basis of merit. This has been the first case in Italy and it is considered a best practice by Confidustria, the Italian Industry Association. → Objective for next year: as this is a pilot year, to consolidate the new variable system In 2013 Pernod Ricard launched the second comprehensive opinion survey of all Group employees: I Say. At the end of the year, Pernod Ricard Italia communicated its local results to the whole company population in a plenary session and in the next few months PRI organized focus groups addressed to specific functions. Focus groups phases: presentation of functional results, discussions, new proposal and final team building. Other actions to answer to the needs highlighted in the survey were implemented within the training plan (courses, ad hoc initiatives, etc.). → Objective for next year: to keep on working on the development areas Within the Academy (an internal training initiative), Pernod Ricard Italia developed the Wellness Project aimed at improving the wellbeing of the employees. The company allocated a dedicated budget for each employee who could choice to spend it between the proposal areas (Gym, organic food, public transportation, campus for children). The areas were identified thanks to the teamworking of employees divided in groups of 4/5. → Objective for next year: to re-implement the Wellness Project in an improved version thanks to employees’ feedback Principle 4: To eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour As indicated in the Pernod Ricard Policy on Responsible Procurement, each Group affiliate has to select and monitor its own suppliers regarding the respect for the fundamental human and social rights defined in the ILO agreements. Therefore, the suppliers evaluation in Pernod Ricard Italia includes self-assessment of labour standards adopted by each company, particularly referred to working hours, wages management, freedom of association, disciplinary rules, and the evidences of the same topics are checked on site in case of third party audit. (See Principle 2) Furthermore, each contract, agreed between Pernod Ricard Italia and its suppliers contains a rescinding clause that occurs in case of non-respect of the international labour standards. Principle 5: To ensure the effective abolition of child labour Pernod Ricard Italia requires its main suppliers to provide guarantees regarding the non-recourse to child labour through: the signing of the social responsibility clause included in each contract; the compilation and validation of the questionnaire “Involvement in the respect of Sustainable Development”; the on-site assessment by third part audits (only for main suppliers), started last year. This assessment includes also an analysis of the implementation of regulated form of under-age labour, Page 9/13 like the apprenticeship. The attachment of the Global Compact Principles and the Ethic Code to every contract in order to ensure that all its stakeholders acknowledge this is Company priority. PRI has decided to work only with suppliers who are able to guarantee the non -recourse to child labour. → Objective for next year: continue this practice 2. Blue Source Project Pernod Ricard Group has created a “Blue Source” task force to take care of the Procurement and Suppliers activity in the context of CSR. The taskforce of the Blue Source project is focused on how the Pernod Ricard Group can evaluate suppliers on CSR issues. It has been decided to run a worldwide pilot test on PoS Suppliers and then deploy the proposed approach to all suppliers in the next coming years. POS is undoubtedly one of the areas where CSR Risk is potentially high. PRI has taken part in the project and some local Italian suppliers have been audited by Ecovadis platform. Principle 6: To eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Pernod Ricard Italia considers people development the leading way to ensure to all its employees equal opportunities. 1. Diversity (gender data) Pernod Ricard Italia promotes and protects diversity as a key resource for the enrichment of the working environment both in terms of gender and nationality. Some key figures: 41% women on total population; +3 percentage pts. vs. PY (38%) +20% women managers vs. PY (12 vs. 10) 4% foreign people; +2 percentage points vs. PY 2. Development and Training (results of PR Academy) In the last 2 years Pernod Ricard Italia’s effort on people development is getting more and more significant. The Academy, created in 2011/12, is an internal training, with managers as trainers of innovative & interactive courses. The company has created a value chain path made up by 12 trainings aimed at increasing the understanding of the company key processes, their interconnections and how added value is generated at different levels. This project has the objective to “generate value starting from ourselves” by insourcing part of the training needs and involving PRI employees as trainers. Another important characteristic is that participation to the trainings is voluntary. Key results: • Whole company population involved • On top of the development plan, 3 training days per person on average and increase in n. of hours per capita. • Average satisfaction rating (so far) : 4,8/5 • Better understanding of the main business processes • Greater awareness of the key contribution of each function/ area on the overall PRI performance • Stronger networking between functions • Improved quality of cross-functional work and projects • Cost saving → Objective for next year: to develop the Year 3 edition Page 10/13 Environment Principle 7: To support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Pernod Ricard published in January 2011 an environmental road map that defines for each area organization/certification, agriculture, water, energy, CO2, waste, eco-design directions and priorities for coming years. Pernod Ricard Italia, that has been certified its Environmental Management System according to ISO14001 since 2006, is willing to meet the Group requirements, defined in the environmental road map. The Policy QSE, updated and signed by CEO on September 2013, is fully compliant with all this principles and legal requirements. 1. Water Consumption Optimization: Complex multiyear project, with the aim to optimize water balance into the plant. The main objective reached in 2011/12 has been the reduction (about 20%) of the ground water used as cooling water. This result has been possible by recycling waste water coming from osmosis water producer. 2. ATEX Improvement: All the plant is submitted to ATEX (atmosphere explosive) requirement. During last year a strong investment (about 70.000 €) has been made to prevent fire and explosion. The main objective reached are: A new warehouse dedicated to Aroma storage with detection ,and foam sprinkler protection (complaint with FM Global standard) Risk reduction on US extraction obtained by cooling the extract with an automatic temperature control system. 3. Periodical Audit on Environmental Approach By the last fiscal year, several audit has been made to control environmental system and data. Environmental KPI Audit made by PR environmental Manager Environmental KPI Audit made by external Society (Mazars) ISO 14001 internal audit made by external consultant ISO 14001 annual survey made by SGS (certification body) Operational audit (5S) made every three month → Objective for years 2014-16: Proactive approach to environmental Challenges is fully described into PRI Environmental improvement plan FY14FY16. 1. Water Consumption Optimization: (by June 2014) Obtained by business case analysis made on rainy water separation saving on total waste water cost 2. Energy Consumption Optimization (by June 2014) Every three year it has been made an energetic check, followed by an action plan 3. Internal Noise Reduction (by June 2015) 4. ASBESTOS Roof Reduction (by June 2015) Obtained by different R.O.I. analysis on different sustainable opportunities 4. Self -analysis of CO2 Emissions of Plant and of Car fleet CO₂ emission is a priority for Pernod Ricard and all subsidiaries are committed to promoting responsible emissions in each purchased category. At the beginning of this year, the Group has sent a template to fill in Page 11/13 Carbon footprint sheet in order to verify the situation of CO₂ emission in each subsidiary for the period July 2011 – June 2012. Green energy, cardboard and glass saving (lighter bottles ), FSC cardboard for boxes labels pos materials, production sites of raw materials (alcohol distillery, glassworks, cardboard factory, graphic industry) close to our factory, intermodal transport deliveries in Germany, low emission cars have improved significantly our situation compared to the previous wave (FY 2007-2008). The second template as local distributor has to be designed during this year. Key Results: The CO₂ emissions have halved. Important role is played by glass reduction and intermodal transportation. → Objective for next years: continue the project of CO₂ emissions reduction, mainly in dry materials and, as available, filling the second part of carbon footprint sheet in order to verify the situation and improve the issues areas. Principle 8: To undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 1. Support of FAI as Corporate Golden Donor Pernod Ricard Italia is Corporate Golden Donor of FAI (Fondo Ambient Italiano) usually referred to in English as the Italian National Trust) an association with a two-fold mission: on the one hand, it is to promote a tangible culture of respect for Italy's natural heritage, art, history and traditions; and on the other, it is to protect a legacy that forms a fundamental part of the roots and identity of the Italian people. Apart from contribution as donor Pernod Ricard Italia has put in place with FAI several activities: The devolution of some art pieces from PRI private collection that were auctioned by Sotheby’s The support in different events during the Milan Design Week in FAI properties The use of FAI Seasons’ greetings as official greetings from Pernod Ricard Italia. Key Results: growth of engagement in the Company population to FAI’s values. Growth of FAI awareness abroad and among Pernod Ricard Group. → Objective for next year: continue to support the FAI program with new activities 2. Creation of CSR Group and Newsletter In November 2012 a new CSR internal group has been formed. Initially created in 2010 as a task force with participants from each Company function, this group is instead double in number of components and seniority with voluntary participation thus demonstrating that the CSR spirit and philosophy is now well rooted inside the company. The Group has the task to keep CSR spirit alive among all employees, contributing to organize major CSR activities, and proposing initiatives and communicating every 4 month through a digital Newsletter. Key Results: positive involvement and engagement of alla PRI employees (results from assessment survey on RD) → Objective for next year: continue activities Principle 9: To encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Page 12/13 3. Press sensitive label PSL labels are self-adhesive labels that can have a positive impact on environment: they reduce the quantity of glue, they are completely recyclable and they help to create a safer and clean work place (simple set up machine management). PRI is progressively moving toward the use of this kind of labels for its products, replacing the traditional wet glue ones. 4. Certificated Paper PRI is promoting the use of Certified Paper to bring the highest social and environmental benefits. The use of Certified paper works to improve forest management world-wide, and through certification creates an incentive for forest owners and managers to follow best social and environmental practices. All labels, gift boxes and almost all promotional prints are produced with certified paper (FSC or PEFG). Where certified paper is not available, then recycled paper is used. 5. Green Energy PRI buys energy coming from renewable resources both for the Canelli plant and for Milan’s offices. → Objective for next year: continue activities Anti-Corruption Principle 10: To work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 1. Organization Model On October 11th 2012 the Board of Directors of Pernod Ricard Italia Spa decided to adapt the Organisation, Management and Control Model pursuant to Legislative Decree 8/06/01 n. 231 concerning the Rules on Administrative Liability of legal persons, companies and associations without legal personality This law introduced, for the first time in our legal system, the liability of the legal people, companies and associations, due to the illegal activity coming from the commission of several crimes, committed to benefit and/or in the interest of the corporate body, included children recruiting. According to the model, PRI has provided the drawing up of the behaviour principles (“Ethic Code”) which determine the general guidelines for the performance of the company’s activities: the drawing up of internal rules specifying the way of working of the people acting within the corporate body. As a consequence, PRI has attached to every relevant document the Global Compact Principles and the Ethic Code in order to ensure that all its stakeholders acknowledge this is Company priority, which strongly recommends to be compliant with the protocol and to fight concretely (through disciplinary system) those who do not act as indicated in the Code. PRI has decided to work only with suppliers who are able to guarantee the non -recourse to child labour. At the beginning of this year PRI has already decided to adapt a specific protocol, planning the adoption and the implementation of the decisions of the corporate body in relation to the crimes to prevent and to appoint a Supervisory Board (Watch Organism) to watch over the operation and observance of the model. → Objective for next year: updating of the Organisation, Management and Control Model following the introduction of new crimes currently not included in the model. Page 13/13
