Drawing a Sustainable Future About This Report Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2012 This report was printed by soybean oil ink at a company which obtained FSC chain of Custody certificate(certificate number: C109060) using FSC™ certified paper. Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2012 Attaining growth through corporate social responsibility builds up our everyday life instead of making it something for the future. Shinhan Financial Group will bring a happy financial environment for our stakeholders through Compassionate Finance and a variety of CSR activities. Report Overview Since 2009, Shinhan Financial Group has been publishing the CSR report, which shows the progress updates of the group’s CSR management annually. The Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report 2012 is its fourth report to be published at the group level. From 2010 to 2012, we provided detailed information about the group’s Compassionate achievements in the fields of economy, society and environment. The scope of the report is the domestic head office and sales office of 8 major group companies, including the Shinhan Financial Finance Group. In the case of data on employees and the environment, the information may vary from the previous year due to the scope of the data collection has been expanded and reexamined. Shinhan Financial Group will take the lead in taking responsibility and building the trust of stakeholders by publishing the CSR report annually. As Korea’s representative global financial group, we promise to continuously disclose transparent information. Principle and Guideline The Shinhan Financial Group CSR report 2012 has been drawn up based on the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 guideline. The financial information included in this report follows the Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS), which uses the unit of the Korean won KRW (\). Also, in order to acquire the credibility of this report, it has been certified by the global certification institution DNV based on the three principles of AA1000AS(2008), and the results can be found on pages 94~95. 120, 2Ga Taepyung-Ro, Jung-Gu, Seoul, 100-102, Korea Information on GRI Index can be found separately on the homepage of www.shinhangroup.com Shinhan Financial Group. Shinhan Financial Group’s Shinhan Financial Group’s CSV Shinhan Financial Group’s CSV Framework Value Management System ‘Compassionate Finance’ STEP1. Issue Identification STEP2. Stakeholder Engagement Shinhan Financial Group is implementing the Compassionate Finance to Identification of issues on CSR Participation of stakeholders create shared values, which seeks shared development for the company As a corporate citizen that makes up our society, Shinhan Financial Group is Shinhan Financial Group listens to the opinions on CSR issues made by major and society. The Compassionate Finance refers to providing benefits to affected by a variety of social factors. In order to closely identify various issues stakeholders consisting of customers, partner companies, shareholders and our customers and society through daily operations instead of looking at on CSR arising inside and outside of the group, we implement a process investors, local communities, the government and academia, employees. financial business and social contribution separately. that identifies a variety of issues in the economy, society and environment, Based on a variety of opinions provided, such as the goal and direction in which including business, financial, competition, political and geopolitical elements. future actions should be taken on different issues, we have achieved meaningful results until now. Financial elements Customers Partner companies Making the world a better place How does Compassionate Finance make the Social Economic elements elements Mission with the strength of finance world a better place mean? Shinhan 신한금융 Local Compassionate Finance CSR Issues Shareholders, Investors Financial 그룹 communities 1. Making the world a better place through the financial Political and Group business geopolitical Competitive elements elements It means providing benefits to our customers and society through Government daily operations without looking at Shinhan Financial Group’s Environmental Employees / Academic Vision WORLD CLASS FINANCIAL GROUP financial business and social contribution separately. elements world 2. Doing the best to create customer values and ensure customer protection by thinking of customers as a Become Korea’s No.1 financial brand partner in Win-Win management Management Resolve social Create economic Shinhan’s goal Pursue customer values and It means even when selling a single product, we examine whether problems using the creating values that reflect mutual growth as the top priority or not it is suitable and beneficial for the customer. Also, when a ability as a financial shared social responsibility company issues customer is in difficulty, we provide help so that they can overcome value the difficult. In the end, we follow the principle of placing the Inspection on all existing products highest priority on customer values and customer protection. and services being sold Create customer values Breakthrough Enhancement Synergy Targeting Therefore, we pursue profits and efficiently manage the risks under Be the 'Local Best' Strengthen the Generate nextSecure Management strategy in core business non-interest generation synergy competitiveness this principle. Shinhan New Hope Spore Loan: areas income portfolio geared towards in strategic areas Customer protection KRW 328.2 billion customer targeted for cultivation 3. Being considerate of the socially disadvantaged and Number of participants that received financial Being considerate of the fulfilling social responsibilities that meet the demands of economic education: 21,352 participants socially disadvantaged the time Customer Respect Change Excellence Ownership Implementation of 23 tasks for shared Fulfilling social responsibilities to Core values It means changing the way of thinking to share what we have development with partner companies meet the demands of the time achieved through healthy development with our society and growing up together with it. This includes providing the foundation for the socially disadvantaged to develop into a loyal customer by STEP4. Value Creation STEP3. Value Discovery providing them with reasonable financial benefits. Best practices of value creation Selection of implementation directions for creating shared values Shinhan Financial Group is striving to make achievements that can directly or We will strive to be considerate of the socially disadvantaged and fulfill our social indirectly have an impact on our society by creating shared values. We have responsibilities to meet the demands of the time, while also thinking of our customers become a corporate citizen that genuinely contribute to our society through as a partner in Win-Win management and doing our best to create customer values and active investment and cooperation to create shared values, instead of simply ensure customer protection. We will create new benefits for our customers and society by carrying out volunteer efforts and improving environmental management creating shared values through financial business. to increase profits. Shinhan’s Promise to Fulfill its Social Responsibilities Shinhan has shown continuous change. Shinhan Financial Group will expand the Compassionate Finance to make the world a better place with the strength of finance. The Compassionate Finance is the promise we make to our customers and society to provide actual help to the customer’s success and the development of local community through finance. We cheer for the future of disabled young people Shinhan Financial Group has been encouraging the disabled to overcome their disabilities and make further development through the program called ‘The Dream Team of Disabled Young People Challenges the Six Continents.’ 02 03 Shinhan Bank protects the Sungnyemun The Sungnyemun Gate, which is Korea’s No. 1 National Treasure, is the pride of the Korean people and a part of our life. Since 2005, Shinhan Bank signed an agreement for protecting cultural heritage with the Cultural Heritage Administration to continuously implement programs for preserving cultural heritage. In particular, endless efforts have been made to restore the Sungnyemun Gate, which has been destroyed by fire. On May 4, 2013, the spectacular appearance of the restored Sungnyemun Gate was disclosed to the public containing the soul and spirit of Korea. 04 05 We will achieve sustainable growth through Shinhan Way Shinhan Way is the source of cohesiveness and pride of all employees that identified the successful genes from Shinhan’s history to achieve future-oriented development, as well as the energy that achieve the group’s continuous growth without any changes of the times and business environment. 06 07 2012 Snapshot (As of December 31, 2012) Contents Financial Performance Total assets Net profits* Operating income Credit ratings Unit: KRW 1 billion Unit: KRW 1 billion before provisioning Unit: KRW 1 billion 342,258 3,100 5,061 332,277 S&P Moody's Fitch JCR 318,778 2,685 4,753 Shinhan Bank A A1 A A+ 2.323 4,527 Shinhan Card BBB+ AA 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 ※ Dominated by business owners equity 02 Shinhan’s Promise to Fulfill its 18 Social Responsibility in the Group 44 Social Responsibility in Affiliates Social Responsibilities Environmental & Social Performance Greenhouse gas Number of employees Education & training Purchasing expenses of emissions participating in volunteer work investment expenses partner companies Unit: tco2eq Unit: persons Unit: KRW 1 billion Unit: KRW 1 billion 112,829 65,619 31.4 652.2 111,644 111,684 56,798 30.8 52,135 30.7 463.6 440.9 78 Sustainable Governance 85 Sustainable Key Figure 92 Appendix 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Social Responsibility in the Affiliates Sustainable Key Figure Award/Certification 01 46 86 Economic Performance About This Report Shinhan Financial Group Shinhan Financial Group’s CSV Framework 48 Shinhan Bank 87 Environmental Performance 02 Shinhan’s Promise to Fulfill its Social Responsibilities 56 Shinhan Card 88 Social Performance 08 2012 Snapshot 62 Shinhan Investment Corp. 10 CEO Message 66 Shinhan Life Insurance Appendix 12 Introduction of Shinhan Financial Group 72 Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management 93 UNGC Included in DJSI Asia Pacific and Korea’s only company to be included in the The 2013 Corporate Governance Award Ceremony DJSI Korea for fourth consecutive years Global 100 announced at Davos Forum (2013) The only financial company to receive the Corporate Governance Award 14 Reporting Material Issues 74 Shinhan Capital Ruggie Guiding Principles (Ranked number one for Korean banks) (Acquired A+ grade in evaluating ESG integration) 76 Jeju Bank 94 Independent Assurance Statement 96 Contact Social Responsibility in the Group Sustainable Governance 20 Compassionate Finance 79 Communication with Stakeholders 26 Social Contribution 80 Governance Structure CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) UNEP FI (United Nations Environment UN Global Compact 34 Environmental Management 82 Ethics & Compliance Management investor member Programme Finance Initiative) 40 Win-Win Management with Partner Companies 84 Risk Management 08 09 CEO Message Respected customers, shareholders and citizens of local communities, First, we will continually seek new ways to improve the values of our customers and society. Shinhan Financial Group has published the 2012 CSR Report to look back on the group’s diverse management activities from the perspective Currently, our society faces many challenges that we have not of sustainability and corporate social responsibility and to share the experienced before, such as low growth and an aging population. In meanings they hold with various stakeholders. order to ensure our customers and society respond wisely to these issues, Shinhan Financial Group will develop and provide new financial products Due to the financial crisis in 2008, the global economy and corporate and services that are suitable to the changing trends, thereby contributing management paradigms faced a tremendous turning point, thereby the to common prosperity. importance of corporate social responsibility and sustainable growth has increased day by day. Second, we will reflect the Compassionate Finance in our business management system. Shinhan Financial Group established Compassionate Finance as the group’s mission, which aims to make the world a better place through In order for the Compassionate Finance to be realized in all customer financial business. Therefore, we are striving to bring positive impacts to contact points, it has to be dissolved into the business management our customers and the society through all of the group’s management system that supervises the organization with its core philosophy. We activities, including important decisions made in business management will work towards changing the business management system so that and day-to-day operations. it pursues shared growth with the company, customers, and the society instead of just seeking short-term profits and growth. In 2011, we announced the Compassionate Finance and focused on Third, we will become a global company with advanced sustainability spreading and promoting its purpose and meaning within the company. management. Meanwhile, in 2012, we carried out the ‘Compassionate Finance’ in full scale by establishing the implementation system at the group level and In terms of entering into the overseas market, we will establish the identified and implemented relevant tasks. foundation for growing together with local communities by localizing our operations from a long-term perspective rather than taking a short-term In addition, contributions have been made within the group through approach of making profits. the Social Contribution Committee participated by all major companies of Shinhan Group. We are striving to fulfill our social responsibilities from Since 2008, we joined the UN Global Compact and signed an agreement the environmental point of view by establishing the Green Management to comply with the 10 principles, including human rights, labor rights, Standards and adopting the Environmental Performance Management environment and anti-corruption. In accordance with these principles, we System. review the achievements made each year. Shinhan Financial Group’s efforts to achieve sustainable growth received Also, we will create best practices for a world-class sustainability favorable evaluations domestically and internationally. In the evaluation management as an exemplary company by proactively participating in for the Dow Jones Sustainable Index (DJSI), we ranked 1st in the banking global sustainable initiatives for the environment, including the Carbon sector in Korea for the fourth year in a row, while we were the only Disclosure Project. Korean company to be chosen as one of the top 100 global sustainable We think that the profits made by companies should be praised when companies announced at the Davos Forum. Also, we ranked 1st it has gone far beyond its purpose to enhance the values of customers. domestically and 51st globally in the evaluation for financial brand value Also, the sustainable growth of companies can only be achieved when conducted by the British magazine, The Banker. there is a healthy development in the society as a whole where it has Financially, Shinhan Financial Group recorded net profits of KRW 2 trillion taken firm root. 322.7 billion in 2012, achieving the highest business performance in the From our customers, shareholders and citizens of local communities, we industry for fifth consecutive years. It clearly showed that we achieved sincerely ask for your continued love and interest for Shinhan Financial balance and harmony by closely connecting our social contribution Group, which is promoting sustainable growth by contributing to social activities with financial performances. development through our financial business and improving our customer Shinhan will continually establish the foundation for sustainable growth values. by having all of our employees work together to make our society a Thank you. better place through our financial business. To achieve this, we promise to implement the following three tasks: Chairman & CEO of Shinhan Financial Group Dong Woo Han 10 11 Introduction to Shinhan Financial Group Stock information Domestic & overseas network Customer-Oriented Financial SFG Heads into the World Leadership 2012 2011 Shinhan Financial Group has continually worked towards expanding its Shinhan Bank Shinhan Card Shinhan Investment Shinhan Life Jeju Bank / Others Total Average daily volume 1.2 billion shares 1.8 billion shares overseas business despite the maturing domestic economy and global Shinhan Financial Group has taken all measures to continuously create Stock quotes (high mark) 47,000 KRW 53,800 KRW economic recession. Until now, we have 70 networks in a total of 15 Domestic 970 41 104 199 85 1,399 stable profits and expand its profit structure under the new economic branches Stock quotes (low mark) 33,350 KRW 36,150 KRW countries, including Japan, China, Vietnam, US, India, Britain, Germany, environment, including low growth, low interest rate, and regulations. Based Hong Kong, Singapore, Canada, Kazakhstan and Cambodia. In order to Overseas 65 4 1 70 on a balanced business line between the banking sector and non-banking Stock quotes (annual average) 38,850 KRW 39,750 KRW branches seek opportunities to enter into Myanmar’s market, which recently opened sector, we perfected the core business base for each affiliate by utilizing the Total asset of stock market 1,035 41 108 199 86 1,469 (as of the end of 2012) 18.4 trillion KRW 18.8 trillion KRW their doors to foreign countries, Shinhan Bank has continually conducted Total nation-wide channel network and customer base. Also, in order to increase monitoring and successfully established a representative office in Yangon, the synergy of customer-oriented business, we expanded the new profit Shares accounted for in KOSPI 1.6% 1.8% (as of the end of 2012) Myanmar in April 2013. In 2012, we expanded the branch network of 5 local Assets of overseas network base by reorganizing the business organization of Wealth Management (WM) subsidiaries, including Japan, Cambodia and China, to ensure continuous and Corporate & Investment Banking (CIB) into a matrix form focusing on the Dividends to shareholders 700 KRW 750 KRW Japan China Asia (excluding Japan and China) growth in the regions that have been entered into. As of present standard, banking and securities business. Furthermore, we are striving to continually Total dividends 331.9 billion KRW 355.7 billion KRW America Europe India we have altogether 65 overseas networks in 15 countries. Shinhan Financial increase the profit margin of global business and also working on reducing *Dividend: common shares standard Group plans to expand its overseas network through self-growth and 7 expenses across the company at the group level. In the banking business, 8 acquisition in the Asian market with high market growth, by focusing mainly 9 3 we are working towards maintaining the key profits by stabilizing interest Overview of profit creation (Unit: %) on the banking business. In the case of the non-banking business, including 3 14 39 income and bad debt expense. As for the non-banking business, we are 10 15 KRW 16.42 financial investment, asset management, credit card, and life insurance, we KRW 15.58 42 striving to protect the profitability from the group’s cash cow of credit card Shinhan Bank Shinhan Card Shinhan Life Others 15 KRW 14.13 40 trillion will take all measures to increase synergy by seeking ways to enter into the trillion trillion and life insurance. 63 27 7 3 18 areas where the banking business has already entered into. 20 19 12 12 14 Overview of major group companies and their 2010 2011 2012 investment shares Shinhan Card Shinhan Shinhan InvestBank 100% ment 100% 100% • Shinhan Shinhan Savings Bank • Shinhan Data System U.K: London Branch Shinhan Other Life 100% Financial 100% affiliates • • Shinhan Aitas Shinhan Credit Information German: Shinhan Bank Europe Group • • Shinhan PE SHC Management Kazakhstan: Shinhan Bank Kazakhstan China : Shanghai rep. office 68.9% 65% Uzbekistan: Uzbekistan rep. office Canada: Shinhan Bank Canada Japan: Shinhan Bank Japan 100% Shinhan Vietnam: Jeju U.S: Shinhan Bank America BNP PariIndia: New Delhi Branch Shinhan China: Shanghai Office Bank U.S: New York Branch bas AM Bank Vietnam Hong Kong: Hong kong Branch(Shinhan Bank) U.S : Shinhan Investment America Shinhan India: Mumbai Branch Shinhan Asia Capital Myanmar: Myanmar’s rep. office Vietnam: Shinhan Investment Asia Ho Chi Minh City rep. office Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management India: Vellore Branch Cambodia: Shinhan Khmer Branch Mexico: Mexico rep. office Singapore: Singapore Branch Rep. office of Shinhan Bank Overview of shareholders (common shares standard) Local Subsidiary of Shinhan Bank Branch of Shinhan Bank ●Korea National Pension Service 7.28 ●Mizuho 1.26 Rep. office of Shinhan Investment Corp ●BNP Paribas 6.35 ●ABU DHABI INVESTMENT AUTHORITY LENDI 1.20 Local Subsidiary of Shinhan Investment Corp ●SFG Employee Stock Ownership Association 3.96 ●DIMENSIONAL EMERGING MARKETS VALUE FUND 1.14 Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management ●CITIBANK.N.A(ADR DEPT.) 3.74 ●Samsung Asset Management 1.12 ●Saudi Arabian Monetary Agency 3.31 ●Samsung Life Insurance 1.11 ●The Lazard Fund Inc. 2.22 ●NORGES BANK 1.11 ●The Government of Singapore 1.69 ●Others 64.51 12 13 Reporting Material Issues STEP1. Identifying internal and external material issues Shinhan Financial Group has identified a variety of CSR issues arising internally and externally in the group. We came up with 39 CSR issues in three areas Through the material test, Shinhan Financial Group makes integrated evaluation and response to the issues on environmental and social values by analyzing the media surveys, the benchmarking of advanced companies, the global sustainability management standards (GRI・ISO26000), and demanded by our society, as well as the issues related to economic performances resulting from expanding business capabilities. Based on Shinhan Financial Group’s internal CSR strategies. the issues, we fulfilled sustainability leadership focusing on stakeholders. Shinhan ‘s material test are based on the group’s value management system and implemented through the participation of a stakeholder group consisting of customers, shareholders, investors, partner companies, Standard for selecting issues Area of issue Category Material issue local communities, the government, academia and employees. Also, the result of material test is reflected in business activities and utilized in GRI ISO 26000 Media research Benchmarking establishing strategies and policies for setting and achieving the group’s social responsibility management goals. Actively enter into the global banking market ● ● ● Improve the business profits through continuous innovation activities ● ● Create synergy through merger and acquisition ● Economic value Expand the development of SRI products ● Shinhan’s evaluation process for material issues Create and distribute the economic values ● ● Finance / (example: sales, dividend, corporate tax, etc.) Shinhan’s materiality test is implemented through indirect research methods, including the global standards for sustainability management, the benchmarking Economy Make efforts to secure competitiveness in the financial industry ● of global advanced companies and the media survey, and direct research methods, including the interviews with employees and the analysis of surveys. Strengthen the brand competency ● Brand Afterwards, Shinhan Financial Group and its affiliates comprehensively evaluated the level of social concerns and business impacts to select 4 common issues and Acquire the customer trust on Shinhan brand ● issues reported for each affiliate. Provide personalized products and services for customers ● Products and Develop products and services to increase social values ● ● ● services Promote on-line finance ● ● Facilitate close communication between employees ● STEP1 STEP2 STEP3 STEP4 STEP5 Ensure job security to employees ● ● ● ● Strengthen professional competencies of employees ● ● ● ● Identifying internal and Engaging with Deriving results from Reflecting management Reporting Manage a fair performance evaluation and compensation for employees ● ● ● ● external issues on CSR stakeholders material issue process activities Material Issues Employees Establish a sound labor-management culture ● ● ● Achieve a balance between personal and work life ● ● ● Make efforts on prohibition of discrimination and respect for diversity Identify internal Conduct interviews Put together the material Select common issues of Report on the group’s (the disabled, females, etc.) ● ● ● issues on CSR with employees of issue evaluation the group’s interest common issues Partner Make efforts to spread the awareness of shared growth to partner companies ● ● ● each affiliate Report on each affiliate’s Society companies Develop small and medium-sized enterprises through financial assistance ● ● Identify external Select the issues of Select issues of the group issues Implement social contribution activities that focus on the specific characteristic of ● Local financial business (financial economic education, etc.) Details of Carry out surveys and affiliates’ interest issues on CSR priority communities activities Actively invest on contributing to the development of local communities ● ● ● ● on employees and Publish paper reports Make efforts to prevent money laundering and eradicate illegal transactions ● Compose a pool outside stakeholders Disclose through online Make efforts to improve customer satisfaction ● ● ● ● of material issues Distribute to stakeholders Prevent infringement on the rights of financial consumers ● ● ● Customers Provide financial services of public interest for people who are financially deprived ● ● ● ● Complement the system for safe financial transactions ● ● Provide accurate financial information to customers ● • Media research • Short-term financial • AA1000 AS(2008) • The group’s mediumStakeholders Facilitate communicate with stakeholders ● ● ● Strengthen risk management for before and after selling financial products ● • Benchmarking of stability • GRI Index and long-term Risk Provide integrated risk management from economic, advanced companies • Long-term social strategies social and environmental perspectives ● ● Standard • Analysis of global responsibility • The group and its Ethical Strengthen compliance with ethics code and activities of ethical management ● and management standards management affiliates’ business Environment Strengthen activities that forbid bribery and promote anti-corruption ● areas of / Corporate Corporate Conduct fair evaluation on the performance of board of directors ● ● ● concern ISO 26000 strategies Governance governance Acquire the soundness of corporate governance ● ● ● GRI Index Environmental Increase expenses for environmental investment and environmental protection ● ● ● UN Global Compact management Establish the environment-friendly culture and spread internal awareness ● OECD Guidelines Climate Reduce greenhouse gas emissions and take interest in efficient energy use ● ● ● change Release financial products to respond to climate change and facilitate green culture ● 14 15 STEP2. Engaging with stakeholders STEP3. Deriving material issue results Business Impact Regarding the 39 CSR issues in three major areas that were identified through the process for investigating internal and external CSR issues, the group’s After conducting a material issue evaluation working group on CSR primarily selected 24 issues of priority by evaluating on ‘short-term financial stability’ and ‘long-term CSR’. Afterwards, the key 13 according to the urgency of business decision and areas of interest for stakeholders are produced through the second evaluation consisting of surveys and interviews with employees and external 24 Make efforts to improve customer satisfaction the strategic importance for the future, the issues of stakeholders. The stakeholder survey is conducted together with the surveys on the level of interests for Shinhan Financial Group and its affiliates. Acquire the soundness of corporate governance stakeholder’s interests are divided into Core issues and Altogether 1,323 participants in 6 major areas participated as stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, investors, partner companies, local 1 other issues. As a result, a total of 10 Core issues have communities, the government, the academic world and employees. 21 20 Acquire the customer trust been selected in the fields of economy, environment Strengthen compliance on Shinhan brand Selecting issues for the stakeholder’s interests (13 categories, 24 issues) Release financial products with ethics code and activities of ethical and society, including ‘acquiring the customer trust management 6 to respond to climate change and facilitate on Shinhan brand’, ‘developing products and services Area of issue Category NO Material issue green culture Make efforts to secure to increase social values’, and ‘making efforts to spread competitiveness in the Brand 1 Acquire the customer trust on Shinhan brand 19 financial industry the awarenss of shared growth to partner companies’. Establish the environmentEconomic friendly culture and spread value 2 Improve the business profits through continuous innovation activities 4 internal awareness 7 STEP4. Reflecting business activities Develop products and Brand 3 Strengthen the brand competency 3 services to increase social 5 values The Social Contribution Committee, which is Economic participated by the CEO of all affiliates, reviews the 4 Create and distribute the economic values (example: sales, dividend, corporate tax, etc.) 2 value Finance / Economy Products and material issue results and use them as indicators 5 Provide personalized products and services for customers services 9 16 for setting basic directions and goals for the overall Economic Make efforts to secure competitiveness in the financial industry (example: entry into overseas market, smart financial corporate social responsibility (CSR) management, 6 Implement social contribution value services, etc.) activities that focus on the 14 12 specific characteristic of while also examining the group companies’ Products and Develop products and services to increase social values (example: Compassionate Finance, card that refund fuel taxes for financial business 15 7 services light cars, etc.) 17 progress updates on CSR management and 10 18 Make efforts to spread Economic 8 Expand the development of SRI products 23 22 the awareness of shared consults on major issues. value 11 8 growth to partner Other issues Core issues companies Also, the goals for CSR management are agreed Customers 9 Supporting safe financial transactions on at the business decision-making stage to be Social Interests Employees 10 Manage a fair performance evaluation and compensation for employees managed as the affiliates’ major implementation tasks and the activity results are reflected in the Employees 11 Establish a sound labor-management culture management assessment for affiliates. Customers 12 Provide financial services of public interest for people who are financially deprived (example: Smile Microcredit Bank) Society STEP5. Reporting Material Issues Customers 13 Make efforts to improve customer satisfaction (example: establishment of VOC system, customer evaluation system) The overall corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities of the group is transparently disclosed to the stakeholders through the CSR Report and web Employees 14 Strengthen professional competencies of employees reporting after going through the process of checking on the group’s internal and external issues, inviting the participation of stakeholders, evaluating on material issues, and reflecting the management activities. The CSR activities conducted in 2012 regarding the issues concerning stakeholders are reported Partner Make efforts to spread the awareness of shared growth to partner companies (example: support for the sustainability 15 by dividing into the 4 integrated areas and the sustainability management governance areas, as shown below. companies management of partner companies, etc.) Local Implement social contribution activities that focus on the specific characteristic of financial business (financial economic 16 communities education, free financial consulting, etc.) 2012 Reporting on CSR activities Stakeholders 17 Facilitate communicate with stakeholders Issue Number of issue Report area Report page Environmental 18 Increase expenses for environmental investment and environmental protection Acquire the customer trust on Shinhan brand 1 management Environmental Establish the environment-friendly culture and spread internal awareness (example: energy saving campaign, internal Make efforts to secure competitiveness in the financial industry 6 Compassionate Finance 20-25p 19 management education, etc.) Make efforts to improve customer satisfaction 13 Climate Release financial products to respond to climate change and facilitate green culture (example, Shinhan Energy Love Fund, Environment 20 Implement social contribution activities that focus on the specific characteristic of change disease protection insurance on the environment, etc.) 16 / Corporate financial business Social Contribution 26-33p Governance Ethical 21 Strengthen compliance with ethics code and activities of ethical management Develop products and services to increase social values 7 management Ethical Release financial products to respond to climate change and facilitate green culture 20 22 Strengthen activities that forbid bribery and promote anti-corruption Environmental Management 34-39p management Establish the environment-friendly culture and spread internal awareness 19 Corporate Make efforts to spread the awareness of shared growth to partner companies 23 Conduct fair evaluation on the performance of board of directors 15 Win-Win Management Partner Companies 40-43p governance Acquire the soundness of corporate governance 24 Corporate Sustainable Governance 79-84p 24 Acquire the soundness of corporate governance governance Strengthen compliance with ethics code and activities of ethical management 21 16 17 Start of Compassionate Finance Strengthening of Compassionate Finance 01 Implementation of Compassionate Finance Compassionate Finance Paving the Way for Shinhan SFG Social Contribution Social contribution utilizing the industrial characteristics Coexistence (welfare) 02 Sympathy (culture) Social Contribution Symbiosis (environment) Sustainable Environmental management Social Responsibility Response to Climate Change 03 Resource and Energy Saving Environmental Management Promotion of Green Finance in the Group Shinhan Financial Group is pursuing shared development with stakeholders by growing together with customers. We focuses on our customers and local communities, while utilizing the professionalism of our employees to instill Compassionate Finance into 04 our society everywhere. Win-Win management with Basic Principle of Shared Development Implementation of Win-Win Management Partner Companies Future Implementation Plan for Shared Development 01 Compassionate Finance Start of Compassionate Finance “We will make the world a better place with the strength of finance.” The standard of value that society demands from companies is changing. As a result of increased social and economic polarization in our society, there is a growing awareness that sustainable growth is not possible without showing concerns to the underprivileged. Also, the values that our society demands from companies have changed. Instead of the paradigm of only seeking increased profits for the shareholders, there is a widespread perception that we should resolve all problems in society together and proactively accept the demands of stakeholders. Based on this, Shinhan Principle ‘Compassionate Finance’ means the Win-Win relationship of making the customers successful by thinking about customer values and ensuring customer protection. Furthermore, it can be seen as a growth of social Financial Group is implementing the Compassionate Finance to establish the foundation for sustainable growth by creating a warm consensus through the financial business with customers and the society. community that fulfills social responsibilities and considers the socially disadvantaged or the neglected. We think that the values shared between customers and the company can both increase in the long run if We dream of an abundant and warm-hearted society. everything is considered from the customer’s perspective before implementation. The motto of Shinhan Bank when it was established before the Shinhan Financial Group in 1982 was ‘New, Fruitful, and Compassionate”. The meaning of ‘New’ was to establish a new standard in the Korean financial industry through different methods from other existing banks. ‘Fruitful’ means to create a sound and solid bank. ‘Compassionate’ means to contribute in making our society Objective In order to realistically implement the Compassionate Finance, Shinhan Financial Group improved the more abundant and warm-hearted society. system and infrastructure and expanded it as a corporate culture to strengthen communication with Shinhan Financial Group proposed a new management principle of Compassionate Finance by carrying on the spirit of the early stakeholders, thereby realizing the Compassionate Finance within the financial industry to receive the stages of startups. The Compassionate Finance refers to striving to create customer values and ensure customer protection by considering customers as the partner of Win-Win management. It also means being considerate of the socially disadvantaged and consensus of our customers. fulfilling social responsibilities that meet the demands of the time. Shinhan Financial Group will implement its daily operations so that our customers and society can benefit from them instead of making them one-time participants that follow the recent trends, thereby gaining the trust of customers and building the foundation for customers to grow together. 3,282 34.2 Performance In order to ensure the working class hoping to start We provide preferential interest rates to customers their own business can easily receive the startup who are experiencing temporary difficulties such as education, we carry out a company-wide program worsened financial conditions for mostly long-term together with the professional institutions of small loan customers. In the year 2012, a total of KRW 34.2 business startups. In the year 2012 alone, a total of billion in interests were deducted from 4,275 cases. 3,282 small business owners completed the startup education so that they can go on to see the light of new hope. 328.2 58,404 The New Hope Spore Loan is a joint CSR product of the banking industry that increases the benefits of We provided financial support to low-income working class customers by giving preferential treatment on financial use for low-income and bad credit customers. commission fees for 58,404 cases in 2012. We provided a total of KRW 328.2 billion in loans through 33,369 consultations on loans in 2012 alone. Hope Finance Consultation Center 20 21 Strengthening of Implementation of Compassionate Finance Compassionate Finance We will follow sustainable growth as the spirit of the We will systematically implement the Compassionate We think of our customers as the partner for Win-Win companies on the shopping mall. age through creating shared values. Finance. management. Shinhan Investment established an evaluation system for return on Since the global financial crisis, the speed of the global economy’s Shinhan Financial Group established the ‘Compassionate Finance The Compassionate Finance places the top priority on creating customer (ROC). Employees receive better evaluation and incentives if growth has greatly slowed down. In the past when the speed of Promotion Group’ within the holding company and each group company customer values and ensuring customer protection by thinking of the ROC is higher, which motivates employees to bring out the success growth was faster and companies focused on growth, any side effects selects and carrys out implementation tasks that suit each company. customers as the partner of Win-Win management, while also providing of customers. In 2012, the amount of return and profit was calculated that emerged could be covered under the name of growth and Also, the ‘Compassionate Finance Promotion Committee’, which consists assistance to customers who are facing temporary difficulties. Along and rewarded for offline management accounts each month. Shinhan development. However, if we continue to follow strategies that place of executives of the holding company and group companies, regularly with this, Shinhan Financial Group is implementing various activities to Investment also holds the Talk-Talk Day to improve the customer’s level the priority on growth when the growth has slowed, the side effects monitors and evaluates the activities being implemented, while also provide assistance to the socially disadvantaged and the neglected. of satisfaction for sales employees. The Talk-Talk Day is a preventive will increase exponentially. Therefore, it is necessary for companies to making reports on major implementation activities at the Group process that protects customers by contacting them when there is make fundamental changes that meet the spirit of the time, such as Management Meeting where the group’s major issues are discussed. more than a 2% decrease (3% for two days) compared to the previous We implement the Compassionate Finance to be day as of the closing price standard. changing the management system and corporate culture that maximize practiced in the field. growth and profits to achieve long-term sustainability. Also, by creating Group Management Meeting In order to stress the importance of customers to its life planners shared value (CSV) strategies should expand areas that can satisfy the Shinhan Bank has introduced a consumer protection index that is and enhance the company’s credibility to customers, Shinhan Life is company’s economic values and the local community’ social values, Compassionate Finance Promotion Committee reflected in the evaluation of sales offices so that the Compassionate implementing the Compassionate Happy Service as its key program. ultimately seeking ways to contribute to the society through financial Finance is implemented in the field and actually felt by the financial It provides an opportunity to bring compassionate insurance by business such as Compassionate Finance. Shinhan Financial Group will Compassionate Finance Group consumers instead of just remaining as a slogan. The consumer providing details about the joined insurance product once again, carry on the spirit of the early stages of startups ‘making the world a protection index establishes the overall customer-oriented thinking in checking on whether or not there is an insurance accident, and better place through finance’ to continue on the growth and success • Shinhan Bank • Shinhan Card • Shinhan Investment Corp. consultation, sales and management and strategically manages the • Shinhan Life Insurance • Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management updating on customer information. Meanwhile, Shinhan Life offers achieved so far. As a company that genuinely strives for customer’s quality of service from the financial consumer’s perspective. The results of • Shinhan Capital • Jeju Bank • Shinhan Savings Bank a video footage of best practical examples from life planners and success and pursue shared growth with the country and society, we will measurement is reflected in the monthly evaluation of sales offices. employees each month to promote the atmosphere of implementing become Shinhan Financial Group that brings warmth to all corners of Shinhan Card plans to increase the number of companies on the the Compassionate Finance across the company. our society, while also maintaining efficiency and profitability. We will spread the internal consensus on shopping mall operated by our company’s homepage to create Compassionate Finance. shared values for society and pursue Win-Win management. Through We will find the Compassionate Finance in our lives. these efforts, we will help the expansion of sales channels for small In order to establish a consensus with employees through Shinhan Bank is striving to make the bank feel more comfortable for and medium-sized companies and utilize Shinhan Card’s marketing communication, we added the Compassionate Finance section on the the working class by providing pictures that explain the complicated resources to effectively support the marketing activities of small-sized group’s communication website (WAF) to receive suggestions from process of borrowing loans for small business startups and making merchants, thereby increasing the sales of small and medium-sized employees and share practical cases. Also, the holding company’s ‘Compassionate Finance Promotion Group’ evaluates the level of Priority tasks for Compassionate Finance understanding by employees through on-site visits and listens to external factors. The group’s CEO also made efforts to communicate • Examine whether or not all products, services and sales processes provided to customers go against the values and with the working-level employees by arranging an occasion to share his Head office profits of customers from the customer’s point of view. Examination of all products and services management philosophy on Compassionate Finance and narrow the provided space between him and the working-level employees. In addition, the • Examine whether or not the products being sold to customers go against customer values and adjust cases of Sales office violation. importance of Compassionate Finance is engraved on the employees who are used to focusing on performances by actually reflecting them • In the case of introducing a new product and service, collect opinions from the customer evaluation group consisting of customers Adoption of customer evaluation group in the evaluation (CEO strategic tasks, etc.) to enhance execution. who are highly related to the applicable product and service and reflect them in the process. Announced the best practice at the 2012 Dow Jones Sustainability Index International Conference Also, in order to implement the Compassionate Finance not just in Adoption of a risk review system from • In the case of introducing a new product and service, excluding the existing risk factors such as market, credit and operational risks, Korea but to apply it in the Asian region, which is the group’s strategic the customer’s perspective add a category to review the risks from the customer’s perspective (risk factors, etc.) and manage them. target market, we introduced the ‘Shinhan Asia Quest Together with Examination of all of the evaluation • Identify areas that need improvement and reorganize the evaluation system, such as evaluating factors and campaign methods that Compassionate Finance’ to allow the group’s employees to experience systems for sales offices and business can damage customer values. groups local cultures as well as provide opportunities for overseas CSR activities. Also, in line with the group’s local subsidiaries, we had the meaningful • Conduct internal analysis on the employees’ level of understanding and efforts made for implementation on Compassionate Finance. Introduction of a system for analyzing (once every quarter) time of participating in joint volunteer works and delivering donations. the implementation of ‘Compassionate • In the case of evaluating the brand value of Shinhan Financial Group and major group companies, evaluate the customers’ level of Finance’ satisfaction on Compassionate Finance. (once every year) 22 23 Paving the Way for Shinhan visits to them in person. In particular, it is mandatory to take the In order to be considerate of customers with disabilities, Shinhan In 2012, Shinhan Financial Group established the mission of ‘making the Implementation plan of Compassionate Finance for major group startup education hosted by the Korean Federation of Credit Card established and operated customized product and service world a better place through the strength of finance’. Through this, we companies in 2013 Guarantee Foundations, but it was held at Shinhan Bank’s head office processes. Messaging and consulting services are provided through included the meaning of Compassionate Finance into the group’s value 1. Facilitating the Compassionate Finance at worksite : Promote the culture of customer protection by newly establishing so that the working class participants could receive the education the homepage, while we are Korea’s only card company to provide sign management system. the Compassionate Finance Award for implementing the Compassionate Finance at worksite, identifying and managing the more conveniently. These small efforts made from the customer’s language consulting services for citizens with a hearing disability. Also, For some time, Shinhan Financial Group has been implementing the Compassionate Finance evaluation indicator, and newly appointing perspective were developed into a company-wide program together we developed and released the world’s first braille card for the visually employees in charge of customer protection for sales offices business to focus on growth and profit, making it deeply rooted in Shinhan Bank with the professional institution for small business startups. Until now, impaired. 2. Implementing the support by emphasizing on the working class the organization’s system and culture. The management system that and small and medium enterprises approximately 3,282 participants received the education on small : Promote the support for educating small and medium business In the case where a visually impaired customer conducts securities focuses on growth and profit can be seen in the evaluation system startups by facilitating the Corporate Success Program (CSP), business startups and approximately 1,000 small business owners transaction, Shinhan Investment is implementing the policy of giving based on key performance indicators (KPI). facilitating the support for the products of the New Hope Spore received loans from Shinhan Bank. Loan and the Smile Microcredit Loan, and expanding the merger preferential treatment on commission charges by deducting 50% of the with the Small Enterprise Development Agency In order to provide financial benefits for low-income customers who Gaining the trust of our customers and society is an important asset brokerage charge based on the fact that they use the voice-screen ARS 1. Establishing and implementing Shinhan Card’s theme by are facing temporary difficulties, Shinhan Card introduced a system that for financial companies. Instead of pursuing management focusing on clarifying the concept of the Compassionate Finance and its scope service or the counter because the HTS, which is an online securities supports interest-free installments for hospital expenses, which exempts growth and profits, Shinhan Financial Group will harmoniously connect of implementation transaction system with low commission charges, is restricted to them. Shinhan Card 2. Implement the Compassionate Finance in full scale through installment interests when a low-income customer is hospitalized for the two pillars of growth and contribution through the management We provide financial services for Win-Win development, including complementing and reinforcing the implementation system for a long period of time and has to pay in installments due to the large that gains the heart of customers by concentrating on social trust. Compassionate Finance support for outstanding small and medium-sized companies and new amount. Also, various systems were implemented to provide financial Above all, all employees understand that thinking of customers first and 1. Expanding shared growth with customers by enhancing the growth engine companies, while also holding the Compassionate return on customer (ROC) and managing assets support to help customers who suffered from disaster damages such as achieving the company’s growth together with customer’s benefits is Finance Camp that targets middle and high school students by 2. Reorganizing customer-oriented systems and processes and flooding in order for them to get back to their normal life. important, we established a scientific performance evaluation system Shinhan internationalizing the organizational culture implementing the Compassionate Finance through the activities of to reflect in evaluating the growth of customer values and the ratio of Investment 3. Developing and expanding the representative products and Shinhan Investment provides professional knowledge on stocks, bonds talent donation. services that symbolize the Compassionate Finance return. and the global investment environment to university students through 4. Being considerate of the socially underprivileged and Shinhan Life provides discounts on insurance premiums that target the implementing social responsibilities the Shinhan Finance Academy, which is a local community activity of In this sense, we will do our best to incorporate the Compassionate socially neglected, including the low-income households, the disabled 1. Improving the system and infrastructure to strengthen sharing knowledge, as well as giving advice on how to prepare for job Finance with the corporate culture. We will examine not only the implementation in the field and the multi-child families. Also, we operate a system that grants evaluation system at the group level, but also the evaluation system -Establish the compassionate insurance award system and operate interviews. In the year 2012 alone, a total of 891 participants completed a grace period for paying the insurance premium and repaying the an evaluation system for internalization the courses at the Shinhan Finance Academy. Furthermore, a variety based on the existing KPIs that covers all affiliates, business units and principal and interest for customers who recently become unemployed Shinhan Life 2. Identifying best practical examples and establishing the process of volunteer works are voluntarily conducted by employees together business scenes. It takes time to change the system and way of thinking for promotion or go out of business because of others or suffered from disaster which is deeply rooted in the organization. However, Shinhan Financial 3. Strengthening on-site communication with students, including giving baths to the elderly and providing free damages. Since 2011, we donated a total of KRW 300 million in the -Strengthen the communication between the management and tutoring for households headed by a child bread-winner. Group believes that this is the path that we should take and we will on-site employees and develop products and services exclusively company’s name together with 1% of the monthly insurance premium take it one step at a time. for the disabled Shinhan Life is implementing the ‘zero defect sales’ throughout the from the children’s insurances for children with cancer. Also, we are entire process, including the initial stage of selling the product to carrying out many meaningful programs of compassionate insurance the final stage of managing the contract. We introduced a system of internally and externally, such as giving 10% of the donation amounting CASE STUDY quality management index to score the ratio of improper sales and the to KRW 30 million to the children of low-income customers as medical Little efforts made from customer’s point of view will give them evaluation result of external private institutions so that customers can expenses. hope. select products that they genuinely want through proper sales. Sometimes there are cases where customers having financial difficulty come for loan consulting. At times like this, we recommend ‘Shinhan New Hope Spore Loan’ We are considerate of the socially disadvantaged. as a micro-loan product, but there are many customers who are unable to receive the loan because they don’t meet the requirement. Mr. Nae Gil Kang, who is a senior Shinhan Bank operates the ‘Healing Program for Household Debts’ as its manager, thought about ways to help these customers who have difficulty getting representative activity that is considerate of the socially disadvantaged. loans. He introduced various products that suit the customer’s situation from It allows customers who find it difficult to get loans under normal terms other financial companies even if they might be from Shinhan Bank. A study was because of changes in economic conditions, including sudden decrease conducted on all types of micro-loan products and the applicable requirements in income, unemployment and the falling property prices, to adjust to be drawn up in the order of priority listing the most appropriate loan product for the customer’s situation. As a result, customers could receive the appropriate their repayment schedule to suit their repayment ability so that they can benefits even if the product may not be from Shinhan Bank. This shows the attitude be financially independent. The Healing Program consists of real estate of implementing Shinhan’s meaning of Compassionate Finance, which provides programs that target credit loan customers. We support customers the opportunity for customers to be successful by thinking from the customer’s through various programs to help customers get back on their feet. Reorganized the group company’s homepage to improve web accessibility perspective. and convenience for the disabled 24 25 02 Social Contribution Shinhan Financial Group’s Social Contribution “We will enjoy together, grow together and protect together.” Shinhan Financial Group has been striving to achieve sustainable growth under the corporate mission of ‘making the world a better place with the strength of finance’. In order to fulfill the social responsibilities as a corporate citizen, we will implement differentiated social contribution activities by selecting three major areas of implementation for the social responsibility management, including coexistence (welfare), sympathy (culture), and symbiosis (environment). Principle Together with all affiliates of the group, Shinhan Financial Group is participating in the activities for growing together with local communities. The three themes include ‘coexistence’ for the socially disadvantaged and the Basic philosophy of social contribution 1 Coexistence : fulfilling corporate responsibilities through the support for the socially disadvantaged and vulnerable classes vulnerable group, ‘sympathy’ for preserving the traditional values and cultures, and ‘symbiosis’ for awakening 2 Sympathy : making social communications through the preservation of traditional values and cultures the importance of the environment. We are making continuous efforts to become a global financial leader that 3 Symbiosis : fulfilling the obligations of humanity through the awakening of the importance of the environment fulfill social responsibilities by planning diverse programs participated by the employees of group companies, as well as customers and partner companies. 1 Welfare Support for the socially disadvantaged, vulnerable classes 3 Environment Objective Coexistence Shinhan Financial Group will continually strive to become a company that contribute to creating a healthy Create jobs Symbiosis Support the expansion of environment-friendly energy society by fulfilling the company’s social responsibilities and roles demanded by customers, shareholders and Expand eco-friendly green welfare local communities, thereby growing together with local communities. Sympathy 2 Culture Restore and preserve traditional cultures Develop intangible values and cultural talents 45.1 131.3 Implementation system of social contribution Performance In order to efficiently implement social contribution activities at the group level, we are operating the Social Contribution Committee participated by the CEOs of all affiliates, which is the group’s top decision-making body on social contribution. The Social Contribution Committee decides on the company-wide plans and basic directions for corporate social responsibility Smile Microcredit Bank has made efforts to enhance In order to increase the contribution to society by (CSR) management, including sustainability management, social contribution, and environmental management, and reviews the working classes’ accessibility to finance, KRW 45.1 providing actual help to local communities and the the achievements made. Also, we have a systematic decision-making structure by establishing the Social Contribution Division billion of smile microcredit finance to 2,805 cases working class, Shinhan Financial Group has been Committee within the ‘Shinhan Management Forum’, which is the group’s business strategy meeting, and operating it with the until the end of 2012, which was the largest size in the carrying out a variety of social contribution activities financial industry. by investing KRW 131.1 billion in 2012. executive of all officer in charge of CSR. In addition, we reflect the CSR activities in the management evaluation of our affiliates, providing the foundation for the culture of implementing social contribution to be deeply rooted. 65,619 21,352 Implementation system of CSR CEO Shinhan Financial Group’s volunteer group of Shinhan Financial Group provided a differentiated Social Contribution Committee employees voluntarily participated in volunteer works. financial education to 21,352 persons who needed Executives • Composition: President (Chairman) and CEOs of all group companies (members) • Role: establish the basic direction for the group’s sustainability management, social A total of 65,619 employees participated in volunteer financial and economic knowledge with the Financial in charge of contribution and environmental management and review the achievements made works and the total number of hours spent on and Economic Education program, which contributes CSR volunteer work was 209,552 hours. to society through the financial business. Social Contribution Divisional Committee • Composition: executives in charge of social contribution from holding CSR company and group companies Team • Role: share the current status and business plan on the group’s sustainability Shinhan Financial Group <Social Contribution Committee> management, social contribution and environmental management 26 27 Social Contribution Utilizing Coexistence (welfare) the Industrial Characteristics We share financial knowledge under the name of convenience of applying for the education. Meanwhile, due to the participants in the year 2012 alone through the programs of 4 major We support the self-support of the financially citizens. Shinhan. increased demand for the education, we expanded the infrastructure affiliates, including the program on financial education for young (Shinhan Smile Microcredit Bank) for the education, including increasing the venue and region for the people and the program on financial education for the North Korean Shinhan Financial Group is implementing the group’s representative education and hiring more lecturers. defectors. Also, more than 200 employees and retired branch heads Shinhan Smile Microcredit Bank was established in December 2009 social contribution program of ‘Financial and Economic Education’, participated as consultants and lecturers by donating their talents. to support the self-support and financial independence of the which contribute to society through our financial business. By sharing Shinhan Card has been implementing the education-based project financially marginalized citizens. Based on the funding of KRW 70 In particular, Shinhan Financial Experience Class for Children was the financial company’s experience and know-how to people who by constructing the Arumin Library in approximately 300 regions billion, which is the largest amount in the financial industry, and the participated by more than 200 employees as volunteer workers. need financial and economic knowledge, we contribute to the across the nation to improve the poor reading environment and nine branch networks across the nation, we strived to improve the development of our society. Also, we further strengthen the group’s learning spaces of community child centers. In addition, Shinhan Card financial accessibility of the working class, including supporting smile business foundation by securing the trust of our customers and society has implemented the Arumin Financial Class for elementary school Future plan microcredit loans of approximately KRW 45.1 billion to 2,805 cases from the long-term perspective. Furthermore, we aim to establish the students of community child centers to provide a better understanding until the end of 2012. In addition to the ‘FLY Multi-Child Family Support In order to turn the financial and economic education into the group’s foundation for strengthening the nation’s financial competitiveness for about finance and focus on providing hope for a better future. Loan (2010)’ and the ‘Shinhan Freight Business Support Loan (2011)’, the representative social contribution activities as it has established itself as the future. a truthful program utilizing the industry characteristics, the four group ‘Disabled Self-Support Loan (2012)’ was introduced, which supported Shinhan Investment has received positice reponses by implement the companies, including Shinhan Bank, Shinhan Card, Shinhan Investment the self-support and financial independence of the disabled. Also, we Shinhan Financial Group has established the following as the Compassionate Finance Camp for middle and high school students. The and Shinhan Life, and other group companies plan to develop and continually developed specialized new products together with various implementation direction for the Financial and Economic Education: youngsters who participate in the camp receive economic education implement differentiated financial and economic education programs occupational organizations that needed the support of microcredit targeting the future generation of elementary, middle and high school by using games like the golden bell challenge and boards and visiting that emphasize the strengths of each company. Shinhan Bank will loans. students and the retired generation of the elderly; implementing a major divisions of Shinhan Investment, including the trading center. differentiated experience education; and utilizing the facilities and The Compassionate Finance Camp has been implemented on a regular increase the number of persons receiving the education to be more manpower in the group and local communities for the education. In basis after signing a MoU between Shinhan Financial Investment and than 3 times that of 2012, while also planning to gradually expand the We start the ‘financial healing’ for the working class March 2012, we established a task force team, which was participated Nambu District Office of Education, Seoul in April of 2012. lectures held during the school vacations in the Seoul metropolitan by providing financial products and services to them. by Shinhan Financial Group, Shinhan Bank, Shinhan Card, Shinhan area and Busan to other areas. Shinhan Card will continually upgrade Shinhan Life is implementing a Happy Silver Financial Class for the the program by expanding the education to 30 community child Shinhan Bank supported the New Hope Spore Loan of KRW 328.2 Investment and Shinhan Life, to develop financial and economic elderly. It is for the retired citizens of more than 60 years of age where centers from 10 community child centers in 2012, while also developing billion , which is the largest amount in the financial industry in 2012, education programs and implement programs for piloting education education is provided by visiting approximately 240 senior welfare textbooks utilizing game characters to improve the engagement level. to expand the benefits of using financial institutions for the financially by selecting and developing applicable lecturers. In June 2012, we services centers. It has established itself as an exemplary program Shinhan Investment increased the size of the education program marginalized citizens, as well as released the ‘New Hope Dream Loan’, declared the start of the group’s financial and economic education for the elderly as we live in an era of living until the age of 100 by by more than three times that of 2012 and also added 20 lecturers. which is Shinhan Bank’s own product of medium interest rate for the both internally and externally through the lecturer ceremony to begin providing education on information needed in real life for the retired Shinhan Life plans to expand the subjects for receiving the education working class, to provide a wide variety of financial benefits. Also, in the education in full scale starting from July. citizens, including voice fishing, safe financial transactions, real estate, to include adults who are preparing for retirement in the Happy Silver order to support customers who are suffering from the difficulties of inheritance and donation. In addition, opportunities are given to the Financial Class. Besides this, Shinhan Data System plans to hold the Do excessive debts, Shinhan Bank implemented the ‘SHB Household Debt We implement a differentiated financial and retired citizens to provide volunteer works for society by utilizing their Dream Informatization Class a total of 24 times, while Shinhan Credit Healing Program’ to support customers in the normalization of debts economic program. long years of experience and know-how to develop them into lecturers. Information also plans to educate a total of 400 individuals by holding through lowering loan interest, suspending interest, and transferring the Senior Happy Center twice a month. to installment repayment, thereby establishing an exemplary example Shinhan Bank is implementing the Shinhan Financial Experience Class Shinhan Financial Group has provided education for a total of 21,352 of financial institution’s autonomous free system. Meanwhile, the for Children, which is Korea’s first experience education for children by largest number of financial foothold branches (3 branches) and opening the bank’s sales offices. By opening the bank’s sales offices financial counters (20 counters) exclusively for the working class were during the weekend for the experience education, we provide a better established for the first time in the financial industry, which conveniently understanding of financial and economic knowledge that children provided financial consultations. In the case where the customer of ‘New might find difficult to understand. Children get to experience a variety Hope Care Spore Loan’ experienced an unexpected accident (injury, of financial and economic activities at the bank’s sales offices, including fatality, etc.), a variety of differentiated service is provided, including performing bank operations such as the automated teller machine, the New Hope Care Service, which release the person from the debt, installment savings and foreign exchange, using credit cards, dealing and the Comprehensive Credit Management Service, which support in stocks, and joining insurance, which enhances the engagement autonomous credit management. level and educational effectiveness. Approximately 20 employees participated in the process as lecturers and volunteer workers to truthfully implement the educational activities, while a website (www. beautifulshinhan.com) was made exclusively to strengthen the Shinhan Bank <Shinhan Financial Experience class for children> Shinhan Bank <Small-Loan Finance Consultation Event> 28 29 We are there for the revival of the working class and securing the continuity of employing persons for small and mediumonly participated by employees, but also by customers and partner internet. Meanwhile, the ‘Beautiful Sharing and Companion’ operated the small and medium-sized enterprises. sized enterprises, we invested KRW 1 billion annually starting from 2012 companies. As part of the Win-Win plan for partner companies, Shinhan every week through Facebook became a channel that created a (Exemption of commission / Corporate Success to link high school graduates, junior college graduates and university Financial Group and Shinhan Bank are implementing the volunteer consensus on netizen’s donation and allowed them to make donations Program) graduates who are unemployed with Best Companies, which are activity programs together with partner companies. easily. Along with this, in order to support low-income classes through outstanding small and medium-sized enterprises selected by the Small cooperation with the government, Shinhan Bank, which participated Since September 2011, Shinhan Bank has been providing the benefit Shinhan Card is operating a customer volunteer group where and Medium Business Corporation. Also, we provided support fund to as an entity in the program for running accounts of child development of exempting various commissions for the socially disadvantaged and customers can participate voluntarily by using Shinhan Card. Since companies that maintained the employment for certain periods, while account (CDA), released the CDA fixed deposit that is a public-purpose financially marginalized citizens as part of the implementation tasks 2011, various activities have been implemented by forming an overseas we are implementing the ‘Best Company-Best Employee Matching donation product. It sponsors the children from low-income classes of the Compassionate Finance. Among the recipients of basic living, volunteer group of university students to take part in cultural exchange Project’, which provides the opportunity to visit outstanding overseas by contributing 0.2% of the amount given by customers under the the lower income family, and the New Hope Spore Loan Customers, programs and establishing libraries for Vietnam together with COPION. companies to employees and corporate mentors. bank’s name, while approximately KRW 4 billion has been donated as of we provide the benefit of exempting commissions for single-parent Also, we are participating in overseas medical volunteer activities and 2013 through the regular sponsorship on a monthly basis participated families, multi-child and multi-cultural families, and providers of a parent improving the health of patients from the financially marginalized voluntarily by over 7,000 employees. of more than 60 years old. Starting from 2012, we expanded the benefit We help develop the dreams and hopes of young citizens by signing a donation agreement with major hospitals to include families of national merits and independent patriots to people. (Shinhan Scholarship Foundation) across the nation. In 2013, we further increased exchanges with local In order to establish a donation culture of small amount and many exempt the commissions of counter remittance, CD/ATM and internet communities as a leading and exemplary corporate citizen, while also participants for customers, Shinhan Card has made a donation exclusive Shinhan Financial Group is supporting students with difficult living / phone banking. Meanwhile, the corporate success program (CSP) is planning to strengthen our social contribution activities focusing on card ‘Beautiful Card’ in 2005 and an exclusive website for donation conditions but have outstanding academic records to develop them one of the representative tasks of the Compassionate Finance, which local communities to resolve relevant issues. ‘Arumin (arumin.shinhancard.com)’, which were both the first of its kind into national pillars. In 2006, we established the Shinhan Scholarship selects companies have outstanding sales and technology capabilities in the Korean financial industry, to raise donation of approximately KRW Foundation (http://www.shsf.or.kr) to provide scholarship of KRW 10.9 In order to take the lead in realistic and efficient volunteer activities for but are experiencing temporary liquidity crisis to provide the following 4.2 billion until the end of 2012. It was evaluated as best practices of billion to a total of 2,930 persons. Currently, the contribution of the local residents by succeeding the ‘sunulum spirit’, which is Jeju’s mutual benefits: supporting new fund, suspending loan repayment, reducing promoting donation culture in the financial industry. Also, we donate foundation amounts to KRW 100 billion from 7 affiliates. Besides the help spirit, Jeju Bank has led in creating a happy world together with interest rates, providing management diagnosis consulting, and medical expenses for patients of rare and incurable diseases through general scholarship project, we support the mentoring scholarship local communities by establishing the ‘Jeju Bank Volunteer Group’ in providing management information. As a program that helps with the the employee donation program Love Savings Account (automatically project of providing scholarships and learning opportunities by linking 2003. normalization of management, this program provided financial support donates KRW 10,000 per account from the salary) and the donation of mentors and mentees between outstanding low-income university and additional services of KRW 285 billion for revival and self-support fractions of salary. students and high school students. Also, we implement a variety of against 220 companies in 2012 alone. We will create a donation culture together with our projects, including the scholarship project for the children of policemen Shinhan Life held an event of ‘Sharing Compassionate Happiness’ employees and customers. We contribute to resolving youth unemployment by who died on duty and the scholarship project for the children of through Facebook. It was held to support living expenses urgently creating jobs at small and medium-sized enterprises. firemen who died on duty. In 2012, we supported scholarship of KRW We actively implement the voluntary donation activities of employees. needed by the children of low-income classes. For every click made (JOB S.O.S II Project) 3.18 billion to a total of 745 students. In order to fulfill our corporate In 2012, the total amount donated by employees was KRW 2.6 billion through Shinhan Life’s Facebook agreeing to participate in the social responsibilities, we will continue to implement the group’s where employees participated in donation through the activities of the sponsorship, you accumulate KRW 1,000, and as of the end of 2012, a Shinhan Financial Group is providing the hope of life by introducing Compassionate Finance and take all measures to provide opportunities Employee Salary Donation and the Fund-Raising Campaign, achieving total of KRW 10 million has been collected as donation. Also, Shinhan outstanding talents to small and medium-sized enterprises and to more students. a warm-hearted communication by supporting the donated money Life holds the My Kids Campaign that regularly sponsors children creating jobs for young job seekers. The project for creating jobs at with the financially marginalized citizens. who look like you in the global village together with the World Vision. small and medium-sized enterprises is implemented to give help in You can find the matching child who looks like you through the We implement volunteer activities together with the Since 2005, Shinhan Bank strived to create a donation culture resolving youth unemployment at the national level. In 2009, based smartphone application to provide regular sponsorship to the My Kids local communities. where employees can participate voluntarily by making the ‘love on the KRW 37 billion established through voluntary return of salaries Campaign. Until now, KRW 15 million has been collected as regular by employees, we implemented the JOB S.O.S (Sharing of Shinhan) click’ on the social contribution website of ‘Beautiful Bank’, which is In order to spread the warm-heartedness and communicate positively sponsorship, which will be continuously donated to 400 children who 4 U Project to create regular jobs for a total of approximately 3,000 allows employees to make small donations. Starting from 2010, we with local communities, the employees of Shinhan Financial Group need love living all over the world. persons at small and medium-sized enterprises and create over 150 reorganized the regular donation program for the year to increase the participate in talent donation activities and volunteer works. In 2012, a jobs as accounting specialist for social enterprises. In line with this, participation of customers and the general public, while also joining total of 65,619 employees participated in volunteer works and the total starting from 2010, we conducted the JOB S.O.S II Project, which is a hands with Happy Bean Foundation to make contributions to local number of hours for volunteer work activities was 209,552 hours. In Win-Win management program based on a fund of KRW 56.4 billion communities. As a result, we donated approximately KRW 1.1 billion to April 2010, Shinhan Financial Group established the Shinhan Financial to develop its exclusive financial products like JOB S.O.S Hope Savings over 210 institutions and beneficiaries from 2005 till now. As of March Group Volunteer Group, which consists of the employees of all affiliates, Account and Hope Installment Saving and support KRW 300,000 each 2012, all employees donated KRW 10,000 per month from their salaries to actively carry out volunteer activities across the nation. Starting from month for new employees who are hired by approximately 1,600 through labor-management agreement to support the neglected 2008, in April and May of each year, we held the Volunteer Work Festival small and medium-sized enterprises for 3 years. Shinhan Financial classes by implementing the project of ‘Meeting Shinhan Family (sharing participated by all affiliates to implement Win-Win activities that provide Group succeeded in creating 5,000 new jobs at small and mediumthe donation of KRW 10,000). Also, we contributed to the promotion of actual help to local communities and citizens. Meanwhile, we are also sized enterprises through this program. Also, in order to contribute to donation culture by encouraging the netizen’s participation through the planning and implementing volunteer activity programs that are not 30 31 Sympathy (Culture) Symbiosis (Environment) We will take the lead in spreading the culture and art We provide a safe and pleasant reading environment We implement diverse activities for environmental We will protect the ‘Clean Jeju’ as the world’s of local communities. for young children. conservation. environmental capital. As Shinhan Bank considers the value of the ‘past’ to be important, it As part of the efforts to resolve educational gap and develop Since 1994, Shinhan Bank has instilled environmental awareness Jeju Bank is implementing a variety of environmental cleanup has continually implemented activities that preserve and promote future generation, which have become huge issues in our society, through art by holding the National Environmental Photo Contest activities to make the ‘Clean Jeju’ as the world’s environmental capital. traditional cultures through various programs, including the Cultural Shinhan Card has continually implemented the representative social each year. Also, we implemented environmental improvement projects Approximately 9,000 participants participated in the ‘Jeju Bank Purumi Heritage Love Campaign, Cultural Heritage Protection Activity, contribution program Arumin Library since 2010. The Arumin Library that communicate with local communities at 35 locations by focusing Campaign’, which has become a pure nature loving campaign, in a Experiencing Intangible Cultural Asset and Traditional Cultures and is aimed to help holistic self-development by providing high-quality mainly on the Seoul metropolitan city through the project for creating total of 71 times as of the end of 2012. In order for Jeju to be selected Palace Protection. In 1997, we established the Shinhan Museum, which books that can set the foundation for the future to children who have ‘Hanpyeong Park’ using leftover lands in the city. We promote green as the ‘New 7 Wonders of Nature’ and successfully host the World is Korea’s first museum exclusively for financial history. Based on a total less educational opportunities. Since the first opening ceremony for welfare to the financially marginalized citizens across the nation by Conservation Congress in Jeju, we implemented various activities to of approximately 6,400 relics and financial data, we held regular and the library was held at the Happy Community Child Center in Miseongimplementing the ‘project for creating sunlight generation facilities and preserve Jeju’s environment with our employees everywhere in Jeju, special exhibitions and operated a variety of educational program. Also, dong, Gwanak-gu of Seoul, a total of 291 Arumin libraries were rooftop gardens inside welfare facilities’ and the ‘project for creating including the environmental cleanup and promotion activities, the the Shinhan Gallery Gwanghwamun and the Shinhan Gallery Yeoksam constructed in 231 locations in 16 cities across the nation. The Arumin forests inside welfare facilities’ One Group One Care (Bukoreum: located in Donggwang-ri), the Sea located in Gwanghwamun and Yeoksam, respectively, held contests Library provides children who have insufficient reading materials to get Care Activity, the Gotjawal Expedition Activity, and the activities for and special exhibitions to support the artistic activities of young and more books and education, while the environment-friendly learning recovering and cleaning up the areas damaged by typhoon. prospective artists, which are always opened to the public for free of spaces allow children to read books in a more safe and pleasant charge. Meanwhile, we led the promotion of culture and art in local space. Also, starting from 2012, we introduced the University Student We actively participate in the ‘One Group One Oreum communities by conducting the Art Experience Program. Book Mentor to implement a reading guidance program to enhance Care Campaign’. interest on books and improve correct reading habits based on the infrastructure of Arumin Library, thereby implementing an upgraded As part of the ‘One Group One Oreum Care Campaign’ that is We find promising classical musicians and support social contribution program that integrated the hardware of library with implemented by the Jeju Special Self-Governing Province, Jeju Bank their development. the software of reading guidance. is implementing the environmental cleanup activity once a month Since 2008, we searched for promising classical musicians and on a regular basis at Bukoreum, which is located in Donggwang-ri, supported their development by establishing the ‘Shinhan Music Hangyeong-myeon. In order to care for the valuable oreum of the We invite you to experience Silla culture. Award’, which is the first of its kind in the financial industry for music Clean Jeju, we cleaned up weeds and wastes in surrounding areas and talents. The Shinhan Music Award is a new concept of corporate Shinhan Life sponsors the expenses needed to make the leaflets for the restored the fallen expedition road, while also continually implemented Shinhan Bank < National Environmental Photo Contest> mecenat activity that was established for the first time in the financial chronology and culture experience hall of Silla to invite more domestic the activities of placing ribbons on labled, ‘Oreum Sarang for Preventing industry to find promising classical musicians and develop classical and foreign visitors to the Silla Cultural Center located in Gyeongju of Forest Fires’, to awaken the importance of preventing forest fires. As Gyeongsangbuk-do, which is regarded as national treasure. As a social We will protect the natural environment of Namsam music. Starting from the 2nd Shinhan Music Award, a total of 4 areas a result of Jeju Bank’s active oreum care campaign, it was the only enterprise of the Ministry of Labor and Employment, Silla Cultural together with the citizens. company to receive a participation award for the environmental were evaluated under the concept of searching for classical music talents of below 19 years old raised in Korea, including violin, piano, Center has been operating two places, including the Silla culture Shinhan Card has actively participated in protecting Namsan, which has evaluation (held in 2013) of the 2nd One Group One Care Campaign cello, and vocal music. The winner of each area attracted a huge experience hall and Gyeongju’s old house, to generate jobs for the the vital force of the Korean people. Starting from 2011, the Namsan hosted by the Jeju Special Self-Governing Province. attention with differentiated benefits, including KRW 16 million of neglected. Caring Program has worked towards looking after the beautiful Namsan scholarship and special short-term training at famous overseas music Area to turn it into a space for citizens to enjoy by visiting Namsan’s CASE STUDY schools. In 2012, we successfully hosted the 4th Shinhan Music Award, We find and support outstanding hopefuls of Jeju outdoor botanical garden on Saturday of each second and fourth week which began to get the evaluation as the gateway for classical music of each month to pick up fallen leaves, laying composts and clearing We participate in creating clean environment. athletes. in Korea by people in relevant fields. Therefore, it is expected that the away the snow. In particular, employees participated in the volunteer In order to make a beautiful world, we are implementing a variety of programs for Shinhan Music Award will play a pivotal role in bringing the Korean Jeju Bank is actively participating in the supporter activities of outstanding activity together with their families, which brought a new meaning environmental preservation, including holding the campaign for collecting used music world to global standards. In addition, we continually supported hopefuls of Jeju athletes. In order to develop outstanding athletes, about Namsan and helped them focus on caring for nature. Recently, mobile phones and holding the annual comprehensive business performance various cultural events, including concerts, recitals, musicals, operas, we support KRW 30 million each year, and also sponsor incentives in order to remove harmful plants in Namsan, the employees and their assesment ceremony with carbon neutrality. Also, due to the compliance and essay contests, sketch contests, original children’s song contests, and separately for Jeju athletes who are participating in various domestic and families continually carried out the Namsan Plant Protection Activity participation of international environmental treaties, including UNEP FI and CDP, the Great Mountains International Music Festival. international sports events, including the National Sports Festival, the we pursued global standards. Meanwhile, we are actively participating in the public during the period when harmful plants grow intensively. interest campaigns related to the environment based on joining as a member of National Disabled Sports Festival, and the National Junior Sports Festival. the Climate Change Center, establishing carbon inventories, implementing energy Jeju Bank will continue to support the athletes so that outstanding saving campaigns, and developing and providing products and services related to hopefuls of Jeju athletes can develop into athletes who can proudly the environment. represent Jeju. 32 33 03 Environmental Management Sustainable Environmental Management “We communicate with the environment through finance.” Shinhan Financial Group recognizes that sustainable development, which ensures balanced profits between the present and future generations, is determined by positive interactions between economic development, social development and environmental protection. Also, we cooperate with other economic areas to achieve common environmental goals within the market mechanism by sharing the view that sustainable development is a joint responsibility of the government, enterprises and individuals. In addition, we established the ‘group's environmental management standards’ through the group’s Social Principle Shinhan Financial Group understands that environmental problems have an important impact on the sustainable development of a company. Therefore, we have actively minimized the greenhouse gas emissions Contribution Committee, which is participated by CEOs of the group and its affiliates. As a result, we will strive to set up systematic environmental policies at the group level and implement environmental management more effectively. through efficient use of resources and energy, manage green financial products by supporting the green industry and green lifestyle, and strengthened the green communication with stakeholders. Major details of Shinhan Financial Group’s environmental management standards Classification of policies Details • Effectively use resources and energy Effectively using resources and minimizing greenhouse gas • Reduce greenhouse gas emissions emissions • Take the eco-efficiency of products and facilities into consideration • Support financing for green enterprises Objective Shinhan Financial Group will become a green leader in the financial industry by establishing an implementation system for Environmental Management to achieve society’s happiness and the group’s Developing and supporting green financial products • Support financing for green consumers • Expand investment on green industries sustainable growth, while also expanding the group’s green synergy products and services. • Strengthen the Environmental Management capabilities of employees Strengthening of green communication • Strengthen green partnership with partner companies • Disclose environmental management performances and cooperate externally We implement Environmental Management to achieve sustainable growth. Shinhan Bank has been implementing the Green Bank Program to create shared values for society, while also seeking society’s 800 9,594 happiness and the company’s growth. In order to achieve the strategic goal of ‘realizing green banking for sustainable growth’, Performance we selected and implemented the Green Bank Program as the CEO’s medium and long-term management direction. We expanded the Environmental Management by selecting 8 implementation tasks in three areas to achieve strategic goals as follows: 1) improving the environment through it's financial business; 2) implementing advanced Environmental Management as a corporate citizen; and 3) managing environmental risks as an environmental monitor. In order to facilitate the new growth market of green We released the packages of ‘Green Love’, including the ‘Green industries, we released the ‘New Green Company Loan’ Love Energy Fixed Deposit Account’ and the ‘Green Love Life Implementation strategy of Environmental Management to provide financial support to green companies and Installment Savings’, which are deposit products that provide other companies in the new field of green industries, preferential interest rates to customers who save energy Realizing Green bank for sustainable growth which supported about approximately KRW 800 billion or make energy donations for customers who joined the as of the end of 2012. financial products, thereby making energy conservation a part of everyday life. Supporting green finance Managing environmental risks Implementing green program 1,366 ISO50001 1. Promote environment-friendly finance 4. Manage environmental risks as a financial institution 6. Measure and manage carbon emissions 2. Support outstanding green industry 5. Respond to environmental risks as a corporate citizen 7. Reduce and offset carbons 3. Develop new growth carbon finance 8. Implement environment-friendly activities Energy management system In 2010, Shinhan Bank established the Green Bank Energy Management Executive ‘Green Love Energy Factoring’ is a loan product In order to improve efficiency and reduce energy use, Team inside the Strategic Planning Division to The Strategic that allows the borrower to pay back construction we continuously improved energy performance, such as Planning Divison Energy Management Representative expenses with energy expenses saved from business, being the first in the Korean banking sector to acquire the ensure harmonious relation and establish a unified Energy IT Planning Management operations, etc. It has become a representative best international certification for energy management system direction for green financing and Environmental Division Working-level Green Bank Team Meeting practice for creating environmental values through (ISO50001) established by the International Organization Management. Through the implementation General Affairs financial business. for Standardization. infrastructure, we brought out continuous interest Division Major building Sales office from management and encouraged cooperation between related divisions. 34 35 Response to Climate Change Resource and Energy Saving Reducing costs through environment-friendly activities Annual amount Annual of greenhouse amount of Classification Details of activities gases reduced reduction Shinhan Financial Group understands the importance of preventing We adapt to climate change with carbon neutrality. In order to support the monitoring and decision-making process (tCO2eq) (KRW 1 million) major issues related to environmental pollution, using sustainable to continuously improve the environmental performance, Shinhan After holding the annual comprehensive business performance • Reduce the amount of energy use by resources, protecting the environment and natural habitats. We will Financial Group upgraded the group’s comprehensive Environmental replacing the lighting of the bank’s head assessment ceremony participated by all employees as an environmentIncreasing make diverse efforts to implement the Environmental Management Management system in 2012. By taking the request of internal and office, general and sales offices into LEDs energy (total of 17,357) 3,915 330 from the perspective of ‘making the world a better place with financial friendly event for minimizing the use of resources and energy, Shinhan external stakeholders and the applicability of utilizing information into efficiencies of • Carry out additional programs in buildings strength’, which is the group’s reason and purpose of existence. In Bank has been receiving the certification for carbon neutrality from consideration, we selected 12 indicators related to the environment. In the case of buildings that require replacement within the next 5 years particular, we recognize that joint responsibility should be taken on the Korea Energy Management Corporation. Through these activities, particular, we took the initiative in reflecting the energy management • Wear simple clothing during the greenhouse gas emissions, which is regarded as the main cause of we enhanced the awareness of employees and local communities into the system. As a result, we plan to systematically implement the Making summer season for all employees to energy 19.92 160 climate change. Therefore, we are working on response measures from regarding environmental protection and climate change. In particular, group’s Environmental Management. conservation make energy conservation a part of everyday life two perspectives, including the reduction efforts made to minimize it provided an opportunity to launch the ‘Green Love’ package, which High classification (2) Medium classification (6) Performance indicator (12) • Introduce the ‘image processing system greenhouse gas emissions from the organization and the response improved the environment-friendly interests of financial consumers. for loan review documents’ to allow loan reviews to be done by searching efforts made to deal with climate change. Reducing the Meanwhile, in May 2012, we made the ‘Guideline for Reducing Amount of paper used the system amount of 15 *185 • Establish a paperless culture simplifying GHG Emissions’ together with the Korea Environmental Industry Resource management Amount of water used paper used the work process through less Ratio of water recycled publishing, binding and entering of We work on reducing greenhouse gas emissions. & Technology Institute to be distributed to the head office and libraries sales offices, making efforts to actually respond to climate change Energy and Amount of energy used * KRW 168 million (converted amount of personnel expenses from reducing working hours) + KRW 17 Operational In 2010, Shinhan Financial Group identified the sources of the group’s by reflecting it in relevant regulations, including the guideline on performance greenhouse gas Amount of greenhouse gas emission million (amount of reducing approximately 1,140 boxes of A4 papers) management direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions and established a procurement and asset management. Distance of business trips greenhouse gas inventory system that defines the responsibilities of the Environmental Amount of waste generated CASE STUDY organization according to the internationally agreed standard. In 2012, Amount of GHG emissions (Unit: tCO2eq) Performance Waste management Ratio of waste recycled Indicator System we established an environmental performance system to reduce and Classification of emission source 2010 2011 2012 Environmental Result of Environmental We contribute to environmental protection by using recycled Management define the financial company’s environmental performance indicators, Scope 1 Direct emission 21,138 20,040 18,284 education Management education papers. Scope 2 Indirect 91,691 91,604 93,400 Management Ratio of green product purchased such as the use of paper, green procurement and water resources, emission performance Green products and Since 2012, Shinhan Card changed the billing paper to use 100% Korean recycled services Result of green financial products exceeding greenhouse gas inventory. pulps, which is the first in the relevant industry. As a result, we achieved the level Total amount of GHG emissions 112,829 111,644 111,684 Social contribution Result of social contribution activities of protecting 19,380 pine trees that are 30 years old. This is the same as reducing On June 2012, Shinhan Bank was designated as a company of 'The * Scope of data collection was restricted to 6 major group companies: Shinhan Bank (head office, all sales 1,953 tons of CO2, saving 27,634 tons of water and cutting down on 4,143KW of offices and management facilities); Shinhan Card (head office, Dangsan branch, Yeoksam branch); Shinhan Greenhouse Gas & Energy Target Management System' based on Investment (head office, annexed building, Gumi, Ulsan, Yeosu branches); Shinhan Life (head office, electricity (based on billing papers printed annually). In April 2012, we received the the Basic Act on Low Carbon Green Growth. After completing the Cheonan Training Institute, Namwon, Jeonju branches); Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management (head All of our employees participate in energy Korean GR mark certified by the Korean Agency for Technology and Standards and third party verification of greenhouse gas emissions and energy office); and Shinhan Capital (head office). improvement activities. hosted by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy regarding the use of recycled papers ** The greenhouse gas emission of Shinhan Bank for 2010~2012 was certified by DNV, which is a third party consumptions between 2009 and 2012, we reported the results to for billing papers. certification body. In 2012, Shinhan Bank effectively implemented energy management the government. In particular, we continuously improved the energy ***The data of the five affiliates, excluding Shinhan Bank, was calculated by applying the same emission by establishing the guideline and manual for energy management and Process of energy management plan efficiency by being the first in the Korean banking sector to acquire the factors, calculating formulas and operational boundaries of the Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report (20072009), which has been certified by DNV. continually improved the energy performance to establish a system ISO50001 as a means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. that reduces energy cost. The energy management system (ISO50001) Review energy Implement energy reviews within the Implement energy saving Other greenhouse gas emissions refers to a company-wide energy improvement activities that carry applicable scope of measures announced by Classification of emission source Unit 2010 2011 2012 out energy reduction participated by all employees, including the Identify reduction energy management the government points system Total business trips management of the company. Through this, we increase the level of km 507,486 502,184 1,982,727 (by air, road, etc.) Greenhouse gas emissions interest on reducing energy and establish a decision-making system Establish energy goals tCO2eq 40.48 36.82 90.94 resulting from business trips based on the analysis of plans and data to focus on reducing energy. * Data derived from the comprehensive Environmental Management system, which is Shinhan Financial In particular, we adopted a bank-wide energy management system Establish Establish implementation plans Group’s environmental data management system. It is the distance of business trips by bus, railroad and by establishing a computer system to reduce energy use, which was Shinhan domestic air service. The year in which each affiliate started to manage the distances of business trips are all different. Therefore, those that fall under each year are different. the main culprit of greenhouse gas emissions. It is expected to have Bank’s energy 2010~2011 : 3 affiliates, including Shinhan Financial Group an effect of responding to regulations, reducing costs and improving management 2012 : 5 affiliates, including Shinhan Financial Group plan brand values. Establish detailed goals on Establish energy Shinhan Bank < Shinhan Green Love Energy Fixed Deposit Account> energy per building management plans per building 36 37 Promotion of Green Finance Shinhan Financial Group supported outstanding green enterprises that Environment-friendliness of social and public facilities We open the green finance together with our practices. Also, we enhanced mutual understanding by participating engage in environment-friendly industries based on green finance and Shinhan Bank reduced the expenses of energy use by supporting the stakeholders. in the Green Finance Council, which is attended by the management developed fixed deposit products to encourage environment-friendly replacement of LED light bulbs for the underground parking lots of of commercial banks to carry out domestic council activities, and the lifestyles from individuals. Communication with internal stakeholders Green Economy Research Council, which is participated by the workingpublic buildings, while also releasing the ‘Green Love Energy Factoring’, which is a loan product that prevents the occurrence of various crimes In order to review the Shinhan bank’s strategic direction and isten to level employees of the financial industry and the environmental experts with well lit facilities. The ‘Green Love Energy Factoring’ is a loan product internal progress updates and outside expert’s opinions regarding from the government and academia, to listen and benchmark the We create new social values through green financial environmental issues facing the organization, Shinhan Bank has been opinions of outside institutions and experts. where the bank first supports the expenses used in improving the energy products. implementing the Green Bank Seminar half-yearly since 2011. Also, in efficiency of facilities, such as replacing LED, and the energy user repays the construction fee to the bank with the money saved from using less order to improve the employee’s environmental awareness, we imple Shinhan Financial Group develops an environment-friendly green electricity. It has emerged as a representative example of creating new mented the Environmental Management Cyber lecture for all employees finance culture together with consumers, enterprises and local environmental and social values through finance. to enhance their understanding about sustainability management. communities through releasing diverse green financial products. We In 2012, we carried out various activities to encourage participation, are making efforts to create new social values through the environment including surveys and questionnaires, to have approximately 2,500 that is closely related to our lives, such as expanding the loan support to We monitor the environmental risks when supporting participants participating in the Green Bank Questionnaire and Survey. environment-friendly green enterprises, encouraging the environmentloans. Meanwhile, we plan to increase the establishment of a green supply friendly lifestyles of individual customers, and supporting the chain system by expanding the purchase of environment-friendly and environment-friendliness of social goods. When supporting corporate loans, we provide loans by determining energy efficient products and supporting programs to strengthen the whether or not the company is environmentally outstanding. In order environment management capabilities of partner companies. Increasing the support to enterprises engaging in green to manage companies with excessive environmental risks, we signed industries an agreement with the Ministry of Environment and the Korea Communication with external stakeholders In August 2011, Shinhan Bank supported loans to enterprises that want to Environmental Industry & Technology Institute in 2012 to be the first in Since Shinhan Bank recognizes the importance of the environment like enter into green industries and enterprises engaging in green industries, the Korean financial industry to adopt the corporate evaluation system other global financial institutions, Shinhan Bank has been participating thereby releasing the ‘New Green Corporate Loan’, which contributed for supporting green finance. in the UNEP-FI (United Nations Environment Programme Finance in facilitating the new growth engine market of green industries. It Initiative), and CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) to maximize the results provided preferential benefits on interest rates and commission fees for of facilitating green finance by benchmarking and promoting best outstanding green enterprises. As of the end of 2012, we supported new Shinhan Bank <Green bank survey> loans of approximately KRW 800 billion Role of green finance Encouraging environment-friendly lifestyles of individual customers • Establish systematic basis • Monitor the market Shinhan Bank, in reagrds to the energy problems that have become • Develop related industries Government NGO • Encourage the environment-friendliness of society social issues recently, has signed an agreement with the Korean Energy Management Corporation to release the ‘Green Love Energy Fixed Deposit Account’, which is a deposit product that provides energy Profit creation/ Environment-friendly savings/ donations to customers who purchased financial products, or gives risk management loans preferential interest rates to customers who saved energy. When developing this product, we collected opinions on the awareness Shinhan Bank <Signing ceremony of promoting green finance> Greening of Greening of energy conservation, green finance and the conditions of joining Enterprise Individual CASE STUDY production of life green finance deposits by receiving opinions beforehand through surveys conducted By the ‘customer evaluation group’. Therefore, we We listens to opinions on Environmental Management from Green loans/investments Sustainable growth were able to encourage individual customers to gain environment work sites at the Green Bank Seminar. friendly mindsets and lifestyles in their daily lives. Meanwhile, we were Shinhan Bank established strategic directions for green finance through its annual Greening of market Making the environment a better Greening of market recognized for the environment-friendly results from ‘Green Love’ business plan and management strategy meeting, listened to the voices of work place with the financial strength package products, including the Green Love Energy Fixed Deposit sites at the Green Bank Seminar, and exchanged feedback and opinions about Account and the Green Love Life Installment Savings, to receive the first green finance with relevant divisions. As a result of these efforts, we released the Consumer Seller prize at the 18th Maekyeong Financial Product Award hosted by the New Green Corporate Loan for supporting green industries, supported internal Maeil Business Newspaper. interest rates, published guidebooks on green industries, provided training on green finance, and reviewed the risks of green industries. 38 39 04 Win-Win Management Basic Principle of Shared Development with Partner Companies We implement shared development with our partner companies. “We grow together as a partner of corporate development.” Shinhan Financial Group is implementing the shared development plan for partner companies based on the group’s management philosophy of ‘Compassionate Finance’. As the demand for corporate social responsibilities increase as time passes, SFG has expanded its management philosophy of ‘Compassionate Finance’ to partner companies, including shared development, protection of neighborhood commercial areas and strengthening financial consumer protection. To achieve this, we investigated Principle Shinhan Financial Group follows the spirit of mutualism and altruism, which believes that you can achieve development only when the health and safety of the corporate ecosystem is improved by thinking of partner the actual state of business relations with partner companies focusing on each affiliate’s IT and general affairs areas. Based on the results, we established the improvement directions and detailed plans for shared development and implemented them in companies as our partners in corporate development. stages. SFG established 4 basic principles for shared development with partner companies. Under these principles, we identified 23 detailed implementation tasks, including drawing up standard manuals and contracts and exempting performance bonds for bidding, and reflected them in our daily operations. Principle Details • Prohibiting discrimination on conditions that are not directly linked with the ability to perform duties Objective By implementing the detailed tasks in accordance with the four basic principles for shared development, Shinhan Financial Group will strive to maintain better relationships with partner companies as our partners in Compliance with the basic principles for shared development • Except for cases where special technologies are needed or essential for the contract and risk hedging, we minimized giving differential evaluation and limiting the prequalification due to external reasons, such as the size of facilities and manpower. developing Shinhan’s competitiveness and values and growing together. • Recognizing a fair compensation is needed for purchasing costs Ensuring adequate prices • We changed the awareness that a fair compensation is needed for the services and products you are provided with instead of simply cutting back on costs. We put efforts to protect the financial stability of partner companies. • Improving the established common practices of transactions and enhancing the speed of checking and paying prices Removing irrationality in business relations • We removed the irrationality of business relations by improving the accompanying terms and Opportunity Protection conditions of business, which were unilaterally demanded by the purchaser at an advantageous Performance position, and minimizing the delay of checking and paying prices. • Implementing CSR activities and strengthening partnership for partner companies Implementing CSR of shared • Along with the CSR for partner companies, we supported the development of partner companies Shinhan Bank has established a section for disclosing We ensure adequate profits through a private contract development until they acquired the competitiveness by improving the continuous close relations and shared IT business on the bank’s homepage to secure instead of the lowest bidder method for small-scale development, such as combining CSR activities. fairness and objectivity on the business and provide business owners such as publishers to protect our partner equal business opportunities to many partner companies from losses arising from intensified price companies. Also, we introduced an add point system competition and environmental changes. for socially responsible enterprises and companies with outstanding technologies. Removal We work towards removing the irrationality of business Satisfaction We monitor the partner companies’ satisfaction level relations for partner companies by giving the payment on sustainability management and social contribution on time and exempting guarantee insurances. activities and give feed backs on the results to make further improvement. Shinhan Bank <New Year’s Eve Night for IT Partner Companies> 40 41 Implementing Win-Win Management In order to reduce the burden of expenses on partner companies, Shinhan Life has taken measures to provide 100% payment for sample Future Implementation Plan for goods after the delivery of official goods for marketing activities have Shared Development been completed. Meanwhile, we try to hold as many joint events with We identify and implement tasks for shared to expand the subjects of private contracts to improve work efficiency. partner companies as possible and pay for the joint event separately. In addition to the financial industry, Shinhan Financial Group has development. In the case of purchasing general goods, we expanded the subjects Also, we specified in the contract about compensations on damages in business relations with companies engaging in a variety of industries from 30 million to 50 million KRW for private contracts, while changing case of not fulfilling the contract to reduce the burden of expenses for and we do not think of those companies as subjects of making The major affiliates of Shinhan Financial Group came up with plans for the standards for the fluctuating market prices and the scopes of profits. This is because we cannot make further development without joining the guarantee insurance. shared development by principle based on the 4 basic principles for construction so that they are reflected in the contract guideline to thinking about the coexistence and shared development with shared development with partner companies. Therefore, we identified calculate and give appropriate payment. Jeju Bank expanded the subjects of private contracts to be more than partner companies. Therefore, Shinhan Financial Group follows the and implemented tasks that can provide actual benefits by recognizing KRW 10 million, while exempting the submission of deposits and spirit of mutualism and altruism, which believes that you can achieve our partner companies as a partner for success and development in Shinhan Card established a systematic device to protect partner insurance policies as part of preferential treatment for partners that development only when the health and safety of the corporate line with the Compassionate Finance implemented at the group level. companies from losses that might arise from intensified price are social enterprises, socially responsible enterprises, social welfare ecosystem is improved by thinking of partner companies as our competition and environmental changes. Depending on the work facilities and organizations, companies that facilitate employment of partners in corporate development. characteristic, we work on identifying the actual difficulties of partner the disabled, outstanding partner companies, companies that have We did not make any discrimination based on companies to ensure adequate profits within the reasonable scope outstanding technologies and certified green enterprises. Action plan for shared development by major group company outward appearances. through private contracts instead of using the minimum bidding Group Details Shinhan bank strived to make a transparent and fair contracting process method. Company We support the sustainability management activities • Implement the beautiful love of sharing (volunteer work) together by improving the method of selecting partner companies so that they In order to ensure adequate prices for partner companies participating of partner companies. with partner companies are not discriminated based on the size or outward appearance of the in the bidding, Shinhan Investment established a standard order sheet • Hold events to boost morale and communicate with partner companies company. After making it mandatory to notify the bidders about the and wrote down that ‘partner companies are a partner of Win-Win Shinhan Bank continuously holds business meetings with employees • Invitational financial seminars for partner companies: invitational standard for selection when announcing the bidding, we are required of partner companies and monitors the current status to identify the Shinhan working-level seminars on finance, tax and investment techniques management’ in the standard contract. Also, in case of additional costs Bank • Hold the New Year’s Eve Party for partner companies to provide the relevant partner companies detailed explanation. Also, in arising during the business process, we included a provision to provide soundness of partner companies. In the case of IT partner companies, • Exempt contract deposit for outstanding partner companies and pay order to secure the objectivity and fairness of the business and provide we examine their credit ratings through the KIS credit scoring system, in installments before final inspection the additional payment, which was applied and carried out in a total of • Improve the differential evaluation based on outward appearances equal opportunities to more partner companies, we set up a website 13 contracts in the year 2012 alone. while examining potential risks of large partner companies in advance and expand an add point system for socially responsible enterprises for publicly announcing information related to the IT business on the and monitor them. We continuously conducted monitoring to adopt • Reflect the aim to minimize grades based on exterior factors in the bank’s homepage, while also giving additional points to companies 8 of the categories identified for internal control and self-assessment manuals for overseeing purchasing with outstanding technologies and companies that fulfill social We remove the irrationality of business relations. (RCSA*) for shared development with partner companies. Also, in • Reflect the provision on divisional payment in the IT purchasing Shinhan contracts responsibilities by reflecting it in the guideline for contract. Shinhan Bank exempts the submission of guaranty insurance policy terms of establishing the evaluation categories, including the survey on Card * Applied in the case where the day for completing the inspection has that is the contract deposit for outstanding partner companies to satisfaction level of partner companies, we plan to establish a plan for exceeded more than 1 month from the deadline of final inspection Shinhan Card amended the regulations on purchasing so that fair • Reflect the provision on exempting various performance bonds expand the subjects being exempted from various contract deposits. implementing shared development for IT partner companies in 2013. competition without discriminations on outward appearances can be • Establish plans for outstanding partner companies It reduced the period for checking the payment of prices and ensured The implementation plan includes giving awards thanking employees • Expect to establish plans by consulting at the group level about made during the bidding process. As a result, partner companies of Shinhan of outstanding partner companies, doing volunteer works together the definition and benefits of outstanding partner companies quick inspection. The comprehensive resource management system Investment Shinhan Card were able to compete in a fair environment based on (exemption on submitting various performance bond, etc.) currently being used has been continuously upgraded so that users with partner companies, going mountain climbing, holding financial quality. exempt stamp fees through electronic contracts, while various billing seminars and opening the New Year’s Eve party. • Improve the evaluation system for agencies consigned with the duty of insurance investigation Shinhan Life reflected the major details on shared development for documents were replaced with electronic documents and also pay • Establish the standard for giving additional points to companies Shinhan Card monitored the negative sides of sustainability management partner companies in the standard contract. In order to minimize with outstanding technologies and companies that fulfilled social electronically without having to visit the bank on small amounts. for partner companies and conducted surveys of self-diagnosis on responsibilities bidding restrictions based on the outward appearances, we did not Shinhan Life • Establish the standard form and management process for purchasing In order to improve the established common practices of transactions actions against the employees of partner companies. Through this, we order sheet apply the regulations for restricting the bidding in cases where specific where burdens are placed on partner companies, Shinhan Card quickly monitored and examined whether or not the partner companies fulfilled • Exempt guarantee insurances for outstanding partner companies technologies or sizes were not asked. Also, except for the size of and existing transactions handled the checking and paying of prices and exempted various social responsibilities. • Compensate on proposal and sample costs for drawing up the performance used as the indicator for assessing the professionalism of business proposal report fulfilling duties, we used the applicable service performance period of performance bonds that were customarily received. Also, we made Shinhan Life continuously listened to suggestions and monitored the outsourcing company and the transaction period with the existing efforts to minimize the burden on partner companies in even the the satisfaction levels through mutual exchanges at regular meetings company. smallest areas by allowing electronic documents of proposals and with partner companies. Also, we improved the evaluation standards compensating for sample costs. for partner companies to give additional points to companies with outstanding technologies and companies that fulfilled social We ensure fair compensation instead of focusing on Shinhan Investment amended the related regulations and adjusted responsibilities. Meanwhile, we conducted surveys on the satisfaction costs. the standard contract forms for IT purchasing and outsourced workers in accordance with the group’s revised regulation for IT purchase levels of partner companies regarding social contribution activities and In order to ensure a fair compensation, Shinhan Bank changed the standards. Also, we are making continuous efforts to remove the sustainability management to achieve continuous development by principle for deciding on the winning bidder to use the method of irrationality of business relations for partner companies by allowing giving feed backs on the results. restrictive minimum prices. Also, we changed the contract guideline divisional payment and exempting guarantee insurance. * RCSA (Risk Control Self Assessment) : a self-assessment system for controlling operational risks that is implemented by Shinhan Bank 42 43 • Implementation System for Sustainable Growth 01 • Communicating Shareholder Values Shinhan Financial Group and Corporate Values • Strengthening Customer Protection • Creation of New Growth Engine • Strengthening of Customer Relation Management • Strengthening of Brand Leadership 02 • Improving Access to Financial Services Shinhan Bank • Open Talent Management • Differentiate Financial Service • Strengthening of Customer Protection Activities 03 • Creative Brand Management Shinhan Card • Employee Satisfaction Management • Strengthening of Capital Management • Protection of Financial Customers 04 • Developing Products and Services that Satisfy • Professionals of Finance Shinhan Investment Corp • The Strategy of Specialization for CSR Management • Customer-Oriented Financial Service • Acquiring Asset Quality 05 • Strengthening of Customer Protection Shinhan Life Insurance • Job Stability and Employment Equality Social Responsibility 06 • Differentiated Operation Through Global Network • Long-Term Customer Management in Affiliates Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management • Innovative Activities through Continuous improvements 07 • Balance between Work and Personal Life Shinhan Financial Group’s goal is not just to become the number one financial company in Korea. Shinhan Capital We aim to achieve sustainable development that enhances the values of our customers and society by fulfilling our responsibilities. • Developing Social Enterprises in Jeju To achieve this, all of the employees at the group are thinking of ways to provide benefits to our 08 • Expanding Communication with Local Communities customers and society through their daily operations and implementation. Jeju Bank Shinhan Financial Group Since its foundation, Shinhan Financial Group has contributed Implementation System for Sustainable Growth Reporting Issues (6) Program for promoting Shinhan to the national development through finance and made endless culture internally challenges to create new values for our customers and society. We ‘Shinhan Way’ is the energy that leads the group’s sustainable growth. Shinhan Financial Group is taking the way of righteousness management by focusing on Shinhan Way, Internalizing the implementation of developed new growth engines by focusing on a balanced growth Shinhan Way which is established on the spirit of the company’s foundation of ‘making the world a better place between the banking and non-banking sectors and created new ① Hold the 2012 Shinhan Way training with the strength of finance’. Shinhan Way is the source of Shinhan people’s pride that had displayed values through differentiated business models to become a global ② Hold joint training for the group’s future-oriented development by finding the success factors from the history of Shinhan success story new employees financial company in Korea. From now on, we will take the lead in many years ago. Also, it is the energy that led the group’s sustainable growth without being troubled ③ Elect winners of the 2012 Shinhan becoming a company that is respected by society that exceeds the Way Award and share best practices by the changes of and business. In order to succeed Shinhan’s cultural competitiveness, Shinhan no.1 financial brand in Korea. Financial Group established a corporate culture team within the holding company at the group level Improving understanding and to provide directions in which Shinhan’s cultural competitiveness should take. Also, we supported establishing consensus for the the change management activities of affiliates through cultural diagnosis and diverse educational Compassionate Finance Dong Woo Han Chairman of Shinhan Financial Group contents. Meanwhile, the systematic and institutional upgrades were implemented by internalizing ① Improve the understanding of the Compassionate Finance as Shinhan culture, which is also the group’s mission. A variety of Compassionate Finance that use Shinhan Way training Company Introduction communication activities were carried out from the perspective of organizational culture, including ② Develop e-learning contents training for all employees and identifying and promoting best practices. Used as training for all employees Shinhan Financial Group was established in September 1, 2001, which is a financial holding company that consists of a total of 13 affiliates, including Shinhan of affiliates Bank, Shinhan Card, Shinhan Investment, Shinhan Life, Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management and Shinhan Capital. It is Korea’s first financial group of private ③ Establish on-line channel by capitals that provides comprehensive financial services. SFG’s goal is to create synergy through close networks between affiliates to meet the diverse financial Communicating Shareholder Values and Corporate Values Reporting Issues (17) spreading the Compassionate Finance demands of customers, while also becoming Korea’s top financial brand by pursuing customer values. Shinhan Financial Group provides financial services ④ Introduce implementation examples to 29 million domestic customers with 20,000 employees and approximately 1,400 networks. It has 70 overseas networks in a total of 15 countries, including We established a transparent and trustworthy relationship. by using internal channels, including Shinhan Financial Group is a comprehensive financial group listed in the Korean and US stock markets, WAF and company newsletter Japan, US, Britain, China, Germany, India, Hong Kong, Vietnam and Singapore. Also, SFG is growing into a financial company competing in the global market by being listed on both the Korea Stock Exchange (KRX) and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) at the same time in September 2003. which owns a variety of business lines, including bank, card, securities and insurance. In order to maximize shareholder values and corporate values, SFG regularly communicates to provide accurate Facilitating internal communications among affiliates’ employees information on areas of interest for investors and the group’s performances for shareholders and investors, including domestic and overseas investors and social responsibility investors. Also, SFG is ① Support activities of the group’s Material Issue Map Major Issues Reported in 2012 actively implementing communication activities with affiliates and internal organizations to expand affiliated clubs ② Implement the group mentoring Shinhan Financial Group conducted material issue evaluation to produce communication channels and identify areas of interest for shareholders and investors so that they program reports based on areas of interests for internal and external stakeholders. can be reflected in management activities. As of the end of 2012, the group’s largest shareholder is ③ Carry out the group’s CoP activities In 2012, the major issue reported was ‘acquiring competitiveness in the the National Pension Service, which owns 7.28%. The BNP Paribas Group is a strategic investor that ④ Select new reports for the group financial industry’ and ‘facilitating communication with stakeholders’. The accounts for 6.35% of the shares. Besides this, a variety of domestic and overseas institutions invested Business Impact measures taken by Shinhan Financial Group on these major issues are in SFG, including medium and long-term investors such as overseas sovereign wealth fund and shown below. pensions. As of the end of 2012, there is 63.3% of overseas investment. Based on the group’s unified 6 and responsible management, we continuously established trusting relations from medium and longEfforts made to secure term perspectives with domestic and overseas shareholders and investors through active IR activities competitiveness in the financial industry in terms of improving shareholder values, thereby maintaining a strong shareholder basis. 16 1 Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: KRW 1 billion) 24 17 6 Employees Employee salaries/ welfare benefits 25.4 Facilitate communication Shareholders, with stakeholders investors Dividends 393.9 21 Local communities Social contribution investments 0.6 Government Corporate tax expenses -1.5 23 15 Partner companies Purchase and services 0.6 20 7 Other general administrative Other issues Core issues Others expenses 37.8 Social Interests Shinhan Financial Group <12th Regular General Shareholder’s Meeting> 46 47 Shinhan Bank Shinhan Bank has strived to become a bank that supports the Strengthening Customer Protection Reporting Issues (9) Customer Protection Organization success and development of the nation and local communities under the philosophy of foundation ‘a bank for the country’ and We lead a customer-oriented management. ‘a bank that helps each other’, as well as to become a bank that is In order to lead a customer-oriented management, Shinhan Bank pledged to implement the ‘principle of financial customer-oriented actions’ by declaring the ‘financial customer-oriented charter in April trusted and loved by our customers and society. The ultimate goal CS Committee 2013. The financial customer-oriented charter was established by reflecting the major details of the and purpose of Shinhan Bank is to make the world a better place ’10 principles on financial customer protection’, which was provided by the OECD in 2011, in the Past with the strength of finance. To achieve this, Shinhan Bank will work • Purpose: improve existing ‘customer-oriented charter’. Also, the first day of every month was designated as the ‘customercustomer-oriented policies towards becoming a loving and respected bank by creating shared • Held: once every month oriented day’ and the person in charge of customer complaints previously was promoted as Vice values through the Compassionate Finance and living a happier Branch Manager and appointed as the ‘person in charge of consulting consumer protection’, thereby tomorrow than today. striving to improve the quality of service and protect customers. Meanwhile, in order to promote the importance of protecting the customer’s rights and implement this across the bank, we established Jin Won Seo CEO of Shinhan Bank the Customer Protection Center in 2012 and introduced the ‘customer protection indicator’ for the first time in the banking sector, which is reflected in the key performance indicator (KPI) of sales offices. Customer Company Introduction Recently, Shinhan Bank is consistently improving the system for customer protection by setting up a Protection Committee consumer protection group. Since its foundation, Shinhan Bank has led the Korean financial industry with diverse products and services. Shinhan Bank has achieved results through • Purpose: review and consult comprehensive measures on efficient and differentiated management by establishing a risk reduction portfolio under the market environment of increasing uncertainties, while We implement financial customer protection education. financial customer protection strengthening internal growth based on strategies for improving organizational safety. Meanwhile, we strengthened future competitiveness through efforts • Held: once every semester In order to be well prepared for financial customer protection, we promoted the strategic directions made to secure market leadership in the future growth market and expanding customer base, as well as implemented detailed CSR management through for customer protection and the details of customer protection for sales offices against the S managers diverse implementation tasks of the Compassionate Finance. Along with this, we improved sustainability by strengthening open management based on who represent each sales office. We reorganized the implementation organization so that each communication and autonomy and dynamically operated the organization by aiming to achieve customized goals focusing on professionalism. Shinhan business site can show leadership, while also held the ‘financial customer protection education’ Bank will continue to fulfill its social responsibilities as a corporate citizen representing the Republic of Korea and implement sustainability management where customer-oriented services can be applied on the work site and emphasize the importance Customer based on communication with stakeholders. of customer protection. Also, we implemented the ‘customer complaint prevention system’ so that Protection Meeting (former CS Committee) the same financial customer complaint does not occur at the work site. Moreover, we implemented • Purpose: improve Present Material Issue Map Major Issues Reported in 2012 the VOC experience program where the management personally listened to customer complaints customer-oriented policies • Held: once every month and came up with solutions by consulting directly with customers, which were reflected in the Shinhan Bank material issues to produce reports on areas of interest for customer-oriented duties throughout the management. As a result, we recorded the lowest number various internal and external stakeholders. The results of material issues of cases of customer complaints arising from commercial banks in the 2012 trend analysis of financial selected 5 Core issues, including ‘supporting safe financial transactions’, consultations and customer complaints announced by the Financial Supervisory Service (100,000 and 5 other issues, including ‘efforts made to secure competitiveness in Business Impact customers standard), thereby having a system that manages the overall financial customer protection the financial industry’. In the 2012 CSR report, ‘supporting safe financial Customer from prevention to follow-up measures. Protection Workingtransactions’ and ‘efforts made to improve customer satisfaction’ were 1 Level Meeting selected as Core issues, while ‘efforts made to secure competitiveness in the * S manager: selecting one person from each sales office and head office to carry out the duty of customer satisfaction and protection • Purpose: prevent customer 7 financial industry’, ‘providing public interest financial services to financially complaints increasing and resolve promptly marginalized citizens’, ‘strengthening brand power’, and ‘strengthening •Held: on a regular basis 13 6 96 Efforts made to employee’s professional capabilities’ were selected as other issues. Supporting improve customer 6 satisfaction safe financial transactions Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: KRW 1 billion) Efforts made to secure competitiveness in the Employees Employee salaries/ welfare benefits 1,642.4 financial industry Shareholders, 21 investors Dividends 450 12 6 Provide public interest 36 financial services to the Local communities Social contribution investments 81 financially marginalized Strengthen brand citizens power Government Corporate tax expenses 423.9 14 6 Strengthen employee’s professional Partner companies Purchase and services 255.2 capabilities Other general administrative 11 Other issues Core issues Others expenses 872.6 Social Interests Shinhan Bank <Campaign for Consumer Protection> 48 49 We strengthen the customer complaint system from the Creation of New Growth Engine Reporting Issues (6) local companies and financial customers, thereby providing the basis Shinhan Bank led the smart finance by establishing the banking industry’s customer’s point of view. for creating customer values and developing customer protection. In first smart finance center. As of the end of 2012, the number of smart phone In order to efficiently and quickly respond to customer’s demands for We come up with differentiated values for new growth. early 2013, we established the Global Business Division by integrating Smart banking customers increased from 1,984,000 users in 2011 to 4,475,000 Finance users, showing an increase of 2,491,000 users. The fund center of the smart improvement on services, systems, and policies, the executive in charge Since its establishment, Shinhan Bank has continually shown stable the existing organizations that were divided up between strategy and finance center opened a total of 52,673 new funds (KRW 84,022 million), of customer protection is operating the Customer Protection Meeting. growth with a pioneer spirit and strong passion. However, due to support to ensure efficient implementation. It strengthened the driving which accounted for 16.7% of the total new fund accounts at the bank. It is held at the bank level to establish policies that put customer the prolonged domestic and overseas economic recession and the force for responding to the difficult conditions of the global economic We launched the S20 Club, which is a system targeting the youth protection as the top priority by selecting 10 tasks, including financial establishment of low growth status, it is predicted that acquiring stable recession. customers in their twenties and also released youth exclusive products, products, real-name financial system, sound business, customer asset profitability will be difficult. It is recognized that we cannot maintain including the S20 check card and S20 installment savings. Since the We will become a global bank that fulfills social responsibilities. S20 check card first came out, approximately 1.1 million accounts have protection, strengthening of customer’s right to know, strengthening the current state under the paradigm of a high growth period. In the been issued, while the S20 installment savings attracted over 143,000 of manpower services, improvement of customer protection systems, foreign cases, the European finance continues to be unstable after Shinhan Bank selected the Asian financial belt as its key market for Youth accounts. In the case of Kyunghee University and Hongik University where there are no Shinhan Bank sales office in the neighborhood, we strengthening of customer-oriented customer complaint system the global financial crisis in 2008, while in Korea, there is a low vitality global business. We entered into the market as a local corporation to customer opened the smart branch called the S20 SMART Zone to make sure and personal information management system, and support to in the overall economy due to household debts and house poor embody the capabilities of localization for each region. Also, we pursued youth customers have no difficulty in financial transactions. Besides this, we are implementing a variety of cultural activities to make the youth household debt finances, to implement as a comprehensive measure problems. In this regard, Shinhan Bank recognized that identifying and strategies that realized the economy of scale to own 65 global networks customers feel closer to Shinhan Bank, including the S20 club support for financial customer protection. Also, we established and operated implementing new growth engine was essential to overcome the in 15 countries (as of April 2013). In the global business, Shinhan Bank project, the Manmanhan special lecture, the contest for global tour, and the Q-SHINHAN system, which aims to achieve the ‘Compassionate maintained a balanced and meaningful growth in major areas, including the operation of community sites and university reporter group. difficult management environment and for the organization to survive. Finance’ that makes customer-oriented management activities to be Therefore, we are preparing activities that can maintain stable growth asset size, network expansion, profit creation and risk management. We released retirement design system and mobile applications at daily activities through important quality management indicators. and create differentiated source of profits than in the past. In particular, Vietnam and Japan were selected as the model business Shinhan Bank’s homepage and distributed the ‘Guidebook for Golden Retired Age’. In particular, in the case of the retirement pension, which is a huge regions for key markets so that we concentrated our resources and market part of the retirement market, we ranked number one for the third 10 Main Improvement for Comprehensive Protection of Financial We found the possibility of new growth from the lifecycle of capabilities to become an advanced local foreign bank. Meanwhile, consecutive year with KRW 7.106 trillion in store as of the end of 2012, Consumers customers. achieving a strong position in the retirement market. in Korea Shinhan Bank used our strengths and know-how to meet Improvements Details We have chosen the following major tasks for creating new growth diverse financial demands of Korean customers and local customers. Shinhan Bank has selected the Asian financial belt as the strategic Examine the terms and conditions of product market. As of the end of 2012, the total overseas asset is US$ 14.6 contracts, prior consultations on products, compliance engine, including implementing the WM/CIB business model, acquiring The global business will strive to become the bank’s future growth billion and total deposit received is US$ 9.5 billion, making us stand out Financial products with financial customer principles when developing smart financial market competitiveness, strengthening the brands for engine by taking pride as the evangelist of financial Korean wave. In globally among the Korean banks. In particular, we continually released products Global young generation and retired people, and establishing global status specialized customized products and services locally, while successfully Improve the procedure for confirming identity, addition, Shinhan’s global business is implementing a variety of CSR business entered into the niche market of Korean companies’ local partner Real-name financial system strengthen education on real-name financial system through the Asian financial belt. The WM/CIB business model goes activities locally to fulfill its social responsibilities to meet the demands companies. The outstanding IT capabilities are a huge help in providing to employees high-quality services to customers in overseas face-to-face and non faceCompliance with 6 sales principles, monitor beyond the restrictions on the business models of bank and securities of the age, including the school support project in Vietnam, the medical to-face channels. Sound business inappropriate business conducts, prevent excessive companies to provide an integrated solution at group level, thereby support project in Uzbekistan, and the social development program business conducts Provide countermeasures on voice fishing, strengthen successfully establishing the WM/CIB system as the implementation support in Cambodia. Shinhan Bank has fulfilled its role as a corporate Customer asset protection smart finance certification, strengthen the security of system that provides integrated solution. Also, in order to prepare for citizen in all countries by establishing a favorable relationship of mutual non face-to-face channels the young generation who are the future customers and the retired development by increasing opportunities for regular exchanges with Strengthening of customer’s Hold financial education, strengthen the disclosure on Strengthening of Customer Relation Reporting Issues (13) comparing products and services, implement financial people who are expected to increase in large numbers in the future, the socially disadvantaged. right to know information management system on the homepage Management Establish the awareness of customer protection to we installed the Shinhan Retired Research Team to strengthen the S20 Strengthening of manpower all employees (customer-oriented business site, day Activities for creating new growth engine brand activities for youth customers by providing financial services that We satisfy the customer’s needs with differentiated customer services of customer protection), strengthen the support on customer protection cover the lifecycle of customers. [WM] We newly established the Shinhan PWM Center of bank/securities management programs. Improve the customer complaint system, operate co-location and retail business model that is differentiated from other Improvement of customer the customer protection meeting, improve common banks and the IPS organization that provides professional integrated Shinhan Bank’s customer management consists of the 「Retail Shinhan protection system We compete with the world with Korean finance. solution on asset management. Through this, we provide one-stop practices of loans, operate the ombudsman system Way」. It is Shinhan Bank’s own brand of differentiated customer Strengthen support at the work site to resolve services and products of bank and securities to customers to attract Customer-oriented In order to overcome the limitations of the matured Korean financial management program, which means the integration of customer customer protection conflicts, provide reduction plans outstanding customers at the group level and achieve noticeable customer complaint system market, Shinhan Bank selected global business as one of the key for inappropriate customer complaints increases in asset. A support team consisting of experts on PWM/ management systems within the bank. We standardized the customer Review the management state of personal businesses for future growth and intensively invested on strengthening PB exclusive products and bank and securities asset management is Strengthening of personal information, manage the information provided by established to provide professional consulting services that can satisfy management activities, including customer relation management, information management affiliates, eradicate arbitrarily searching personal the capabilities of global business. We established the platform for WM/CIB financial needs of customers. anniversary management, product marketing and asset management, information without that person’s consent business ‘new growth’ in the Asian financial belt that connects Japan, Vietnam, model * PWM : Private Wealth Management to encourage the customer’s growth through face-to-face and non Provide plans to support small-loan finance, establish IPS : Investment Products & Services Financial support to plans to support household debts, provide plans Cambodia and India, while efforts are made to enter into the emerging face-to-face channels, while also providing services that meet the household debt finance to manage collection of debts from the customer markets, including Southeast Asia like Indonesia and Myanmar. By [CIB] We discard simple business models that introduce products financial customer’s needs. Instead of simply emphasizing customer protection point of view for individual companies. Based on the efforts of joint marketing of entering into overseas market, Shinhan Bank is supporting the overseas bank and securities using the CIB new business model, we provide an management at the head office, it focuses on ‘strong execution at market entry of domestic companies, as well as providing diverse integrated financial service that meets customer needs. In 2012, the size the work site’ through a support system that achieves management of collaborated business increased by 2 times over the previous year with financial products and services that have been recognized in Korea to strategies and expands business opportunities. more than 4 times in profits. * CIB: Corporate & Investment Banking 50 51 We walk together with our customers to achieve the customer’s implementation. Customer complaints that come through the Strengthening of Brand Leadership Reporting Issues (3) We started a systematic brand management with the Shinhan success. homepage and call centers are concentrated on the customer Brand Management Index (SBMI). Since its foundation, Shinhan Bank has led in establishing an protection center. Each month, the management evaluates the followWe grow together with our customers through ‘Togethership’. In 2011, we established a headquarters for brand strategy to be in advanced financial system by establishing the financial industry’s up measures taken on past measures and response measures for the Shinhan Bank has actively implemented the Compassionate Finance charge of brand management. We developed the Shinhan Brand first customer satisfaction center that emphasizes on the importance recent VOC. Through the customer protection meeting, the progress in various fields, including customers, micro finance and shared Management Index (SBMI) to establish the standards and directions of its management philosophy, while also making efforts for shared update of each division on VOC has a strong power and we provide development with partner companies, to complete CSR, while at for a bank-wide brand management and implemented the brand development with customers through the principles and convictions of feedback until the matter has been settled. the same time, doing its best to create and protect customer values. management focusing on the work site. These examples of brand sound management. Under the mission of ‘making the world a better In order to achieve the Compassionate Finance, which is Shinhan management were announced together with the best practices of Result of Customer Satisfaction Survey place with the strength of finance’, we established the new brand Financial Group’s brand value system, we developed with Shinhan other global banks in the Philippine International Banking Convention 2010 2011 2012 strategy and reorganized the brand system. The key value of the brand Bank’s own core brand value of ‘Togethership’, which is the two pillars (2012), the Excellence in Retail Financial Services Conference (2012), and Korean Standard Service Quality Index ‘companion’ is not to gain profits for the bank only, but also shows (KS_SQI) 1st 1st 1st of togetherness with customers and financial leadership. Togethership the Banker/Brand Finance Banking Forum (2013). Shinhan Bank’s brand our commitment to walk together with customers for the customer’s isn’t only for the bank’s profits, but it is the leadership that aims value received world-wide recognition. We are striving to become success. Also, in order to protect customer rights and create a trusting We grow bigger by satisfying our customers. to grow together with customers for the customer’s success. We a bank that is acknowledged for its excellence in systematic brand financial culture, we made the ‘customer protection indicator’ for the Shinhan Bank has made endless efforts to think from the customer’s clarified the four promises with customers, including sincerity, insight, management not just in Korea, but also around the world. first time in the industry. The indicators give an overall evaluation of point of view and reflect their diverse needs, which were recognized innovativeness and integration. To achieve this, we defined the ‘financial sales, management and consultation to see whether or not the sales in various areas domestically and internationally. In 2012, we were customer charter’, which aims to pursue shared development with employee easily explained the product information from the financial dedicated to the hall of fame at the Korea Service Award and customers from a long-term perspective. customer’s point of view, whether or not the customer’s rights are received the ‘hall of fame award’ in social responsibility at the Global protected, and whether or not the appropriate product has been We strengthen the bank-wide brand awareness. Standard Management Awards. We ranked number one for the introduced from the customer’s point of view instead of the bank. eighth consecutive year in corporate banking as the most respected Under the brand slogan of ‘accompanying for a better tomorrow’, company in Korea, while ranked number one for six years in a row at we operated a brand academy for all employees to strengthen the We strengthen customer relation management focusing on the brand awareness at the bank level. In addition, we encouraged new work site. the Korean Social Contribution Awards. Also, we ranked number one as the Korean financial brand in the top 500 global financial brands, employees and other employees at each rank to receive the education Customer relation management is a support system for achieving the which was 51th in the world. These achievements are results of a on brands, thereby emphasizing the fact that Shinhan Bank’s brand management strategic goals and expanding business opportunities. variety of social contribution activities, as well as the results of receiving is ‘employee’. The reason why we strengthened and encouraged the It plays the role of strong execution at the work site that acts as favorable evaluations from customers and evaluating agencies on the bank-wide brand activities for all divisions within the bank is because the basis for performance system from the perspective of business Compassionate Finance. we shouldn’t have a short-sighted view based on performance, but seek a long-term growth engine that enhances brand competitiveness Shinhan Bank <Selected as Best Retail Bank in 2012 by The Asian Banker> through the relationship with customers and society. Customer relation management focusing on customers and work sites Customer relation management focusing on customers and work sites (2012) Acquiring the 2014 Asia Leading CRM capabilities ① Strategies for customer relation management Ranked 1st in Korea and 51st in the World for the Ranking of Global Philippine International Banking Convention (2012, Manila) Expanding core customer base and focusing on and bringing up customers Financial Brands by The Banker Customer ② Implement customer relation management ③ Provide customer rewards ⑦ Customer-oriented organization Customer management Planning and management Best customers Shinhan Premier Service Exclusive customers Tops Club Service Asset management Product marketing Strategic market Strategic market service Exclusive customer management ④ Process for customer relation management Selected as Best Korean Retail Bank for third Consecutive Years by Selected as Best Korean PB Bank for Shinhan PWM by Euromoney Business opportunity The Asian Banker Customer understanding Marketing planning Inquiries/consultation Contact management Performance management management Performance Support system for customer relation management evaluation for customer management ⑤ Operational system for customer ⑥ Analysis system for relation management customer management Consultation and Support on targeting and understanding business support customer information 52 53 Improving Access to Financial Services Reporting Issues (12) Open Talent Management Reporting Issues (14) We hope for the happiness of all employees and their families. Under the belief that the mental stress of employees reduce the We provide financial services to our customers at anytime and We establish the culture of open communication for employees. anywhere. concentration level at work and impede on the organizations’ vitality, Shinhan Bank listens to the voices of stakeholders in the rapidly we are operating a variety of stress management program to restore In order to expand the customer reception abilities in areas without changing management environment, while also making efforts to emotional and psychological stability to enhance the collaboration a branch network, Shinhan Bank continually expanded non face-toestablish a culture of open communication within the bank to exchange within the organization. Counselors with professional qualifications face channels. Compared to the existing search and transfer focused diverse and creative ideas. We resolve misunderstandings and conflicts personally visit the sales offices to give advice to employees, while in services, we operated the smart finance center, which provides that might arise from wrong communication. Through this, we support the case of employees who need outside help through applications customized services at sales office level so that customers who want respect and consideration that is the key to truthful communication so received from an on-line website, and we provide realistic assistance professional information and financial consultation services can get that they can absorb well into the organizational culture. by linking professional counseling institutions. Also, in order to them through the internet, smart phone and professional consultation communicate with other team members, we support the ST program center without having to visit sales offices. In December 2012, we We employ and develop global talents. and hold a stress self-diagnosis system through the on line more than additionally opened the smart deposit center and the smart foreign We are striving to establish a stable business through systematic once every quarter. Starting from 2012, we implemented the ‘employee exchange center, which established an environment where the same development programs for employees. The locally hired employees healing program’ to find a balance between work and personal life service as the sales office can be received at anytime and anywhere receive specialized training in the region and we apply Shinhan’s and generate positive energy. As part of these efforts, we held the together with the smart loan center and the smart fund center. Also, corporate culture to suit the local legal and cultural environment to ‘on-line video lecture on stress relief solutions’ to efficiently manage in order to strengthen web accessibility, we provide open banking create our own culture. Also, we improve our pride and love as Shinhan stress regardless of time and space. Shinhan Bank will strive to improve service that allows internet banking regardless of the device or employees by inviting outstanding local talents to Korea to hold the employee values through a balance between work and personal life operating system being used at home or workplace, thereby improving training. by continually facilitating programs where our employees and their the convenience of using financial services for customers who have families can take part. System of developing locally hired employees difficulty with financial services. Meanwhile, as part of the government policy, we established a service of convenient issuance together with After establishing the local annual training plan for each CASE STUDY Work training year, we hold work training for local employees according the card company and actively promoted the project for changing MS to their fields. In order to bring out positive energy and achieve a work and life balance, card into IC card because of security issues, achieving the highest ratio We hold training for customer satisfaction by selecting CS Shinhan Bank is implementing the Employee Healing Program. A total of 250 of change out of the four major commercial banks. CS/ corporate culture leaders from local employees. training employees and their spouses participated in the ‘spring deep in the mountain’ We hold corporate culture training to spread Shinhan’s We support the use of convenient financial services to customers corporate culture locally and create our own culture located in Chungju-si of Chungbuk. They took part in the meditation programs, with disability. We select outstanding employees with good performances including walking meditation, log meditation, dancing meditation and fragrance Developing core and capabilities by dividing up into clerks and managers to meditation, which provided an opportunity for them to forget about everyday life As part of the Compassionate Finance, we strengthened the talents develop into leader groups. in the nature and gain healthy energy. Also, information about how to deal with accessibility to non face-to-face channel, including automation stress was provided to employees through the ‘heart strengthening program’ that machine and internet, so that customers with visual disability and We develop the next-generation financial leaders. improved the stress management capability by improving physical vitality and hearing disability can use financial services without inconvenience. In order to strengthen the work capabilities of employees, we provide strengthening cardiopulmonary function. Besides this, we also held ‘on-line video Also, we prevent the occurrence of discrimination arising from using educational opportunities to all employees where they can receive lecture on stress out solution’ to provide ways to improve self-development and financial services by expanding various services that are being operated integrated training during two nights and three days every year. enhance basic understanding on work stress, thereby helping with efficient stress for the socially disadvantaged. Through the training, employees can review the changed regulations management without being restricted by time and space. Shinhan Bank will strive and systems, while also find opportunities to look back on whether to improve employee values by achieving work and life balance by recognizing Financial services for customers with disability or not they are performing well on their duties. Also, employees who that our employees are directly linked with the competitiveness of the company. Operate an exclusive consultation channel within the smart finance center want to improve their advanced knowledge can study professional Sign language consultation Operate sales offices with sign language consultation service knowledge at the Shinhan Financial School. In 2012, there were 208 to have a sign language counselor of the smart finance center service translate the talk between customers with hearing disabilities graduates from RM, SOHO, WM, IB, FE and IT. Meanwhile, we have a and employees at the counter Shinhan Bank <Smart Deposit and Foreign Exchange Center> separate leadership training program for developing leaders within Simple language Use friendly and easy terms as ARS messages for the initial users the organization. In addition, we create a culture where the bank’s key service and the elderly of phone banking values are implemented at the work site by supporting the opinion Expanding braille Provide smooth electronic finance to customers with visual leader groups, while also supporting the improvement of knowledge security card disability through distribution to all sales offices and abilities to resolve problems by having employees voluntarily participate in CoP. * RM : Relationship Manager IB : Investment Bank IT : Information Technology SOHO : Small Office/Home Office FE : Financial Engineering CoP : Community of Practice Shinhan Bank <Healing and Meditation Program> WM : Wealth Management 54 55 Shinhan Card The Korean credit card market has changed into a consumerDifferentiate Financial Service Reporting Issues (5) oriented market that emphasizes on the protection of customer’s Ranked 1st as Most Respected rights. Therefore, the key to the success of the card market is We develop products and services from the customer’s point of view. Korean Company for fifth consecutive years by the Korea Management determined by gaining the trust of the customer’s hearts. You can Shinhan Card has established a card portfolio that comprehensively analyzes diverse factors, including Association Consultants (KMAC) customer lifestyle and card use patterns, based on the industry’s first newly opened next-generation (February 2012) touch upon the customers only when your true feeling towards computer system together with the big data of 22 million customers. The card portfolio provides card them is shown. Shinhan Card is striving to become a partner in life products and service benefits where customers can enjoy the best profits. Also, we operate the ‘Tops so that customers can easily look for us when they want to. Also, we Club’ system, which is a program for managing outstanding customers who can receive preferential will create sustainable values by realizing social responsibilities in services for all affiliates of Shinhan Financial Group, such as exempting annual fee and commissions, daily lives that emphasize on the financial industry. providing premium coupons, and giving discounts on cultural performances. Shinhan Card continually developed and implemented differentiated services to satisfy customers, including providing a 24 hour settlement service, developing customized ARS, sending cards to a third location wanted by Jae Woo Lee CEO of Shinhan Card customers, and providing personal information consent forms by mobile phone. Also, we provided services to customers who were socially disadvantaged or times of difficulties, including providing sign Company Introduction language consultations to customers with hearing disabilities, providing exclusive care services for the elderly, and implementing a system of exempting interests on deceased customers. In order to provide a comfortable and convenient life for customers, Shinhan Card has played a leading role in the market by establishing a strong network base and efficient risk management system and expanding the possibility of stable financial support at the group level. After the integration, we achieved the We boost soft competitiveness. economy of sale in advance, including the customer base, and established a stable business base that can flexibly absorb the internal and external shocks As the domestic card market entered into maturity, the marketing competition among card companies through the work efficiency and business innovation of products and processes. As an affiliate of Shinhan Financial Group, we created synergy effects in intensified to improve card use rate and prevent customer defecting. Also, the pressure from a diversified marketing, including cross selling and bank’s sales office networks being used as the group’s customer information. Also, we strengthened our position in the competition structure and continuous reduction of commissions provided a complicated and difficult card industry by using the group’s efficient risk management system and possibility of stable financial support. management environment. In response to this, Shinhan Card acquired a competitive advantage with differentiate software to transform into a customer-oriented service paradigm and introduced the GEUS (Genesis Evolutionary Unique System), which is a next-generation system to achieve work efficiency of internal work and It operations. Due to the opening of GEUS, Shinhan Card came up with customized Material Issue Map Major Issues Reported in 2012 offers, and by providing them in a timely manner, we were able to improve sales capabilities and acquire a competitive advantage. We were able to integrate and manage the customer contact information Shinhan Card evaluated material issues to produce reports on areas of that was distributed through real-time distribution channels, thereby providing personalized customer interest for various internal and external stakeholders. The results of material satisfaction by minimizing the gap between the point of customer request and the point of service issues selected 5 Core issues, including ‘strengthening brand capabilities’, provision. and 5 other issues, including ‘supporting safe financial transactions’. In Business Impact 1 the 2012 CSR report, ‘strengthening brand capabilities’, ‘strengthening professional capabilities of employees’, and ‘providing customized products and services’ were selected as Core issues, while ‘supporting safe financial 36 Strengthen brand transactions’ were selected for other issues. capabilities 56 Provide customized 21 products and services Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: KRW 1 billion) Employees Employee salaries/ welfare benefits 303.1 96 Shareholders, Support safe financial investors Dividends 400 transactions 24 Local communities Social contribution investments 24.2 14 Strengthen Government Corporate tax expenses 217.3 15 professional 16 capabilities of employees Partner companies Purchase and services 135.1 7 Other general administrative Other issues Core issues Others expenses 309.8 Social Interests Shinhan Card <Sign Language Consultation Service> 56 57 ‘Chamshinhan Card’ has the meaning of bringing ‘genuine benefits’ to We provide a variety of differentiated mobile services that suit the Strengthening of Customer Protection Reporting Issues (9) Customer panel system customers. The biggest characteristic is that it allows a credit limit of changing lifestyles of customers especially for smart phones. Activities In order to satisfy different needs of customers by collecting more small amounts (KRW 100,000) to be used as credit cards. It is a card with strong benefits in refueling, shopping and eating out, which reflect the detailed opinions, starting from 2008, we operated the customer panel We strengthen customer protection activities that can provide lifestyles of office workers in their thirties. Shinhan Card will continue to system, which evaluates service quality and provide improvement ideas Smart Shinhan customer satisfaction. work towards increase the customer convenience by breaking down through diverse activities, including monitoring, meetings, and on-line Shinhan Card’s representative application ‘Smart Shinhan’ allows users Shinhan Card has been implementing various activities to protect the existing common knowledge and tearing down the boundaries of communities, by selecting 100 customers who use Shinhan Card and to receive the same level of services provided by the computer’s customer rights, including achieving complete sales where customers thinking. other company’s cards publicly. Also, when developing Shinhan Card’s homepage, including approxiamtely 90 menus on various searches, can make decisions on reasonable consumption and providing follownew products and services, we held interviews and reflected customer’s settlements, card and service applications, through their smart phones. up measures to after sales. In order to realize ‘customer satisfaction’ opinions to ensure the service quality met the customer’s satisfaction. through customer protection, we established a culture of customer ‘Smart Shinhan’ has established itself as the best application of a card CASE STUDY protection focusing on financial education, prior control and prompt company as of January 2013 with 3.13 million cases of accumulated Customer complaint improvement system Launch of the world’s first braille card response afterwards. Based on this, we completed the customer downloads and 650,000 visitors on the website per month. We received We operate a process of immediately improving on factors that cause protection system to strengthen execution and proactively manage recognition for its convenience and excellence by winning various Shinhan Card was thinking about developing card products for the socially the reputation. As a result of these customer protection policies, the inconvenience. Regarding complaints collected through VOC, wired awards, including the 3rd Smart Application Technology Innovation disadvantaged when it came to our consideration that the existing credit card number of complaints received through the internet decreased by and wireless lines, we analyze the reasons at the customer protection Award, the 2012 Korea Mobile Application Award for Financial Services, plates can be very uncomfortable for the visually disable. Based on Shinhan Card’s major cards, including Love and High Point Card, we attempted to develop braille more than 30% over the previous year, while we received positive center and relevant divisions are required to make improvements by the 3rd Korea Mobile Award for Best Application in Business Sector, and immediately giving feed backs. These improvements are discussed cards for the visually disabled. It has not been done by anyone in the world, but evalutaions in a private evaluation organized by the Financial the 2nd Mobile Brand Award for Best Mobile Application in Credit Card at the company-wide meeting and shared with all employees to as a market leader, we could not overlook the inconvenience of our customers. Supervisory Service. Sector. prevent customer inconvenience. As a result, we were able to improve Therefore, we worked with the Korea Blind Union to launch the braille card, which is optimized for customers with visual disabilities. Through prior surveys, We pay attention to VOC. customer satisfaction by improving a total of 110 factors of customer We increase premium services by expanding the platinum # card we checked factors that the visually disabled might have including: ‘cannot check inconvenience in 2012. line-ups. System of listening to VOC for all employees information like card number, etc.’ (57.9%), hereinafter multiple responses); ‘not Currently, the Korean premium card market mostly consists of the able to differentiate between many credit cards inside the wallet’ (42.1%). In order Shinhan Card’s listened and analyzed the Voice of Customer (VOC) to concept of providing limited services to a small group of special to resolve these problems, we developed a card plate where basic information identify the needs of our customers, which has become Shinhan Card’s customers. Shinhan Card escaped from this concept to expand the like product name, card number, expiry date and CVC can be inputted in braille. culture. The VOC collected through the Call Center can be listened to and premium services so that many customers can experience improved In addition, we provided product introduction booklet and bill statements in searched according to type, division and product, which is systemized services and benefits. Under this purpose, we released products of braille and voice files to minimize the inconvenience of using cards. In 2013, we and events are held to develop diverse ideas by providing differentiated ‘Platinum#’ in 2011. In order to actually expand the services, in 2012, we participated in the working group for developing standard braille printed financial products and services and listening to VOC for all employees on a day developed the RPM Card, which provides a wide variety of refueling card to contribute in facilitating braille cards by passing on our development know-how to domestic financial institutions. Meanwhile, we will continue to designated as ‘Day of Customer Protection’ once a month. services, and the Lesson Card, which strengthened services related to learning. Providing a wide variety of services to customers is Shinhan develop other products for the socially disadvantaged. Card’s new concept of premium services to give back for customer love. In 2013, we added the premium services to our major products, Shinhan Card <Ceremony for Customer Panel> including Cube and Simple, to expand the products of ‘Platinum#’ Card. System for strengthening customer protection activities We will continually conduct R&D to provide high-quality service and CS VISION Innovation of the system for protecting financial customers give a sense of pride to more customers. Realize customer satisfaction based We go beyond the boundaries of card. 3. Culture focusing on financial on sustainable growth 1. Prior control 2. Prompt response afterwards education and customers There is an increasing trend of check cards due to the government’s Completion of system Strengthening of Proactive promotional policies to use check cards, the tax incentives and the execution management of Control factors that infringe on Improve inappropriate factors Educate about financial • Complete related overall social atmosphere. However, in the case where there is a lack regulations • Review customer reputation customer profits beforehand that were found information • Establish CS manual related works • Strengthen risk of balance in the account, it is inconvenient to use the card, which • Develop CS talent • Utilize VOC management 1. Product/ service/ price -Implement customer-oriented -Education linked with local management • Promote 2. Incomplete sales, etc. monitoring authorities, social groups, universities, is why the increase of check card use is not that huge. In order to system Precheck on sales -Strengthen and improve customeretc. • Prevent damages on differentiated CS resolve such inconvenience and facilitate the use of check cards, customers • Internalize outside activities oriented works awards -Reflect customer protection from the Establish customer-oriented Shinhan Card released the Korea’s first hybrid card, which goes back stage of planning products and prices Respond promptly and prevent culture for all employees and forth between the boundaries of check cards and credit cards. The Shinhan Card <Braille Card for the Visually Impaired People> damages to customers -Implement a campaign of customerSystem for protecting financial customers -Newly install a warning system for oriented regulatory culture through customers recognition, participation and Implement customer-oriented ‘Compassionate CS’ -Automatic alarm system for internalization customer complaints 58 59 Creative Brand Management Reporting Issues (3) We contribute to the promotion of culture through the ‘Love’ Employee Satisfaction Management Reporting Issues (14) their own self development plan and take educational programs based Series. on this. The results of individual learning activities are managed in We lead the financial trend through smart consumption. As Korea’s leading card company, Shinhan Card is implementing the We strive to create a corporate culture of a great place to work. quantified indexes called the CDP development index. According to Besides the exterior matters, Shinhan Card was ranked as the ‘Love Series’, which is a cultural marketing brand for all customers Shinhan Card has implemented diverse programs for the emotional and individual wishes, employees can move to other divisions to further number one card company in brand value by achieving 1st place for across the nation and not just in the Seoul metropolitan area. The ‘Love physical healing of employees, including weekend journeys, Namsan develop themselves. second consecutive years in 2011 and 2012 for the National Brand Concert’, which is held by visiting large regional cities, including Busan, hiking trips and marathons. In order to provide break to employees We continually implement activities for finding and developing Competitiveness Index (NBCI). The brand power of Shinhan Card Daegu, Gwangju and Daejeon, we provided a place to experience who suffered from a heavy workload and a difficult work environment, talents. is difficult for anyone to copy because we have direct product and our brand for many customers in the nation, while also contributed to the employees personally held the healing concert to participate in service data coming from 22 million customers. Also, it can be seen as promoting culture. In particular, the Love Concert not only provided the orchestra in front of the other employees. On Wednesdays of each Shinhan Card is operating a variety of educational programs to develop the result of Shinhan Card’s change and innovation to be closer to our popular singer’s concerts, but also large brand zone was set up in the week, we designate it as the day of family and encourage employees to outstanding talents. We develop global minds through courses such as customers and society, including diverse cultural marketing stories and outdoor spaces to set up experience booths of major products and go home on time. Also, for the second consecutive years in 2011 and the overseas MBA application system and the programs for SHE-MBA, designs and differentiated CSR management. Likewise, Shinhan Card services, cafes, game events, and exhibitions of trendy products. It also 2012, we completed medical checkups for all employees to prevent while providing opportunities to learn the latest management trends. In has strived to further strengthen the brand image as the leading card provided an opportunity to experience Shinhan Card brand. Besides stress and find out their work stress, while also established the ESTC particular, Shinhan Card and Seoul National University jointly developed company that creates financial trends in customer’s smart consumption this, we implemented diverse events where customers can participate (Employee Stress Total Control) system to conduct imagery therapy to the marketing professional course where 20 participants are selected and leisure activities. and experience through the ‘Love Classic’, which is a high-quality classic employees in addition to the medical diagnosis and tests. each year. The marketing areas and major areas of interest within the program, the ‘Love Day’, which is a sports event of baseball and soccer, company are chosen as tasks for on-site learning, which received a high Achieved grand slams in major areas for employee satisfaction satisfaction level from internal employees in the process of seeking and ‘Love Square’, which provided space marketing in major landmark ‘National brand competitiveness index’ hosted areas, including CGV Shinhan Card Art Hall, Centum Shinhan Card Selected as outstanding Selected as the outstanding labor-management solutions. We will continue to develop employees by identifying and by the Korea Productivity Center labor-management company in 2012 hosted by the Ministry of Employment Cine Café and LG Art Center, Also, we sponsored festivals held in many company (2012) and Labor for the first time in the credit card company developing outstanding talents. Ranked 1st for the second consecutive years in credit card sector (August 2012) regions, including the Gwangju Biennale and the Busan International Received awards for GWP from outside institutions Received an award as the ‘Top 100 GWP’ based on the We operate an educational support system focusing on work sites. Film Festival. We will continually implement brand management by for fourth consecutive trust index surveys of internal employees We introduce a new concept of smartness to the market. showing more programs that provide diverse and actual cultural years (2009~2012) Shinhan Card is operating an educational support system focusing Shinhan Card used the data for analyzing consumption patterns of card benefits to more customers of Shinhan Card, including Picasso drawing Selected as 1st place in credit card and ranked 11th in on work sites mainly in the sales divisions. We adopted the account Certified from KMAC (2012) users that account for most of the economically active population in festival and classical music concerts. best 30 service area in the survey for the ‘2012 GWP’ system for different areas at the work site, including membership sales Korea to identify their needs in advance, thereby continually developing and consultation center, to support educational programs. In 2013, we differentiated products and services that meet their needs. Shinhan Cards are decorated with art. organized the education meeting consisting of persons in charge of We implement self-initiated career development. Card’s representative multi-seller card is ‘Love Card’. Of course, the Gallery S (artist card) is a service that makes card plates from a variety on-site education to establish and operate a regular support system. The career development program (CDP) for the career development customized point card ‘Hi-Point Card’ series also received the praise that of art works by new artists who dream of communicating with the Meanwhile, in order to effectively use major information related to of Shinhan Card was designed in 2011, which began its full operation it changed the paradigm of the card market. Besides this, the ‘S-More world through their art works. Altogether 5 new artists and art groups education, including educational materials and video footages, we are in 2012. CDP sets roadmaps for career development as employees aim Card’ gave interests for points, the ‘RPM Card PLATINUM#’ opened the took part and customers can choose from a total of 70 types of images. operating the educational information sharing channel’ to develop within the company. It is a self-initiated learning program limits of refueling benefits, which all proved Shinhan Card’s strong We are implementing the Compassionate Finance by encourage where employees can take educational programs needed for their selfproduct competitiveness. Also, based on the top IT capabilities and the development of new artists through the program for sponsoring development according to their career goals. The employees make big data analysis capabilities, the competitiveness of ‘cube’ and ‘combo’ Gallery S artists, while also meeting the cultural needs of customers by made services to be customized like smart phones where you could putting art works on cards instead of using the same designs. add and erase freely. Shinhan Card showed results in maximizing the convenience and benefits, which are seen as bringing a new concept of smartness as the leader in the industry. Meanwhile, the big data is outstanding in the recently popular mobile service. Shinhan Smart Wallet’, which is the industry’s first mobile electronic wallet, provided high-quality merchant information based on big data. Also, a huge volume of data, including the amount of card use, profession, visitors by gender and age, ratio of revisits, and ratio of use by day of the week and time, to maximize the convenience of customer’s daily life by providing functions like recommending good restaurants according to different themes. * Introducing the Cube Card and the Combo Service: ‘Cube’ is a new-concept customized product that provides basic discounts when customers select a maximum of 10 business types out of 9 types, while you Shinhan Card <Love Concert> Shinhan Card <Healing Music Concert> Shinhan Card <Compassionate Finance Academy> can get additional discounts on up to 2 items out of 9 items through the ‘Combo’ service 60 61 Shinhan Investment Corp. As the leader of the financial investment industry, Shinhan Strengthening of Capital Management Reporting Issues (1) Investment Corp. places top priority on its partnership role in We maintain an outstanding capital adequacy ratio despite the rapidly changing market successful investments in order to create values that our customers conditions. want and to design a better future for our customers. We strive Shinhan Investment Corp. maintains an outstanding net capital ratio (NCR) despite the global financial to provide a better tomorrow for our customers by offering crisis. The NCR system, which is a regulatory management of capital adequacy of financial investment abundant products and services via Shinhan Financial Group’s firms, ultimately aims to protect investors by promoting the financial soundness of financial investment extensive network, and evaluating our employees based on return firms amid rapidly changing market conditions. The financial regulatory authorities require financial on customer. We will do our best to become a partner in ‘making investment firms to maintain above a certain level of NCR as an indicator of financial soundness. a happier tomorrow ’ by always thinking about our customer’s success. We strengthen anticipatory measures to maintain financial soundness. Shinhan Investment Corp. established an early warning system to keep track of daily NCR and monitor Dae Seok Kang CEO of Shinhan Investment Corp. changes in the ratio according to different positions. We also set up anticipatory measures to maintain financial soundness, including the establishment of a preliminary monitoring system to maintain NCR Company Introduction above a certain level. Shinhan Investment Corp. was established in 2002 through the merger of Shinhan Securities and Goodmorning Securities. The company converted from a We disclose information on risk management. securities firm to a financial investment company with the introduction of the Financial Services Act in 2009, acquiring the current company name. Based on a strong corporate governance structure and financial stability, we have emerged as the leader in the financial investment industry by integrating advanced Shinhan Investment Corp. publicly discloses information on NCR and risk management every management techniques. We provide differentiated asset management services based on the industry’s leading sales capabilities in global equity and quarter. The disclosed information includes Shinhan Investment Corp.'s risk management principle, derivative products, in-depth research skills, stable product management strategies and advanced management techniques. organization, system and current status according to different risk types (market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk, etc.). The disclosure helps customers to check the company’s risk management ability and capital adequacy. Material Issue Map Major Issues Reported in 2012 Shinhan Investment Corp. conducted material issue evaluation to produce reports on areas of interest for various internal and external stakeholders. As material issue evaluation results, we selected 5 Core issues, including ‘acquiring customer’s trust on Shinhan brand’, and 5 other issues, including Business Impact 1 * Preliminary monitoring of daily results of NCR ‘developing products and services to increase social values’. The 2012 CSR Acquire customer’s trust on Shinhan Report covered various issues, including ‘acquiring customer’s trust on brand Shinhan brand’, ‘supporting safe financial transactions’ and ‘strengthening the professional capabilities of employee’s as Core issues, while ‘developing 21 96 products and services to increase social values’ was selected as other issues. Support safe financial transactions Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: KRW 1 billion) 24 Employees Employee salaries/ welfare benefits 222.5 14 6 Shareholders, 6 Strengthening investors Dividends 20 professional 76 capabilities of Develop products and employees Local communities Social contribution investments 2.1 services to improve 15 social values Government Corporate tax expenses 15.2 16 Partner companies Purchase and services 14.5 Other general administrative 13 Other issues Core issues Others expenses 112.7 Social Interests Shinhan Investment Corp. <Performance Evaluation Ceremony> 62 63 Protection of Financial Customers Reporting Issues (9) setting a standard for financial contracts. In order to improve the Developing Products and Services Reporting Issues (7) employees’ awareness of compliance and ethical management, we that Brings Satisfaction The regulations for protecting financial customers have been operate a monthly self-review program on ethics and compliance. We strengthened. We dream of noblesse oblige in finance. also established an independent investor protection center to resolve Following the global financial crisis of 2008 triggered by the US the financial investors’ complaints on financial products actively and Shinhan Investment Corp. launched the ‘Shinhan Wrap Donation’, the subprime mortgage crisis and anti-Wall Street demonstrations held efficiently. Aiming for zero complaints on funds, a fund recall system first donor-advised model in Korea, together with the Ministry of Health out of animosity towards greedy financial capitals, financially advanced was introduced which returns the principal and commission fee if and Welfare and Community Chest of Korea on June 28, 2012 (MOU countries such as the US and Great Britain have strengthened consumer a fund product was sold improperly. Our efforts to protect financial signed on April 6, 2012). The donor-advised wrap product is a charitable financial protection by setting up an independent consumer protection customers bore fruit. Shinhan Investment Corp. received an ‘outstanding’ giving vehicle administered by a public corporation (Community Chest entity. Korea has applied the same regulation on selling financial evaluation in the Mystery Shopping survey on funds conducted by of Korea) and created for the purpose of managing charitable donations products with same functions to protect financial customers. A system the Financial Supervisory Service in 2011, and the highest ‘satisfactory’ on behalf of an organization, family, or individual. that suspends lawsuits in case of financial conflicts has been adopted, grade in the results of the first mystery shopping survey carried out on leading to the establishment of the Consumer Financial Protection Act ELS in 2012. In a donor-advised model, the donor only advises the sponsoring organization where the money should go. It is a product that ensures Shinhan Investment Corp. <MoU Signing Ceremony for Donor Advised Fund> to strengthen remedial procedures for financial customers. We protect our customers and grow together by evaluating efficient donation by integrating the know-how of Shinhan Investment * April 19, 2013: The Consumer Financial Protection Act is currently under review at the National Assembly. employees based on return on customer. Corp.'s operation and the Community Chest of Korea’s distribution Shinhan Investment Corp. has implemented diverse policies to establish network. Since it was launched at the end of June 2012, a total of First Prize Winner in Financial Investment Category at 2012 Korea Consumer Financial Protection Award a customer-oriented culture, keeping in mind that the most important ten donors have donated approximately KRW 500 million through customer need is return on customer (ROC). We adopted a system to the Donation Lab. We have completed the donation to the place evaluate employees based on ROC, which is reflected in employee designated by the donors, including the elderly, children, youth, and We protect financial customers by complying with laws and regulations related to finance. performance evaluation at the end of each year. If an employee fails to scholarship (as of April 19, 2013). We will continue to hold diverse events meet the ROC standard, he or she may be disqualified as candidates for together with the Community Chest of Korea to efficiently improve Since 2011, Shinhan Investment Corp. has implemented various the Shinhan Meister Club, which selects only the best sales employees our work process and to further promote the warm-hearted donation activities through the ‘Compliance & Ethics’ website. Such activities of Shinhan Investment Corp. We will strive to become a company that culture. include providing compliance education, introducing the latest laws, protects our customers and grows together with them. No.1 in the securities category of Korean Standard Service precedents and financial systems, giving legal and tax advice, and Quality Index Professionals of Finance Reporting Issues (14) Shinhan Investment Corp. <Orientation Training for New Employees> Shinhan Investment Corp. has an employee training system that strengthens the professional capabilities of all employees. We offer diverse programs to nurture financial experts, improve the capabilities of front office employees who serve customers directly, and strengthen on-the-job skills to put new employees on duty as quickly as possible. Employee Training Programs Cultivate top-quality professionalism and Program to develop professional professional awareness employees Reflect on-site experience Provide training for executives and VIP Shinhan Investment Corp. <Compliance & Ethics Website> Shinhan Investment Corp. <Return on Customer Reflected in Employee Evaluation> Program to strengthen the managers capabilities of team leaders Provide training for promoted employees Strengthen the sales capabilities of new employees Shinhan Investment Corp. <Training for Bond Professionals> Program to strengthen on-the-job skills to put new Provide practical training employees on duty quickly Strengthen the mentoring system Program to strengthen work abilities of the Customer Develop professionals in applicable duties Support Team 64 65 Shinhan Life Insurance Shinhan Life Insurance declared ‘Compassionate Insurance’ to The Strategy of Specialization for CSR Management Reporting Issues (7) make the world a better place through the true value of insurance Received the 2012 Korea Customer by implementing customer satisfaction management that puts We operate a theme-type social contribution program. Satisfaction Management Award selected by the Korea Sustainability customer values as the top priority. In order to ensure an abundant Based on Shinhan Life’s basic spirit that only the company that is considerate of customers and society Management Evaluation can maintain continuous growth, we are implementing the corporate social responsibility (CSR) life for customers, we provide high-quality services and the best management by selecting themes by quarter. In the 1st quarter, we selected ‘volunteer activities on insurance products based on the total financial network, while also the anniversary of foundation’ as the theme to donate blood, provide free lunch to senior citizens faithfully fulfilling our social responsibilities by contributing to the who live alone, donate cakes of love and donate charity money raised to help pediatric cancer and neglected neighbors through ‘sharing and shared development’. We leukemia patients. In the 2nd quarter, the theme was ‘Shinhan Financial Group’s Volunteer Festival’ will strive to become the most trusted company for our customers where the affiliate’s employees implemented the group’s philosophy to fulfill social contribution by by always thinking from the customer’s perspective to realize their participating in diverse volunteer activity programs, including cultural heritage protection activity, dreams and happiness. harmful plant removal activities, tree planting and vegetable garden box sharing. In the 3rd quarter, Sung Rack Lee CEO of Shinhan Life Insurance the theme was ‘Shinhan Life’s 1004 Day’, which implemented a nation-wide relay volunteer activity and street campaign, as well as held the social contribution photo exhibition and the donation signing Company Introduction ceremony. The nation-wide relay volunteer activity started with the volunteer activity of giving free lunch of love in the Seoul region, participated by approximately 400 employees from October to Shinhan Life Insurance, which was established in March 1990, has continuously achieved stable growth based on Shinhan Financial Group’s total financial November of each year. The theme for the 4th quarter was ‘helping financially marginalized neighbors’, network by being incorporated as Shinhan Financial Group’s affiliate in December 2005. We provide a variety of products and services that meet customer which shared kimchi and briquette, supported quilt with cotton to senior citizens living alone, gave needs through diversified sales channels, including face to face channel, telemarketing through the TCM channel, agency marketing and bancassurance lunch to poorly-fed children and provided scholarship to youngsters. channel. Also, we successfully operated the SOHO channel, which is a trusting supporter for independent businessmen, and the on-line direct application channel to increase the accessibility convenience for customers. In addition, we are working towards becoming a new leader in the life insurance industry by We released insurance products for the socially disadvantaged. implementing the ‘Compassionate Insurance’ to make the world a better place through the true value of insurance and by conducting quality management Shinhan Life Insurance newly developed the ‘Shinhan Hope and Love Insurance’, which is a small through customer-oriented sales with zero defects. amount of insurance to support the low-income class who have difficulty in receiving insurance benefits. It provides coverage on risks through the contribution from dormant insurances, including various diseases and disasters and fatal accidents. Also, we provide discount benefits on premiums for Material Issue Map Major Issues Reported in 2012 multi-child families, the disabled and low-income class. In particular, the preferential special support Shinhan Life conducted a material issue evaluation to produce reports on provided for the disabled was chosen as the best practice of developing public interest products. areas of interest for various internal and external stakeholders. As material In order to create a warm-hearted world of living together with the financially marginalized citizens issue evaluation results, we selected 5 Core issues, including ‘developing neighbors, Shinhan Life Insurance is striving to implement the sharing of love and to strengthen the products and services to increase social values’, and 5 other issues, including insurance capabilities. Business Impact ‘supporting safe financial transactions’. The 2012 CSR Report covered 16 various issues, including ‘acquiring customer’s trust on Shinhan brand’, Acquire customer’s 56 trust on Shinhan ‘developing products and services to increase social values’ and ‘providing Provide customerbrand oriented products customer-oriented products and services’, while ‘supporting safe financial and services transactions’ and ‘giving fair performance evaluation and compensation for employee’s were selected as other issues. Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: KRW 1 billion) 24 21 6 Employees Employee salaries/ welfare benefits 130.5 Shareholders, investors Dividends 65 96 Support safe financial 76 Local communities Social contribution investments 18.3 Develop products transactions and services to 10 6 improve social Government Corporate tax expenses 55.3 Manage a fair values 16 performance evaluation and compensation for Partner companies Purchase and services 29.6 employees Other general administrative 15 Other issues Core issues Others expenses 148.6 Social Interests Shinhan Life <Relay Volunteer Works on 1004 Day> 66 67 Customer-Oriented Financial Service Reporting Issues (5) benfits decreases. As a result, subscribers can make financial planning Acquiring Asset Quality Reporting Issues (1) by the review sector consisting of professional examiners under that guarantees safe and abundant old age security. We developed the Loan Division. We plan to systematically review individual credit We operate the smart channel for customer convenience. products based on a customer-oriented spirit while faithfully carrying We strengthen our response to domestic and foreign loans through the Credit Scoring System (CSS) for individuals, which Shinhan Life is operating the smart channel where customers can out insurance business so that customers can be ensured to their environmental changes. is expected to complete development by October 2013. In line with conveniently receive insurance services through mobile phones fullest benefit whether it is through the life insurance or the pension Insurance has the characteristic of a long-term contract because it this, Shinhan Life will safely conduct financial transactions needed for anywhere all year round without having to visit in person. We improve insurance. receives insurance premiums from customers and pays the promised consumers through professional organizations and systems. customer convenience through the smart channel, provide quick insurance money to customers when unexpected accidents occur liquidity to customers through the service of paying the insurance in the future. Therefore, the insurance paying ability of insurance loan, installment of insurance benefits, withdrawal benefits, sleeping companies is considered as an important factor, such as having Shinhan Life received the highest grade in insurance financial insurance, cancellation refund, dividend and maturity proceed, adequate equity capital by systematically and quantitatively identifying strength rating for fifth consecutive years. as well as repaying the principal and interest and paying for the various risks that the insurance company might have. In 2012, Shinhan Life acquired the highest grade of ‘AAA’ in the insurance premium. The smart channel was developed to remove any insurance industry for insurance financial strength rating from the Korea Shinhan Life developed a plan to strengthen the company-wide inconvenience arising from waiting in line at the counter by looking Investors Service, which is an affiliate of Moodys. management by recognizing low-interest risks as the top priority from the customer’s point of view. It was developed on a safe system risk factor under the rapidly changing environment. Also, in order to Since 2008, Shinhan Life received recognition for its management that prevents financial accidents and protects customer’s contract proactively respond to the systematic changes, including the decrease stability in the industry by acquiring the ‘AAA’ grade annually. Also, we and personal information under heavy security to provide customer of deferred limit of new contract money and the amendment of received AAA by the Korea Ratings. convenience. Therefore, it is a system that responds to the customer’s the risk-based capital system (RBC system), we established the Risk needs by striving to ensure both customer convenience and customer The Korea Investors Service and the Korea Ratings made evaluations Management Headquarters to strengthen the risk management safety. by taking consideration of the major evaluation indicators, including capabilities and acquire the organizational professionalism. Shinhan Life <Operating Mobile Smart Channel> market status (marketability), profit-generation ability (profitability) We minimize customer burdens through a direct sales channel. and capital adequacy (stability), in the areas of insurance sales, asset Shinhan Life developed a direct sales channel so that customers Acquired the highest grade of AAA in the 2012 insurance financial management and capital adequacy. can submit on-line applications directly without any help from life strength rating evaluated by the Korea Investors Service and hosted by the Korea Ratings In the case of insurance sales, the premium income came evenly from planners, which guaranteed minimum insurance premiums for different types of insurances, including survival insurance, life insurance customers. Through the direct sales channel developed by Shinhan We secure stability by focusing on managing core assets. and mixed insurance, while high evaluations were made on achieving Life, customers were given the opportunity to join pension savings In 2008, despite the global financial crisis that was started by the U.S. a balance between various sales channels, including FC, TCM, AM and insurance, children’s insurance, cancer insurance and term life insurance subprime mortgage crisis, we achieved the industry’s highest level of bancassurance. In the case of asset management, we established a in a short period of time at minimum costs because of a zero payment profits for asset management by focusing on managing core assets. As long-term stable portfolio based on strict risk management to greatly made to life planners. Shinhan Life has made continuous efforts to of the end of 2012, we are managing assets that are government and exceed the industry average of 4.9% to achieve the ratio of return on provide the opportunity to enjoy reasonable insurance services at public bonds, bank debentures and commercial bank deposits with invested assets at 5.8% as of the 3rd quarter of the fiscal year 2012. minimum cost and time from the customer’s point of view. Therefore, above 60% of them having above AA credit ratings on average. We also the development of direct sales channel is the product of these efforts In line with this, despite the strengthening of capital adequacy by work on securing stability by managing other loans mostly including made. Shinhan Life <Release of Shinhan Smart Internet Insurance> the supervisory authorities, Shinhan Life maintained an outstanding contract, collateralized household and corporate loans within the scope solvency margin ratio without acquiring supplementary capital. We We develop customer-oriented products. of return of reserve refunds stipulated in the insurance contract. continuously maintained outstanding financial stability because of the Shinhan Life ensures customer’s financial planning by developing high ratio of safe assets among the assets being managed, including We operate a professional review organization. customer-oriented insurance that can satisfy customers. We released cash, deposit, government and public bond and special bond. In order to safely manage the continuity of uncertainties internally and the ‘Shinhan Big Life Insurance’, which is a hybrid insurance that externally and the credit risks that arise from them, Shinhan Life went combined the function of the life insurance that ensures protection As of the end of December 2012, Shinhan Life is maintaining the through reorganization to newly establish the ‘Asset Management against diseases and death for customers as well as the function of the industry’s highest level of capital adequacy at 287.7% for solvency RM Division’, which is an independent review sector under the pension insurance that ensures abundant old age security. If you join margin ratio according to RBC standard. We will continue to maintain Management and Strategy Division that was set up in January the ‘Shinhan Big Life Insurance’, customers can change their insurance outstanding solvency margin ratio through systematic risk management 2013. As a professional division that refer to the Asset Management to pensions after a certain period of time. Therefore, subscribers and continuous accumulation of profits. Committee, the Asset Management RM Division will be ensured of its can receive the death benefits if they pass away before changing to independence on reviews made on core assets by strictly examining a pension, while they can change to a pension during the period the corporate loans of high amounts and the credit risks of corporate when the need for old age security increases and the need for death Shinhan Life <Release of Shinhan Big Life Insurance> bonds. Meanwhile, the individual loans of small amounts are managed 68 69 Strengthening of Customer Protection Reporting Issues (9) We improve our customer’s service quality. We create ‘a great workplace for females’ to ensure equal We implement various programs for employee satisfaction, including employment. the children’s camp for preschool age children together with our Shinhan Life Insurance is implementing ‘quality innovation’ and ‘zero We received recognition for the excellence of our advanced In order to expand the vision of office workers who are mostly women employees and their families, the children’s camp for elementary school customer protection system. defect sales’ throughout the whole process from the initial sales to the contract management by establishing the sales culture focusing on the and strengthen their compensation, we newly established a system age children and the weekend experience program. Also, we operate In November 2012, Shinhan Life Insurance represented the insurance process instead of the result. In January 2013, we adopted a customer where office workers can become professionals. As a result, 44 female a consultation system together with a research institute affiliated to industry to present its best practices at an event of ‘Financial Customer quality index system consisting of 5 categories, including incomplete employees and 29 female employees in 2012 and 2013, respectively, university to get rid of stress that cannot be resolved easily, while also Protection Presentation’ organized by the Financial Supervisory Service sales ratio, number of customer complaints from the outside, ratio of were promoted as professionals. implementing the U & Me Shinhan, which is an emotional program, (FSS). It was a venue where companies with outstanding customer converted p calculation, ratio of happy call acceptance and Q & As. The to communicate with the employees and life planners at different Also, the employees subject to promotion were expanded from protection systems were selected to announce their best practices evaluation results by index were reflected in the performance of sales divisions and branches. In line with these systematic efforts made, we the duties taking place at sales offices to other key areas, including among the companies above grade 2 in the evaluation of customer managers (20%) so that there is voluntary quality innovation on the site. also pay attention to the smallest areas concerning our employees by planning, marketing and talent development. complaints by the FSS on the overall financial industry, including banks, Also, the monthly results of evaluation were shared with the CEO and sending hand written letters of encouragement to employees working credit card companies, life insurance companies and investment other employees to promote ‘customer quality management’ as one Through personnel transfers without discrimination on gender, birth in remote regions, sending letters from the CEO to employees and their companies. Shinhan Life Insurance had the honor of making the of the corporate cultures. The outstanding headquarters and branches and academic background, we expanded the individual visions of families in case of reappointment, giving gifts to employee’s children presentation together with the banking sector’s presenter, Gwangju that were selected based on quarterly results of evaluation received female employees, as well as conducted career development programs who are entering into elementary schools, encouraging employee’s Bank. Shinhan Life Insurance introduced their performances, strategies awards, while those that lagged behind received penalties to apply the for female employees who were promoted so that they can become children who are preparing for university entrance examination, and and best practices on implementing customer protection, including principle of punishment and reward based on the evaluation results. managers without gender discrimination. sending gifts to employees who are giving child birth. establishing a customer protection management system, focusing Shinhan Life Insurance will continue to give clear motivations on quality In line with this, we increased the employment of disabled women as Ratio of female employment for all professions on improving the system and management to reduce customer management and implement the customer quality index by reflecting complaints, and making efforts to improve the awareness of CEO part of the Compassionate Insurance to be considerate of the socially ■Shinhan Life ■ Average of comparison group the CEO’s strong commitment. leadership for implementing the Compassionate Insurance. They disadvantaged. In particular, in December 2012, we established a 54.36 51.46 53.59 are best practices that received actual recognition on Shinhan Life nail art center inside the company by hiring two female nail artists 43.28 44.77 Insurance’s customer protection system through financial supervisory with disabilities. As a result, it greatly contributed to enhancing the institutions and financial institutions. satisfaction of our female employees. We newly established an organization exclusively for customer We operate an emotional system to achieve a work-life balance. 21.82 protection. Shinhan Life is operating a variety of systems to achieve a work-life In order to make anticipatory response to the paradigm to strengthen balance, which improves the life values of employees and enhances the the management supervisory policies for customer protection, work efficiencies through refreshing. Shinhan Life Insurance reorganized the organization to newly 2010 2011 2012 establish a customer satisfaction center underneath the existing CS *Please refer to “affirmative action (AA-net)” of the Ministry of Employment and Labor. Implementation Division as the ‘customer protection division’. The All employees changed to permanent positions customer protection division is divided into the planning support As-Is To-Be part and the private support part. The planning support part carries out the duties of achieving healthy growth through managing quality Shinhan Life <Invitational Meeting with Customer Panels> Temporary positions SO Office work position Change to SO New hiring in SO Office work position indexes, strengthening the management of incomplete sales ratio, and establishing strategies to achieve the indexes for managing 3rd year in A1 3rd year in A1 customer complaints from the outside. The private support part Job Stability and Employment Equality Reporting Issues (10) More than 3 years in SO 3rd year in SO leads in improving on-site sales focuses and protecting customer’s 2nd year in A1 2nd year in A1 rights through an exclusive channel system by actively responding to We are active in ensuring job stability by ‘changing employees of temporary positions to permanent positions. 2nd year in SO 1st year in A1 2nd year in SO 2nd year in SO 1st year in A1 internal and external customer complaints. Furthermore, the customer As of January 2013, we changed nearly 220 employees in temporary 1st year in SO 1st year in SO protection division will act as a driving force in protecting customer’s 2nd year in temporary 1st year in SO positions to permanent positions regardless of their rank and class positions Given the opportunity to change to office All temporary employees Given the opportunity rights, realizing customer-oriented systems, and establishing sales work position after 1 year in SO so that they can challenge their dreams. In addition, we proactively changed to SO (January to change to office work culture of Jeongdo (right path). 1st year in temporary 2013) position after 1 year in SO realized social values by protecting the minority to provide equal positions (joining the company for the first opportunities without discrimination, along with job stability by giving time) clear visions to develop them into professionals. Given the opportunity to change to SO after * SO : Support Officer 2 years of working in temporary positions * A1 : Assistant 1 70 71 Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management attempted to make endless Differentiated Operation through Global Network Reporting Issues (6) challenges and changes by thinking of developing our customer’s Received the 2012 Triple A Investment Award asset values as the top priority. In order to take a step forward in We provide a variety of investment solutions based on professionalism for our customers. as Korea’s Best Asset Management Company Since the merger with BNP Paribas in 2002, Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management developed into by Hong Kong’s The Asset. developing the domestic investment market to become Korea’s Korea’s representative asset management company with accumulated funds of KRW 36 trillion in its representative asset management company, we will work towards 11th year. In particular, BNP Paribas is a partner that pursues common strategic goals instead of simply becoming the best asset management company that fulfills its social making investment as a shareholder and shares its advanced management process with us. We are responsibilities that can be trusted by customers. Based on the carrying out our duties at the same position as global partners located across the world, including people’s love, we will strive to fulfill our role as a partner in the future management, research, product development and asset allocation. Compared to other foreign dream that brings hope to all stakeholders, including customers. management companies, it has an advanced understanding of the Korean market and customers, while also having the advantage of seeking global research and investment opportunities unlike domestic management companies. Based on these advantages, we are working on meeting the Yong Byeong Cho CEO of Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management demands of our investors by providing high-quality services to customers through safe and strict management of risks and products. Company Introduction Moreover, Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management will strive to transfer into a ‘Professional Service Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management is meeting customer’s expectations based on its safe operations, strict risk management and diverse products and Firm’ that plays the role of providing information on the latest trends of capital markets to investors, services. We focus on Shinhan Financial Group’s customer-oriented culture and BNP Paribas Group’s global perspectives to provide customer-oriented services as well as providing creative solutions that include giving advice on the investment as a whole to of investment training and customized information. Under the promise of becoming Korea’s top asset management company, Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset individual investors who joined fund products and distributors who manage customers. Management established the vision of the ‘Asset Management Company in Korea’. All employees are doing their best to become a long-term investment partner that provides diverse investment solutions based on the professionalism for customers. Long-Term Customer Management Reporting Issues (13) We strive to narrow the distance with our customers by listening to the voices at work sites and the voices of customers as our top priority. Material Issue Map Major Issues Reported in 2012 Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management is working on narrowing the distance with customers by Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management evaluated material issues to listening to the voices of customers as its top priority. We provide the same level of professionalism as produce reports on areas of interest for various internal and external fund managers to the sales division that is in charge of listening to the voices of customers so that they stakeholders. As material issue evaluation results, we selected 5 Core issues, can provide a better understanding about the company’s products and come up with appropriate including ‘efforts made to secure competitiveness in the financial industry’, measures by properly understanding the voices of customers. The voices of customers are the Business Impact and 5 other issues, including ‘evaluating the performance of boards of factor that is taken into consideration as the top priority when developing new products. Therefore, 6 directors fairly’. The 2012 CSR Report covered various issues, including ‘efforts we strengthen the product development ability by focusing on work sites based on the strategic Efforts made to secure competitiveness in the made to secure competitiveness in the financial industry’ and ‘efforts made decisions made by incorporating the latest trends of the capital market and the voices of customers. financial industry 21 to improve customer satisfaction’ being selected as Core issues. Also, in order to strengthen the communication with customers in the field, we held the children’s economic and arts camp each year. Since its start in 2009, a total of 3,500 participants participated in the children’s economic and arts education program. 13 6 Efforts made to Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: KRW 1 billion) In 2013, we are preparing to hold the economic education program for the socially neglected to improve customer satisfaction Employees Employee salaries/ welfare benefits 24.8 promote the Compassionate Finance to across society. Also, we are actively carrying out volunteer 23 Shareholders, works on a regular basis, including providing meals for the elderly and the homeless people, which are 24 investors Dividends 31.1 implemented by internal employees as part of our social contribution efforts. 20 22 Local communities Social contribution investments 2 15 19 1 Government Corporate tax expenses 10.1 Partner companies Purchase and services 22.6 Other general administrative Other issues Core issues Others expenses 38.6 Social Interests 72 73 Shinhan Capital As the leader in the credit financial services, Shinhan Capital has provided competitive financial products to our customers based on Innovative activities through continuous improvements Reporting Issues (2) Shinhan Financial Group’s diverse sales channels and integrated risk We provide an easier approach to financial services. management. We will take all measures to become an integrated Shinhan Capital provides a variety of financial services especially for small and medium-sized credit financial service provider that grows together with our enterprises by actively implementing various relevant businesses through Shinhan Financial Group’s customers to be trusted by them. network. In particular, we newly established a finance center for small and medium-sized enterprises in Yeouido to provide fast and convenient financial services by expanding the contact points for small and medium-sized enterprises located in Seoul, Incheon and Gyeonggi western regions. Also, we are implementing the next-generation IT system by providing consulting on information strategy planning. As a result, we are able to comprehensively manage customer information, as well as provide customized services to the applicable companies. In line with this, we plan to strengthen Young Sup Hwang CEO of Shinhan Capital the web accessibility by reorganizing the company’s homepage. Company Introduction Meanwhile, in order to facilitate automobile financing where most of the customers are small and medium-sized enterprises and independent business owners, we increased the team in charge of Shinhan Capital provides lease and installment financial products needed for mostly small and medium-sized enterprises with highly versatile facilities, relevant duties from one to two teams, while also worked on increasing an excellent workforce by including shipbuilding, printer, automobile and medical equipment. Also, we engage in diverse corporate financial duties, including new technology hiring new employees and reassigning the existing employee’s positions. financing (venture investment), corporate restructuring, real estate project financing and factoring. In line with this, we also actively implement retail finance duties, including auto financing, loan for middle payment on residential facilities, loan for rental fee and loan for business financing, to secure a stable asset portfolio. Balance Between Work and Personal Life Reporting Issues (10) We create a comfortable and warm workplace. Shinhan Capital changed the office space layout so that the office space per employee is larger than before to generate higher productivity in a pleasant working space, and also changed all of the office furniture. We established the ‘Book Café’ within the company so that it can be used as a Material Issue Map Major Issues Reported in 2012 communication and resting space for employees and meet visitors in a comfortable atmosphere. Shinhan Capital evaluated material issues to produce reports on areas of interest for various internal and external stakeholders. The results of material We protect the motherhood of female employees. issues selected 5 Core issues, including ‘compensating and managing the We improved the vacation policy for employees by implementing the activities of the task force fair performance evaluation for employees’, and 5 other issues, including team to create a proud workplace. The maternity leave for spouses and the vacation to receive Business Impact ‘efforts made to secure competitiveness in the financial industry’. In the medical examination on the fetus are implemented to ease the burden on pregnant employees. 2012 CSR report, ‘compensating and managing the fair performance We introduced the half-day off system to efficiently use annual leaves. Also, in the case of employees 26 evaluation for employees’ and ‘improving management profits through who were not able to use welfare vacations due to concerns raised from taking day off, we supported Improve management profits through continuous innovative activities’ were selected as Core issues. expenses for accommodations during vacations to ensure there is a balance between work and continuous innovative activities 1 personal life. 21 Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: KRW 1 billion) Employees Employee salaries/ welfare benefits 14.4 10 6 Shareholders, 23 Compensate and manage investors Dividends 0.5 15 the fair performance evaluation 6 for employees Local communities Social contribution investments 1.3 Government Corporate tax expenses -1.3 24 Partner companies Purchase and services 2.3 20 16 Other general administrative Other issues Core issues Others expenses 6.2 Social Interests Shinhan Capital <Opening of Yeouido Finance Center> 74 75 Jeju Bank Jeju Bank has emerged as a financial partner that fulfills its responsibilities for local communities by establishing a regional Developing Social Enterprises in Jeju Reporting Issues (7) financial system. Through the management that is focused on We led the sharing culture as the partner of social enterprises. the Jeju region, we led in creating customer values and providing In August 2011, Jeju Bank participated in the inauguration of a pro-bono group that was implemented financial supports based on in-depth understanding about regional by the jeju Special Self-Governing Province, providing support on areas that need professional characteristics. We have become a representative bank in local assistance in areas, including accounting, management and marketing, by signing sisterhood communities through genuine social contribution activities in a relationships with social enterprises in the province. In order to take the lead in establishing a support variety of fields. system between the private sector and social enterprises, we visited sites of social enterprises that signed the sisterhood relationship to provide customized management consulting, while also supporting promotional activities through diverse channels by purchasing various industrial goods to provide high-quality products. In particular, regarding the interior and exterior cleaning and Chang Ki Heo CEO of Jeju Bank quarantine of head office, we first outsourced the work to social enterprises to help create jobs at social enterprises. In February 2012, we signed sisterhood relationship with Jeju’s research institute for social enterprise management to seek implementation plans for developing local economies and facilitating Company Introduction social enterprises, while also strengthened joint activities. Recently, we held the visiting explanatory In 1969, Jeju Bank was established with the passion of the Jeju residents to establish a regional bank solely on private capital. During the past 44 years, Jeju sessions for social enterprises by employees of the head office, thereby contributing to spreading the Bank has endured the joys and sorrow of Jeju residents to overcome difficulties and achieve growth. Based on the Jeju region’s largest sales network, we good consumption culture and creating a consensus on social enterprises in the province. We will strengthened our position as the financial symbol of the Jeju region by integrating systematic and scientific management systems to achieve the goal as the continue to expand the sharing culture as a partner of social enterprises by also holding educational ‘Local Top Bank’. Also, we did not forget that we are a regional bank deeply rooted in the region as the only listed company in the Jeju region, while making support programs, including expanding opportunities for management consulting on social endless innovations to communicate with local residents and achieve a Win-Win management. Along with Jeju’s future, we will develop into a strong financial enterprises in the province and holding promotional activities and friendly educational services for partner with the lives of local people. social enterprises. Expanding Communication with Local Communities Reporting Issues (15) Received the Award of Minister of Security Material Issue Map Major Issues Reported in 2012 We will draw Jeju’s future together with the institutions of local communities. and Public Administration at the 2012 Korea Jeju Bank evaluated material issues to produce reports on areas of interest Jeju Bank has provided a place of communication to develop local communities by signing sisterhood Best Volunteer Award for various internal and external stakeholders. The results of material issues relationship with diverse institutions in the social welfare areas in the province. By signing with the selected 5 Core issues, including ‘efforts made to promote the awareness of administrative institutions, including local authorities, the Jeju Office District of Education, National shared development with partner companies’, and 5 other issues, including Police Agency and volunteer centers, participated in various public interest campaigns and made Business Impact 21 efforts to increase volunteer works. In 2007, we signed a social contribution agreement with the ‘developing products and services to increase social values’. In the 2012 CSR report, ‘efforts made to promote the awareness of shared development Korean Red Cross of Jeju Special Self-Governing Province to implement various activities, including the with partner companies’ was selected as Core issues, while ‘developing relief activities for victims, the support for socially disadvantaged and the campaign of donating blood. products and services to increase social values’ was selected as other issues. We have shown our love for the neighbors by becoming a partner in supporting KRW 120 million 24 to the vulnerable citizens. Also, we have carried out other activities to help the poor adolescents and 16 neighbors by signing with the Child Fund of the Jeju Office and the Korean National Council on Social Welfare of the Jeju Special Self-Governing Province, including helping the children of families without Distribution of Economic Value (Unit: KRW 1 billion) parents and providing meals to the elderly living alone. 15 Efforts made to spared Employees Employee salaries/ welfare benefits 29.9 3 the awareness of shared development to partner Shareholders, companies investors Dividends 1.1 1 Local communities Social contribution investments 1.8 76 6 Government Corporate tax expenses 8.9 23 Develop products and services for increasing social values Partner companies Purchase and services 3.7 20 Other general administrative Other issues Core issues Others expenses 17.8 Social Interests Jeju Bank <2012 National Volunteer Contest> 76 77 Stakeholder Communication Shinhan Financial Group is realizing CSR management by working together with the stakeholders in various fields, including customers, shareholders, investors and local communities. Based on the stakeholder participation system established in 2009, we widened the scope of understanding and participation by listening to the voices of stakeholders through debates and seminars. Based on this, we implemented a transparent management activity. Division of stakeholder Communication channel Communication method Employee survey Employee session Confirm the reputation and values of SFG among employees Shinhan In (company monthly magazine) Monitor internal satisfaction of employees Employees Labor-Management Meeting Measure changes in the employees’ awareness caused by external effects Intranet Evaluate employees’ awareness on sustainability Communication website WAF Internal broadcasting Customer satisfaction center Evaluate customer’s awareness and expectations on products and services Customer satisfaction survey Evaluate the company’s brand recognition Homepage Customers Evaluate SFG’s reputation and values among customers Customer evaluation group Create opportunities for dialogue to understand the customers SNS (Facebook, twitter) Smartphone application General meeting of shareholders Investment explanatory sessions Participate in strategic decision-making process Business reports Shareholders and investors Participate in collecting opinions in the process of developing businesses and markets Homepage Annual report Conference call Local community contribution activities Local community sessions Evaluate SFG’s reputation and values in local communities Local communities Social contribution satisfaction survey Evaluate SFG’s sustainability and improve the awareness related thereto Sports sponsorship Conduct social verification of SFG’s business activities Evaluate SFG’s sustainability from the outside perspective Press releases Government, academia Derive potential risk factors and future order of priorities related to SFG’s activities Academic support activities Share the awareness of citizen groups and media representatives through online communication methods Regular sessions Evaluate the impacts of partner relationship with SFG Partner companies Partner company’s workshop Evaluate SFG’s reputation and values among partner companies CSR management support Create opportunities for dialogue based on SFG’s mutual cooperation and understanding Sustainable Governance Stakeholder communication Governance structure Ethical management Risk management 79 Governance Structure Hoon Namgoong Chairman of Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation, member of Monetary Policy Committee, Chairman meeting, the enactment and amendment of important regulations, the business plan and budget approval including affiliates, and the matters BOD Executive Committee * As of March 2013 of Life Insurance Association BOD Executive Committee was held a total of 6 times in 2012. Currently, related to governance structure, and to receive reports on major issues, it consists of 5 directors and 4 of them are outside directors. It deliberates Head of Korea OECD-Multilateral Tax Center, Seok Won Kim president of Korea Federation of Savings Banks, including the quarterly business performance report and major issues on the efficient operation of BOD and recommends members for the Chairman of Credit Information Association related to the group’s status. committees under the BOD. Philippe Head of BNP Paribas China, Retail Banking Head of Shinhan Financial Group’s operation of the Board of Directors faithfully Auignier BNP Paribas Asia Retail Division (present) complies with the outside laws and regulations such as the Commercial Strengthening the participation of outside directors in decisionRisk Management Committee Vice President of External Affairs for Yonsei University, member of National Academy of making process Act and the Financial Holding Company Act, the articles of corporation, Kee Young Kim Sciences (present), President of Gwangwoon The Risk Management Committee was held a total of 4 times in and the regulation for the Board of Directors. Also, we introduced University (present) BOD supports the opinions and participations of outside directors and 2012 and consists of 3 directors who are all outside directors. From details that covered information related to the board of directors in the Sang Kyeong Judge at Korea’s Constitutional Court, General we established the foundation for carrying out the most important Lee Attorney at Wonjeon Law Firm (present) the perspective of management strategy, it establishes the basic risk ‘Governance Structure Model Standards’ and faithfully implemented Outside duties of protecting shareholder values by also applying the employee’s director CEO of Nambuham, Professor of Nagoya management policies and implements the approval duties, such as them. We communicate transparently with all stakeholders on the Tae Eun Kwon University of Foreign Studies, Korean Certified code of ethics on outside directors. adequate investment limit and loss tolerance limit. operation of governance structure, including explaining the difference Accountant (present) Dean of College of Business Administration, Seoul Compensation system between the governance structure and the model standard, while Compensation Committee National University, Professor of Seoul National also disclosing the regulation on operating the board of directors and Ke Sop Yoon University, Honorary Professor of Seoul National The compensations of directors are given within the limits on director’s University (present), Korean Certified Accountant The Compensation Committee was held a total of 4 times in 2012. It committees, the activities of the board of directors and committees, compensation approved by the general shareholder’s meeting. (present) consists of 4 directors who are all outside directors. The Compensation and the details of voting for and against the agenda. Moreover, we The compensation of outside directors considers the purpose of Vice President of Korean Chamber of Commerce in Committee adjusts and decides on the evaluation and compensation Bu In Ko provided the basis for adopting the concentrated vote system to reflect Tokyo, CEO of Sansei (present) ‘the model standards of outside directors of banks, etc.’ to give some systems for the company’s management. the opinions of minority shareholders, while we are doing our best to Jung Il Lee Vice President of Korean Chamber of Commerce in allowance for the post attached in the case of BOD’s chairman and the Japan, CEO of Pyeongcheon (present) protect the rights of minority shareholders by operating a system for chairman of subcommittees according to the level of responsibility Audit Committee CEO of International Development, CEO of Hirakawa Haruki and activities together with the basic pay. Also, in order to maintain the voting rights in writing and providing real-time videos of the general Pyeongcheon Corproaton (present) independence of outside directors and the control on the management The Audit Committee was held a total of 7 times in 2012. It currently meeting of shareholders. by reflecting the same model standards, we don’t give compensations consists of 4 directors who are all outside directors. We establish the Operation of the board of directors foundation for monitoring the duties executed by the management on the management performances. All of these details are disclosed Composition of the board of directors SFG’s board of directors approves management strategies and through the company’s homepage and the Korea Federation of and directors by strengthening the status of the Audit Committee goals of the holding company and subsidiaries and supervises the Banks’ homepage in the following month after the month when the and providing actual supervisory functions, such as making direct The board of directors consists of 12 directors, including the CEO, implementation of approved strategies and goals. Also, it provides an regular general shareholder’s meeting was held. The compensation reports to the Audit Committee on important matters that require the one non-executive director, and 10 outside directors. In the case of environment and system for risk management suitable for the affiliate’s of inside directors consists of the basic pay and short and long-term independence of outside directors. outside directors, we have 10 outside directors with professional authority and knowledge in relevant fields, including finance, economy, management strategies. compensations, while the level of compensation is decided at the Outside Director Recommendation Committee management, law and accounting. In order to operate the board of BOD through the deliberation of the Compensation Committee BOD operational regulations consisting of only outside directors. In the case of the compensation, The Outside Director Recommendation Committee was held a total of 3 directors that focuses on outside directors, Shinhan Financial Group's Shinhan Financial Group establishes detailed regulations on the the standards are decided by the Compensation Committee or the times in 2012, which consists of 5 directors where 4 of them are outside regulation on the board of directors states that the chairman should operation of BOD, including the articles of incorporation, BOD BOD, while the amount of the short-term compensation is finalized directors. It recommends candidates who meet the qualification as be appointed from the outside directors. Currently, the chairman of the regulations and outside director operational regulation. Also, we set in line with the company’s management performance. In the case of outside directors and goes through the decision-making process based board of directors is the outside director Hoon NamGoong. up the BOD Executive Committee as a subcommittee within the the long-term compensations, the amount is decided later depending on the criteria needed for such recommendation. The board of directors complies with all relevant laws and internal BOD to decide on the operation of BOD. BOD is convened by the on the company’s performance for 4~5 years after evaluating the regulations, including the Financial Holding Company Act. In particular, chairman of the BOD as either regular or ad-hoc BOD meetings, and a Audit Member Recommendation Committee performances made every 3 years. The details of compensations are the ratio of outside directors that make up the board of directors regular meeting is held once every quarter, while an ad-hoc meeting transparently disclosed through the electronic disclosures website of The Audit Member Recommendation Committee consists of only exceeded 83% to be more than half of the composition, which is legally is convened whenever deemed necessary by the chairman. Voting the Financial Supervisory Service each quarter. outside directors, which decides on matters related to recommending stipulated in law. As a result, we achieved the purpose of the outside at the BOD requires the meeting to be quorate with the attendance candidates for the Audit Committee. director system to maximize the long-term profits of the company of a majority of directors and is by simple majority of those attending Committees under the BOD Governance Structure and CEO Recommendation Committee and shareholders by following the legality of management through directors. It is permissible for the directors to take part in voting through supervision on actual duties carried out by the management. communications media that allows the simultaneous transmitting and BOD operates seven subcommittees, including the BOD Executive The Governance Structure and CEO Recommendation Committee was receiving of sound. Those who have special interests in an issue do not Committee, the Risk Management Committee, the Compensation held 2 times in 2012. It consists of 6 directors and five of them are outside Overview of the board of directors have voting rights to ensure the objectivity and transparency of the Committee, the Audit Committee, the Outside Direc tor directors. The Committee deliberates on matters related to the company’s Division Name Profile decision-making process. Recommendation Committee, the Audit Member Recommendation governance structure and establishes and reviews the management Vice President of Shinhan Bank, President and Committee, and the Governance Structure and CEO Recommendation succession plan, while also recommending directors who are candidates Inside director Dong Woo Han vice chairman of Shinhan Life Insurance, CEO of Performance of the board of directors Committee. All committees consist of more than half of outside as the CEO. Shinhan Financial Group (present) Vice President of Shinhan Bank, Vice President of In 2012, the BOD held a total of 8 BODs, including 4 regular meetings directors to faithfully carry out the role of supervising and checking the Non-executive Jin Won Seo Shinhan Financial Group, President of Shinhan Life and 4 ad-hoc meetings, to deliberate on major management agendas, management. director Insurance, CEO of Shinhan Bank (present) including the agendas and convening of the general shareholder’s 80 81 Ethical Management Shinhan Financial Group places great importance on its ethical funds, assets and manpower, we enacted and operated the guideline training, the promoted employee training and the training for Education on employees who violated code of ethics reputation as its core asset. To achieve this, all of the employees regard on group’s internal trading. Each affiliate reviews the appropriateness employees sent to overseas branches. During 2012, a total of 6,968 Division Introduction ethical values as standards for desirable decision making and take part of the group’s internal trading and report on them to improve the employees received the preventive education for 76 hours. Also, in Advanced ethical education program in activities to raise awareness in their importance. In order to become a transparency and fairness of the group’s internal trading. 2012, we made an animation about the examples of recent financial Providing program that prevent (on-line education on codes of ethics number one financial group that is trusted by the group’s stakeholders, accidents and precautionary measures to show to all employees reoccurrence of unethical behaviors + education of social volunteer work experience) including customers, shareholders, investors, and local communities, through the SBN, which is Shinhan Bank’s own broadcasting channel. In Ethical management education Employees who violated the codes we will further strengthen ethical management. 2013, we plan to channel the educational methods and channels to be Adopting the ethical education order of ethics are ordered to complete the advanced ethical education with Shinhan Financial Group implemented the basic principles of the more efficient, such as avoiding holding preventive educations during system the condition of being able to adjust group’s ethical management and established the foundation for legal the collective group training to have them for all employees through disciplinary, warning and caution levels. Concept of ethical management and compliance with compliance by providing ethical education and training programs the SBN. its basic principle Internal control system of sales offices for employees. All employees receive education on ethical standards and legal compliance more than once each year, including training In order to ensure internal control of sales offices, Shinhan Bank has Shinhan Financial Group declared the concept of ethical management Programs for preventing financial accidents appointed employees of regular monitoring, branch inspection, fulland its basic principle through SFG’s code of ethics. It includes the job by position, cyber training, new employee and promoted employee training, and group training Besides the audit duties for strengthening internal control, Shinhan time monitoring and on-site monitoring. The regular monitoring ethics of employees, ethics on various stakeholders and details about Bank is operating various programs that prevent financial accidents system of the audit division notifies to the regular monitoring personnel social responsibilities and contributions. The ethical management Plan for strengthening ethical education by filtering real-time data of high-risk transactions taking place at the system realizes the concept and principle by implementing and by strengthening the ethical awareness of employees. In the case of Strengthening ethical education Shinhan Keeper, it is used as a system where all employees can be the sales offices, while the regular monitoring personnel reviews whether managing through the internal control personnel and compliance subject of preventing financial accidents by personally reporting to or not the high-risk transactions have been properly filtered in real time. officer of each group company and SFG under the support of SFG’s 1) Educational program suited Shinhan Bank appoints one of the employees at the sales office to be BOD and management. In particular, starting from February 2010, we • On-line ethical education for for job position the head of the audit division about financial irregularities and internal employees 2) Educational program linked misconducts. In order to support internal control at sales offices, we in charge of branch inspection so that they can examine the trading appointed the group’s compliance officer to effectively implement the • Collective ethical education for with Shinhan Way share the Financial Supervisory Service’s guideline and best practices taking place at the branch, while examinations are conducted on ethical management at the group level consistently. new employees 3) Action guidebook on ethical • Collective on-line education management with the branch managers at the monthly nation-wide meeting for major transactions taking place by holding monthly or special audits Enactment and implementation of ethical codes for PWM 4) Ethical education for divisional heads. Meanwhile, reports of ‘Internal Control Talk! Talk!’ are periodically. Approximately 300 full-time monitoring personnel at the contract-based employees distributed to the sales offices to provide error cases, latest customer sales office who belong to the audit division of the head office checks In order to improve the ethical awareness of employees, we enacted complaints and accidents and details of major notifications to the sales on the trading taking place on the following day regarding matters SFG’s code of ethics in 2011. In 2012, in order to enhance the execution, we enacted the employee action standard and provided the ethical Implementation system for the affiliate’s compliance management employees. that cannot be checked through the head office’s computer system, Shinhan Financial Group placed the inspection division and the such as loan contracts and the appropriateness of various materials values that the group’s employees should follow and the ethical values management audit division underneath Shinhan Bank’s Audit Preventive education on financial accidents (Unit: hours, persons) drawn up. The audit division of the head office regularly examines the that should be protected as a corporate citizen. Each affiliate operates Committee so that the inspection division overlooked the domestic 2010 2011 2012 current status of the sales office’s internal control through the branch its own independent code of ethics that suits individual situations and branches, while the management audit division was in charge of Hours of Number Hours of Number Hours of Number inspection of sales offices, while holding preventive education and work characteristics. Besides this, we enacted the group’s code of ethics Division supervising the head office and overseas branches. The audit duties education of persons education of persons education of persons work guidance to branch employees. Shinhan Bank established its own for employees in financial duties to maintain credibility on the financial educated educated educated had the effect of improving the awareness on the risks that occurred internal control system through the branch inspection personnel, while data, which encouraged SFG and each affiliate’s employees in the Preventive 21 1,059 66 5,726 76 6,968 at each division and sales office, but it was difficult to have an overview education preventing possible financial accidents beforehand through various finance divisions to execute stronger ethical values. of the risks related to them. As a result, Shinhan Bank integrated the inspection systems, thereby striving to protect the bank and customer’s inspection division and the management audit division in 2013. The assets. Ethical management programs audit was no longer limited to each division and sales office, but the Implementing anti-corruption and incorruptible same risks were shared by changing to an audit system implemented policies Whistle Blowing system All employees of SFG signs and submit the pledge of ethics each year in units. By transforming into an audit system based on risks, it was Shinhan Bank is newly operating the Shinhan Keeper System, which in accordance with each affiliate’s code of ethics or the employee We implemented the system for reporting on financial accidents possible to improve, manage, recognize and discriminate risk factors on is a whistle blowing system starting from 2010. Bank customers, action standard. The pledge ceremony is held to make the employees where customers can report on employees if they violated laws and risks that occur throughout the whole process of high risk duties. Also, partner companies and employees can easily report about financial remember the code of ethics once again. In order to prevent unfair codes of ethics, while also implemented the whistle blowing system to it was possible to implement efficient audit duties by focusing on high irregularities by adding the whistle blowing system through the mobile practices of employees, we review the employees’ transactions of report on matters that violated the codes of ethics. In 2012, the group’s risk duties. application. Also, the local employees hired at overseas branches can financial investment products, while also operating the fair trade compliance officer requested the employees of each affiliate to prohibit directly report financial misconducts to Shinhan Bank’s audit division by autonomous compliance program to prevent unfair competition that receiving gifts among affiliates during the holidays to prevent internal Preventive education on financial accidents adding a reporting channel of sending emails. It facilitated a bank-wide disturb the fair market order. In the case of Shinhan Bank and Shinhan misconducts beforehand. We educated the group’s employees on In order to prevent financial accidents beforehand, Shinhan Bank’s whistle blowing system to eradicate financial irregularities within the Card, it implemented relevant programs for a total of 103 participants prohibiting unfair trading and preventing money laundering through audit division holds preventive education on financial accidents for bank and continually strengthen the ethical management. in three occasions for the high risk divisions of fair trading. Also, in order the group’s cyber education on ethical standards, which improved our all employees through the collective job training, the new employee to prevent unfair support actions between affiliates, such as unfair anti-corruption and incorruptible policies 82 83 Risk Management amounts and loss tolerance limits, defines the risk management regulations, and enacts and revises regulations for the group risk management committee. Group risk meeting Philosophy of risk management Group risk meeting is the body which discusses risk policies and strategies for the group, and votes on matters necessary for In order to achieve sustainable growth, Shinhan Financial Group has implementing the policies decided at the group risk management established Shinhan’s philosophy of risk management to pursue a committee. It consists of personnel in charge of risk management at balance between risk and profit by conducting overall business with all each affiliate and the group’s CRO (chief risk management officer). employees having ownership on risks, thereby sharing it as the basic philosophy in the work implementation of all employees within the Group risk management chief officer (group’s CRO) group. Based on this basic philosophy, we manage diverse risks that Group risk management chief officer (group’s CRO) supports the group might occur in each business area and establish a risk management risk management committee and ensures that the risk policies and system in the form of semi-matrix between the holding company strategies decided in the committee are implemented consistently. and the affiliates so that it manages the risks of all affiliates, as well as In addition, CRO assigns a certain weight on the risk management provides integrated management and efficient adjustments at the personnel in each affiliate and conducts examination on the risk group level. management situation of each affiliate. Also, it has a group risk Key risks facing the Shinhan Financial Group management team, which is an exclusive team for assisting the CRO. Risk type Details Risk management division of affiliates (committee and exclusive Credit risk Risk that may occur due to debtor’s bankruptcy, organization) noncompliance of contract by the counterpart, etc The affiliate’s committees and organizations related to risk management Risk due to changes of market elements such as Market risk interest rate, stock prices, exchange rate, product implement the group’s risk policies and strategies in detail. They report Financial risks price, etc. on the risk management situation to the holding company and Interest rate Risk that may affect financial situation such as changes continually improve the risk management system of each company by risk of net asset values due to changes in interest rates Risk where a problem may occur in overseas payment controlling risks that might occur within the affiliate. Liquidity risk due to lack of asset liquidity Major activities of the group’s risk management system Operational Risk due to inappropriate or wrong workforce or risk business procedure, system error or outside incident Division Details Risk due to lack of response measures to In order to maintain the adequate level of risk capitals disadvantageous business decision, implementation by considering the risk appetite, we established a risk Strategic risk planning process that reflects the anticipatory risk plan of inappropriate decision, changes in business Managing risk capitals Nonfinancial environment, etc. when setting up management and financial/business plan. risk Also, we operate the risk limit management system to Risk due to deteriorated outside opinions of customers Reputational control risks at an adequate level. and shareholders, etc. due to weak management, risk We regularly identify risk factors that might affect financial accidents, social conflicts, etc. the group’s management environment to establish a Risk that may occur due to misunderstanding of Legal risk: Monitoring integrated multidimensional risk monitoring system that manages various contract documents or law suits risks risks beforehand. Also, we identify areas with symptoms Sustainable Key Figures to analyze reasons and come up with countermeasures by operating the risk reporting system. We review the risk factors according to the checklist Integrated risk management defined in advance when changing major policies for Implementing risk new products and new businesses so that we can support review process reasonable decision making process and prevent excessive Shinhan Financial Group identifies potential risks and Core issues in implementation of business without good judgment on a timely manner through the risk management system at the group risks. level and analyzes the risk impacts to come up with countermeasures. We operate a crisis management system at the group level to identify the possibility of crisis occurring beforehand Also, the Risk Management Committee within SFG’s board of directors Operating crisis and taking timely measures in the case of a crisis. SFG has establishes an integrated response strategy and policy on various risks management system consistent crisis situation recognition at the group level Economic Performance and manage them by establishing countermeasures. facing the Shinhan Financial Group. In order for the group to improve the overall capabilities Environmental Performance of risk management, we organized a group of risk experts Group risk management committee Implementing risk within the group by considering work experiences by risk Social Performance expert network business area and risk type, knowledge capabilities, etc. Group risk management committee is the highest decision-making (REN:Risk Expert Also, we carry out activities for developing professional Network) workforce and spread the culture of risk management body consisting of outside directors of SFG’s BOD, which establishes through educational programs and workshops on risk the basic policies and strategies on risk management. It determines the management. bearable level of risks for each affiliate, approves adequate investment 84 Economic Performance Environmental Performance Shinhan Financial Group implements a value-based management for stakeholders including customers and society through the Shinhan Financial Group came up with a systematic and comprehensive environmental management response system for the promotion Compassionate Finance. By creating transparent and stable economic values, we rediscovered public interests and social values and returned of green finance. We established a company-wide environmental management system to manage environmental data and aggressively social assets. implement energy reduction activities. Head office (bank’s EC1. Creation and distribution of economic values EC6. Local purchasing policies and ratios EN1. Amount of raw materials used Shinhan Capital Gwangkyo BD) Head office and sales The economic values created are distributed by various methods, including salaries, When selecting local suppliers and partner companies in the region engaging in We don’t use a massive amount of raw materials because of the characteristic of the Jeju Bank offices (18) tax and investment to local communities embracing the six stakeholder areas of business, we first take the suppliers and partner companies in the applicable region financial industry, but we use papers in the process of doing our duties, including Greenhouse gas emissions from water use (tCO2eq) 85.19 83.20 89.52 employees, customers, shareholders and investors, local communities, government/ various receipts, office documents, and contracts. However, for the sake of protecting into consideration. the academia and partner companies. customer information, we destroy all of the papers used instead of recycling them. We are striving to reduce the use of papers by using IT technologies, such as EN22. Waste generation management Amount and ratio of local purchases (Unit: KRW 1 million) Economic value creation (Unit: KRW 1 billion) environment-friendly on-line meeting facilities and web fax system. Division 2010 2011 2012 Overview of waste generation (Unit: Ton) Division Total Amount of goods and equipments purchased 31,848 44,893 44,092 Overview of raw materials used (Unit: Ton) Scope of data collection 2010 2011 2012 Operating profits 4,527.4 through total suppliers Division Shinhan Financial Amount of goods and equipments purchased Scope of data collection 2010 2011 2012 Head office (bank) Net profits 2,322.7 4,176 8,309 8,189 (ton) Group through local suppliers Shinhan Financial Group Head office Shinhan Bank Head office Ratio of local purchases (%) 13.1% 18.5% 18.6% Shinhan Bank Head office (excluding Shinhan Card Head office and Shinhan Card Distribution of economic values (Unit: KRW 1 billion) * Source: Shinhan Bank Amount calculating rental buildings) Shinhan Investment sales offices of Shinhan Investment Head office 330 338 317 Stakeholders Category Total copying Shinhan Life 1,628.3 1,660.3 1,531.6 Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Shinhan Life Head office and all sales offices papers Head office Employees Salaries/ welfare expenses 2,393 chased Management Shinhan BNP Paribas EC7. Employing local residents first and the ratio of managers Shinhan Capital Head offices Asset Management Head office Shareholders/ Head office and Shinhan Capital Head office Dividends 1,361.5 Jeju Bank investors In order to increase the market by pioneering overseas branches, Shinhan Financial sales offices Jeju Bank Head office Group selected and educated local core talents by dividing them into the executive Local communities Investment amount of social contribution 131.3 Greenhouse gas emissions generated from wastes (tCO2eq) 6.01 6.15 5.77 candidate group, the next-generation leader group, and the potential talent group. Government Corporate tax expenses 578.2 EN3/EN4. Amount of energy used Partner companies Purchases and services 463.6 The ratio of local workers employed and managers (Unit: persons / %) The total amount of electricity, heating fuel and the like used in the head office and Others Other general administrative expenses 1,544.1 Division 2010 2011 2012 branches of each affiliate showed a continuous decrease since 2009. FS3/FS8. Values of green financial products by type Number of local 172 173 183 Amount of energy used Values of green financial products by type (Unit: Account / KRW 1 billion) workers dispatched (Unit: GJ) Total number EC3. Scope of pension support of overseas Number of local 1,116 1,247 1,404 Division of emission source 2010 2011 2012 Name of product Details of product Calculation standard 2010 2011 2012 workers employed Amount of electricity used 277,245 271,277 285,316 employees In order to respond to the aging population and to maintain a stable living after Ratio of local workers Accumulate 0.1% of the 86.6% 87.8% 88.5% Amount of city gas used 34,468 31,826 33,198 amount used by card as the retirement, we adopted and operated the retirement pension system through the employed Environment environment love fund Number of cards 8,178 6,020 697 Amount of gasoline used 161,025 160,487 144,567 Love Card labor-management negotiations held in 2006. Number of local residents as managers 238 253 274 Receive 20% discounts on ecoRatio of managers from local people 18.5% 17.8% 17.3% Amount of diesel used 795 841 740 tourism and eco-traveling Overview of retirement pension system * Source: Shinhan Bank Total amount of energy used 473,533 464,431 463,821 Provide guarantees in case of Insurance Shinhan Child environmental diseases and premium at the 13.2 16.7 11.8 Love Insurance traffic accidents while riding beginning of the Division Details bicycles month The year of initial adoption in the FY 2006 EC8. Overview of social contribution activities EN8/EN9/EN10/EN21. Water use and waste management Shinhan Invest in companies that Insurance group achieved environment-friendly premium at the Variable 12.3 14.5 7.9 CSR management through the beginning of the We invest to local communities based on the three principles of social contribution, All of the water used comes from the water supply service without going through Insurance SRI fund month Defined benefit retirement pension (DB) system and Adopted type defined contribution retirement pension (DC) system including coexistence, sympathy and symbiosis, and the amount of investment and a separate treatment process. The water used received sewage treatment through the number of participants show continuous growth. the city sewage treatment facilities and separate facilities for using ground water and Subjects All employees of the group companies’ head offices and recycling water were not used. Meanwhile, various harmful substances that might FS4. Strengthen employee capabilities to implement nation-wide sales offices Amount of investment and number of affect the environment were not used or emitting due to the characteristic of the environmental and social policies (Unit: KRW 1 billion / persons) Operating institutions 14 business operators, including Shinhan Bank participants for social contribution in 2012 financial industry. Shinhan Bank produced the ‘Guideline to Reduce Greenhouse Gas’ for the banking Amount of operation KRW 850.8 billion sector together with the Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Institute under Amount of social contribution Number of employees Subsidiary investment participating in volunteer work Overview of water used (Unit: ㎥) the Ministry of Environment. This was distributed to all divisions of Shinhan Bank’s Number of subscribers 20,770 persons (DB: 18,121 persons, DC: 2,649 persons) Shinhan Financial Group 0.6 Division Scope of data collection 2010 2011 2012 head office and sales offices to provide advice on environmental life for employees. Shinhan Bank 81 Shinhan Financial Head office (bank) Group EC5. Ratio of wages of new employees to the statutory minimum Shinhan Card 24.2 Head office, Gwangkyo FS5. Stakeholder engagement in the environment-friendly Shinhan Bank wages Shinhan Investment 2.1 Amount BD, Gangnam BD process of product development Yeoksam BD, Dangsan Shinhan Life 18.3 of water Shinhan Card BD 256,611 250,594 269,626 We provide wages fairly in accordance with the relevant regulations of continuous 65,619 and waste Head office, annexed In the process of developing the ‘Green Love Energy Fixed Deposit Account’, which is Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset water used Shinhan Investment service year and job and business performances, etc. The group’s new employees 2 BD, 3 branches an environment-friendly financial product, Shinhan Bank conducted surveys on the Management receive wages that exceed nearly 2.4 times that of the statutory minimum wages. Shinhan Life Training center Shinhan Capital 1.3 customer evaluation group consisting of 200 participants regarding the awareness Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Head office of energy conservation and green finance and the conditions for joining green fixed Jeju Bank 1.8 deposit accounts. The results of the surveys and the opinions gathered were reflected Total 131.3 in developing products. 86 87 Social Performance Shinhan Financial Group is striving to protect human rights and prohibit discriminations in the supply chain, including internal employees. B. Labor indexes LA5. Minimum notification period for changes in major Also, we carried out employee satisfaction management, including the welfare and safety of our employees, while also strengthening the businesses responsibilities and trust on customers by clarifying the service information and procedures for product responsibility. LA1/LA13. Overview of employees We listen to the opinions of our employees on major issues and policies and prevent conflicts and controversies arising from the labor union and the labor management Overview of employees by employment method and meeting according to business areas. In the case where there is a huge change in the A. Human rights indexes HR4. Total number of discrimination cases and related measures employment diversity (Unit: persons) business, it is necessary to notify at least 60 days in advance to improve work stability, taken Category 2010 2011 2012 while also enhance the mutual trust between the labor and the management. HR2. Ratio of screening human rights for major suppliers/ We included the prohibition of discriminations and the implementation of fair Employees Male 140 147 143 contract companies personnel evaluation in the action plan and guideline for employees. Also, we (Department headsLA6. Ratio of employees represented by the Labor Management CEO) Female 1 3 6 Shinhan Financial Group considered the values of partner companies, which are politically established and operated systems on prohibiting discriminations, including Common Health Safety Committee an exclusive division to prevent sexual harassment, help desk, whistle blowing the group’s partner, as being important in implementing the social responsibility Managerial Male 8,298 8,460 8,559 As the representative decision-making body for the safety and welfare of employees, system, etc. In the case of any discrimination taking place, it is reflected in personnel management. Therefore, we provided opportunities to analyze its current status (Managerthe labor union and the labor management meeting were established in accordance evaluation and used as references. Female 1,702 1,825 1,974 on their own by conducting self-diagnosis surveys on the partner companies’ CEO) with collective bargaining to find a balance in the decision-making process. code of conducts to show respect for the autonomy and independence of partner Employees General Male 3,859 4,157 4,267 companies and meet the principles and ideologies of the group’s social responsibility Overview of reports on discriminations occurring (Unit: number) (below manager management. Division 2010 2011 2012 level) Female 7,210 7,653 7,957 LA7. Ratio of work-related accidents, including injuries and occupational disease Gender discrimination 8 7 0 (Unit: persons / %) HR3. Employee education on the human rights policies related Regular 17,033 17,451 19,004 to work Employment form Unlimited contract 1,461 1,563 735 2010 2011 2012 HR5. Freedom of association and collective bargaining Non-regular 2,457 2,963 2,406 Number of Ratio of Number of Ratio of Number of Ratio of We held education to prevent sexual harassment for all employees at the head office Total number of persons 20,951 21,977 22,145 victims accidents victims accidents victims accidents and sales offices at least once a year in accordance with Article 13 of the Act on We have labor unions or labor management associations for each affiliate. The 4 0.024% 3 0.017% 4 0.021% Equal Employment and Support for Work-Family Reconciliation. Through the ethical employees can freely join and withdraw from the labor union or labor management education and preventive education, we are working towards protecting the human association. Also, employees are guaranteed of the freedom of association by joining rights of employees. the Federation of National Financial Industries to guarantee labor union education, LA2. Case/ ratio of employee turnover various facilities and materials and labor union activities and various promotional LA8/LA9. Health management program In addition to diverse welfare benefits, including improving employee welfare activities during the working hours in accordance with Chapter 2 of the collective In order to provide health support to employees and their families, we provide Education related to ethical management benefits, supporting leisure activities, creating free vacation culture, and providing bargaining (labor union activities). medical supports, we try to reduce the turnover rate by giving compensations based diverse agendas and share the results at the labor management meeting. 2010 2011 2012 on a transparent and fair performance evaluation. Health management program Category Total Number of Total Number of Total Number of HR6/HR7. Eradication of child labor and forced labor education applicants education applicants education applicants Overview of turnover (Unit: persons) Subject to hours (persons) hours (persons) hours (persons) Name of program Details of program We comply with the International Labor Convention (ILO), domestic labor-related application 2010 2011 2012 Education on fair laws and the Framework Act on Social Security. Also, we strictly prohibit forced labor Rate of Rate of Rate of Provide various health examination data and 11,669 6,257 17,281 6,662 23,225 3,612 Health management trade regulations and child labor in accordance with the principles of human rights and labor out of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of information turnover turnover turnover system employees turnover employees turnover employees turnover Give advice from professionals and nurses Education on the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. (%) (%) (%) ethical compliance 17,033 613 4% 17,451 710 4% 19,004 327 2% Vaccinations against hepatitis A, flu and cervical 5,148 2,241 4,912 2,513 7,060 1,764 Preventive vaccination and prevention on cancer sexual harassment HR8. Ratio of security personnel trained for human rights Conduct health campaigns Employees and their families Ethical compliance policies and procedures LA4. Ratio of employees subject to collective bargaining Diet campaign Hold health lectures and mountain climbing 185,505 13,373 156,612 13,263 132,954 1,781 programs for dieting on-line education Hold events for employee’s families Implementation ratio of human rights education for security Shinhan Financial Group guarantees the freedom to unite, collective bargaining and personnel at sales offices and the head office (Unit: %) collective action and does not force employees to join or withdraw from the labor Program for quitting Provide professional advice to internal employees Ethical compliance 48 7,019 8,028 130,035 8,669 union. We run a variety of labor-management communication channels, including Hold consultations by linking with external education smoking Ratio of human professional center the employee meeting and the labor-management meeting. Seoul metropolitan Division rights education Hold non-smoking campaign against employees compliance monitor 1,130 536 1,349 660 2,476 619 implemented Provide non-smoking patches to participating group training Ratio of persons participating in labor unions and Non-smoking campaign employees Shinhan Preventive Held in-company mail education frequently Preventive Bank education and once every semester 100 labor-management meetings by affiliate (Unit: %) Operate non-smoking funds and non-smoking CoP 22,239 1,059 377,916 5,726 529,568 6,968 education Division 2010 2011 2012 Study and diagnose obstacle factors of muscular Personal Implemented the job duty education together Neck-shoulder-arm diseases Human rights with the CS education regarding laws and Shinhan Financial Group 57 59 67 diagnosis information Jeju Bank 100 Provide employee training on muscular dieses 120 396 132 1,203 1,093 education work know-how by holding human rights protection Shinhan Bank 100 100 100 Employees education education once every quarter Hold special diagnosis separately for stores with Shinhan Card 81 83 79 Special checkup poor conditions (lung, liver) Shinhan Investment 75 72 70 Care for employees on Shinhan Life 100 100 100 Hold TM for employees on disease-related leave disease-related leave Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management 100 100 100 Hold meditating program Shinhan Capital 100 100 100 Employee healing Implement programs for strengthening mind and program Jeju Bank 100 100 100 spirit Total 94 94 94 88 89 LA10. Overview of employee education and training LA14. Ratio of basic wages between male and female employees D. Social performance indexes Discount on insurance premiums for multi-child families, disabled families and low-income classes We focus on developing talents who implement the Compassionate Finance There is no discrimination on basic wages according to the gender. The basic wage is Calculation with global capabilities. To achieve this, we systematically operate a variety of fields decided in accordance with the relevant regulations of continued years of work and SO2/SO4/SO8. Anit-corruption analysis and number of violation Division 2010 2011 2012 standard (unit) of education, including global education, leadership education, etc. By investing work performance. cases Number of cases 38,139 85,206 68,619 the educational budget that is the largest in Korea, employees were given the Multi-child We manage and supervise the corruption risks by workplace to prevent misconducts Amount of opportunity to receive high-quality education. Overview of basic pay of new employees (Unit: KRW) families discounts 13,439 29,271 25,587 of fair trading beforehand and maintain a transparent management environment. (thousand KRW) 2010 2011 2012 We established a double-layered monitoring system for internal trading by the Overview of education and training compliance team of each group company and SFG’s audit team to carry out a Number of cases 2,047 2,700 2,410 Basic wages for newly Amount of Education and 1,896,325 2,201,966 2,326,928 transparent fair trading system. Also, we are striving to prevent risks related to Disabled families Education hours employeed discounts 7,184 9,953 12,143 training expenses corruption by implementing an integrated self-diagnosis on employees. per person (thousand KRW) per person (Unit: KRW 1million) (Unit: hours) Number of cases 186 Overview of workplaces which received 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 LA15. Return ratio after maternity leave corruption risk analysis (Unit: number) Low-income Amount of classes discounts 570 1.5 1.4 1.2 145.8 163.3 169.2 Division 2010 2011 2012 (thousand KRW) Overview of return rate after maternity leave (Unit: %) Number of total workplaces 1,421 1,433 1,464 Number of cases 40,186 87,957 71,215 Division 2010 2011 2012 Amount of LA11. Sustainable employment and employment of retired Male 100 100 100 Number of workplaces where corruption risk analysis 595 814 1,043 Subtotal discounts 20,623 39,366 38,300 (diagnosis) were implemented workers Ratio of returning to work after vacation Female 91 90 81 (thousand KRW) Male 97 95 86 * Source: Shinhan Life To provide steady retirement benefits to our retirees, we offer a retirement plan that Ratio of working for at least 12 months Overview and laws and regulations and after returning to work Female 91 84 77 complies with the Retirement Wage Guarantee Act. The total estimated amount of regulatory violations (Unit: number / KRW 1 million) retirement payment is distributed according to the retirement payment regulation FS11. Ratio of Assets that Received Environmental and Social and the employee retirement payment regulation when an employee who has Detailed category 2010 2011 2012 Reviews worked for more than one year retires to provide a stable working condition. It is Number of cases of financial restrictions 0 4 2 (Unit: KRW 1 billion) Current status of social investments calculated as the ‘retirement appropriation debt’ and included in the budget, and C. Product responsibility indexes Amount of penalties 0 10.5 3,407 the deposit accumulated in the retirement pension (trust) is deducted as retirement Number of cases of nonfinancial restrictions 14 1 5 Division 2010 2011 2012 appropriation debt. Also, Shinhan Financial Group implements a system of rehiring PR3/PR6. Types of product and service information needed in Cases of being sued through dispute settlement SRI funds 90.9 104.6 130.1 0 0 58 contract-based employees that uses the experiences of the employees of voluntary means BTL investments 298.7 369.9 568.7 early retirement program, which recreates jobs by using a new form of the old aged procedure SOC investments 459.4 617.6 840.0 workforce. We also established and operated an exclusive website for retirees and We enacted the ‘financial product disclosure guideline’. Regarding the promotional * Source: Shinhan Life provided employment information through the applicable website. materials on financial products provided by the affiliate, we implement an anticipatory SO5/SO6. Position on Public Policies and Participation in Political (http://www.shinhanfriend.com) screening by the internal control division to closely review and disclose the terms and Activities conditions of contracts made through financial transactions. In order to effectively prevent customer complaints, we establish and operate an anticipatory system that Shinhan Financial Group prohibits all participation in lobbying activities, including reflects the opinions of relevant divisions on customer complaints from the product joining political parties and making donations to political funds by employees. LA12. Performance evaluation and career development development stage. Meanwhile, during the report period, there hasn’t been a single We conduct a regular performance evaluation once every year against all employees violation of advertising and marketing-related law and regulations. below division heads. The performance evaluation is divided into the evaluation on FS7. Values of Financial Products that Provide Social Values by work performance and the evaluation on multidimensional capabilities. Depending Overview of compliance with marketing laws and Type on the characteristics of the division, the evaluations take place once or twice and regulations (Unit: cases) the final person confirming will decide on whether or not the evaluation has been Detailed category 2010 2011 2012 Insurance products containing social values (Unit: Case / KRW 1 billion) appropriate. Number of cases of preliminary examination for Calculation 2,078 2,857 3,709 Division Product explanation 2010 2011 2012 financial product disclosure standard Ratio of performance application ratio (Unit: %) Create and donate funds Create funds with 1% of Number of 291,626 320,695 209,467 2010 2011 2012 cases PR5. Customer satisfaction management activities, including Shinhan the commercial insurance Children premium for the first 94 94 93 survey results for evaluating customer satisfaction level Love monthly payment Insurance Donate to children-related Amount of 13.2 16.7 11.8 2010 2011 2012 discounts organizations at the end of NCSI (Korea Productivity Center) 71.0 73.0 73.0 the year Shinhan Bank Together with the Smile Number of Microcredit ankProducts 318 473 119 KS-SQI (Korea Standards Association) 72.6 73.5 72.8 cases supporting the utilization Shinhan NCSI (Korea Productivity Center) 69.0 70.0 72.0 of sleeping insurances Hope Shinhan Card Insurance premiums and Love Insurance KS-SQI (Korea Standards Association) 69.0 71.3 71.6 coming from coverage 0.3 0.4 0.3 Insurance income insurance against the lowShinhan income poor children and KS-SQI (Korea Standards Association) 70.1 70.7 72.4 Investment supporters Shinhan Life KS-SQI (Korea Standards Association) 67.7 70.9 * Source: Shinhan Life Customer Satisfaction Jeju Bank 93.4 96.2 95.7 (self-investigation) * Self-investigations are all conducted against different subjects in methods that are implemented separately by each affiliate. 90 91 UN Global Compact In May 2008, Shinhan Financial Group joined the UN Global Compact to notify its commitment in implementing the corporate social responsibility management domestically and internationally by reflecting the international standards on sustainability management. We led a sound financial culture and green finance by complying with the 10 principles in 4 areas, including human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, to respond to climate change and maintain stable labor relations. The results were transparently disclosed to show that we have fulfilled our social responsibilities as a representative global financial leader. Division Principles Indexes of activities and performances GRI index Page Employee education Human rights education HR1. HR2, HR3, 1. We support and respect internationally pronounced Implementation of employee education HR4, HR5, HR6, 88, 93 human rights Human rights Implementation of sexual harassment HR7 prevention education 2. We do not participate in human rights violation Total number of discrimination cases HR4, HR8 88, 93 activiites 3. We admit the right to organize and to collective Number of members in the labor union HR5, LA5, LA4 89 bargaining Whether or not labor disputes occurred Compliance with the Labor Standards Act and International Labor Organization (ILO) 4. We abolish all types of forced labor HR7 88, 93 Whether or not complied with collective Labor bargaining Compliance with the Labor Standards Act 5. We abolish child labor in an effective manner and the International Labor Organization HR6 88, 93 Compliance with collective bargaining 6. We abolish discrimination in employment and Ratio of disable employees HR4, LA2, 88-90 business Ratio of female employees LA10, LA13, LA14 7. We support preventive approaches to UNEP FI 4.11 35-36 environmental problems Carbon neutrality program Carbon neutrality program 8. We take the lead in taking greater environmental EN12, EN13, EN14, EN18, Environment Environmental performance management 36-39, 87 responsibilities EN21, EN22, EN26, EN30 Green finance product development 9. We support environment-friendly technology Environmental development investment EN5, EN6, EN7, 38-39, 87 development and supply Green financial products and services EN10, EN18, EN26 Anti10. We make efforts to eliminate all types of Shinhan code of ethics SO2, SO3, SO4 82-83 corruption corruption including unfair profits and bribery, etc. Strengthen and self-diagnose ethical codes Guidelines for Business and Human Rights Appendix (Ruggie Guiding Principles) In June 2011, Shinhan Financial Group openly declared its human rights policies in accordance with the UN Commission on Human Right’s Guidelines for Business and Human Rights (Ruggie Guiding Principles). For this reason, we are complying with the responsibilities for respecting human rights. Also, we are leading in human rights protection by establishing a system for supervising and managing the overall human rights matters arising from business management, including respecting the human rights of employees, responding to negative UN Global Compact impacts, conducting monitoring and evaluation and following code of conducts. Ruggie Guiding Principles Conduct mandatory implementation Analyze evaluation results Implementation direction Independent Assurance Statement Establish and implement code Monitor and decide on Integrate internal control whether or not infringements system (ethical purification Enhance corporate values for of conducts for protecting have been made on the husystem) and human rights respecting human rights Contact human rights man rights of employees protection policies Reflect policy and evaluation results 93 Independent Assurance Statement and actively communicating and participating in the relevant process. The stakeholder engagement is conducted independently and the level of compliance with inclusiveness principle is at satisfactory level. Responsiveness: The opinions, interests and expectations of stakeholders were reflected in making this Report and conducting SFG’s sustainability management. This Report provides details on how important issues were resolved. SFG established goals for important issues to notify the stakeholders that the Introduction sustainability management is being implemented as planned. We recommend that the results are monitored and measured before disclosure. Also, we recommend that opinions on response policies for important issues that were not mentioned to be provided. The level of compliance with Det Norske Veritas Certification (hereinafter the“DNV”) received a request for the independent assurance engagement of the 2012 CSR Report (hereinafter responsiveness is at average level. the “Report”) from Shinhan Financial Group (hereinafter the “SFG”). SFG is responsible for collecting, analyzing and organizing the information necessary to generate the Report as well as the claims made therein. DNV has the responsibility to carry out limited work for SFG according to contract conditions. Materiality: In relation to this Independent Assurance Statement, DNV disclaims any responsibility to a third party other than the contracted party. SFG’s Report We verify that SFG conducted the materiality evaluation through a four-stage approach. Based on this, SFG selected material issues for the group and contains information for its stakeholders. affiliates by identifying internal and external CSR issues and reflecting the stakeholder’s opinions. The results of material issue evaluation were applied when selecting the topics for the Report. We confirm that the results of the issues presented in the Report are major issues of SFG’s activities and highly Scope of Assurance relevant to the stakeholders. The level of compliance for materiality is at satisfactory level. The data that was examined for this assurance include the data from 2012. The scope of assurance for this Report is as follows: Completeness: • Data and activities related to the environmental, health and safety management, social issues and corporate governance between the period from The scope and limitation defined in this Report by SFG handles issues and activities that involve stakeholders and the major issues and activities of SFG. January 2012 to December 2012 We did not make any discoveries that lead to the judgment that significant errors or omissions were made in this Report. We recommend that the scope • Evaluation of the Report and its principles for defining quality in accordance with GRI G3.1 of assurance is expanded to all affiliates of SFG. The level of compliance for completeness is at average level. • Evaluation of the accountability principle and its results (moderate level Type 1) in accordance with the AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard Quality Principle: 2008 and the AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008), including special information and data (moderate level Type 2) We verify that this Report provides relatively balanced information. We did not discover any biased information in this Report. The transparency can be • Confirmation of the application level of GRI strengthened by providing detailed information on measures taken for legal compliance. We confirm that the data and information in this Report can • For financial data, verification of whether or not the financial data has been correctly derived from the financial statement that received SFG’s auditing be trusted. The comparison of performances shown in graphics was appropriate, while the data on greenhouse gas and the environment was collected and organized through the computer system. However, we recommend that the official internal evaluation process should be set up to verify the data by utilizing regular information from the latest internal management system. The level of compliance for quality is at average level. Limitations Discoveries made on specific information for sustainability management: The verification was made by confirming the data and information collected and provided by SFG, while we made no visits to its affiliates. The As mentioned above, in addition to the evaluation of SFG’s compliance characteristics and levels for the AA1000 APS to verify Type 1, we conducted sustainability management, performances and practices of a third party, including SFG’s suppliers and partner companies, is not included under Type 2 verification on environmental performances (amount of water used, amount of waste generated), distance of business trips and credibility of the scope of assurance for this Report. We do not meet with any external stakeholders during the assurance period. SFG’s financial information and sick leaves. We confirmed the documents and records provided by SFG to verify the contents stated in this Report. The specific data and information data was not included in the scope of assurance for this Report. Therefore, the financial data, including the economic performances, was verified by mentioned above can be distinguished and traced. comparing with the audited financial statement of the auditor with SFG’s internal documents. The verification was made based on the assumption that the audit team was provided with complete, sufficient and original data and information. As a result, the conclusion we made is based on the interviews Recommendation for Improvement conducted with SFG’s employees and the documents provided by SFG. The following was provided to SFG’s management as additional observations made regarding areas for improvement. It did not affect the conclusion Assurance Method of this Report and only provided to encourage continuous improvement. • SFG should establish sustainability goals and its affiliates should regularly report on them by setting up specific goals to achieve the group’s goals We applied the AA1000AS (2008) in this assurance process. The conclusion we made was reached by complying with the protocol as shown below: • Standards for calculating and reporting various documents should be established according to indexes so that they maintain consistency and shared • Compliance with the principles of inclusiveness, materiality and responsiveness as stated in the AA1000AS (2008) internally • Verification of GRI context index on SFG’s homepage with the application standards under GRI G3.1 The assurance team confirmed and reviewed the documents, data and other information provided by SFG as part of our verification process. Also, we Eligibility and Independence reviewed the sampling method. The verification was made at SFG’s head office between the period from May 2013 to June 2013. DNV provides a variety of sustainability management services, including verification of sustainability reports. DNV has environmental and social verification experts in about 100 countries across the world. DNV did not participate in preparing for documents or its contents when making this Conclusion Report other than this Independent Assurance Statement. DNV kept neutrality when conducting interviews with stakeholders during the assurance period. DNV clearly states that it takes no responsibility to compensate for any individual or organization that made decisions based on this Independent Based on the assurance activities performed, DNV did not make any discoveries that lead to the judgment that significant errors or omissions were made Assurance Statement. in this Report. Therefore, we verify that this Report meets the ‘A+’ level requested by GRI G3.1. Additional opinions and observations are as shown below. June 2013 Inclusiveness: Seoul, Republic of Korea CEO, In Kyoon Ahn We verify that SFG includes stakeholder engagement on sustainability management issues. It includes diverse stakeholders and this Report provides details on the stakeholder communication channels. In particular, the areas of interest and expectation were confirmed by conducting surveys using homepage, email and twitter. This Report identifies the 6 stakeholder groups as customers, shareholders/ investors, employees, local communities, partner companies and the government/ academia. Each affiliate utilizes direct and indirect methods to identify areas of major concerns for stakeholders 94 95 Contact History of Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report For additional information and inquiries If you visit the homepage of Shinhan Financial Group (http://www.shinhangroup.com), you can find more detailed information through the Interactive PDF and the Web Reporting. Also, you can get Shinhan’s CSR Report since it has been published starting from 2005. For further information, please make inquiries to the contact number shown below. Shinhan Financial Group Shinhan Life Insurance CSR & Culture Management Team of Shinhan Financial Group, Public Relations Team of Shinhan Life Insurance, 14, Gwanggyo 120, 2-Ga, Taepyung-Ro, Jung-Gu, Seoul Building, 1-Ga, Namdaemum-Ro, Jung-Gu, Seoul Office 02-6360-3262 Office 02-3455-4341 Fax 02-6360-3159 Fax 02-3455-4180 Homepage http://www.shinhangroup.com Homepage http://www.shinhanlife.co.kr Shinhan Bank Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Social Contribution Department of Shinhan Bank, Management Support Team of Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Manage120, 2-Ga, Taepyung-Ro, Jung-Gu, Seoul ment, Shinhan Investment Tower, Yeouido-Dong, YeongdeungpoOffice 02-2151-3161 Gu, Seoul Fax 02-6263-8111 Office 02-767-9080 Date of publication_ June 2013 Homepage http://www.shinhan.com Fax 02-786-8900 Published by_Shinhan Financial Group Homepage http://www.shbnppam.com Designed by_ Lucrebeyond Shinhan Card Certified by_ Det Norske Veritas (DNV) Certification Brand Strategy Team of Shinhan Card, POST Tower, Central Post Shinhan Capital Office, 1-Ga, Chungmu-Ro, Jung-Gu, Seoul Planning Team, Shinhan Capital, 14, Gwanggyo Building, 1-Ga, Office 02-6950-7199 Namdaemun-Ro, Jung-Gu, Seoul Fax 02-6950-1531 Office 02-3708-1829 Homepage http://www.shinhancard.com Fax 02-773-2970 Homepage http://www.shcap.co.kr Shinhan Investment Corp. Business Planning Department of Shinhan Investment Corp., 23-2, Jeju Bank Shinhan Investment Tower, Yeouido-Dong, Yeongdeungpo-Gu, Jeju Bank General Affairs Support Division, Yido 1-Dong, Jeju City, Seoul Jeju Special Self-Governing Province Office 02-3772-1482 Office 064-720-0226 Fax 02-761-2802 Fax 064-720-0188 Homepage http://www.shinhaninvest.com Homepage http://www.e-jejubank.com 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 96 GRI 3.1 Index InISO Extent of Page InISO Extent of Page dex explanation 26000 reporting 추가정보 dex explanation 26000 reporting 추가정보 Common 1. Economic performance Ⅰ. Visions and strategies EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6.8, 6.8.3 6.8.7 6.8.9 Fully 86 1.1 CEO message 6.2 Fully 10 ~ 11 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate EC2 6.5.5 Fully 36 ~ 37 1.2 Opportunities and challenges 6.2 Fully 10 ~ 11 change Ⅱ. Organization profile EC3 Coverage of pension support Fully 86 2.1 Corporation name Fully 12 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Fully None 2.2 Major products and brands Fully 12 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of EC5 6.4.4 6.8 Fully 86 operation 2.3 Operational structure 6.2 Fully 13 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation 6.6.6 6.8 6.8.5 6.8.7 Fully 86 2.4 Location of main office Fully 96 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at 2.5 Country where major business place is located Fully 12 ~ 13 EC7 6.8 6.8.5 6.8.7 Fully 86 significant locations of operation 2.6 Ownership structure and legal format Fully 12 ~ 13 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit 6.3.9 6.8 6.8.3 6.8.4 EC8 Fully 26, 86 2.7 Sales market Fully 13 through commercial in-kind, or pro bono engagement 6.8.5 6.8.6 6.8.7 6.8.9 2.8 Corporation volume Fully 13 6.3.9 6.6.6 6.6.7 6.7.8 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. 6.8 6.8.5 6.8.6 6.8.7 6.8.9 Fully 26 ~ 33 2.9 Major changes of corporation volume, organization structure, and ownership structure Fully 13 2. Environmental performance 2.10 Awards Fully 11 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 6.5 6.5.4 Fully 87 Ⅲ. Report medium variances No recycled paper 3.1 Report period Fully 1 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 6.5 6.5.4 Fully used do to information 3.2 Recent report date Fully 1 security problems 3.3 Report cycle Fully 1 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 6.5 6.5.4 Fully 87 3.4 Contact for questions related to the report Fully 96 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 6.5 6.5.4 Fully 87 3.5 Process for determining report matters Fully 14 ~ 17 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 6.5 6.5.4 Fully 37 3.6 Report boundaries Fully 1 IInitiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in EN6 6.5 6.5.4 Fully 39 energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 3.7 Limiting reporting scope and boundaries Fully 1 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 6.5 6.5.4 Fully 37 3.8 Report boundaries that can have significant effect on comparability of information Fully 1 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 6.5 6.5.4 Fully 87 3.9 Data measurement technologies and ground for calculation Fully 1 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 6.5 6.5.4 Fully 87 3.10 Readjusting information provided in the previous report Fully 1 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 6.5 6.5.4 Fully 87 No major changes in 3.11 Major changes of report scope, boundaries or measuring method etc. Fully report scope Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high EN11 6.5 6.5.6 N/A biodiversity N/A value outside protected areas 3.12 GRI Content Index Fully Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas N/A 3.13 Policies on independent assurance and recent practices Fully 94 ~ 95 EN12 6.5 6.5.6 N/A and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas None due to characterⅣ. Governance structure, responsibilities, participation istics of the financial EN13 Habitats protected or restored 6.5 6.5.6 N/A industry 4.1 Corporate governance structure 6.2 Fully 80 ~ 81 EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 6.5 6.5.6 N/A 4.2 Whether CEO and chairman of BOD can be the same person 6.2 Fully 80 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by 4.3 Structure of BOD EN15 6.5 6.5.6 N/A 6.2 Fully 80 operations, N/A by level of extinction risk 4.4 Mechanism where shareholders and employees can present opinions in the BOD 6.2 Fully 81 EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 6.5 6.5.5 Fully 36 4.5 Connecting corporate performance and compensation to executives and management 6.2 Fully 81 None due to character4.6 Process at the BOD level to avoid conflict among stakeholders 6.2 Fully 81 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 6.5 6.5.5 N/A istics of the financial industry 4.7 Process for determining professionalism of executives leading economic, environmental, social strategies 6.2 Fully 81 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 6.5 6.5.5 Fully 36 4.8 Management principles 6.2 Fully 1 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 6.5 6.5.3 N/A None due to character4.9 Procedures that BOD use in supervising the economic, environmental, social performances 6.2 Fully 81 istics of the financial EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight 6.5 6.5.3 N/A industry 4.10 Processes for evaluating performances of BOD, especially, economy, environmental, and social performances 6.2 Partially 81 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination 6.5 6.5.3 Fully 87 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 6.2 Fully 84 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5 6.5.3 Fully 87 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 4.12 6.2 Fully 8, 93 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills 6.5 6.5.3 N/A organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations(such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations 6.2 Fully 8, 93 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel None due to characterEN24 6.5 6.5.3 N/A Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally istics of the financial 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 6.2 Fully 79 industry IIdentity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 6.2 Fully 79 EN25 6.5 6.5.4 6.5.6 N/A affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 6.2 Fully 79 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation 6.5 6.5.4 6.6.6 6.7.5 Fully 39 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has None due to character4.17 6.2 Fully 16 ~ 17 responded to those key topics and concerns EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 6.5 6.5.4 6.7.5 N/A istics of the financial industry No case of violation Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with EN28 6.5 Fully of environmental environmental regulations Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the EN29 6.5 6.5.4 6.6.6 Fully 36 organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5 Fully 39 98 99 InISO Extent of InISO Extent of dex explanation 26000 reporting Page dex explanation 26000 reporting Page 3. Social Performances Society Labor SO1 Programs and cases of assessing and managing effects on local communities 6.3.9 6.8 6.8.5 6.8.7 6.6.7 Fully 26 ~ 33 LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 6.4 6.4.3 Fully 89 None due to characterWhether there is business sites that have negative effects on local communities either potentially or SO9 6.3.9 6.8 6.8.5 6.8.7 6.6.7 N/A istics of the financial LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 6.4 6.4.3 Fully 89 practically industry LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees 6.4 6.4.3 6.4.4 Fully 61, 71, 89 S010 Tools for protecting or alleviating negative effects by business sites on local communities 6.3.9 6.8 6.8.5 6.8.7 6.6.7 Fully 91 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 6.4 6.4.3 6.4.4 6.4.5 6.3.10 Fully 89 SO2 Number and ratio of business units where corruption risk has been analyzed 6.6 6.6.3 Fully 91 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes 6.4 6.4.3 6.4.4 6.4.5 Fully 89 SO3 Ratio of employees who received education on anticorruption policies or procedures 6.6 6.6.3 Fully 91 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety SO4 Actions against corruption incidents 6.6 6.6.3 Fully 91 LA6 6.4 6.4.6 Fully 89 committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Position on public policies, establishing public policies and participation in lobby activities(donating Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related SO5 6.6 6.6.4 6.8.3 Fully 91 LA7 6.4 6.4.6 Fully 89 political funds is prohibited) fatalities by region SO6 Donations to political parties and politicians 6.6 6.6.4 6.8.3 Fully 91 LA8 Programs in place to assist workforce members, or community members regarding diseases 6.4 6.4.6 6.8 6.8.3 6.8.4 6.8.8 Fully 89 SO7 Number of cases of legal actions on unfair and monopoly activities 6.6 6.6.5 6.6.7 Fully 91 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 6.4 6.4.6 Fully 89 SO8 Fines and non-financial sanctions for violation of legal regulations 6.6 6.6.7 6.8.7 Fully No unfair activities LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 6.4 6.4.7 Fully 90 Product responsibility Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of LA11 6.4 6.4.7 6.8.5 Fully 90 PR1 Customer health and safety policies 6.3.9 6.6.6 6.7 6.7.4 6.7.5 Fully 49, 59, 64, 70 employees and assist them in managing career endings No violation cases of LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 6.4 6.4.7 Fully 90 PR2 Number of violation cases of product & service health, safety related regulations 6.3.9 6.6.6 6.7 6.7.4 6.7.5 Fully service regulations LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees 6.3.7 6.3.10 6.4 6.4.3 Fully 89 PR3 Types of product and service information necessary in the process 6.7 6.7.3 6.7.4 6.7.5 6.7.6 6.7.9 Fully 90 LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 6.3.7 6.3.10 6.4 6.4.3 6.4.4 Fully 90 No violation cases of PR4 Number of violation cases related to product & service labeling 6.7 6.7.3 6.7.4 6.7.5 6.7.6 6.7.9 Fully service regulations LA15 Ratio of returning to workplace after maternity leave Fully 90 Human rights PR5 Policies and procedures related to customer satisfaction 6.7 6.7.4 6.7.5 6.7.6 6.7.8 6.7.9 Fully 90 Percentage of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have PR6 Communication related policies and programs such as advertisements and sponsors etc. 6.7 6.7.3 6.7.6 6.7.9 Fully 90 HR1 6.3 6.3.3 6.3.5 6.6.6 Partially 42 undergone human rights screening PR7 Number of violations cases of communication related(advertisements, sponsors etc.) regulations 6.7 6.7.3 6.7.6 6.7.9 Fully No cases of violations HR2 Percentage of cooperating companies that have undergone screening on human rights and actions 6.3 6.3.3 6.3.5 6.4.3 6.6.6 Partially 88 PR8 Number of complaints related to violation of customer information protection 6.7 6.7.7 Fully of regulations HR3 Percentage of employees trained on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights 6.3 6.3.5 Fully 88 PR9 Number of cases and amounts of violations of regulations related to product & service provision 6.7 6.7.6 Fully HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 6.3 6.3.6 6.3.7 6.3.10 6.4.3 Fully 88 6.2 6.3.3 6.3.4 6.3.5 HR5 Freedom of association and collective bargaining 6.3.8 6.3.10 6.4.3 6.4.5 Fully 88 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to HR6 6.3 6.3.3 6.3.4 6.3.5 6.3.7 6.3.10 Fully 88 InExtent of contribute to the elimination of child labor dex explanation reporting Page Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor and HR7 6.3 6.3.3 6.3.4 6.3.5 6.3.7 6.3.10 Fully 88 measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Financial industry additional index HR8 Percentage of employees in charge of security who received humans rights education 6.3 6.3.5 6.4.3 6.6.6 Fully 88 FS1 Policies related to particular environmental social elements that apply to industry field Fully 1 No cases of violation FS2 Environmental social risk assessment and inspection procedures in the industry field Fully 1 HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken 6.3 6.3.6 6.3.7 6.3.8 6.6.7 Fully of rights of indigenous people FS3 Process of monitoring implementation and compliance of customers' environmental social demands during contract or transaction Fully 87 Total number and percentage of business workplaces implementing human rights supervision and FS4 Process of strengthening employees' capabilities for implementing environmental social policies and procedures in the industry field Fully 87 HR10 Fully 91 effect evaluation FS5 Mutual reaction with customers/investors/business partners related to environmental and social risks and opportunity elements Fully 87 No cases of human FS6 Portfolio ratio of industry field per particular area, size(large/intermediate/small), industry Fully 12 ~ 13 HR11 Number of human rights related complaints raised through official complaint delivery mechanism Fully rights related complaints raised FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed to provide particular social benefits to each industry field segmented per purpose Fully 91 FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to provide particular environmental benefits to each industry field segmented per purpose Fully 87 FS9 Scope and frequency of application of audit which assess implementation of environmental social policies and risk assessment process Partially 84 FS10 Ratio/number of corporations which report on environmental social issues of among financial institution portfolio incorporated corporations Partially 36 ~ 37 FS11 Ratio of assets that are subject to environmental social inspection in positive method and negative method Partially 91 Shareholders' decision making policies regarding environmental social issues within the boundaries where reporting institution has decision FS12 Partially 14 ~ 17 making influence FS13 Access points of areas that have little population or do not receive economic benefits Fully 54 FS14 Initiatives for improving financial service approaches for people who cannot receive benefits Fully 54 FS15 Policies on fair designing and sales of financial products and services Fully 20 ~ 25 FS16 Initiatives for strengthening finance knowledge(education) per beneficiary type Fully 28 100 101 Shinhan Financial Group’s Shinhan Financial Group’s CSV Shinhan Financial Group’s CSV Framework History of Shinhan Financial Group CSR Report Value Management System ‘Compassionate Finance’ STEP1. Issue Identification Shinhan Financial Group is implementing the Compassionate Finance to Identification of issues on CSR create shared values, which seeks shared development for the company As a corporate citizen that makes up our society, Shinhan Financial Group is and society. The Compassionate Finance refers to providing benefits to affected by a variety of social factors. In order to closely identify various issues our customers and society through daily operations instead of looking at on CSR arising inside and outside of the group, we implement a process financial business and social contribution separately. that identifies a variety of issues in the economy, society and environment, including business, financial, competition, political and geopolitical elements. Financial elements Making the world a better place How does Compassionate Finance make the Social Economic elements elements Mission with the strength of finance world a better place mean? Compassionate Finance CSR Issues 1. Making the world a better place through the financial Political and business geopolitical Competitive elements elements It means providing benefits to our customers and society through daily operations without looking at Shinhan Financial Group’s Environmental Vision WORLD CLASS FINANCIAL GROUP financial business and social contribution separately. elements Date of publication_ June 2013 Published by_Shinhan Financial Group 2. Doing the best to create customer values and ensure Designed by_ Lucrebeyond customer protection by thinking of customers as a Certified by_ Det Norske Veritas (DNV) Certification Become Korea’s No.1 financial brand partner in Win-Win management Management goal Pursue customer values and It means even when selling a single product, we examine whether mutual growth as the top priority or not it is suitable and beneficial for the customer. Also, when a customer is in difficulty, we provide help so that they can overcome the difficult. In the end, we follow the principle of placing the Inspection on all existing products highest priority on customer values and customer protection. and services being sold Breakthrough Enhancement Synergy Targeting Therefore, we pursue profits and efficiently manage the risks under Be the 'Local Best' Strengthen the Generate nextSecure Management strategy in core business non-interest generation synergy competitiveness this principle. Shinhan New Hope Spore Loan: areas income portfolio geared towards in strategic areas KRW 328.2 billion customer targeted for cultivation 3. Being considerate of the socially disadvantaged and Number of participants that received financial fulfilling social responsibilities that meet the demands of economic education: 21,352 participants the time Customer Respect Change Excellence Ownership Implementation of 23 tasks for shared Core values It means changing the way of thinking to share what we have development with partner companies achieved through healthy development with our society and growing up together with it. This includes providing the foundation for the socially disadvantaged to develop into a loyal customer by STEP4. Value Creation providing them with reasonable financial benefits. Best practices of value creation 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Shinhan Financial Group is striving to make achievements that can directly or indirectly have an impact on our society by creating shared values. We have become a corporate citizen that genuinely contribute to our society through active investment and cooperation to create shared values, instead of simply carrying out volunteer efforts and improving environmental management to increase profits. Compassionate Finance
