Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility Code of conduct Human rights Legislation setting the frameworks AS3 COMPANIES’ SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITIES AND RESULTS COP REPORT 2012 GLOBAL COMPACT The Global Compact comprises 10 principles for social responsibility based on internationally ratified conventions for labour and human rights, as well as the environment and anti-corruption. The CSR initiative is universal and constitutes a “common language” across national borders, which can be adapted to companies’ specific needs and situations because of its flexibility and voluntary nature. Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. The businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. The businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. The businesses should support an effective abolition of child labour. 6. The businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. The businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. The businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. How we will utilise the Global Compact: As a framework for conducting CSR initiatives within the company and to ensure that our business partners support the principles of the Global Compact. As a basis for communication with the world around us – we want to convey our views on social responsibility and our work in this field. As a platform for dialogue with our clients and external business partners. INTRODUCTION AS3 Companies supports the 10 We see our work with the 10 Global principles of the UN Global ComCompact initiatives as long-term pact, which address the areas of and continuous; we hope to therehuman rights, labour rights and anby contribute to the UN’s overall ti-corruption. We wish to promote goals for more sustainable developthese principles within our areas of ment. influence by incorporating the principles into our strategy, our culture The purpose of the report is to tell Allan Gross-Nielsen, CEO and our daily operations. the world who we are and why it makes sense to us as a Global Therefore, we joined the Global Compact company to work with the Compact in December 2011. Since 10 principles. We also want to the founding of the company, we contribute to increased awareness have worked with a wide range of of Global Compact in the hope that CSR themes; joining the Global more service companies will chose Compact has given us a focus and a to follow our example. structure for carrying out initiatives that make sense for our business This report is not only a report to and for society. the UN, but equally a way of communicating our messages to the 2012 was called an “anchoring various stakeholders with whom we year”, when we sought to establish come into contact in the course of an overview of our current CSR our business dealings – and others efforts. This overview will help us who may have an interest in CSR to set realistic and effective goals in and taking societal responsibility. the future. We hope you enjoy reading this report. CONTENTS INTRODUCTION ABOUT AS3 COMPANIES. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 OUR APPROACH – WE STRIVE TO BE EVEN BETTER. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 CODE OF CONDUCT . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 HUMAN RIGHTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 FOCUS 2012 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 LEGISLATION SETTING THE FRAMEWORKS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 FOCUS 2012 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 INCLUSIVENESS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 FOCUS 2012 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14 ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 FOCUS 2012 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 FOCUS IN 2013. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 ABOUT AS3 COMPANIES Since its founding in 1989, the guidThe common aspect of all AS3 To us, it is about showing respect ing philosophy of AS3 Companies Companies' services is that we and an interest in clients, candihas been that business decisions work to strengthen each individudates and employees in our daily must benefit the business while al’s labour market readiness for the work. also contributing to society. To us, benefit of themselves, the business this represents a major part of what world and society. It is also about having “an eye for” societal responsibility is all about. how our way of doing business AS3 Companies is a value-based affects society. For example, our Since 1989, AS3 Companies has company. We want to act in a busiwork with supporting people is an specialised in providing counselling ness-oriented and decent manner. important contribution to the indiservices to organisations and peoThis means that we take responvidual and to society as a whole. ple regarding job-related changes sibility and are willing to do more – we call this area of business “Job than what is expected of us in our In more specific terms we counTransition Management”. daily work. selled more than 28,000 individuals in the Nordic countries in 2012. AS3 Companies now holds a leadIt also means that we as a compaIn the vast majority of these cases ing position in the Nordic Job Tranny strive to meet the expectations we have either been supporting sition Management market, with of a socially responsible company citizens in getting out the national more than 250 employees and 300 – also called Corporate Social Reunemployment systems or in keepfreelance counsellors. They work sponsibility. It is quite natural for us ing them from entering them. from AS3’s more than 60 offices in to translate CSR into societal the largest cities in Denmark, Norresponsibility. We also support other companies way, Sweden and Finland. in strengthening their societal responsibilities, thus making an impact on the business world’s overall societal responsibilities. 1 COP Report 2012 ABOUT AS3 COMPANIES Our values Our range of services is rooted in AS3’s VISION the group's two core values – business-oriented and decent. We strive to be the leading and most respected Being decent means being honest, company in Job Transition empathetic, respectful and good at Management in the Nordic communicating with one another Region. and the people with whom we do business. Being business-oriented means that we are professional and that we make a difference for our clients, business partners, private individuals in counselling and our colleagues, while remaining down to earth. Decent Businessoriented COP Report 2012 2 SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITIES Our joining the Global Compact is actively participate with speakers and hereby contributed to the UN’s a signal to the world and ourseland panel participants in areas rela2015 goal of defeating poverty. ves that we take our share of the ting to our professional field. AS3 Sweden set up a Facebook responsibility for solving some of page where they donate an amount the major challenges faced by our NETWORK to charity for the homeless for each society. AS3 holds numerous important “like”. posts through which we take AS3’S CREDO responsibility and wield influence. We have developed a Credo comprising the three main requisites AS3 helped to establish and is curwe see as vital for maintaining and rently the chair of the trade assostrengthening competitiveness in ciation, Job Counsellors’ Trade Asthe future job market: sociation. • Increasing the labour force • Retaining employees AS3 is active on the board of the • Increasing agility European Mentoring and Coaching Council. In 2012, we have shown societal responsibility by supporting various FOUNDATIONS AND INITIATIVES activities. A few of these activities AS3 was affiliated with the Danish are presented here. Red Cross as a buisness partner in WE GO THAT EXTRA MILE 2012. In 2013, AS3 joined the The Our work with supporting TRAINING Danish Mental Health Fund as a people is an important conAS3 has supported the establishcorporate member. tribution to the individual and ment of Aarhus Academy for Global to society as a whole. We also Education. AS3 has provided financial support support other companies in to the “Break Cancer” campaign. strengthening their societal WE TAKE PART We have made a contribution to responsibility, thus making an We maintain close relationships the Danish Fundraising Campaign impact on the business world’s with the Danish universities and overall societal responsibility. 3 COP Report 2012 OUR APPROACH – WE STRIVE TO BE EVEN BETTER Planning Goal Code of Action Conduct Evaluation STRUCTURE OF CSR WORK AT AS3 COMPANIES In connection with joining the Global Compact, we have structured our work in this area to ensure a consistent standard in terms of method, progression and reporting in relation to the Global Compact. This means that we continuously plan, act, evaluate and set new goals regarding our desire to be a socially responsible company. 5 COP Report 2012 OUR APPROACH – WE STRIVE TO BE EVEN BETTER Our values set the framework for • be open about our work, in the our actions and the way we do busihope that this can affect sociness. Based on the 10 principles of ety as a whole. the Global Compact, we have established a Code of Conduct, which we How have we integrated the Global call our Nordic responsibility code. Compact? • in the training of new employThis will help us to: ees at AS3 Academy • implement strategies and activ• Sent information letters to ities that strengthen our work close suppliers regarding our with the four main areas of our commitment to the Global Code of Conduct to ensure that Compact and how this will afit becomes a conscious part of fect our cooperation with them the way we run AS3. in the future. • structure the areas we would • Formulated a text about the like to have an increased focus Global Compact and impleon, and the things we want to mented it in our tendering temdo better. plates. • be even clearer in our dialogue • The internal brochure, “AS3 with business partners about Companies’ Societal Responsiour expectations and demands bilities”, describes our committhat they take their societal rement to the Global Compact, sponsibility just as seriously as which has been distributed at we do. trade shows. We translate words into action and it is our goal to continuously improve the results and impact of our activities. COP Report 2012 6 CODE OF CONDUCT At AS3, we work with our Code of We have therefore made a promise Conduct in an effort to continually to the market and ourselves: Code improve our societal responsibility of Conduct efforts. We are there for the individual client and we are there for the indiHuman Rights AS3 Companies’ services are built on a fundamental Legislation setting the frameworks To comply with the law and agreements is a must and a respect for human rights. Our Code of Conduct comprises vidual in our counselling. We are minimum requirement that AS3 Companies demands of itself. Moreover, we want to do more than is exAs a company, we are committed to complying with pected of us in specific areas. international conventions and responsible business practices in relation to human rights and equality. We focus on conducting ourselves in a professional and responsible manner in all situations. It is crucial four main areas also there for our colleagues at AS3 AS3 Companies therefore states its unequivocal support for the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights. for us that we never compromise our credibility. This means for example, that we want to enter into a dialogue with our partners and suppliers about how we comply with legislation and behave responsibly and comply with the applicable standards and conventions. 1. Human rights Companies. This promise requires 2. Legislation setting the frameus to remain attentive and present Inclusiveness Environmental responsibility works in our work – which is the only way AS3 Companies hires a person for a position who has In AS3 Companies we focus on our environmental the personal and professional competencies that match efforts to limit the direct environmental impacts of the requirements we demand for the job. We see it as a our activities. Our primary impact on the environment strength that our employees have different experiences comes from the resources we use in our office facilities and different professional competencies. and in our interplay with each other, our clients and 3. Inclusiveness we can make a difference. our business partners. We endeavour to ensure frameworks for a workplace; where the working conditions, well-being and developWe continuously strive to increase employee awaremental conditions are the same for everyone irrespecness and competencies concerning our impact on the tive of their gender, age, handicap, ethnicity, colour, environment and the climate. We purchase and use 4. Environmental responsibility religion, sexual orientation and social status. consumables and equipment that supports a good environment as well as a good working environment and we reduce our energy consumption and waste generation on an ongoing basis. Through support and signatures The areas of our Code of Conduct from our external board and our are formulated to reflect and supNordic management team we are port the principles of the UN Global committed at all levels of the organCompact. isation to comply with the guidelines set out in our Code of ConOur Code of Conduct means that duct. we have precisely formulated what we expect of ourselves and that we take a special responsibility in these four main areas. At AS3 Companies, we stress the importance of providing the right counselling services to management and employees, and we believe that such services must be tailored to the specific situation. COP Report 2012 8 HUMAN RIGHTS AS3 supports the principles of the In our work, we always start with UN Universal Declaration of Huthe individual and a high degree of man Rights, the European Convenrespect for differences in values, tion on Human Rights and the babeliefs and cultural backgrounds. sic labour rights expressed in ILO conventions. These principles are Our programmes and services are generally already incorporated into individually tailored to accommoDanish law. date and respect the individual. Our counsellors’ approach involves We are committed as a company seeing possibilities instead of limitato comply with international contions and a belief that everyone has ventions and good business pracsomething to contribute. It is about tices in relation to human rights and creating the framework for the inequality. dividual meeting, where respect for the individual is all-important. AS3 therefore expresses its full support for the UN Declaration of Human Rights. Our services are based on a fundamental respect for human rights. Declaration of Human Rights Article 1 “All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.” 9 COP Report 2012 HUMAN RIGHTS FOCUS 2012 Our efforts in the field of human The brochure will now be handed rights in 2012 focused on defining out as a part of the AS3 Academy how AS3 meets the expectations of for all new employees in the organithe outside world through its prodsation at which time the company’s ucts and approach to counselling. current status and initiatives in this We have also worked internally to area will be reviewed and discussed. ensure anchoring and a sense of ownership of these principles. BROCHURE ON SOCIETAL RESPONSIBILITIES AT AS3 Based on the aforementioned activities, we produced a brochure in Danish and English describing AS3 Companies’ societal responsibilities and our Code of Conduct. Our support for the Global Compact was announced at internal dialogue meetings at the beginning of the year. At these meetings, all employees and freelancers were given a copy of the brochure and presented with the ideas behind AS3’s commitment to the Global Compact. COP Report 2012 10 LEGISLATION SETTING THE FRAMEWORKS Compliance with laws and agreeAS3 assumes greater responsiments is a matter of course and a bility and exceeds the minimum minimum requirement that AS3 has requirements regarding working set for itself. We also strive to do environment. We do this because more than what is expected of us in we believe that a good working enspecific areas. vironment benefits our employees and, ultimately, our clients, candiWe are dedicated to being profesdates and business partners. sional and responsible in all contexts. It is vital to us that we never This means, among other things, compromise our credibility. This that we work hard to secure the means for example that we seek necessary framework for a workdialogue with our business partners place where we thrive and where and suppliers about how they obthere is a work-life balance. serve all laws, act responsibly and comply with applicable standards and conventions. 11 COP Report 2012 LEGISLATION SETTING THE FRAMEWORKS FOCUS 2012 Below we present some examples WORKING ENVIRONMENT CERTIof CSR activities in 2012 relating to FICATION “legislation setting the frameworks”. AS3’s Danish offices have obtained working environment certification TERMS OF EMPLOYMENT and work systematically to continuAS3 is a member of the trade asally improve the working environsociations, the Danish Chamber of ment. Commerce and the Confederation of Danish Employers. Our employThis work includes: ees are covered by the collective • Contingency plans agreement with the trade union HK • Annual workplace risk assessWarehouse and Office. ment and job satisfaction surveys We have prepared the brochure • Risk assessment of the physi“Terms of Employment at AS3 cal and psychological working Companies”, which outlines a numenvironment ber of initiatives that go beyond the • First aid training courses legal requirements. COP Report 2012 12 INCLUSIVENESS At AS3, we hire the person who AS3 is an inclusive company with possesses the personal and proroom for diversity. RECRUITMENT fessional competencies needed to The recruitment of new meet the requirements of the job. We take societal responsibility by employees is based on the We see it as a strength that our being open to people who are outprinciple of “the right person employees have different experiside – or at the risk of being outside for the right job”. ences and a varying range of pro– of the labour market. fessional competencies. In our sickness absence policy, we Thus, in our quest for inclusiveness work actively with the retention we never deprive individuals or the of sick employees. EVERYONE HAS SOMEcompany of the opportunity for THING TO CONTRIBUTE success. Everyone has something to contribute. We think in terms We strive to provide the framework of resources and competenfor a workplace with equal condicies, rather than problems tions in terms of work, well-being and limitations. We believe and development for all, regardless that people can develop if the of gender, age, handicap, ethnic conditions are right. origin, race, religion, sexual orientation or social status. 13 COP Report 2012 INCLUSIVENESS FOCUS 2012 Below we present some examples AS3 participated in JobShadow of CSR activities in 2012 relating to via Aarhus University, which gives “Inclusiveness”. students the opportunity to experience a workday at a workplace. AS3 has 250 employees. In 2012 in Denmark, our staff comprised We contributed to the preparation 66% women and 34% men. We of two study-related assignments. have also employed 10 people in flexible jobs, wage subsidy jobs and In addition, we have employed 26 company internship programmes, students as a supplement to as well as 26 people with reduced their studies. working hours. As a step in the hiring of our office trainee in 2012, we developed a concept for the introduction and training of office trainees at AS3. This also included Mentor Training for those responsible for trainees. COP Report 2012 14 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY At AS3, we focus our environmenOver the years we have taken varital efforts on limiting the direct enous measures to minimise the envivironmental impact of our activities. ronmental impact of our activities. We primarily impact the environThis is also reflected in our purment with the resources we use in chasing policy. our office facilities and through our interaction with each other, our cliWhen appropriate, we use virtual ents and our partners. solutions in the form of “travel-free meetings”. The ability to conduct We strive continuously to promote telephone and video conferences, employee awareness and knowlas well as web meetings with coledge regarding our impact on the leagues in other locations, means environment and climate. We purthat we can reduce our environchase and use supplies and equipmental impact and travel expenses. ment that support a good environment and working environment, and we continuously work to reduce our energy consumption and waste production. 15 COP Report 2012 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY FOCUS 2012 FOCUS ON PAPER CONSUMPTION Skype, which also provide inFOCUS ON FOOD WASTE Our supplier of printed materials creased flexibility. We have minimised our food waste uses FSC certified paper, so all of by measuring food waste after each our Consumption Year new editions of books, magaFOCUS ON ELECTRICITY lunch through close cooperation 2010 134.439 zines and 2011 123.036 2012 88.425 brochures are registered CONSUMPTION with our lunch supplier. with the FSC label. We have installed energy saving 160.000 Consumption light bulbs and energy saving powFOCUS ON IT EQUIPMENT Development in paper consumption 140.000 er strips. A PowerMeter has been As part of our ongoing focus on re134,439 120.000 123,036 developed to record electricity ducing waste in 2012, we sent 400 100.000 80.000 consumption at our various offices. computers and 605 monitors for 88,425 60.000 recycling via a responsible external 40.000 To ensure involvement and business partner, thus exemplifying 20.000 knowledge sharing between locaenvironmental consideration while 0 2010 2011 2012 Year tions, we have set up a blog on our also benefiting others. intranet documenting the PowerWe have seen a significant decline Meter results and raising awareness We have also collected and disin paper consumption, both in about behaviour relating to electricposed of toners in the group via a terms of printer paper and pubity consumption. These blog posts supplier, and we have secured relished materials, due to increased have provided input for a catalogue sponsible disposal of photocopiers electronic communication. At the of ideas that is currently under dein cooperation with a responsible same time, we are increasingly usvelopment. supplier and importer. ing environmentally friendly office supplies. Our PowerMeter measurements have provided a good pool of data OPTIMISING COMMUNICATION to assess 2013 and we can see a deWe minimise the number of physicrease in electricity consumption at cal meetings (air and car travel) by some locations. implementing digital communication solutions, e.g. Webex and COP Report 2012 16 FOCUS IN 2013 Based on this year’s results, an asHUMAN RIGHTS LEGISLATION SETTING THE sessment of the year, and the busiWe will clarify AS3’s stance on FRAMEWORKS ness plans for 2013, we have decihuman rights to improve our CSR Besides that we will always live up to ded to focus our efforts as follows: work and initiatives in the area of the legislation within the work enhuman rights. vironment, it is important for us to GLOBAL COMPACT DILEMMA reach our goals regarding the work GAME Based on AS3’s management code, environment. In 2013, we wish to Based on the Global Compact we will develop and implement a analyse our ability to meet the work Dilemma Game (developed by comprehensive introduction proenvironment goals. KPMG), we have developed quegramme for new managers at AS3. stions relating to AS3’s daily work. During 2013, all of AS3’s manaThe game and these questions are gers in the Nordic countries will be at your disposal as a mean to put trained in AS3’s own management CSR on the agenda. We will also concept, Transition Management focus on identifying other areas Programme; this process is exwhere this can be integrated. pected to be completed in 2013. CHARITY STRATEGY We will develop a strategy for ensuring a more targeted focus in our charity support. The strategy must contribute to the projects we choose to support and preferably should generate knowledge sharing with the business. The strategy will form the basis for how we match projects and support. 17 COP Report 2012 FOCUS IN 2013 INCLUSIVENESS ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBIThere will also be a focus on reduWe continue to work with inclusiveLITY cing paper waste in 2013. ness. In 2013 we will continue to focus on implementing new IT measuWe will specifically look at how we We have a goal of hiring one more res to strengthen and improve our can reduce our paper consumpoffice trainee in 2013 and we will communication platform for the tion in connection with training strive to at least maintain our curbenefit of employees, clients, canmaterials at AS3 Academy. This rent level of employees on special didates and business partners. will include a study of new emploterms. yees’ use of the training materials The PowerMeter project will and the possibility of distributing continue in 2013. This will include training materials on USB memory monthly reports on electricity sticks. consumption at each office in Denmark. During 2013 we will set a goal for reducing our electricity consumption. COP Report 2012 18 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Joined 7 December 2011 Sector: Support Services Number of employees: 250 employees and 300 freelancers Reporting period: 7 December 2011 – 31 December 2012 Submission Date: Sent to the UN Global Compact, 1 March 2013 The report has been published on our website. AS3 Companies Hasselager Centervej 35 DK-8260 Viby J Denmark Phone: +45 8210 0000 www.as3companies.com Fanøgade 15 · 2100 Copenhagen Ø · Denmark · Tel.: +45 46 94 77 00 Hasselager Centervej 35 · 8260 Viby J · Denmark · Tel.:Contact: +45 Regitze Rose E-mail: rr@as3.dk Contact: Lotte Ø. Hougaard E-mail: loh@as3.dk Contact: Anne Mette Kalstrup E-mail: aka@as3.dk
