COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMPANY: UNIMASTERS LOGISTICS PLC COUNTRY: BULGARIA SECTOR: TRANSPORT AND LOGISTICS REPORTING PERIOD: 2012 INTRODUCTION Unimasters Logistics joined the United Nations Global Compact in 2003 and since then we have been fully committed to protecting and supporting human rights, providing high labour standards, implementing environmentally friendly technologies and working against corruption. Since 2006, the company has released its Communication on Progress annually and make it available to all its suppliers, customers, shareholders and other stakeholders, as well as employees on company website. The present report describes our activities in key areas and explains the measures that we have taken in the period August 2012August 2013 to integrate environmental and corporate responsibility into all aspects of our business. For additional information, please visit http://www.unimasters.com STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Dear Stakeholders, Our relentless strife and commitment to the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, have taken our organisation up the leaders’ list and we are now among the best-inclass medium-sized businesses in terms of sustainability and human development. We have become a lot more passionate about preserving our nature and have undertaken series of steps to reduce carbon footprint and energy consumption. Today Unimasters Logistics is a digital, next-generation enterprise, dominated by young knowledge professionals and skilled operators, who care about people and the surrounding environment. We have become leaner and more agile with continuous focus on innovation and re-imagination of our role in serving businesses and society. We shall continue on this road and will keep you posted about our concrete actions to make our wider eco-system safer, better and more sustainable. Yours sincerely, Nikolai Bozhilov Executive Chairman 1|Page HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR STANDARDS Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Business must ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation COMMITMENT: HEALTH & SAFETY POLICY IMPLEMENTATION: The corporate responsibility to respect human rights is of utmost importance for each business enterprise. Because business has the potential to impact virtually all human rights, respecting and protecting human rights is a global standard of expected conduct for every company. Supporting human rights requires making a positive contribution to human rights, to promote or advance human rights through core business activities, strategic social investment, advocacy and public policy engagement, partnership and collective action. Unimasters Logistics upholds that human rights protection is applied in every aspect of its business including employee-employer relationships. We firmly believe that our employees are our most valuable asset irrespective of their race, nationality, sex or religion. We are committed to providing equal opportunities for hiring, training and career development. In the reported period 8 young people who are at the beginning of their professional pursuit in the field of logistics joined the company at junior positions. In our offices and work points we provide safe, healthy and ergonomic working environment. We conduct annual and ad-hoc risk assessment and measurement of working conditions and use them for health and safety activities’ planning and workplace conditions monitoring. During the reported period all required by the law and the good practice “Safety in the Office” trainings and instructions were carried out thus raising the health and safety 2|Page awareness of all our employees. In addition during March-April 2013 we conducted special trainings dedicated to the utilization of safety measures and prevention of health when handling dangerous goods. In order to enhance the monitoring and risk prevention at the workplace we have contracted additional health and safety initiatives with a company, specialized in providing consulting and services in this domain with the main purpose to receive comprehensive professional solutions in all fields related to health and safety at work. At the beginning of 2013 we have successfully replaced our conventional telephone system with an advanced VoIP one. In this way we ameliorated the health conditions in the offices by decreasing the level of noise. In ergonomic aspect the VoIP ensures that employees are keeping the right working position of the body when conducting telephone conversations, gives them easiness of operation and prevents static body postures creating useless tension. Since the beginning of 2013 all employees are covered by additional health insurance which gives them easier and faster access to qualified professional medical services and raises awareness of each one’s health. As a socially responsible employer, Unimasters Logistics protects and takes care of the needs of vulnerable categories – pregnant women, mothers of children aged under 2, handicapped people. Pregnant women and mothers are offered flexible working hours and favorable work conditions. In the reported period, 10% of the women in these categories have had flexible working time. We can proudly declare that during our more than 23-year company history there has been no incident related to human rights abuse or labor standards non-compliance. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies COMMITMENT: ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP is our new company policy for greener and safer PLANET. 3|Page ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY IMPLEMENTATION: As a responsible player on the logistics market in Central & Eastern Europe we are consistently committed to reducing the unfavorable impact on the environment from our transport activities. Becoming a Green Logistics Service Provider by continuously reducing of the carbon footprint in all our operations, is one of Unimasters Logistics ambitions and is enshrined in our Strategy Plan for 2010-2015. During the reported period 100% of our fleet is Euro 5 – compliant. In June 2013 we started a feasibility study for replacing 75% of the fleet on one of our main service lines with new Euro 6 trucks. We have implemented a state-of-the-art transport management software thus enhancing the ability of our central transport management control tower, mentioned in our previous COP, to plan accurately tours of the trucks – both own and managed, which additionally reduced empty running of the fleet and resulted in further reducing company’s carbon print. Energy is saved through new environmental-friendly air –cooled chillers which were installed in our main premises in order to replace the stale machines. We also continue our initiative for waste separation for further recycling. Our offices are equipped with properly marked recycle bins pointing the type of waste. A special attention is paid to hazardous waste – they are handed over to a licensed waste removal service company thus ensuring that their treatment will not cause pollution. We have succeeded to keep low levels of our printing activities through intelligent data capture, including OCR and ICR solutions. In the reported period we have implemented einvoicing in all our branches and subsidiaries and further reduced our carbon footprint and the impact of our business on the environment. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery COMMITMENT: Code of Business Ethics; Corporate Compliance Policy 4|Page IMPLEMENTATION: In our Code of Business Ethics as well as in the Corporate Compliance Policy a special attention is paid to the prevention of corruption. Honesty and integrity are main company values and are constantly communicated with all our employees, suppliers and partners. Bribery or other improper payments are also addressed in both documents. We do not favour any form of offering anything of value to government officials – domestic or foreign in order to obtain a particular result for the company. Unimasters Logistics provides employees with access to all the necessary information, resources and counsel to prevent violations of the laws (domestic and international) or company regulations. Every supervisor must organise their area of responsibility so as to ensure adherence to company rules and applicable law and thus to this Compliance Policy. All employees are required to immediately report any violations of the Compliance Policy and Code of Business Ethics. 5|Page
