annual and corporate responsibility report 2012 Contents Itella in Brief . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 CEO's Review . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Our strategy for the years 2013–2017 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Business groups Itella Mail Communications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Itella Logistics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Itella Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Corporate responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20 Economic responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 Social responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 People responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Environmental responsibility . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32 Stakeholders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 Reporting principles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 Corporate Governance Board of Directors . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 40 Supervisory Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 Executive Board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42 Corporate Governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44 Investor Relations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45 Net sales Operating result* Net sales by Net sales by business group 2012 country 2012 EUR million EUR million 2,000 100 80 1,500 60 1,000 40 500 20 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 0 • Itella Mail Communications 57% • Finland 69% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 • Itella Logistics 30% • Scandinavia 14% *) Non-IFRS = excluding non-recurring items • information 13% Itella • Other countries Russia and the Baltic Countries 12% • 5% • Posti's mobile services are updated – customers Itella's can now take care of an increasing number of • Itella Information and the State Treasury sign a service year postal matters on their cell phones and tablets. • People in Finland agreement with a value in the excess of EUR 8 million. • Heikki Malinen is 2012 • The Finnish Association for Human Resource Manmail 1.5 million Easter cards. The agreement covers transmission services for invoices appointed Itella’s new President and agement HENRY ry and • Itella Information CEO, effective as of Ilmarinen award Itella’s and Silta conclude dispatched by the State for a December 11, 2012. project ”More well-being a transaction with period of seven years. • The Finnish Comthrough interactive and which the payroll ser• Itella Information sells its petition Authority participatory management” vices of Itella Group printing services business in approves the acquiswith their 2011 recognition transfer from Silta to Germany to the company’s ition between Itella for action in the field of HR. Itella Information Oy. operative management. and VR. • january • FEBRUARY • March • april • May • june • july • AUGUST • septe • Itella's bond is listed on the • Itella participates in • Itella and VR Group • Itella and VR sign a Helsinki Stock Exchange the global climate event sign a letter of business purchase maintained by NASDAQ Earth Hour. intent whereby Itella agreement concernOMX Helsinki Oy. • The Ministry of Transport Logistics acquires ing VR Transpoint’s • Itella Bank begins operaand Communications the groupage groupage logistics. tions as a deposit bank. issues its decree on the logistics business • The number of • Itella Posti announces its location of postal outlets. of VR Transpoint in NetPosti users surplan to increase the number • Itella’s Annual General Finland. passes the 400,000 of different kinds of service Meeting re-elects Arto • Itella announces mark. outlets by about 400 in addiHiltunen to chair Itella’s its plan to launch a tion to the current 1,100. Board of Directors; Mauri multi-channel mail • The advance postal ballots Pekkarinen is elected chairdelivery pilot project of the first and second man of the Supervisory in the southwestern • Itella becomes a rounds of the presidential Board. islands of Finland. member of the elections are arranged at • Itella Posti launches a • Itella’s new logistics Climate Partners Posti outlets. new parcel routing service center at Pennala network. • Itella Logistics becomes the which allows consumers to reaches its full first company in Russia to route parcels shipped from height. meet the standards of the online shops to the Posti ISO 14001 environmental outlet of their choice. certificate. Corporate responsibility Itella’s consolidated key figures key figures 2012 2011 2010 2012 2011 2010 Number of Posti service outlets 1,098 1,027 1,066 Net sales, MEUR 1,946.7 1,900.1 1,841.6 Result of the customer satisfaction Operating result (non-IFRS), MEUR *) 53.2 30.5 49.6 survey 3.11 2.81 Operating result (non-IFRS), % *) 2.7 1.6 2.7 Result of the employee satisfaction Operating result (EBIT), MEUR 39.0 -5.9 32.4 survey 3.8 3.7 3.4 Operating result (EBIT), % 2.0 -0.3 1.8 Carbon dioxide emissions/net sales (tonnes) 0.07 0.08 0.08 Result before taxes, MEUR 30.8 -16.4 25.3 Share of Itella employees in funcResult for the period, MEUR 14.1 -30.7 9.3 tions covered by the ISO 14001 EMS 72% 70% 65% Return on equity, %, 12 months 2.1 -4.5 1.4 Return on investment, %, 12 months 4.8 -0.2 4.2 Equity ratio, % 46.4 46.1 50.5 Gearing, % 23.4 22.1 18.4 Gross capital expenditure, MEUR 134.7 102.9 89.5 Employees on average 27,460 28,493 28,916 Dividends, MEUR 6.8,**) 4.4 *) Non-IFRS = excluding non-recurring items • The acquisition **) Board proposal between Itella and VR is brought to its conclusion. • Advance postal voting in the municipal elections is arranged at Posti outlets. • Itella joins Diversity Charter Finland. 11 countries Mber • october • NOVEMBER • deceMber of operation • Itella Information • Online shopping survey: Financial breaks sales records. management prac• President and CEO • Finland tices under transJukka Alho retires • Russia formation – autoand Heikki Malinen • Sweden mated and electronic succeeds him as the • Norway procedures already new President and • Denmark more commonplace CEO. • Estonia than manual work. • Itella Bank’s • Latvia • The Christmas mail electronic services • Lithuania season begins and become available. • Poland a record 3,400 • The number of Christ• Germany seasonal helpers are mas parcels reaches • Slovakia hired. record highs once again. Itella in Brief We are a service provider specialized in handling our customers’ important information and product flows. We provide corporate customers with solutions they can use to make their business more effective and improve their competitiveness. Our key mission in Finland is to provide premium mail services to everyone across the country. All in all, we have a presence in 11 countries. Some 96 percent of our net sales derive from businesses and organizations. Our key customer industries include the media, and the trade and services industries. International business accounts for roughly a third of our net sales. In 2012, our net sales amounted to EUR 1,946.7 million, and we employed about 27,500 professionals. Our background is solid: the State of Finland owns all of the company’s shares. ”Our employees possess a strong desire Itella Corporation • Annual Report 2012 and ambition to serve customers well. We are doing our best to fulfil our customer promise.” Heikki Malinen, CEO 1 President and CEO's Review Itella’s Business Developed Positively Like so many other businesses in various sectors, Itella too faced financial challenges during the past fiscal year. Our business environment is in the middle of an accelerating transition and we need to build our future with this change in mind. After a promising first quarter, the Finnish economy slipped onto a downward trend during late spring and early summer. Itella’s net sales also developed positively during the first half of the year. But the growth slowed down considerably towards the end of the year, in line with the overall trend in economic activity. The trend of development in Itella’s business as a whole was largely positive. Viewed against the backdrop of general economic uncertainty, Itella’s results can be considered reasonable. We began to see the positive impact on profits of the EUR 100 million cost-cutting program that we initiated in 2011. These measures have allowed us to mitigate the impact of declining volumes in traditional postal traffic in the short term. Although the company’s profitability is yet to achieve targeted levels, the improvement in comparison to the previous year’s level was significant. What is noteworthy is that Itella’s cash flow and solvency have remained at a good level. The transaction between Itella Logistics and VR Group, through which Itella Logistics acquired VR Transpoint’s groupage logistics business in Finland, was one of the most important events of 2012. The acquisition increased Itella’s net sales by about EUR 130 million, in addition to which a little over 800 VR employees transferred to Itella. This transaction between two strong industry operators means that Itella’s customers now have at their disposal the widest net2 work of terminals and the most comprehensive transportation Our goal for 2012 was to reduce the energy consumption of capacity in Finland. We now have the capacity to offer increasingly Itella’s properties in Finland by two percent in terms of electriwide-ranging and cost-effective logistics services in Finland. city and three percent in terms of heat, in comparison to the year before. These goals were exceeded by far; our cuts in the conOnline commerce and Russia provide us sumption of electricity amounted to more than three percent and with business opportunities in the consumption of heat, nearly seven percent. Online commerce volumes continue to grow robustly. Consumers’ increasing desire to buy products online provides Itella with sigWe will continue to improve quality and flexibility nificant opportunities for growth in the future. Itella is responding I began my work at Itella at the beginning of November 2012. to the growing demand by, among other things, expanding its netDuring my first few months, I have toured the company’s offices work of automatic parcel terminals in Finland. and outlets extensively, getting to know its employees, customGrowing demand in Russia is also generating profitable busiers, and stakeholders. Based on this short experience, I can say ness for Itella. Itella is an important service provider in the field that Itella’s employees possess a strong desire and ambition to of warehouse logistics, particularly in the Moscow area. In 2012, serve their customers well. Letters and parcels get delivered, often our volumes and warehouse fill rates developed positively – a fact under tight schedules and tough circumstances. We are doing our evident in the solid increase in net sales. best to fulfil our customer promise while paying attention to occupational safety. Employee satisfaction improved During 2013, we will focus, in particular, on the efficient comCorporate responsibility has been a cornerstone in our operations pletion of our ongoing projects. A good example of such are what throughout our lengthy history and, once again, we were able to we refer to as the LEAN projects, where different employee groups make significant headway on this front during the past year. In get together to find ways to increase operational efficiency and September, we became a member of the Climate Partners netimprove quality. Itella Corporation • Annual Report 2012 work, and in October we joined Diversity Charter Finland. I wish to thank Itella’s entire personnel, who have worked very Once again we also conducted our annual employee satisfachard to keep Itella's development on a positive track. I also wish tion survey, the results of which indicated that employee satisfacto express my gratitude for the past year to all of Itella’s customers tion has developed positively. Overall job satisfaction rates were and partners. In conclusion, I would like to extend my gratitude higher than the year before. Some 66 percent of our employees to my predecessor Jukka Alho, who ran Itella successfully for over participated in the survey in 2012, whereas the equivalent per12 years. centage in 2011 was 58. In October, Itella Logistics became one of the first Finnish companies to start using next-generation electric vans. Electric vans move Heikki Malinen silently and are zero-emission vehicles. An essential goal of Itella’s President and CEO environmental scheme is to decrease carbon dioxide emissions by 30 percent by 2020 (compared to 2007, in relation to turnover). 3 4 Our operations are based on sustainable Itella Corporation • Annual Report 2012 development 5 Our strategy for the years 2013–2017 The strategy we updated throughout the past year sums up the Smart Use of IT starting points of our operations and our future direction, shared Information technology and software competence allow us to by all three of our business groups as well as Itella Bank and Group provide our customers with increasingly sophisticated solutions. operations. IT also holds a key position in improving Itella's own efficiency and In line with our strategy, we manage our customers’ informaservice capacity. tion and product flows efficiently, and our operations are based on sustainable development. Our vision is to become a top European Continuous increase of efficiency company in postal, logistics and financial transaction process serThe objective of the three-year cost-cutting program underway vices. in the entire Group is to help Itella get through the fundamental The improvement of profitability remains the focal point changes its industry is facing as a result of the digitization of comthroughout our entire organization. In 2013, we will pay increased munications. The cost-cutting program was launched in 2011. It attention to the effective implementation of our strategy. The includes a range of means, and involves all of our business units means by which we intend to accomplish this are the following: in all countries of operation. High Value Solutions Our financial goals are We will make our customer-driven approach a competitive advant• to increase our net sales by more than 5 percent on average age. This requires the continuous development of our range of serper annum, and vices and direct customer service. • to attain an operating profit in excess of 5.5 percent. Professional skills and leadership Our strategy for the years 2013–2017 is summarized in the followItella’s skilled professionals put our strategy into practice. For ing strategy house: them to develop and succeed, supervisory work and other management and leadership skills require development too. Satisfied Customer Itella is the European benchmark in postal, logistics VisioN 2017 and financial transaction process services TARGET To grow profitably in Europe and in Russia COMPETITIVE Knowing customer Smart use STRATEGY processes of IT Taking care of our customers' information and product flows in a sustainable manner MISSION Succeeding with Driving for improvement Taking Winning VALUES the Customer and innovation Responsibility Together 6 Our values Taking responsibility Our jointly selected values form the foundation of everything we • We commit to our decisions and put them into practice do. Our values unite us, define us in our capacity as Itella employ• We stick to the commitments we have undertaken so that we ees, and guide us in our day-to-day choices and work. They also can fulfil our customer promises reflect the kind of company Itella is, and the direction of its devel• Our operations are based on reliability opment. Together we can succeed and achieve our goals. • We take care of our employees, the environment, and our surrounding communities Succeeding with the customer • Our operations produce added value for our customers Winning together • We offer services and solutions on the basis of our sound • We cooperate to reach our shared goals knowledge of our customers' needs and business operations • We exchange information and good practices • We serve our customers as one Itella throughout the service • We work together and value one another chain • We are proud of Itella and what we do • We operate close to our customers Our vision Driving for improvement and innovations Itella is the European benchmark in postal, logistics and financial • We are open to changes and development transaction process services. • We make use of our strengths and look for ideas that improve profitability Our mission • We learn and grow continuously, both as individuals and as a Taking care of our customers' information and product flows in a company sustainable manner. • We carry out changes determinedly and communicate openly, learn from our past experiences and adapt our operations when necessary Itella Corporation • Annual Report 2012 7 8 Our goal is a satisfied customer 9 Itella Corporation • Annual Report 2012 Itella Mail Communications Financial indicators 2012 Services Vision Net sales • Letter, publication, and direct mail delivery Consumer preferred and undisputed market leader of EUR million solutions Finnish e-commerce, mail, press and direct marketing 1,200 • Domestic and international parcel services services 1,000 • Posti shops, postal agency shops, pickup out800 lets, and automatic parcel terminals Mission • Comprehensive solutions for online commerce To create unique value to customers and the Finnish 600 • Electronic postal services, Netposti society by services for delivering goods & information 400 • Online tools for marketing communications 200 • Analysis, target group, and address register Financial indicators correction services 0 • approximately 11 million postal shipments 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 a day Countries of operation • Net sales EUR 1,167.6 million • 3 billion shipments a year • Finland • nearly 7,000 delivery routes • Operating result (non-IFRS)* EUR 74.0 million • Estonia • 68 million kilometers traveled in relation to • Operating result EUR 74.0 million • Russia postal deliveries every year • Personnel on December 31, 2012: 17,844 *) Non-IFRS = excluding non-recurring items We provide daily postal services throughout Finland via lion parcels passed through our network. The pace of growth in unaddressed Itella Posti Oy. All in all, Posti’s network of service outlets direct marketing also accelerated, and our market share increased in spite of encompasses some 1 100 outlets. Multi-channel services tough competition. The numbers of addressed letters continued to decline – and electronic means of doing business are our response a trend partly visible in the increasing volumes of electronic letters too. The to the changing needs of our customers. For companies volumes of newspaper and magazine deliveries also decreased in comparison in Finland and Russia, we provide targeted marketing to the year before. solutions with which they can reach their customers successfully. Electronic services make life easier Our mobile services were updated, and an increasing amount of postal busiCustomers expect Posti to be flexible and to provide them with new kinds of ness can now be taken care of using a cell phone or a tablet computer. Among services. As people’s habits in terms of time consumption and mobility are other features, the services allow customers to search for postal codes, check changing, and electronic service channels and online shops are growing more the location of the nearest postal outlet, letterbox, or parcel terminal, and to popular, some 80 percent of postal business already consists of parcel pickups. track their own shipments. Indeed, the growth in online shopping, and consequently, parcel volumes, Our webpages saw the launch of the new Mail Assistant and Well-Wisher’s continued to be robust throughout the year. This was evident just before Address Book services. The Mail Assistant finds the best mailing solution for Christmas, for example, when the volumes of parcels once again rose to record letters and parcels, on the basis of the customer’s preferences. The free Wellhighs. Week 50 represented an all-time record week, during which nearly a milWisher’s Address Book online service includes an electronic address book 10 which makes it easier to remember the important days of friends Our new Mail Assistant service finds the best and family. mailing solution for In the autumn, we started a pilot project on the electronic delivletters and parcels, ery of mail in the islands of southwestern Finland. This enables based on the customer's preferences. subscribers in the islands to read their newspapers at the same time as the print versions are being delivered to subscribers on the mainland. We also opened up a new type of self-service outlet that enables QR shopping at the Tervaskangas area in Kouvola. This provided consumers with an entirely new way to order and pay for products with the help of a smartphone and a QR code. Flexibility and options increased thanks to the new parcel routing service as well. Parcel routing is a nationwide service which allows customers to route parcels ordered from online shops to the Posti outlet of their choice. The service is free of charge and operation a total of one hundred new automatic parcel terminals available online, on Posti’s website. and pickup outlets. The new outlets constitute part of the overhaul The electronic mailbox we offer is already commonplace – with concerning Posti’s network of service outlets. Our plans include the robust growth in the number of Netposti users, their numbers raising the number of the various types of outlets – currently numsurpassed the 400,000 mark in August. A year earlier, the number bering 1,100 – by some 400 new outlets by 2016, when the total of users stood at 300,000. number of Posti’s outlets should approach the figure of 1,500. Since 2011, all of the products in our delivery range have been In addition to full-service Posti shops, parcel terminals, pickup Itella Green products, carbon-neutral deliveries with no extra outlets, and business-customer outlets, our customers have at charge. This makes us the world’s first carbon-neutral postal sertheir disposal approximately 3,500 stamp retail locations, roughly vices provider. 7,000 letterboxes, home-delivery services, and the electronic mailbox, Netposti. A hundred new outlets The cooperation agreement we entered into with the The reform concerning Posti’s network of service outlets and the Uusikaupunki federation of entrepreneurs gathers postal services, increase in the number of the outlets form a part of our response the city’s Passari joint service point, the entrepreneurs’ service Itella Corporation • Annual Report 2012 to customers’ expectations of flexibility. The year saw us put into desk, the city’s waste information center, the city administrative Deliveries in total Addressed letters Parcels and transport units Netposti's electronic letters in millions in millions in millions in millions 3,000 1,200 30 12 2,500 1,000 25 10 2,000 800 20 8 1,500 600 15 6 1,000 400 10 4 500 200 5 2 0 0 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 11 court, and a select range of city services all under the same roof. This multi-service outlet is the first one of its kind. It will be opened during 2013. Our cooperation agreement with Kesko will bring parcel terminals to all present and future K-citymarkets by the end of 2013. Furthermore, our agreement with R-kioski expands our network of service outlets by nearly 300 Posti pickup outlets that operate in connection with R-kiosks. The cooperation agreement between Itella and S Group will bring up to 350 Posti parcel terminals into the commercial premises of S Group. The shipment of parcels between Finland and Estonia also became increasingly easy in the spring, when we introduced automated parcel traffic services between the countries. Added value For over 40 years, Posti has served as a familiar and trustworthy place to cast a ballot. During the past year, our postal outlets through innovation served as advance postal voting locations in both presidential and municipal elections. Nearly 1.4 million citizens eligible to vote in the presidential elections cast an advance vote. ”Innovation is important to Itella and one of the essential requirements of business continuity. An idea becomes an innovation Subscription magazines Unaddressed direct marketing and newspapers when it is put into practice. Innovations can be new services, serin millions in millions vice features, practices, software tools, organizational models, 600 1,200 or reward systems. Innovations come in large and small sizes, all 500 1,000 of which are equally important. We reward the best innovations 400 800 every year in Itella’s own InnoMoves competition. 300 600 In the 2012 competition, Itella Information came first. Their 200 400 team built a customer of the financial management and payroll 200 100 services an HR application and an interpretation solution for 0 0 collective agreements that supports payroll services. The ser2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 vice replaces the customer’s current HR system and produces • Newspapers • Magazines irrefutable added value related to the payroll process.” Consumers registered in Netposti in thousands Joni Pitkäranta 500 Development Manager 400 Itella Innovations 300 200 100 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 12 Itella Logistics Financial indicators 2012 Services Vision Net Sales • International road, air, and sea freight, and Regional top performer in service logistics EUR million customs clearance and forwarding services 1,000 • Domestic transport Mission 800 • Warehousing and contract logistics We offer logistics to create customer, personnel • Logistics’ IT systems and shareholder value. 600 400 Countries of operation Financial indicators 200 • Denmark • 45 service warehouses and terminals • Estonia 0 • combined area of warehouses totals 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 • Finland nearly a million square meters • Latvia • 780,000 international freight shipments • Net sales EUR 781.5 million • Lithuania • Operating result (non-IFRS)* EUR -12.0 million • Norway • Operating result EUR -9.5 million • Russia • Personnel on December 31, 2012: 7,391 • Sweden *) Non-IFRS = excluding non-recurring items We support and promote the development of our customers’ In May, Itella and VR Group signed a letter of intent whereby Itella Logistics business by providing service logistics solutions for road, acquired the groupage logistics of VR Transpoint in Finland. The deed was sea, and air freight as well as for warehousing and contract signed in July, and the transaction was carried out at the beginning of Octologistics. We provide logistics solutions in eight countries ber, when VR Transpoint’s groupage logistics and PT Logistiikka Oy were transacross Northern Europe and Russia. Our partnership networks ferred to Itella. Itella Corporation • Annual Report 2012 allow us to offer services on a global scale. The acquisition increased our net sales by about EUR 130 million, in addition to which a little over 800 employees of VR transferred to Itella. The goal of the combination was to eliminate the overlap in operations. The acquisition allows us to offer increasingly wide-ranging and cost-effective logistics services, in addition to which we now have an increasingly strong market position in the Finnish groupage logistics sector. The acquisition also enables us to build a business platform that will serve as a foundation for industry consolidation. 13 Our most sizable investment – the new 77,000-square-meter logistics center in Pennala, Orimattila – topped out in May. At over 500 meters in length and 120 meters in width, the size of the logistics center is equal to 10 soccer fields. The opening ceremonies of Pennala 2 were held at the beginning of January 2013. The entire property will be completed in the summer of 2013, when the space available for our customers at Pennala will total more than 100,000 square meters. Accounting for the environmental impact of our operations We offer our customers the best quality while being mindful of the environmental impact of our operations. In early 2012, we expanded the ISO 9001 quality management system and ISO 14001 environmental standard to new locations in three countries. We met the criteria for the first environmental certificate issued in Russia. All in all, the quality and environmental certificates issued to Our most sizable investment – the new 77,000-square-meter logistics Itella Logistics cover more than 30 locations in seven countries of center in Pennala, Orimattila – topped out in May. operation: Latvia, Lithuania, Norway, Finland, Denmark, Russia, and Estonia. Freight volumes in Finland 2012 Service warehouse capacity International freight in thousands 1,000 sq.m. in thousands 300 1,000 1,000 250 800 800 200 600 600 150 400 400 100 200 200 50 0 0 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 • The domestic freight business of Itella Logistics • The groupage logistics business transferred to Itella Logistics due to the VR Transpoint transaction 14 As the largest transport and delivery company in Finland, we play a major role in the development of eco-friendly transportation systems. Our delivery and transport fleet includes more than 4,000 vehicles. In October, we became one of the first Finnish companies to take next-generation electric vans into use. In addition to being noise-free, the first industrially produced Mercedes-Benz Vito E-CELL electric vans do not produce any carbon dioxide emissions. A consolidated warehouse management system and increasingly efficient groupage transports At the beginning of the year, we launched a renewal project during which we will consolidate our current warehouse management 6,500 kilos less systems into a single system. The renewal is based on our desire to provide our customers with services of the highest quality. The carbon dioxide emissions leading system in the industry will be introduced to our warehouses in Finland over the next two years. In May and June, Itella carried out its cycling campaign “Hop on Your We increased our operational efficiency in several locations Bike”. Some 200 cyclists joined the four-week campaign, during which over the year. Reorganizations in Sweden and Denmark led to they cycled a total of approximately 46,000 kilometers. On average, personnel reductions concerning 44 people. The VR Transpoint every participant cycled more than 60 kilometers in a week. When comacquisition resulted in overlap within the organization, due to pared to use of the participants’ cars, the cycling reduced carbon dioxItella Corporation • Annual Report 2012 which we were forced to initiate statutory labor negotiations to ide emissions by 6,500 kilos during the campaign. increase the efficiency of administrative work and support func”I commute from Espoo to Pohjois-Pasila, Helsinki, on my bicycle tions. In Finland, the negotiations led to personnel reductions conevery day in the summertime. The distance is 11 kilometers and it cerning 24 full-time employees. only takes me about 30 minutes. In addition to being the ecological alternative, the benefits of cycling include fresh air and the fact that the exercise is invigorating for the entire day. With proper gear, cycling is possible in all weathers. The single most important piece of equipment is definitely the helmet.” Maiju Fernelius Development Manager Itella Mail Communications 15 Itella Information Financial indicators 2012 Services Vision Net sales • Printing services Number 1 value provider in financial processes in Europe EUR million • E-invoicing operator 300 • Comprehensive outsourcing of financial Mission 250 management Optimizing financial transactional processes • Cash-flow automation 200 • Electronification of order-supply chains 150 Financial indicators 100 • 140 million electronic transactions per year Countries of operation • 10,000 customers 50 • Denmark • Sweden • more than 30 million processed invoices 0 • Estonia • Presence almost every year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 • Finland everywhere in • Software users in over 50 countries • Germany Europe and North • Net sales EUR 270.1 million • Latvia America through • Operating result (non-IFRS)* EUR 15.6 million • Lithuania the partnership • Operating result EUR -1.1 million • Norway network • Personnel on December 31, 2012: 2,168 • Poland *) Non-IFRS = excluding non-recurring items • Slovakia We increase the efficiency of financial management processes The most frequent users of electronic invoices are 25-to–34-year-olds, clerical and improve the overall profitability of financial management. workers, and high-income individuals. Factors such as ease of use and envirOur solutions are based on productized best practices. Itella onmental concerns also impact decisions to adopt electronic invoices, as do Information operates in ten European countries. We are the banks’ offers displayed in online banking services and branch offices. industry’s largest operator in the Nordic countries. We make good use of our own financial process competence Significant market trends identified during the year included the importance We bought Itella’s payroll services from Silta Oy and transferred these operaof managing working capital, risk management, the trade imbalance, and the tions to Itella Information on January 1, 2013. Given that our Alligator concept aging of the population. All of these trends enable our growth. is the most extensive financial process service package in its industry, transWe are promoting the spread of electronic invoicing in Europe. According to ferring payroll services under our own control was sensible. As a result of the estimates, more than half of invoices sent to consumers will be electronic by Silta transaction, 40 employees transferred from Silta to Itella. 2020; in other sectors, the 50 percent threshold will be crossed as early as in In the summer, the operational management of Itella Information in Ger2017. The experiences we have collected from different parts of Europe clearly many bought Itella’s local printing business from Itella. The new company, indicate the reality of the change. which goes by the name docsellent GmbH, will be Itella’s printing partner in According to a study we conducted during the past year, the principal reasGermany. As a result of the transaction, which was carried out as a manageons for the initial acceptance of electronic invoices are the additional charges ment buyout, some 100 people transferred from Itella to docsellent GmbH. set on paper invoices and electronic invoices being the only available option. The underlying causes of the deal were the previously recognized need for 16 Itella Bank change in the German print business as well as the Sales invoices (outbound documents) fact that the printing business, in general, is a highly in millions local business. Different countries have strictly 2,500 150 defined production requirements, meaning that dif2,000 120 We began operations as a deposit and ferentiation and the delivery of added value is easier clearing bank at the beginning of 2012. 1,500 90 through an international partnership network. Our On August 31, 2011, the Financial Superremaining offices in Germany are located in Hanover 1,000 60 visory Authority granted us a deposit bank and Halle (Saale), and they employ approximately 500 30 license pursuant to the Credit Institutions 120 financial management experts and production Act. In 2012, we focused on offering our 0 0 workers. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 new services to business enterprises. • Physical • Electronic The principal agents of change in our We support our customers in invoicing services business environment during the past Purchase invoices In April, we made an agreement on the renewal of (inbound documents) year included the development of SEPA the invoicing services of A-lehdet. A-lehdet, which is in millions (the Single Euro Payments Area), the digit30 12 Finland’s third-largest magazine publishing house, ization of services enabled by the general 25 10 is in the process of renewing the subscription sysadvancements in technology, and the tem of its consumer sales division. We are improv20 8 growth of online commerce. ing the company’s invoicing department’s customer 15 6 The consumers’ e-invoice market communications with a multi-channel solution that 10 4 developed rather slowly throughout the simultaneously promotes the marketing and sales of 5 2 year – a fact also evident in the use of magazines. The goal of the new subscription system 0 0 our e-invoice service. In B2B invoicing, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 for consumer sales is to increase the efficiency of the share of electronic invoices continued processes while strengthening a customer-oriented • Physical • Electronic to grow. The growth of online commerce approach and flexibility. Alligator-transactions remained robust, and interest in new delivIn June, we signed a significant service agreement ery and payment services increased. in millions 1,000 with the State Treasury. The service agreement cov5 500 Towards the end of the year we launched ers the transmission of invoices dispatched by the services directed at companies and organ4 400 State of Finland. The agreement’s importance for us izations: The banking services package for Itella Corporation • Annual Report 2012 lies not only its monetary value (EUR 8 million), but 3 300 small and medium-sized enterprises as also in its term which – at seven years – is longer 2 200 part of Itella Network, a new cash-on-dethan before. For the State Treasury, the agreement livery service, direct debit migration, 1 100 means the smooth continuation of the electronificand a new payment method for franking ation of the State’s invoice transmissions which, in 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 0 machines. In line with our business plan, turn, translates into operational and financial savthe development of new services will con• Accounts receivable • Accounts payable ings. The ultimate beneficiary is the Finnish taxpayer. • Payroll tinue throughout 2013 too. In Finland, we increased the efficiency of operations by way of statutory labor negotiations in the e-Services business unit. The negotiations – held for the purposes of reorganization requirements – specified the need for personnel reductions to include 14 persons. 17 We produce services required by 18 society 19 Itella Corporation • Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Our corporate responsibility Our principal mission is to produce services Our corporate responsibility activities form an integral part of our required by society by taking care of our customers’ strategy, and the essential areas of such activity and the attendimportant information and product flows. Corporant commitments — such as the UN’s Global Compact principles ate responsibility has been the cornerstone of our — are defined in our Corporate Responsibility Principles. We also activities throughout our long history. We want to be require the Group’s partners to comply with equivalent, ethically part of development that leads us to a sustainable sustainable principles. The Employee Code of Conduct determines future. the procedures we expect from our own personnel. We divide our corporate responsibility into four areas: economic, social, People, and environmental responsibility. We have specified both short-term and long-term goals regarding corporate Financial responsibility Itella wants to grow profitably Social responsibility because only a financially sound company can realize its responsItella's well-functioning, effective ibility towards society, its perinfrastructure provides all sonnel and the environment customer groups with reliable and all the stakeholders. services and enables the implementation of social responsibility. Environmental responsibility Itella helps its customers and society at large to reduce People responsibility environmental loads. Itella Itella wants to be the best is world’s first carbon neutral employer in its sector and to mail service provider. follow shared values in all of its operations. 20 responsibility. During the past year, we determined key indicators mate. In the Group’s Executive Board, corporate responsibility is for each corporate responsibility area. These indicators help us to the responsibility of Itella’s Vice President in charge of communicmonitor development in the areas in question. The indicators are ations, marketing, and strategic sales. We report the key indicators described in the table below. related to the corporate responsibility areas to the Group’s Board of Directors twice a year. Corporate responsibility management More detailed descriptions of the management of the various Our corporate responsibility activities constitute a part of the areas of corporate responsibility can be found on our webpages at Group’s routine management, and that management is based on www.itella.fi/vuosikertomus2012. our shared values. Good management and leadership support the attainment of the company’s goals and foster a positive work cliArea of corporate Realized in Target in responsibility Indicator Description 2012 2016 Financial Operating result Operating result as a percentage of net sales. The operating 2.70% 5.50% Itella Corporation • Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 responsibility (non-IFRS), %*) result equals the result reported in the income statement after the deduction of all expenses and depreciation and amortization, but before the deduction of financial items and taxes. Social Number of The indicator applies solely to the operations of Itella Posti 1,098 1,500 responsibility postal outlets Oy. The number of postal outlets and shops includes the and shops outlets maintained by Itella Posti Oy, joint service outlets, and postal agency shops that operate in conjunction with external enterprises. Customer The indicator applies solely to the operations of Itella Posti 3.11 3.21 satisfaction Oy. Customer satisfaction refers to the results of the customer satisfaction survey conducted in Finland by Itella Posti, on a scale of one to five. People Personnel The results of the annual employee survey on a scale of one 3.78 responsibility satisfaction to five. Environmental Carbon dioxide The primary goal of Itella's environmental program was to -26% -20% responsibility emissions reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 10 percent by 2012. The goal now is to reduce them by 30 percent by 2020 (compared to 2007; emissions in relation net sales). *) Non-IFRS = excluding non-recurring items 21 We increased the number of service outlets and developed our sourcing operations Corporate-responsibility-related trends identified during the past Our business opportunities present themselves by way of, for year included the number of postal outlets and the acceleration instance, growth in electronic services that reduce environmental of the increase in electronic mail, which is replacing traditional loads. Customers are also more likely to choose to do business letters. The most notable research and development projects carwith a company that is aware of its responsibilities and operates ried out during the year were based on the aforementioned trends. according to ethical principles. By using the carbon-neutral Itella These projects are described in more detail in the section discussGreen products, our customers can cut carbon dioxide emissions ing financial responsibility. in the processes of their supply chain and also communicate to their customers that their operations are environmentally sound. We identified the following corporate responsibility risks during the past year: the unauthorized disclosure or leakage of confidential information, accidents that lead to serious environmental damage, corruption as well as other culture-related risks, and outsourcing to countries with lower production costs. Transparency for sourcing chains We made significant investments in the development of our sourcing operations during the past year. All in all, we employ the services of some 16,000 suppliers. Therefore, our service providers and contractors play an important role in terms of our goals related to sustainable development. Subcontracted transportation accounts for the majority of our sourcing. Sourcing also plays a leading role in terms of improving our profitability. We want to operate as transparently and ethically as possible in our sourcing activities, and eliminate all risks related to them. We expect all of our service providers and suppliers to comply with ethically sustainable practices. We have also defined such practices in our Supplier Code of Conduct. In addition to legality, the Code of Conduct includes principles related to corruption, Our plans include raishuman rights, child labor, discrimination, working conditions, and ing the number of the various types of outlets environmental concerns. currently numbering 1,100 by some 400 new outlets by 2016. 22 Focal areas of corporate responsibility Our corporate responsibility reporting is based on the guidelines of holders. In 2010, we carried out an extensive survey among our the Global Reporting Initiative. We apply the guidelines in accordstakeholders, on the basis of which we determined the issues that ance with Application Level B+. The past year, 2012, was the first were to be reported. This materiality determination was updated one during which we commissioned verification of the environmental in the autumn of 2012 in the form of an internal survey. The surresponsibility data to be published for the year and an audit of the vey’s objective was to evaluate the importance of various issues GRI level. The GRI level has been audited since 2010. The verificain terms of both Itella’s success as well as its stakeholders. The tion and audit were carried out by PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy (PwC). survey’s results are shown in the table below. The external survey The GRI table and PwC’s verification are available at www.itella.com/ conducted among stakeholders will be carried out and updated on annualreport2012. The data is reported on an annual basis, and the the basis of the results of the internal survey during 2013. reporting period is January 1 – December 31. In line with the GRI guidelines, our corporate responsibility reporting focuses on issues relevant to our operations and stakeMateriality in terms of Itella’s success Materiality from the perspective of stakeholders Financial Itella Corporation • Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 responsibility Financially sound and Corporate governance profitable operations Social responsibility The The reliability and Information reliability and Information Countering security security modernity of modernity of The extent and bribery and services services availability of corruption in all Privacy Privacy the service-outlet countries of protection protection network operation People responsibility Responsible manThe free realization of The promotion of gender agement and supervisory unionism in all countries of equality work operation Environmental responsibility Efficient transportation Efficient transportation 23 Financial Services and goods provided to business customers generate approximately 96 percent of our net sales. Key customer industries responsibility include the media, trade, and services. International business accounts for a third of all net sales. We are a state-owned company that operates on market terms, and everything we do is based on the earnings we receive from our customers. Approximately 50 percent of our operations relate to postal services. The rest consist of logistics and financial manageItella wants to grow profitably because only a financially sound comment services provided to business customers. pany can implement its responsibility in terms of society, the staff, The general economic uncertainty prevailed throughout the the environment, and all stakeholder groups. We plan our finances past year – a fact also reflected on our business. After a promising from a long-term perspective, anticipating changes in the market, first quarter, the Finnish economy slipped onto a downward trend customer demands, and risk scenarios both in Finland and abroad. during late spring and early summer. The economic uncertainty We implement our financial responsibility by renewing our looks set to continue in 2013, meaning that we need to commit to business operations and improving our profitability in accordance continuous activity to maintain the positive momentum. with our strategy, and by supporting the competitiveness of our Our financial goal is to increase our net sales with an average customer companies and the public sector. The economic impact annual rate in excess of five percent and to achieve a operating of our operations is comparable to those of the banking and teleprofit in excess of 5.5 percent. communications sectors since, in addition to consumers, our services are employed by hundreds of thousands of private and Active R&D operations related to services public sector operators every day. Our research and development costs totaled EUR 15.2 million, or 0.8 percent of the Group’s operating costs, in 2012. In Itella Mail Communications, research focused on the increasing popularity of social media and the effect that this has on the demand for postal services, as well as on the significance of communality in terms of the development of print and electronic media and from the perspective of readers, journalists, and advertisers alike. In addition, we studied the advancement of the electronification of consumer invoices and the factors that have a bearing on such development, the structure and electronification of letter traffic, the importance of online shops as a channel for buying Christmas gifts, and the trends in subscriber activity regarding newspapers and magazines in the next few years. We continued the development of online services offered to small and mediWe are involved in enabling recreational um-sized companies as well as consumers, and introduced new activity in the sectors features to web-based marketing services. We renewed our post of sports and culture, box services and simultaneously adopted an entirely new system and we support the top talent in both fields on to produce and manage such services. their way to international We also want to develop our services by asking consumers to success. provide us with tips and ideas about the kinds of services they 24 wish Posti would offer or on how they would develop the services The geographical of Posti. For such purposes, we set up Ideaposti, which is an online distribution of our service designed for consumer customers. The service works in employees in Finland two directions: on the one hand, consumers may post their own on December 31, 2012 ideas there and comment on or offer further development ideas on the ideas posted by their fellow consumers; on the other hand, Our Group’s operations span the entire the service provides Posti with an avenue through which to test its country, and we are an important Lapland own development ideas. The users of the service therefore have a employer in Finland. In addition to 504 providing employment, our operations chance to evaluate improvements planned by Posti before they are generate well-being in and tax revenue even put into practice. for Finland. Itella Logistics invested in a new warehouse management system and freight operating system with the objective of increasing Northern the efficiency of its operations. After VR Transpoint’s groupage Ostrobothnia logistics and PT Logistiikka became a part of Itella Logistics, we and Kainuu 1,447 also continued to develop the optimization and transport manageOstrobothnia, ment systems of the domestic transport business. Southern and Itella Information studied the global spread of electronic Central Ostrobothnia North Karelia invoicing among both consumers and businesses. We also invesand Northern 1,648 ted in assessing the rate of automation within financial processes Central Finland, Savonia across different European countries. We continued the development Pirkanmaa, 1,421 Päijänne Tavastia of the OpusCapita products —designed for the automation of cash and flows — by introducing new mobile and cloud service solutions to Tavastia Proper 3,987 South Karelia the market and by further investment in the user friendliness of the and Southern Itella Corporation • Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 products. Finland Proper Savonia 814 and Satakunta We also engaged in continuous development work in Itella 2,355 Bank, the subsidiary which began its operations during the past Uusimaa and year. Itella Bank specializes in the transmission of payments and Kymenlaakso invoice data, particularly in relation to online commerce, parcel 9,643 services, and other postal business. We improved the quality of our risk management process We have a comprehensive approach to risk management. In 2012, we focused particularly on the continuing improvement of the quality and extent of our risk management process. The Group’s We comply with the International Financial Reporting Standards key strategic risks involve the markets, the business environment, Our financial reporting complies with the International Financial the ability of business operations to develop, and regulation. Reporting Standards. As an issuer of two publicly listed bonds, we The principal operational risks, on the other hand, involve first are obligated to disclose periodic information to a limited extent. and foremost the profitability of business operations, as well as Our disclosure obligation is based on the Finnish Securities Marbusiness interruptions and other disruptive risks. A more detailed ket Act and the rules and regulations of NASDAQ OMX Helsinki Oy. description of the aforementioned risks is available in the Board A more detailed description of our financial reporting policies is of Directors’ Report. available on our webpages at www.itella.com/financials. 25 In connection with our financial statements, we also publish and we support top athletes and performers on their way to interour Corporate Governance Statement, referred to in Recommendanational success. Our partnership support is based on interactive tion 54 of the Finnish Corporate Governance Code of the Securities collaboration, in which our role is not merely that of a financial Market Association. sponsor, but a proactive operator. Donations are decided annually by Itella's Board of Directors. Financial and emotional support for selected organizations and During the past few years, we have focused our sponsorship individuals through sponsorship efforts on soccer, through SPL, the Football Association of Finland. In addition to taking care of our own duties and goals, we want to In February, we renewed our contract whereby we will continue to do our bit in securing the well-being of our customers and employbe one of SPL’s main partners. ers. Our way of going about this is to provide financial and emotional support to select organizations and individuals who influence the lives of many people. Our targets for sponsorship reflect our value system. They represent team spirit, empathy to people’s everyday lives, and an uncompromising attitude towards one’s own work and duties. We are involved in enabling recreational sports and cultural activities, Financial impact in accordance EUR million 2012 2011 2010 with the income statement TO PERSONNEL Salaries and fees 713.8 731.8 706.3 Social security expenses 63.7 70.6 65.0 pension expenses 107.7 108.3 106.5 TO SUPPLIERS EUR million 2012 2011 2010 Materials and services 546.9 549.2 504.9 Other operating expenses 411.5 364.7 349.8 FROM CUSTOMERS Net sales: 1,946.7 1,900.1 1,841.6 TO PUBLIC SECTOR Income tax on profit for the period 19.1 12.2 18.3 TO FINANCIAL SECTOR Interest expenses 17.8 16.3 14.3 TO OWNER Dividends for profit for the period* 6.8 0.0 4.4 * Board of Directors' proposal 26 Social responsibility from their permanent residence. The decree is related to the new Postal Act that took effect at the beginning of 2011, and ensures the future of postal services as local services. We provide postal services everywhere in Finland In accordance with our license and the Postal Act, we ensure that the letter and parcel services that fall within the scope of universal service are available to everyone. The universal service obligation For nearly 400 years, it has been our responsibility to manage our covers the entire country, with the exception of the Åland Islands. customers’ information and product flows. Our key mission in FinThe realization of the universal service obligation is monitored by land is to provide premium mail services to everyone across the the Finnish Communications Regulatory Authority. country. We serve our consumer customers under the brand name We are the only operator in Finland to provide five-day delivery Posti. Our competitive edge is based on a strong brand and firstservices that cover the entire country. The scope of our service covrate customer service. ers all of Finland’s 5.4 million consumers and 250,000 companies A Government Decree concerning the location of postal outlets and organizations. Our network of shops is heavily reliant on our was issued last March, and turned out to be favorable to us: the partners – the entrepreneurs who run the postal agency shops. decree approaches the postal network as a broad-based totality, Some 90 percent of postal outlets are attached to the outlets of meaning that we have the chance to exploit various forms of serlocal service companies, such as kiosks or grocery stores. vice. The decree allows us to keep the most popular services as Netposti is a free online transaction service for people in Finland close to customers as possible without unreasonable costs. over 15 years of age. Netposti allows consumers to receive electronic According to the decree, the nearest postal outlet or service letters addressed to them by companies and organizations in a point may be located no more than three kilometers from the secure way. Such letters can include invoices, pay slips, letters from majority (that is, at least 82 percent) of service users. Reasonable the authorities, and other important messages which consumers Itella Corporation • Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 distances are promoted by a policy whereby the distance for a would otherwise receive at their home addresses on paper. Small maximum of three percent of people may exceed ten kilometers enterprises and organizations can also register as Netposti users. Number of consumer invoices in Finland 1991–2012 Unit costs of mail delivery by type of population center in millions EUR/household/day 400 • Paper • Maintenance of the delivery network • Electronic Densely • Delivered mail Jakelussa kuljettu matka 350 300 populated area • Delivery distance Jaetut postit Jakeluverkon ylläpito 250 Medium-level 200 area 150 100 Sparsely 50 populated area 0 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 1991 1995 2000 2005 2010 2012 27 Information and experiences in the Post Museum Our Post Museum exhibits, studies, and records Finnish cultural heritage and period pieces from the perspective of postal history. The Museum’s collections comprise approximately 5,000 items, more than seven million stamps, and nearly 400,000 photographs, as well as posters, cards, and videos. Established in 1926, the Post Museum is one of the oldest specialized museums in Finland. Our Museum also has a public Corporate sustainability collection of specialized books focused on philately and postal history. The Museum also has an online exhibit, at www.posti.fi/ – luxury or necessity? postimuseo. In 2014, our Post Museum, located in the Helsinki General Post Office from 1995 to 2012, will open its doors at Museum Centre Vapriikki in Tampere. ”The past two years have been marked by financial turbulence. It is therefore reasonable to ask where corporStamps recount the tale of Finland among other world countries ate sustainability issues stand in these circumstances. Stamps are mirrors of their times. They recount the notable events But rather than being a luxury, the consideration of their year of issuance, the phenomena of their era, and, today, of sustainability issues in companies is a necessity. to an increasing degree, global cooperation. On millions of cards Changes in the environment are having a very clear and letters, they create and spread an image of Finland around the impact on business. We can no longer choose between world. The good availability of stamps is guaranteed by our 3,500 economic growth and sustainable development – we retailers and our online store. have to be active on both fronts. In the future, ecoloIn July, the Finnish Valentine's Day stamp for 2011 received the gical approaches and the economy will represent two award for best stamp in the International Awards for Philatelic Art, sides of the same coin.” held every year in Asiago, Italy. The miniature sheet – named the Branches of Friendship – designed by Janne Harju received the prize for the best stamp in the Tourism category. Trewin Restorick Trewin Restorick, a keynote speaker at Itella’s environmental seminar The Green Consumer held last spring, represents The Climate Reality Project, founded by­ Al Gore. 28 People responsibility At the end of 2012, we employed a total of 27,816 people. The the Group’s employees completed the course. Since we fell short of average number of personnel in our Group was 27,460. At the end our goal, the work continues. In 2013, we will also be publishing a of the year, those employed in Finland numbered 21,819, whereas subtitled version of the course for the hearing impaired. the number of employees abroad was 5,997. The year in review saw us increasing our efforts to improve Women make up 41 percent and men 59 percent of our entire cooperation between shop stewards and supervisors. Among Group’s employees. Our Supervisory Board has 12 members, five other measures, we organized training on the subject, within the (42 percent) of whom are women and seven (58 percent) of whom framework of a project funded by the Foundation for Well-Being are men. Our Board of Directors has eight members, four (50 perat Work. cent) of whom are women and four (50 percent) of whom are men. The Executive Board is composed of seven members, of whom two We are an important employer in Finland (29 percent) are women and five (71 percent) are men. Our ManWe receive some 30,000 job applications every year. This past agement Board is composed of 13 members, of whom three (23 summer, we provided summer jobs for approximately 2,500 percent) are women and ten (77 percent) are men. people in Finland. Most of them worked in mail delivery, sorting, At the end of the year, the number of employees in Finland had and transportation. Seasonal assistants were employed in every increased by 696 in comparison to the previous year. The number part of the country, although the greatest number of them worked Itella Corporation • Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 increased due to the personnel of VR Transpoint’s groupage logistin the metropolitan area which the majority of mail traverses and ics and PT Logistiikka Oy, who transferred to Itella’s employment. which has the greatest number of mail recipients. The lengths of The year saw us enter into 772 new permanent employment summer jobs ranged from three weeks to three months. contracts in Finland. Personnel reductions amounted to a total of In Finland we were also involved in the nation-wide campaign 435 person-years. Out of this total, 408 person-years were reduced Responsible summer job and, together with a hundred other for production-related and financial reasons, and 27 person-years companies, committed to the campaign’s principles, which include were reduced via voluntary resignations and pension plans. meaningful work and reasonable pay, sufficient orientation and During the autumn, we carried out a sizable campaign for guidance as well as fair and equal treatment. the purposes of deploying the Employee Code of Conduct. The During the Christmas season, we employed 3,400 seasonal Employee Code of Conduct was updated in 2011. Our goal in 2012 assistants around the country. This was 400 more than during prewas to ensure that Itella’s entire personnel in all business groups get vious years. Due to the growth of online commerce, the additional familiar with the Code during the year. In October, we published the workforce was employed in mail sorting and postal outlets and e-learning material on the Employee Code of Conduct, to promote shops. The majority worked in the sorting of Christmas greetings its familiarity among employees. A total of 69 percent, or 19,000, of and parcels as well as in mail deliveries. 29 Personnel and performance management based on our values a supervisor’s support and coaching to his or her personnel, to We continued our management and leadership work along the enable the achievement of targets. lines of the previous year. The cornerstones of Itella’s manageWe measure the realization of leadership annually by way of, ment policies form the foundation of shared management pracfor instance, our employee surveys, as well as by both 180-degree tices in all of our units. They indicate what is expected of a good and 360-degree feedback within the development programs of supervisor at Itella. The cornerstones, which are, in effect, leadermanagement and leadership. ship guidelines based on our values, also form a foundation for the development of supervisory work. We are a multicultural workplace The leadership that is based on our values must be present in We are one of the most culturally diverse companies in Finland. In day-to-day communications. In change situations we stress sound this country alone, our employees represent more than 80 nationalchange management, so that the changes are carried out effectities. In October, we joined 17 other companies and organizations ively and productively. Good leadership from one situation to the in signing the first commitment to diversity in Finland and became next forms the foundation of well-being at work. a member of the newly established Diversity Charter Finland. By “performance management” we are referring to all the ways Diversity Charter Finland offers its members information on in which supervisors support and coach their personnel to allow best practices regarding the management of diversity among us all to perform our jobs as well as possible. Therefore, it involves employees, customers, and stakeholders as well as support the planning of work and development targets as well as agreeing in business development. The various dimensions of diversity on them with the entire work unit and within the personal target encompass age, sex, ethnic origin, sexual orientation, operational and development discussions held between a supervisor and an capability, and religion, among other things. individual employee. In addition, it involves, when necessary, Itella has a great number of long-term employment relationPersonnel per country on December 31, 2012 Personnel per business group Breakdown of employment on December 31, 2012 contracts in 2012 4,000 25,000 % Finland 21,816 100 Russia 3,701 Poland 557 80 Sweden 406 Estonia 388 60 Norway 253 Denmark 217 40 Latvia 215 Lithuania 122 20 Estonia 102 Others 36 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 • Itella Mail Communications 17,844 0 • Itella Logistics 7,391 • 20,142 full-time employees (72%) • OthersInformation Itella 2,168 • 7,674 part-time employees (28%) • 413 • 24,768 permanent employees (89%) • 3,048 fixed-term employees (11%) 30 ships. One fourth of our workforce has worked for us for more than future goals, select areas in need of development, and agree on 20 years. We want to keep people working for as long as possible, improvement measures. and this means that our employees require our support to achieve this objective. Equality in practice In September, we carried out an equality survey, the overall resOverall employee satisfaction improved from last year ults of which can be considered satisfactory. The majority of our October saw us conduct our annual employee satisfaction survey employees are of the opinion that equality is a reality at their electronically for the second time across all business groups and workplace. Some five percent of respondents adopted a contrary Group operations at the same time. This is the second year in a view. The survey was sent to 6,000 Itella employees on the basis of row during which the results improved. The survey was completed random sampling, and a total of 1,367 of these employees responby 66 percent of the personnel; the response rate the year before ded. The survey allows us to monitor the realization of equal rights was 58 percent. The survey consisted of 23 statements divided and the principles of equality at our workplaces in Finland. It is into three areas – own work, cooperation, and management. The divided into areas concerning equal opportunities and rights, the statement ”I know what is expected of me” received the highest principle of equality (in relation to sex, age, religion, and ethnic marks (4.35) at Group level, whereas the lowest marks (3.20) were background, for example), sexual harassment, and workplace bulscored by the statement ”Itella offers me opportunities to develop lying. my professional skills”. Our Equality Committee is charged with overseeing and monThe survey’s results are first reviewed in the executive boards itoring the realization of equal opportunities and the principle of of each unit and subsequently discussed in teams. These disequality. In addition to the aforementioned survey, this duty is carcussions function as the basis for the teams when they agree on ried out by means such as annual salary monitoring. Itella Corporation • Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Development in personnel number Age distribution of personnel Length of employees' career at Itella in 2012 1,000 persons 35 Muut maat 30 Venäjä 25 Suomi 20 15 10 50 0 • under 25 15% • Less than 1 year, 17.4% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 • 25–34 25% • 1–5 years, 31.7% • Finland • 45–54 -20% 35–44 • 11–15years, 6–10 13.2% • Russia • 55 or older 27% • 16–20 years, 6% • Other countries • 13% • more than years, 4.3% • 20 years, 24.9% 31 Environmental responsibility We develop the quality and coverage of environmental accounting continuously. We have performed environmental accounting for several years now, but the past year marked the first one during which we verified the relevant figures. The audit was carried out by PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy. The verified figures and the verification report are available on our website at www.itella.com/ We want to curb annualreport2011. The most important standards applied in our environmental climate change accounting are: • the WBCSD (World Business Council for Sustainable Development) Greenhouse Gas Protocol and ”On March 31, we turned off the neon lights at Itella’s • the GHG Inventory Standard for the Postal Sector, which head office for an hour to take part in the global cliincludes more detailed instructions (derived from the protocol mate event Earth Hour. In addition, the event blacked mentioned above) for the postal sector. out the neon lights at our largest offices and premises The scope of environmental accounting covers all of our Group’s throughout the metropolitan area: the General Post business operations and all countries of operation. The envirOffice, the Logistics Center, and the postal center in onmental impact of VR Transpoint’s groupage logistics and PT Helsinki. This was the third time we participated in Logistiikka has been taken into account for the period between the campaign. By participating in the event, we wish October 1 and December 31, 2012. to join the effort to communicate the importance of curbing climate change. We support the curbing of climate change In a few years, the World Wildlife Fund’s Earth Hour In the autumn, we joined the Climate Partners, a network estabcampaign, which began in Australia in 2007, has lished by the City of Helsinki and various business enterprises. In enlightened – and darkened – the entire world. Every their commitments, the Climate Partners specify how they intend year, this international climate event convinces nearly to curb climate change within their own, respective spheres of two billion people all over the world to turn their lights activity. The partners’ commitments also include a promise to off for an hour for the good of the climate.” reduce greenhouse gas emissions by increasing the efficiency of their operations and by offering better products and services that help to curb climate change. Hanna Kaustia In addition to securing such commitments, the network aims Director in charge of Corporate Social Responsibility to reinforce companies’ competitiveness, locate new business and the Environment opportunities, and promote cooperation among the networks’ 32 members. Together with companies, research facilities can create Lighting accounts for a significant portion of our properties’ new and innovative solutions that develop societies that produce power consumption less emissions. Studies have shown the lighting in our properties to be responsSince 2008, we have been a part of the energy efficiency conible for a substantial part of our electricity consumption. The runtract concerning freight transportation and logistics. In addition ners-up in this respect are air conditioning and cooling. Based on to reducing vehicle emissions, the contract covers increasing the such facts, our efforts in relation to energy efficiency are focused efficiency of properties’ energy consumption. on increasing the efficiency of lighting and heating, plumbing, and ventilation. We also pay attention to users’ habits. Thanks to Cutting vehicle emissions the measures carried out in Finland during 2012, the electricity Itella’s delivery and transport fleet currently comprises over 4 000 consumption of our properties fell by more than three percent vehicles, which cover around 170 million kilometers per year. We and standardized heat consumption by nearly seven percent. The reduce the emissions of our vehicles by effective route planning, changes in the rates of energy consumption do not include the combining transportation, and training our staff how to drive figures of VR Transpoint. Our energy-efficiency goal in Finland is economically. Such measures have proved to be very efficient in to achieve two and three percent annual savings in electricity and reducing fuel consumption. When replacing old vehicles with new heat, respectively. ones, and the attendant costs, but also features related to the In Russia, we kicked off the pilot phase of energy efficiency in environment and energy efficiency, play a key role. We replaced November. The pilot phase will determine country-specific energy natural gas with low-emission biogas at the end of 2011. We efficiency potentials, after which we can establish country-specific have made a commitment to increase the number of alternative goals and targets. vehicles to 40 percent by 2020. We are in the process of building a new logistics center in PenIn the fall, Itella Logistics became one of the first Finnish comnala, Orimattila. The center will be taken into use in early 2013, panies to introduce next-generation electric vans into its fleet. The and will be fully completed by the summer of 2013. The center properties of the first factory-made Mercedes-Benz Vito E-CELL has been built according to the principles of green building, and Itella Corporation • Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 electric vans are well suited for urban deliveries. The vans move employs the latest relevant technologies. silently and produce no carbon dioxide or other emissions. The A major environmental accident involving our properties operating range of the new electric van is approximately 130 kilooccurred in May, when a serious warehouse accident occurred meters on a single charge. in Itella Logistics’ Shushary warehouse in St. Petersburg. A large We have also taken electric mopeds into the use of mail delivery teams in different parts of Finland. Electric mopeds are nearly silent – a fact that increases both job satisfaction and environmental Carbon dioxide emissions Itella's carbon dioxide friendliness. Our aim was to increase the share of electric mopeds relative to turnover emissions Kg/EUR 1,000 tn to 50 percent of our entire fleet of mopeds by 2012. Our success 0.10 200 rate in this was reasonable, as the share of electric mopeds in 0.08 our fleet rose to 48 percent by the end of 2012. Whenever pos150 sible, mail delivery is carried out on foot or on bicycles and electric 0.06 100 bicycles. Only about half of all mail delivery routes are taken care 0.04 of with the help of cars or vans. 50 0.02 0.00 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 • Goal at -10% by 2012 • Finland • Russia • Other countries 33 Certified management systems: Certificate Share Itella Mail Communications Finland Post centers ISO 14001 100% Finland Logistics center ISO 9001, ISO 14001 100% Finland Delivery outlets and offices ISO 14001 100% Finland Business and product development, sales, planning, and support functions ISO 14001 100% Itella Logistics Finland Service warehouses ISO 9001, ISO 14001 75% Finland Service warehouses TAPA FSR A 20% Finland Domestic transport terminals ISO 9001, ISO 14001 40% Finland Domestic groupage logistics, freight terminals, and related warehousing ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OH SAS 18001 100% Norway Service warehouses and other operations ISO 9001, ISO 14001 100% Denmark Service warehouses ISO 9001, ISO 14001 4% Estonia Service warehouses and other operations ISO 9001, ISO 14001, TAPA FSR A 100% Latvia Service warehouses and other operations ISO 9001, ISO 14001 100% Lithuania Service warehouses and other operations ISO 9001, ISO 14001 100% Russia Service warehouses ISO 9001 92% Russia Service warehouses ISO 14001 13% Itella Information Finland The outsourcing services of financial management and accounting, multi-channel processing of accounts payable and accounts receivable, and the B2B integration services of supply chains ISO 9001 100% Sweden Printing and mailing services and the B2B integration services of supply chains ISO 9001, ISO 14001 90% Poland Printing, mailing, and digitizing services as well as the outsourcing services of financial management and accounting ISO 9001 98% Germany Outsourcing services of financial management and accounting ISO 9001 100% Lithuania Printing, scanning, and archiving services as well as invoicing, financial management, and accounting services ISO 9001 100% 34 Number of operating locations Finland 705 Russia 21 Other countries 35 Total 761 part of the warehouse’s shelving system collapsed. The accident damaged a significant portion of customer products, in addition to resulting in a need to carry out environmental protection and cleaning measures. A hundred percent carbon-neutral alternative We are the world’s first carbon-neutral postal services provider. Since February 2011, all of the products in our delivery range have been Itella Green products, carbon-neutral deliveries with no extra We are building a new charge. eco-friendly logistics center We calculate the carbon dioxide emissions of Itella Green services as part of our annual environmental accounting. Carbon dioxide emissions are reduced actively with internal measures. The ”We are currently building a new logistics center in Pennala, remaining emissions are set off with funding to climate projects Orimattila. The project will be completed by the summer of which help to reduce an equivalent amount of emissions else2013, when the Pennala center will provide our customers with where. a total of more than 100,000 square meters of space. Itella Corporation • Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Products enter Itella’s usual mail processing, meaning that the The center has been built according green principles and it service does not introduce any new work phases, for example. By employs the latest available technologies. Among other things, using Itella Green products, our customers can cut carbon dioxide the center has a speech-controlled collection system as well as emissions in the processes of their supply chain and also commuautomated forklifts, in addition to a hybrid heating system that nicate to their customers that their operations are environmentally relies on both geothermal heat and natural gas. Furthermore, sound. the center has energy-saving outer wall panels. And since the center is located at the hub of Itella’s trade and customer network, it improves efficiency and reduces the carbon footprint of Fuel consumption Electricity consumption in postal delivery in sorting centers delivery transports, among other benefits. l/100km kWh/sq.m. The new logistics center will employ about 200 to 300 12.0 190 people and, as such, it will also have a significant impact on 185 11.5 180 the region’s economy.” 11.0 175 10.5 170 165 Marko Tulokas 10.0 160 9.5 Managing Director 155 9.0 150 Itella Real Estate Oy 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 35 Reporting Stakeholder principles table Our reporting complies with the GRI guidelines and with the Every day, Itella is in touch with hundreds of thousands of customreporting requirements set by our owner, the state. Unless others, employees, and partners. In 2012, we clarified their expectaerwise mentioned, the reporting covers all operations of Itella’s tions towards us with the help of customer satisfaction surveys, parent company and subsidiaries. It also covers all Group funcan employee survey, and various kinds of daily feedback chantions in all countries of operation. The reporting does not include nels. The avenues that enable interaction with customers include the operations of subcontractors or affiliated companies. Howvarious kinds of customer meetings and events, in addition to cusever, with regard to Finland, the environmental report includes tomer satisfaction surveys. With regard to our personnel, the most the environmental impact of the subcontractors employed by our important channels include employee surveys, the intranet, our transport operations. staff magazine, and internal information events. The coverage of the indicators is reported in connection with The table on the right presents Itella’s most important stakethe indicators in question. holders and their expectations with regard to Itella. The table also The data and indicators concerning economic responsibility are includes information on the central tools and forms of interaction obtained from the consolidated financial statements, prepared in in 2012. accordance with the international IFRS approved by the European The materiality determination found the following groups to Union. The consolidated financial statements are prepared in combe our most important stakeholders: customers; employees; our pliance with IAS and IFRS valid on December 31, 2012, and the owner; partners in subcontracting, research, and within Itella’s related SIC standards and IFRIC interpretations. The notes to the industry; and the media. The subject matters raised by our stakeconsolidated financial statements are also drawn up in compliholders by way of the aforementioned interactive avenues have ance with Finnish accounting and corporate legislation. included the competitive situation in the market, the new Postal The indicators of HR responsibility cover data from all countries Act, the long-term build-up of the ownership value of state-owned of operation. However, parts of the data have so far included only companies, and the generation of socially and commercially susfigures from Finland. If this is the case, it is mentioned in connectainable results. tion with the indicator in question. The indicators concerning environmental responsibility cover Itella’s operations with the greatest environmental impact, in all countries of operation. Social responsibility reports focus on Finland, since this aspect emphasizes the postal services that Itella provides to all consumers and businesses. 36 Stakeholders Expectations Year 2012: Interactive tools and the most important results CUSTOMERS • High-quality, reliable postal and logistics services • We utilized the customer satisfaction surveys and feedback. as well as financial management services for • The number of service outlets was increased and the redirection of shipments was reasonable prices. developed. • Information security and protection of privacy in • The Government Decree concerning the location of postal outlets was issued in all services. March. • Commitment to ethical principles. • We operate in an environmentally responsible way by, for instance, reducing the emis• Modernization according to customer needs. sions of our vehicles. • Solutions for digitization. • Environmental efficiency. PERSONNEL • The equal treatment of personnel. • The profit sharing scheme covers the entire group. • Competitive and fair rewarding. • The investment in well-being at work continued. • Responsible management and supervisory work. • The VAUTSI project continued. • The development of well-being at work. • Statutory labor negotiations, in which the amount of personnel was adjusted to the • The flow of information and engagement. prevailing situation, were carried out during the year. • Employees have at their disposal an initiative bank which serves as an electronic channel for the distribution and processing of initiatives within Itella. • The personnel has a feedback channel through which employees can submit feedback on issues related to both ethical instructions and topics discussed in the equality committee. Feedback can be submitted under a name or anonymously. • Wide deployment of the Employee Code of Conduct. • Cooperation with employee representatives. OWNER • High-quality reliable postal services for reasonab• The Employee Code of Conduct was deployed throughout the Group. The Code of Itella Corporation • Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 le prices throughout Finland. Conduct applies to all group companies. • Profitability and financial solidity. • The number of service outlets was increased and the redirection of shipments was • Good governance and transparency of operations. developed. • Respecting the personnel’s status and rights, and environmental responsibility. • Increasing ownership value in a sustainable and responsible way. PARTNERS • Transparent procurement criteria and the equal • The sourcing development program launched during the previous year continued. IN SUB­ treatment of suppliers. • Permanent membership in PostEurope, the Universal Postal Union (UPU), and the • A pilot project and research target for new technoInternational Post Corporation (IPC). CONTRACTING, logies and business models. • Membership in the Finnish Service Sector Employers’ association PALTA (a member RESEARCH, • An active role in international industry associaassociation of the Confederation of Finnish Industries EK), the Finnish Federation for AND INDUSTRY tions. Communications and Teleinformatics (FiCom), and Finnish Business & Society (FiBS). THE MEDIA • Fast, reliable flow of information. • We published some 200 press releases and bulletins during the year. • High level of availability and swift services. • We organized meetings with representatives of the media and offered reporters tips for articles concerning news and current events in our industry. • The MediaDesk serves reporters; we received nearly 500 contact requests from the media. All requests for an interview were usually responded to within 30 minutes. 37 Rewards support strategic objectives and 38 values 39 Itella Corporation • Annual Report 2012 Board of Directors Arto Hiltunen Hele-Hannele Aminoff Chairman Professional Board member, b. 1958, M.Sc.(Econ.) Startup Consultant Member of the Board since 2010 b. 1960, MBA Chairman of the Remuneration Member of the Board since 2006 and Nomination Committee Member of the Audit Committee Board member: HSE Foundation, Chairman of the Board of Directors: Jenny and Antti Wihuri FoundaMovet Oy tion, Foundation for Economic Board member: Feneda Oy, Education, Metsäliitto Group, Metsä Tissue, Talent Vitaali Oy, BSN Oy Vectia, SRV Group, Veho Group. Relevant work history: Bob Helsinki (2011–2012): Relevant work history: S-Group 1980–2009, most Managing Director, Board Member; Specsavers Finland recently as CEO and Chairman of the Board of Oy (2010–2011), Oy Leiras Ab (2006-2009). Directors. Päivi Pesola Jussi Kuutsa Vice Chairman Country Director, SRV Group Vice President, Business Control, b. 1964 Heat Division Member of the Board since 2011 Fortum Power and Heat Oy Member of the Audit Committee b. 1956, M.Sc.(Econ.) Relevant work history: SRV Group Member of the Board since 2009 (2010–present): Country Director of Chairman of the Audit Committee Russia; Stockmann Group (2000– Relevant work history: 2010). Fortum Power and Heat Oy (2001–present): Vice President, Finance and Business Control in Fortum Service and Heat divisions; Fortum Corporation (1978-2001). 40 Supervisory Board Timo Löyttyniemi Riitta Savonlahti Chairman Managing Director, State Pension Executive Vice President, Human Mauri Pekkarinen Fund Resources, UPM-Kymmene Member of Parliament, Centre Party, 2012– b. 1961, D.Sc.(Economics and Corporation present Business Administration) b. 1964, M.Sc.(Econ.) Vice Chairman Member of the Board since 2011 Member of the Board since 2008 Johanna Karimäki Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Remuneration Member of Parliament, the Greens of Board member: and Nomination Committee Finland, 2010–present Itella Bank Ltd, The Foundation Board member: MIF (Managefor Economic Education ment Institute of Finland) Ritva Elomaa Member: Investment committees of Aalto University Relevant work history: UPM-Kymmene Corporation Member of Parliament, the Finns Party, and the Finnish Pension Alliance TELA. (2004–present), Executive Vice President, Human 2012–present Relevant work history: Executive management Resources, Elcoteq Network (2001–2004), Raisio Lars-Erik Gästgivars duties in the finance sector: State Pension Fund Group (2000–2001). Member of Parliament, the Swedish (2003–present); Mandatum & Co Oy (1999–). People's Party, 2012–present Susanna Huovinen Member of Parliament, the Social Democratic Party, 2008–present Ilpo Nuutinen Maarit Toivanen-Koivisto Sari Moisanen Senior Government Counsellor, President, Onvest Oy Student, the Left Alliance, 2011–present Prime Minister's Office b. 1954, M.Sc.(Econ.) Outi Mäkelä b. 1964, Master of Laws (trained Member of the Board since 2007 Member of Parliament, the National Coalion the bench), Licentiate of Laws, Member of the Remuneration tion Party, 2008–present M.SC.(Econ.) and Nomination Committee Member of the Board since 2012 Chairman of the Board Reijo Ojennus Member of the Remuneration and of Directors: Are Oy, The FoundEntrepreneur, the Finns Party, 2008–present Nomination Committee ation for Economic Education, Raimo Piirainen Board member: Kruunuasunnot Oy Onninen Oy, Onvest Oy Member of Parliament, the Social DemoRelevant work history: Prime Minister’s Office, OwnBoard member: Finnish Cultural Foundation, the Itella Corporation • Annual Report 2012 cratic Party, 2012–present ership Steering Department (2010–present), Senior Finnish Fair Corporation Government Counsellor; Prime Minister’s Office, Supervisory Board member: Ilmarinen Mutual Tuomo Puumala Ownership Steering Department (2007–2010); MinPension Insurance Company Member of Parliament, the Centre Party, istry of Finance, Management Support (2001–2007). Vice Chairman: Finland Chamber of Commerce, the 2012–present Board of the Helsinki Chamber of Commerce, the Teuvo V. Riikonen Board of the Federation of Finnish Commerce Executive Director, Christian Democrats, Relevant work history: Onvest Oy (1997–present), 2012–present Development Manager, Finance Manager, CFO, CEO; Onninen Oy (1978–1997). Kimmo Sasi Member of Parliament, the National Coalition Party, 2012–present 41 Executive Board Heikki Malinen Jaana Jokinen Juhani Strömberg President and CEO Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, b. 1962, M.SC.(Econ.), Human Resources Strategy and DevelMBA b. 1957, M.Sc. opment Joined the Group in Joined the Group in b. 1953, Ph.D.(Tech.) 2012 2009 Joined Itella Group in Board member: Relevant work history: 2006 Outokumpu, Service Nokia Corporation Vice Chairman: Sector Employers (2004–2009) Samlink Oy. PALTA Vice President, HR for Demand Supply Relevant work history: Tieto (1976– Chairman of the Board of Directors: Network Management; Nokia Networks 2006), Vice President, Electronic BusiThe American Chamber of Commerce, (1995–2003). ness Services. AmCham Finland Relevant work history: Pöyry Plc (2008– 2012), President and CEO and Chairman of the Group’s Executive Committee; UPM-Kymmene Corporation, Helsinki Heikki Länsisyrjä Lauri Vesalainen (2006–2008); UPM North America, Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, Chicago (2004–2005). Itella Information Itella Logistics b. 1960, M.Sc. (Econ.) b. 1956, eng. Joined the Group in Joined the Group in Sari Helander 2007 2011 Chief Financial Officer Relevant work history: Relevant work hisb. 1967, M.Sc.(Econ.) Fujitsu Services Oy tory: Nokia corporJoined the Group in (1987–2006), Director, ation (1995-2011) 2011 Infrastructure. international and global executive Relevant work hispositions in sourcing, manufacturing tory: Nokia CorporJukka Rosenberg and logistics. ation (2009–2011), Senior Vice President, Vice President Itella Mail CommunicBusiness Reporting & Control; Nokia ations (2001–2009); Nokia (1994–2009). b. 1962, M.Sc.(Econ.) Joined the Group in 2011 Board member: Finnish Federation for Communications and Teleinformatics, FiCom Relevant work history: IBM Global Services (2006–2011), Executive, Strategic Outsourcing; Tieto (1997–2006). 42 Management Board Pirjo Kaasinen Hannu Lanteri Tomi Pienimäki Vice President, Managing Director, Vice President, CIO, Communications, Itella Bank Ltd. Corporate ICT Marketing, and Strab. 1955, MBA b. 1973, Ph.D. tegic Sales Joined the Group in (Tech.), M.Sc.(Ecob. 1963, M.Sc.(Econ.) 2009 nomics and Business Joined the Group in Relevant work Administration) 2012 history: Deputy CEO Joined the Group in Relevant work of the Savings Banks 2005 history: Digi TV Plus Oy (2011–2012), Association (1996–2009). Relevant work history: Hackman Metos Sales Director; Eniro (2005–2011); Elisa Oy (2000-2005), CIO; John Crane Ltd, UK (2001–2005). (1999-2000). Harri Kämppä Antero Palmolahti Vesa Vertanen Vice President, Strategic Chief Shop Senior Vice President, Sourcing Steward of Itella Itella Logistics Busis. 1965, DI Group; Finnish Post ness Group, Russia. Joined the Group in and Logistics Union b. 1956, M.Sc.(Econ.) 2012 PAU (employee repJoined the Group in Relevat workhistory resentative) 2001 CPS Color Group b. 1952 Board member: Oy (2009–2011): Joined the Group in AEB Association of Director; Kemira GrowHow Oyj / Yara Oy 1971 European Businesses in Russia (2003–2008). Board member: Chairman of Itella PerVice chairman: East Office of Finnish sonnel Fund’s Board Industries Ltd Relevant work history: Itella Group Relevant work history: Addtek Group (1971–present) postal worker, various (2000-2001): Chief Financial Officer; Itella Corporation • Annual Report 2012 positions as safety representative and Starckjohann Group (1995-2000). chief shop steward. 43 Corporate Governance Itella’s Corporate Governance Statement 2011 Risks and risk management Itella has drawn up the Corporate Governance Statement required The Group’s risk management, based on the principles of Enterby the Finnish Corporate Governance Code. The Statement is pubprise Risk Management (ERM), covers all Group operations and lished as a separate, unaudited report released in connection with forms an integral element of our management and strategy prothe Financial Statements. It is available on Itella’s webpages at cesses. Its aim is to secure and improve business profitability and www.itella.com/corporategovernance. the achievement of strategic goals by reducing the likelihood of risk occurrence and the impact thereof, and by supporting the Remuneration Statement exploitation of business opportunities. Our remuneration principles support the achievement of strategic Risk identification, analysis, and the planning of risk manageobjectives and values at all organizational levels. Rewards are ment measures is carried out once a year as part of the Group’s included in the Group’s strategy process, the annual planning of strategy process. The status of the risk profile and management operations, and the performance management process. measures is updated regularly once a year and whenever signiThe Board of Directors determines the principles according to ficant risks are identified or the profiles of major risks undergo which executive management and key personnel are remunerated material changes. The Group’s risk portfolio is compared against and receive bonuses annually, on the recommendation of the the risk-bearing capacity based on a financial model developed Remuneration and Nomination Committee. within the Group. The objective of executive management’s salary policy is to dirItella’s risk management policy is available in full at www.itella. ect the management’s attention to the issues most vital in terms com/riskmanagement. of Itella’s strategy and values, reward the executive management and key employees for results and successful outcomes, engage with management and promote its permanence in Itella’s service, and to ensure the competitiveness of remuneration with regard to the competition over management resources. Remuneration follows the State-owners guidelines concerning the remuneration and pension benefits of executive management. 44 Investor Relations Financial communications and principles Silent period Our financial reports follow the International Financial Reporting Itella has a silent period of 21 days before each quarterly finanStandards. As an issuer of two publicly listed bonds, we are obligcial report announcement. During the silent period Itella refrains ated to disclose periodic information to a limited extent. from making any contacts or comments to investors, analysts and The first EUR 150 million bond was issued in November 2009 the media about the company’s business prospects or financial and listed on the stock exchange in December 2009, whereas the results. second EUR 100 million bond was issued in November 2011 and listed on the stock exchange in January 2012. Annual General Meeting This disclosure obligation is based on the Finnish Securities Itella Corporation’s Annual General Meeting in 2012 was held on Market Act and the rules and regulations of NASDAQ OMX Helsinki March 14, 2012. Itella deviates from the Finnish Corporate GovOy. We fulfill our obligation to disclose periodic information by ernance Code in that notices concerning its Annual General Meetpublishing our financial statements and interim reports (quarterly) ing and the notes thereto are not published on its webpages since, as stock exchange releases. as a State-owned company, it has only a single shareholder. Our financial communications policy is available in full at The tasks and resolutions of the General Meeting are available www.itella.com/financials. on the Internet at www.itella.com/agm. Financial calendar in 2013: Contact information for financial communications Financial Statements for 2012: February 15 Finance: Sari Helander January–March: April 29 tel. +358 50 376 1819, sari.helander@itella.com April–June: July 24 Communications: Hanna Kauko July–September: October 30 tel. +358 50 376 0437, hanna.kauko@itella.com Itella Corporation • Annual Report 2012 Itella Corporation – Annual and Corporate Responsibility Report 2012 Layout • Spokesman Oy Photos • Imagokuva/Vesa Kippola, Itella image bank Printing • Erweko Oy Paper • cover Invercote Creato 220 g inner pages LumiSilk 150 g 45 Itella Corporation • Posti Customer Service for Consumers P .O . BOX 1 Tel . +358 (0)200 71000, customerservice@posti .fi, www .posti .fi FI-00011 ITELLA, Finland • Itella Customer Service for Corporate Customers Tel . +358 (0)20 4511 Tel . +358 (0)200 77000, www .itella .com communications@itella .com www .itella .com Registered Domicile: Helsinki, Business ID 1531864-4
