TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2012 CONTENTS 1. Statement of commitment 2. Who we are 3. Our mission and business principles 4. Corporate responsibility 4.1 TNT and the people 4.2 TNT and the environment 4.3 TNT and the society TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2012 2 STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT “TNT Bulgaria has been a member of the United Nations Global Compact since the very beginning of the initiative in Bulgaria in 2003. Corporate responsibility is an integral part of our business and further to this we are focused on the spread of the socially responsible behaviour among our partners, suppliers and the community. We continue to fully support the ten principles of UN Global Compact and adhere to them in our policies and practices.” Ivan Vassilev Country General Manager TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2012 3 WHO WE ARE TNT Bulgaria is a part of TNT Express. It is established on December 22, 1995 and is one of the leading express distributors in Bulgaria. At TNT Express we provide a wide range of business-to-business and business-to-consumer express services around the world. We have a long-standing commitment both to protecting the environment, promoting social values and to conducting our operations with integrity and with respect for the interests of all our stakeholders. TNT Bulgaria has developed a network of 6 offices and more than 20 representatives that covers the whole country. TNT Bulgaria offers a wide range of services. The country headquarters are based in Sofia and the other main depots are in Plovdiv, Varna, Burgas, Pleven and Sevlievo. The company prides itself on high standards of customer service, based on its philosophy of putting the customer at the center of its business, and acting as a business partner to devise professional solutions for their distribution needs. TNT Bulgaria is managed by a management board that consists of 6 Managers headed by the Country General Manager. TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2012 4 OUR MISSION We are a global team of empowered people that connects business, markets and people in a sustainable way. OUR BUSINESS PRINCIPLES Legal and international regulations We comply with the laws, rules and regulations of the countries in which we conduct business. Public reporting and communication Our financial statements, public reporting documents and other public communication provide full, fair, accurate, timely and understandable disclosure of TNT Express’s position in accordance with relevant laws and generally accepted accounting principles and standards. We comply with all applicable laws and accounting rules, financial reporting requirements and requirements of the securities exchanges on which TNT Express N.V. is listed. We maintain open and transparent communication with our customers, employees, shareholders and society, while giving due respect to confidentiality. Public activities We do not intervene in party political matters, nor do we make gifts or donations to political parties. Where it concerns our business, we – as a company – voice opinions on social, environmental, regulatory or other matters that may affect our shareholders, customers, employees and the world. Human rights We are committed to developing and promoting a culture where internationally recognised human rights contained within the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (proclaimed in a resolution of the United Nations General Assembly on 10 December 1948) are not infringed. These TNT Express Business Principles outline our commitment to the human rights worldwide in four broad headings: our company, our employees, our business and our relationship to our world. Safety We provide all employees with safe and healthy working conditions. We comply with relevant safety laws and regulations, and deploy policies that prevent, identify and eliminate hazards across our company and operations. Safety representatives and improvement groups exist throughout our company. We strive to adopt best practices and to exceed legal safety requirements. We continually measure and assess our safety performance. Principles that guide our employees Employees TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2012 5 We seek to attract, develop, reward and retain outstanding individuals who appreciate the value of acting as a team. We create equal opportunities for all our employees, without regard to age, disability, ethnicity, gender, marital status, race, religion or sexual orientation. We do not condone unfair treatment of any kind. We treat all people with consideration and respect. We are committed to the Investors in People standard. Individual conduct Conflicts of interest Employees may not take business opportunities for themselves that belong to TNT Express. Our employees must report to management any transaction or relationship that could reasonably be expected to give rise to a conflict of interest. Company assets Our employees may not use company assets for unauthorised personal benefit. We do not tolerate fraud, theft, loss through recklessness or waste of company assets. Gifts and entertainment Our employees must avoid improper personal benefits for themselves or family members that result from their association with TNT Express. Employees may not accept gifts or entertainment that might appear to place them under obligation. Bribes Our employees and agents may not pay or accept bribes to gain or render orders, services or financial or other benefits. Our employees and agents must immediately turn down and report any attempt at or opportunity for bribery. Principles that guide our business Customers We strive to provide the most reliable and efficient solutions in the transfer of our customers’ goods and documents. We safeguard property and information entrusted to us by customers and other parties. Competition We believe in open and fair competition. We do not use unethical practices to obtain competitive advantage. We will not use information acquired through illegitimate activity to the detriment of competitors or other parties. Business associates and agents Our Business Principles guide our decisions to do business or to partner with others. To the fullest extent possible, we require our business associates to observe the TNT Express Business Principles. We expect our agents – individuals or organisations that legally represent TNT Express N.V. – to comply with the principles. TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2012 6 Principles that guide our relationship with our world Social responsibility To carry out our business, we use resources that impact society and the environment. We support and strive to implement developments that can lead to sustainable environmental and social benefits. We strive to use finite resources carefully. We incorporate environmental risk management into our decision-making. We review and regularly report on progress in social responsibility. We invest in society around the world, putting our resources to use in areas related to our business. Our social investment aims to promote the best outcome for our partners, stakeholders and our business. We also support the principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, employment standards, the environment and anti-corruption. TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2012 7 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY At TNT Express, we have a long-standing commitment both to protecting the environment, promoting social values and to conducting our operations with integrity and with respect for the interests of all our stakeholders. We seek to make a positive impact on society through our operations and relationships, through the voluntary contributions we make to the community and through our wider engagement with society. We are also committed to making continuous improvements in the management of our environmental impacts and to working towards our longer-term goal of developing a sustainable business. Standards TNT Bulgaria is a company committed to social, health and safety and ecological accountability to the personality and the society. As a result of this we have developed, certified and maintain an Integrated Management System responding to ISO9001, ISO14001, OHSAS18001, Investor in People and SA8000 Standards. Our system is based on principles like: quality service assurance, strong social responsibility by respecting personality and human rights and constant improvement of the environment and the working conditions. TNT Bulgaria is certified towards 5 internationally recognized standards three of which are directly addressing the human rights. Investor in ISO 9001 OHSAS 18001 ISO 14001 SA 8000 Health and Social People Quality Environment Training and Safety Accountability Development TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2012 8 TNT and the People Our human resources mission is to support all business functions by recruiting the right people, developing and empowering their competencies, capabilities, skills and motivating them to achieve company objectives and contribute to business sustainability. Our ambition is for the people to be a competitive advantage for TNT Bulgaria. People are at the heart of our business and to create a people competitive advantage we must develop our people management and leadership competency to create a positive working environment in which our people can thrive. This approach will also enable TNT to improve people satisfaction, pride and engagement, which in conjunction with our core competencies, will achieve our ambition and add value to the business through HR. Equal opportunities/SA8000 TNT Bulgaria applies Equal Opportunities policy to all its employees no matter of gender, age, religion, political or sexual orientation or any other discriminative factor. The company threats all personnel with dignity and respect and does not tolerate any disciplinary action which may humiliate any of the employees. All employees can apply for vacancies and be promoted within the organization. The splits between men and women generally and on managerial positions are as follows: All staff M anagement M en; 40% M en; 40% Wom en ; Wom en ; 60% 60% TNT Bulgaria is certified to SA8000 and as such is not engaged in the use of child, forced or compulsory labour. The youngest worker is 22 years old. All employees have signed labour contracts fully complying with national legislation. All employees are treated with dignity and respect. Investor in People In 2012 TNT Bulgaria has been recertified to Investor in People standard for a fourth time. Many interviews with employees and management were conducted by the auditor searching for proofs that TNT Bulgaria is committed to training and development of its employees. As a general outcome it has been the auditor’s impression that there is an atmosphere of challenge, variety and fun where people are highly engaged and committed to the company. There is a very positive attitude, a clear „orange spirit‟ and a preparedness to do what was necessary to ensure the company success. TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2012 9 Occupational Health and Safety Further to training and development TNT Bulgaria is also committed to ensure healthy and safe working conditions for the staff. We have been certified to OHSAS 18001 since 2006. At TNT Express we are committed to embedding a strong safety culture both top down and bottom-up, and recognise that workplace and road safety need to be managed with the same degree of expertise and to the same standards as other core business activities. As a significant part of our corporate strategy a target for reducing lost time accidents was set. We are proud to say that in TNT Bulgaria we have 0 lost time accidents for the last 2 years. Road Safety TNT Express recognises that work-related road safety is a significant business risk and therefore developed and implemented a specific road safety management system, which identifies minimum global standards for road safety management. The road safety management system is cascaded to each of our operating units worldwide and they are responsible for implementing the management system requirements into each of their functional areas. The road safety management system is periodically reviewed and revised as part of our continual improvement process. We recognise that actions must be sustainable to deliver long term improvements in performance, and continual focus must be maintained in all core elements – vehicle, driver, journey and subcontractor management – to achieve zero fatal accident ambition. In 2011 TNT Bulgaria implemented and developed a Road safety recognition and incentive scheme. The purpose of the incentive is to motivate the drivers in reducing road traffic accidents, injuries and deaths whilst driving for work. Each driver or courier has the opportunity to apply for the scheme and is evaluated according several criteria: lack of blameworthy road traffic incidents no customer complaints clean operational checklists. The scheme contains three levels of awards: bronze, silver and gold, respectively for 1, 3 and 5 years period. The scheme was very well accepted by the employees. There were 14 drivers awarded in 2011. They received certificate, a bronze pin and material award as fuel vouchers. The campaign continues and this year with some of the participants competing for a silver level. TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2012 10 TNT and the Environment To carry out our business, we use resources that impact society and the environment. We support and strive to implement developments that can lead to sustainable environmental and social benefits. We strive to use finite resources carefully. We incorporate environmental risk management into our decision-making. We review and regularly report on progress in social responsibility. TNT Bulgaria has been certified to ISO14001 for environmental management systems since 2006. In 2012 we successfully passed our second recertification audit. As part of a corporate initiative started in 2010 TNT Bulgaria has developed a CO2 Reduction plan focused at reducing CO2 emissions from two main sources – buildings and vehicles. TNT Bulgaria succeeded to achieve the targets set for 2012. CO2 Emissions vehicles (g/km) C O2 Emission s Bu ild in gs (kg /sq.m.) 700 600 88 500 87 400 86 300 85 200 84 Target'12 100 Targ et'12 0 83 Actual'12 Actual'12 Small trucks 82 and vans Larg e trucks Building s Actual'12 Targ et'12 Actual'12 Target'12 Since 2008, TNT Bulgaria has offered electronic invoicing to its customers. The company was the first in the transport sector and the second in the country, clearly demonstrating the innovative nature of our goods and services. Currently we e-invoice above 90% of all invoices produced. TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2012 11 In 2012 we continued our Paperless office project by several initiatives. We succeeded to keep up to the low trend of paper consumption. Paper consumption 14 13 12 11 10 9 8 Tonnes 7 6 5 4 2009 Tonnes 2010 2011 2012 We implemented e-faxes in depot Sofia – receiving faxes via mail and thus further reducing paper consumption. TNT Bulgaria has also supported two initiatives of Sofia municipality focused on environment. The first one was the traditional spring cleaning of the city providing gifts for the most active participants among students, military servicemen and citizens. Employees from TNT Bulgaria also participated in the initiative at various locations. The other initiative we supported was “Ecogeneration 20.12” organized by Bulgarian Network of Global Compact and Sofia municipality. The project aims to raise environmental awareness and responsible behavior of children and young people from 5 to 18 years to their environment through presentations and open discussions with the children in selected kindergartens and schools. TNT representatives took part in the events at the schools and we provided gifts for the kids to be presented in the environmentally oriented quiz. TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2012 12 TNT and the society We seek to make a positive impact on society through our operations and relationships, through the voluntary contributions we make to the community and through our wider engagement with society. Moving the world September 2012 marks the 10th anniversary of the partnership between TNT and the United Nations’ World Food Programme. As a remarkable milestone of a decade-long support relationship has reached, we’re proud to be part of the longest running public-private partnership WFP has ever undertaken. Always inspired by our ‘sure we can’ attitude, over time we’ve grown our partnership to new and more ambitious levels until it has become a key component of TNT’s corporate DNA that demonstrates who we are and what we do. End Hunger: Walk the World is the world’s largest annual global event to raise money and awareness for WFP’s efforts to fight child hunger and malnutrition. The Walk is a joint effort of WFP and its corporate partners, led by TNT (in 2003), Unilever and DSM. Employees from these companies walk with WFP Goodwill Ambassadors, staff, and beneficiaries as well as government and NGO partners to show their solidarity in the fight against hunger and malnutrition. The aim of Walk the World is threefold: to raise awareness about hunger and WFP's work, to create employee engagement and to raise funds for WFP's school feeding problem. The funds are used to support WFP's School Feeding Programme in Nicaragua, Cambodia, The Gambia, Tanzania and Malawi. TNT Bulgaria has participated in the annual Walk the World events since the initial launch in 2003 organizing local walks each year. This year on 5th of June we organized a special edition of the event called “Charity bazaar”. Employees, subcontractors, families and friends showed their talent by creating, inventing and crafting proper works of art and objects, with all the profits being donated to WFP. There was room for everyone, photographers, artists, designers, cooks, even actors and singers. To add even more to the event and to the fundraising, there was also a special stand with TNT/WFP branded promotional items for sale. The event was a real success and we managed to gather more than 1000 EUR thus ensuring the annual school meal for approximately 20 children in Tanzania. Bulgarian Network of UN Global Compact TNT Bulgaria joined the UN Global Compact in 2003 and since then we have been an active member of the initiative. Currently we are a member of the National board of the local network. TNT Bulgaria participated in various initiatives undertaken by the local network. In January 2012 we have been between the companies sharing best practice with students ot the topic of being a successful CSR manager. In June 2012 TNT Bulgaria joined the best practice examples collected in Best Practice Collection book published by Global Compact Italy with an article “Get green, get a bike, save a tree”. In November TNT Bulgaria supported the initiative “Ecogeneration 20.12” organized by Bulgarian Network of Global Compact and Sofia municipality. TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2012 13 Other initiatives In February 2012 the employees of TNT Bulgaria joined the national initiative and provided financial support for the victims suffering from a devastating flood in Southern Bulgaria. In May 2012 TNT Bulgaria was among the few companies in the country nominated as National finalist in the prestigious European Business awards. TNT Bulgaria was selected for inclusion in the awards based on the success it has demonstrated in its pursuit of outstanding customer service and the impact this has had across the business. In September 2012 TNT Bulgaria was one of the CSR leaders representing Dutch Business in Bulgaria in front of the Dutch Princess Laurentine van Oranjie. In October 2012 TNT Bulgaria sponsored the Inspirational Leaders Charity Auction organized by the Bulgarian Business Leaders Forum. TNT Bulgaria is a member of the Bulgarian Business Leaders Forum since 2003 sharing values such as socially responsible business practices that benefit business and society and business ethics standard. In October 2012 for a second consecutive year TNT Bulgaria supported an educational exchange program of the Bulgarian High School for Finance and Insurance and hosted 2 German students for one-month practice. The students were given the chance to participate in the company operations and learn about local economic conditions. In December 2012 traditionally TNT Bulgaria supported the International Woman’s Club Annual Charity Bazaar by providing promotional materials for the Dutch stand on the bazaar. The Bulgarian branch of the International Women's Club held their traditional Christmas charity bazaar with the proceeds raised going to support projects of the International Women’s Club Charity Foundation for people in need. TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2012 14 You can contact us at: TNT Bulgaria Bulgaria 1528, Sofia 35, Nedelcho Bonchev str. Tel: +359 700 11 666 Fax: +359 2 9339 144 Е-mail: customer.service.bg@tnt.com TNT Bulgaria Communication on Progress Report 2012 15
