Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. 2012 Annual Report A Message from the CEO Might from a Small Hole, Benefits from One Source on one goal and remained dedicated. We have never wavered. Now we have 150,000 employees. Just as water jetting from one hole, our efforts have achieved something amazing. This is “might from a small hole”. We focus on our strategy to sharpen our global edge in a particular field. A sharp competitive edge proves that we do not need to have background to establish ourselves among the global leaders. In addition, we adhere to the principle of “obtaining benefits from one source”. Our EMT declaration has made it clear that all income of our most senior executives and key employees is confined to such items as salaries, incentives, and bonuses offered by Huawei. No income from outside Huawei is allowed. We have established organizations and systems which prevent anyone at Huawei, from the most senior officers down to the execution level, from gaining benefits by devouring collective interests through affiliate transactions. Over the past 20 years, our benefits have basically been derived from one source, thus creating a climate of united dedication among our 150,000 employees. We are aware that there are still many areas for improvement The New Year Message, “Focus on Strategy, Simplify in our management; we are endeavoring to improve Management, Increase Efficiency”, from our Rotating them. I believe our human resource policies will become and Acting CEO, clearly presents our objectives for the more and more scientific if we adhere to the principle of new year. We must focus on our strengths, fully leverage “obtaining benefits from one source”. Consequently, our the capabilities of our organization, tap into the selfemployees will be more and more passionate about their motivation and creativity of our staff members along the work. Then there will be nothing we cannot conquer. fairway, and produce greater results. If we can adhere to the principles of “gaining might from As we know, water and air are among the most gentle a small hole and obtaining benefits from one source”, stuff in the world. That’s why water and breeze often Huawei will not be the next to fall. However, if we carry praise. We also know that this same gentle air can diverge from these principles, Huawei will probably be send rockets into space. The high-speed exhaust that the next to fall. History tells us that if large companies results from the burning of rocket fuel can generate miss a turning point and start to decline, few of them tremendous thrust through a small hole in a device called can reverse the situation by restructuring themselves. a de Laval nozzle; the air expanding out of the nozzle can Naturally, we would hate to fall; so we must restrain propel mankind into space. Water is as soft as a beauty, ourselves, observe rules, and stay united and dedicated. yet it can cut through steel plates once highly pressurized and forced through a small hole. This is “might from With lofty aspirations and esprit de corps, we are striding a small hole”. Huawei is an ordinary company and across the Pacific Ocean. our employees are ordinary people. In the past, our appraisal system focused on commonalities rather than individualities, and therefore failed to appropriately widen the gap between employees with respect to compensation and benefits. This practice frustrated some employees who had striven to create value. As a result, many excellent employees left Huawei. We ordinary ones Ren Zhengfei stayed behind. Over 25 years, we have focused only Chief Executive Officer Contents 1 Letter from the Rotating and Acting CEO 3 Business Highlights in 2012 4 Five-Year Financial Highlights 5 Letter from the Chairwoman 7 Brand Promise and Brand Attributes 8 Management Discussion and Analysis 32 Market Trends 36 Independent Auditor’s Report 37 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 80 Company Information 82 Risk Factors 84 Corporate Governance Report 104 Sustainable Development 116 Abbreviations, Financial Terminology, and Exchange Rates 1 Letter from the Rotating and Acting CEO Letter from the Rotating and Acting CEO By focusing on the pipe business and effectively improving operations quality, Huawei achieved CNY220.2 billion (US$35.35 billion) in sales revenue and CNY15.38 billion (US$2.47 billion) in net profit in fiscal year 2012, steadily increasing operating performance. The ubiquity of broadband networks and services, networks. Our carrier software business continued the massive number of applications that result to grow rapidly. Our SmartCare service redefined in instantaneousness and fragmentation of industry standards for customer experience information, and the demand of device users for management (CEM) and comprehensively enhanced a personalized experience combine to present user-experience-driven solution capabilities. a series of challenges and opportunities to the Information and Communications Technology (ICT) Our Enterprise BG launched competitive data industry. By focusing on the pipe business and center switches, storage products, panoramic effectively improving operations quality, Huawei telepresence, and other solutions. Our Consumer achieved CNY220.2 billion (US$35.35 billion) in BG built a solid foundation on product design, sales revenue and CNY15.38 billion (US$2.47 quality, and cost. In the fourth quarter of 2012, billion) in net profit in fiscal year 2012, steadily we entered the list of the world’s top three increasing operating performance. smartphone makers for the first time. At present, our products serve more than three billion people Our Carrier Network Business Group (BG) further around the globe. consolidated its position in the industry: Our wireless business maintained steady growth. Our As communications become an integral part of fixed network products and solutions have been life, we believe that demand for communications deployed by most carriers worldwide. Our routers is not closely related to economic cycles and is continued to hold an advantage in the carrier only moderately impacted by the financial crisis. market. Additionally, our optical transport and The reason is that communications services are optical access products further established their characterized by small-money consumptions and leadership positions. We launched SoftCOM, the communications market is fully competitive. the industry’s first software-defined networking As pipes carry heavy traffic, we deploy products and (SDN) technology architecture in end-to-end carrier solutions by focusing on information transmission, Letter from the Rotating and Acting CEO 2 forwarding, storage, processing, acquisition, the scope of our strategy and focusing on the and presentation. Providing user experience pipe business will help improve our global characterized by high bandwidths, multiple competitiveness. services, and zero wait time is our mission and responsibility. We will continue to increase We fully assume our responsibility globally as a strategic investments in the pipe business. Our corporate citizen while proactively responding to aim is to make information pipes “wider, faster, concerns and needs of all stakeholders, including and larger” and develop Huawei into one of the customers and governments. In 2012, we released great companies that lead the ICT industry. Huawei Cyber Security White Paper, which inspires thought and discussion about the nature of cyber As we seek effective business growth, we expect security. We will strive to ensure the stable and that Huawei, a company with 150,000 employees, secure operations of customer networks and will continue to be the preferred partner of our businesses. We will further increase openness customers. “Gaining might from a small hole” is and transparency, and actively communicate a principle which affirms our customer-centricity with others. We will integrate more proactively and guides us to always focus on external into the local communities in which we operate, customers for our growth. “Obtaining benefits create more jobs, and contribute more taxes. All from one source” is a principle which places these efforts will help boost the competitiveness, focus on high-performing employees, and guides economy, and prosperity of local communities. us to adjust internal relationships and determine who we count on for corporate development. The responsibility of our management team is to By attempting to invert our performance maintain the health and vitality of our company. appraisal mechanism in 2012, we delegated the In the past year, we encountered many challenges. decision-making authority to customer-facing roles Our good performance would have been and field offices, and allowed them to obtain impossible if not for the trust and support from and share benefits based on their performance, our customers and partners as well as the wisdom instead of granting benefits top-down. In 2013, we and courage of our staff. I would like to express my will further simplify management, and encourage sincere gratitude to all of them. Looking ahead, we outstanding managers and teams to assume are confident in the prospects of the ICT industry greater responsibilities; accordingly, we will provide despite much uncertainty in the macroeconomic them with more opportunities and enable them to environment and increasingly intense competition earn more rewards. In addition, we will continue to in the industry. We will continue to focus on reduce internal operating cost and strive to further the information pipe business, simplify internal improve operational efficiency. management, and continuously improve efficiency and performance. In 2013, we will continue to Outstanding corporate performance is built maintain our business growth momentum and on extraordinary leadership and the ability to create a bright future with our customers and develop an excellent management team. One of partners around the world! the significant challenges we face is to develop globalization capabilities that are aligned with our global business growth while having the capacity to supervise operations in regional markets. We need more managers who have a global vision, regardless of their nationality or background. To that end, we must establish systems that can Guo Ping identify and deploy talent worldwide. Narrowing Rotating and Acting CEO 3 Business Highlights in 2012 Business Highlights in 2012 Continuously promoting globalized operations Leading transformations in the cloud era In 2012, Huawei stepped up its investments in Huawei partnered with customers in 33 countries Europe. We invested more in the UK, established a in cloud computing and built the world’s largest new R&D center in Finland, and set up local boards desktop cloud, which is used by approximately of directors (BODs) and advisory boards in France 70,000 employees for work every day. Of the 260 and the UK. data centers Huawei has delivered, 35 are cloudbased. In addition, Huawei’s storage solutions Being open and cooperative and innovating serve more than 2,000 customers across all continuously industries worldwide. Huawei established the 2012 Laboratories with Delivering the inspired experience in smart a focus on making continuous investments in devices key ICT fields. We are dedicated to providing broader, smarter, and more energy-efficient pipes Huawei further sharpened its competitive edge while working closely with partners from the in smart devices. In 2012, the sales of Huawei’s industry, academia, and research institutes. Our middle-range and high-end flagship smartphones, goal is to take the lead in research, innovation, and such as the Ascend P1, Ascend D1 Quad, and implementation of future networks. Honor, soared in developed countries. The company successfully shifted from its role as an Focusing on sustainable development original design manufacturer (ODM) to its own brand. To proactively promote sustainable social and economic development, Huawei focused on Building service value implementing four strategies: bridging the digital divide; safeguarding the stable and secure Huawei continued to strengthen the competitiveness operations of customer networks; promoting of its service solutions. Over the past seven years, environmental protection; and achieving win-win the compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of developments. Huawei’s managed services exceeded 70%, making Huawei the fastest-growing managed services Laying the foundation for future ultraprovider in the world. In the customer experience broadband transmission with 400G management (CEM) field, the HUAWEI SmartCare CEM solution was extended from Per Service Per Huawei unveiled the industry’s first 400G dense User (PSPU) Service Quality Management (SQM) to wavelength division multiplexing (DWDM) optical holistic customer experience management and transport system, setting a new record for WDM continued to strengthen its leadership in the transmission capacity. Huawei also launched its industry. 480G line card that has the industry’s largest capacity in the IP field. Five-Year Financial Highlights 4 Five-Year Financial Highlights 2012 CNY Million 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (USD Million)* Revenue 35,353 220,198 203,929 182,548 146,607 123,080 Operating profit 3,204 19,957 18,582 30,676 22,241 17,076 Operating margin 9.1% 9.1% 9.1% 16.8% 15.2% 13.9% Net profit 2,469 15,380 11,647 24,716 19,001 7,891 Cash flow from 4,009 24,969 17,826 31,555 24,188 4,561 operating activities Cash and short 11,503 71,649 62,342 55,458 38,214 24,133 term investments Working capital 10,155 63,251 56,728 60,899 43,286 25,921 Total assets 33,717 210,006 193,849 178,984 148,968 119,286 Total borrowings 3,332 20,754 20,327 12,959 16,115 17,148 Owner’s equity 12,045 75,024 66,228 69,400 52,741 37,886 Liability Ratio 64.3% 64.3% 65.8% 61.2% 64.6% 68.2% * Translated into US dollars using the closing rate as at December 31, 2012 of US$1.00 = CNY6.2285 Cash flow from Revenue Operating profit operating activities CAGR: 16% CAGR: 4% CAGR: 53% CNY Million CNY Million CNY Million 250,000 35,000 35,000 31,555 220,198 30,676 203,929 30,000 30,000 200,000 182,548 24,969 24,188 25,000 22,241 19,957 25,000 146,607 150,000 20,000 18,582 20,000 17,826 123,080 17,076 100,000 15,000 15,000 10,000 10,000 50,000 4,561 5,000 5,000 0 0 0 08 09 10 11 12:FBS 08 09 10 11 12:FBS 08 09 10 11 12:FBS 5 Letter from the Chairwoman Letter from the Chairwoman The ICT industry is still innovating rapidly. New trends such as mobility, cloud computing, Big Data, and social networking are guiding this industry towards a new landscape. In addition, significant digitalization changes are taking place in the real world. The Internet of Things, e-Commerce, and digital media among others are driving the upgrading and restructuring of traditional industries. The world today is experiencing an unprecedented Based on our insights into future trends, Huawei rate of change. Network connection and information is committed to helping customers build an acquisition have become integral to our life and increasingly efficient and integrated information work. The ICT industry is still innovating rapidly. logistics system to connect people to people, New trends such as mobility, cloud computing, people to things, and things to things, thus Big Data, and social networking are guiding this enabling people to communicate and share ideas industry towards a new landscape. In addition, freely. Through solid connections between people significant digitalization changes are taking and things, ideas flourish; we constantly inject place in the real world. The Internet of Things, vitality into our vision, inspire innovations, promote e-Commerce, and digital media among others the continued evolution of scientific technologies, are driving the upgrading and restructuring of the industry, and the ways people interact with traditional industries. Consequently, the deep each other, and thus we create a better world. integration of the data world represented by the ICT industry with the physical world represented by We know that networks have made it possible traditional industries is not only energizing global for people in different regions to have fair economic development; it has also significantly oppor tunities for development. However, changed the ways we live and work. A digital the world has long been dogged by network society comprised of digital citizens and digital operations stability and security challenges. All enterprises is taking shape. These trends will surely network equipment providers have the ultimate lead both ICT and social transformations. social responsibility of responding quickly to Letter from the Chairwoman 6 ensure stable network operations, particularly the annual business plan and budget, quarterly when disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, operational performance reports, corporate plagues, radioactive contamination, or military governance structure and organization building, conflicts strike. This is the commitment we have business ecosystem building, appointments and extended to our customers over the years. In 2012, compensation policies for senior management, and we released Huawei Cyber Security White Paper other major HR and financial policies and activities. globally, calling on all stakeholders, including In addition, the company fully implemented the governments and industries, to become aware rotating CEO system under the leadership of the that cyber security is a global issue and needs to BOD. As the corporate officer ultimately responsible be addressed through risk-based approaches, best for operations and crisis management during their practices, and enhanced international cooperation. tenure, the rotating and acting CEO primarily focuses on the company’s survival, operations, and As a responsible corporate citizen, we have been development. Through a management mechanism cooperating closely with stakeholders. We proactively covering everything from strategy formulation to contribute to sustainable socio-economic development strategy execution, the rotating CEO system through four initiatives: bridging the digital divide, manages and monitors the company’s business safeguarding stable and secure network operations, operations. Gradually, the company will shift promoting environmental protection, and achieving its focus from the annual business plan to the win-win development. Of particular significance, we medium-to-long-term strategic plan. continue to strengthen localized operations to help boost local employment and economic development. In closing, I would like to extend my gratitude to all staff members and their loved ones, customers, Huawei is always open and cooperative, and partners, and industry organizations worldwide. enthusiastically contributes to industry development. As we move forward, let’s join hands to create a We now hold over 180 positions in more than 150 world with infinite opportunities and possibilities. standards organizations. We respect the intellectual property rights of others while accumulating intellectual property of our own. Every year, we pay about US$300 million in patent royalties to other companies in the industry in exchange for the use of their patented technologies. In the past year, our Board of Directors (BOD) and its committees reviewed and approved the Sun Yafang company’s medium-to-long-term business plan, Chairwoman of the Board 7 Brand Promise and Brand Attributes Brand Promise and Brand Attributes Our Enduring Brand Promise Enriching life and improving efficiency through a better connected world. Our Brand Attributes Customer-centric Global We keep an unwavering focus on our customers, We operate on the world stage so that we can partnering with them and committing ourselves provide the best locally. We are actively engaged to meet their goals and needs. We rely on deep in communities; we learn from local cultures, customer insights and continuous feedback to recruit and develop local talent, partner with local guide our priorities and influence the way we suppliers, and customize our offerings for local work. tastes and needs. Dedicated Open We are passionate about the success of our customers, We are active listeners and contributors internally making every effort to meet our commitments. We and externally. We always bring a unique point measure our work against how much value we bring of view, listen to others’ suggestions for how we to customers. We strive to continuously improve can improve, and share knowledge and insights to ourselves, building our capabilities, our knowledge help the industry and key stakeholders evolve and base, and our expertise. grow. Innovative Trusted We proactively anticipate future trends and We say what we do and do what we say, delivering customer needs. Continuous innovation puts us on the promises we make to our customers and directly on the cutting edge of technology. We partners. We respect fair business practices and generate new value through smart design and maintain the highest standards of information the integration of our products, services, and integrity and security. As a responsible corporate experiences. citizen, we actively promote the sustainable development of society, the economy, and the environment. Management Discussion and Analysis 8 Management Discussion and Analysis Our Value Propositions Resonating with the revolutionary changes taking place in the information industry, Huawei continuously innovates to meet customer needs and advance our technology leadership; we openly cooperate with industry partners, focus on building future-proof “Smart Information Pipes”, and continuously create value for our customers and society at large. Based on these value propositions, Huawei is dedicated to enriching life and improving efficiency through a better connected world. In addition, we strive to be the first choice and best partner of telecom carriers and enterprise customers while also becoming a brand of choice among consumers. Enriching life and improving efficiency through a better connected world Ubiquitous Broadband Agile Innovation Inspired Experience Mobile and smart Insights into the industry’s Simplified and personalized service Large capacity and ultraopportunities in the Big Data era experience broadband Integrating resources for efficient True-to-life and diversified Diversified access anytime collaboration Zero wait time and rich anywhere Rapid delivery of innovative communication Continuous and smooth services Creating value through experience evolutions Innovation of services and business models Continuously innovating for our customers and advancing our technology leadership; cooperating for win-win outcomes Ubiquitous Broadband From laptops, smartphones, and smart tablets, to a Huawei is dedicated to expanding network wide variety of new and innovative gadgets that will capacity, enhancing network enablement, and keep cropping up, devices will become increasingly optimizing network management. We continuously diversified. innovate new architectures (such as SoftCOM), Single platforms, and new technologies. By People want to go online anytime, anywhere, and delivering products and solutions that feature via any device. Against this backdrop, reliability leading technologies and smooth evolution, we and security have become essential requirements. help customers build simplified yet highly efficient To address the challenges brought about by the network infrastructures that provide ubiquitous upcoming digital floods, networks should become broadband to consumers. broader and smarter to ensure smooth multimedia interaction and to provide better services and applications. 9 Management Discussion and Analysis Agile Innovation Inspired Experience The ICT industry is still innovating rapidly. New To learn, work, entertain, and live more conveniently, trends such as mobility, cloud computing, Big Data, people expect services to be simple, easy to use, and social networking are guiding this industry and true to life, with zero wait time. towards a new landscape. In addition, significant digitalization changes are taking place in the real Huawei will strengthen its research in such areas world. The Internet of Things, e-Commerce, and as video, audio, touch control, image processing, digital media among others are driving the upgrading and emotional experience algorithms, promote and restructuring of traditional industries. user centric design (UCD), and provide users with a collaborative and consistent experience Enterprises in various industries need to strengthen across screens. In addition, we will provide hightheir information analysis capabilities, rapidly gain quality and easy-to-maintain products as well as an insight into opportunities, continuously enhance personalized business support systems (BSSs) and organizational collaboration, and launch new operation support systems (OSSs). We will also products and services into the marketplace in a build a supply chain that is visible to customers, and better and faster way. enable user-friendly and convenient transaction and delivery processes. Huawei provides data center infrastructure solutions based on cloud computing to help customers improve The innovative technologies Huawei introduces the utilization of their storage and computing allow people around the world to communicate resources and provides unified communications and share more freely, reap the benefits of and Bring Your Own Device (BYOD) solutions to technological progress, and enjoy the inspired help customers improve work efficiency and reduce experience. operating costs, thereby achieving operational excellence and continuously making business and service innovations. Management Discussion and Analysis 10 Business Review 2012 Sales revenue 220,198 CNY Million In 2012, Huawei’s well-balanced presence worldwide and other countries and regions, Huawei earned helped the company achieve rapid and healthy CNY77,414 million from Europe, the Middle East, growth in the carrier network, enterprise, and and Africa (EMEA), which marks an increase of consumer businesses. Annual sales revenue totaled 6.1% year-on-year. By maintaining sound growth CNY220,198 million, an 8.0% increase over the momentum in Japan, Indonesia, Thailand, Australia, previous year. and other markets in the Asia Pacific region, Huawei increased its sales revenue by 7.2% yearSales from the Chinese market totaled CNY73,579 on-year to CNY37,359 million. In the American million, an increase of 12.2% year-on-year. The region, Huawei experienced robust growth in Carrier Network BG continued to maintain modest infrastructure networks across Latin America, and growth, while the Enterprise BG and the Consumer enjoyed prosperity in the consumer business in BG began to gather momentum. Of particular North America. The successes in the American note, sales of the Consumer BG grew by more region helped Huawei generate CNY31,846 million than 30%. in sales revenue, an increase of 4.3% year-on-year. Thanks to the continuous expansion of professional Over the next three to five years, the CAGR of services as well as the rapid growth of infrastructure Huawei’s sales revenue is estimated to stand at networks in West Europe, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, approximately 10%. CNY Million 2012 2011 YOY (%) CNY Million 2012 2011 YOY (%) China 73,579 65,565 12.2% Carrier Network 160,093 149,975 6.7% EMEA 77,414 72,956 6.1% Business Asia Pacific 37,359 34,862 7.2% Enterprise Business 11,530 9,164 25.8% America 31,846 30,546 4.3% Consumer Business 48,376 44,620 8.4% Total 220,198 203,929 8.0% Others 199 170 17.1% Total 220,198 203,929 8.0% 11 Management Discussion and Analysis Carrier Network Business The industry constantly strives to reduce equipment and network deployment costs while offering Over the past year, the telecom industry has a rich array of new services on a timely basis experienced numerous challenges. Despite these and innovating profit models. To meet the new challenges, Huawei maintained its leading market requirements and challenges for ICT convergence position in the carrier network field, with and transformation, Huawei proposed the SoftCOM CNY160,093 million in sales revenue, an increase strategy geared towards future network architectures. of 6.7% year-on-year. Based on the concepts of network-level cloudization, equipment-level cloudization, Internet-oriented Huawei’s share in the wireless network market operations, and Network as a Service (NaaS), experienced steady growth, with over 500 carriers this strategy incorporates cloud computing and worldwide deploying its wireless products. Huawei software defined networking (SDN) into telecom provides a full portfolio of GSM, UMTS, CDMA, networks. From the architecture perspective, TD-SCDMA, and LTE solutions, and has deployed our strategy also makes it possible to effectively 170 SingleRAN commercial networks worldwide, control costs, rapidly deliver new services, and all of which support the evolution towards LTE. enable a smooth evolution, thereby ushering in 139 carriers have launched or will soon launch LTE the ICT convergence era. services into commercial use. In the fixed network field, technological and commercial innovations Wireless Networks are being implemented in unison. By unveiling the industry’s first 480G line card for backbone Sales revenue from our wireless network equipment routers, Huawei led the development of routing totaled CNY49,837 million in 2012. technologies. Huawei also maintained its leading position in offering broadband network gateway People’s lives continue to significantly benefit from (BNG), LTE, and IP mobile backhaul solutions for the rapid development of mobile communications multi-service support over metropolitan area technologies. Looking at recent trends, Huawei networks (MANs). In the transport field, Huawei sees that smart device penetration growth is was awarded more than fifty 100G commercial continuing unabated, the diversity of innovative contracts. Huawei’s market share in the carrier mobile applications is rapidly increasing, and software and core network business has continued industrywide development towards a thriving to rise. More than 150 mobile broadband (MBB) machine-to-machine (M2M) ecosystem is helping carriers around the world have adopted Huawei’s realize truly ubiquitous global connectivity amid Value Growth Solution (VGS). Our BSS solution has explosive growth in data traffic. Huawei believes been deployed by customers such as Vodafone, the total mobile market will reach US$2 trillion H3G in the UK, Telenor, and KPN. Services are by 2020—more than double the total market in heavily emphasized by Huawei in its cooperation 2012. This is made possible by advances in ultrawith carriers. Huawei’s professional service broadband technologies that support on-demand solutions have been used by 45 of the world’s customer innovations. top 50 carriers and are deployed in more than 140 countries, serving one-third of the world’s Huawei was the first to propose evolution from population. In the European market, Huawei distributed base stations to the SingleRAN provides managed services for carriers in the UK, platform, which is now an industry standard and Spain, Germany, Italy, and Switzerland. helps carriers deploy new network technologies Management Discussion and Analysis 12 that significantly reduce total cost of ownership submitted more than 10,884 LTE/EPC standards (TCO) while supporting on-demand network applications to 3GPP. Huawei holds chairperson, expansion. Originally, Huawei focused only on vice chairperson, director, and work group reducing TCO, but now with SoftMobile, the focus leader positions for more than 150 standards has shifted to improving total value of ownership organizations. (TVO) while reducing TCO. Huawei remains commit ted to the spirit of SoftMobile is an end-to-end MBB business solution innovation, which has driven the development of based on the commercially successful SingleRAN cutting-edge solutions, SoftMobile being the most platform and provides future mobile networks recent example. Huawei will continue to invest in with three key features: Broadband, Orchestration, forward-looking technologies and standards that and On-Demand. SoftMobile delivers new and support on-demand, orchestrated, and ocean-like innovative business opportunities for mobile MBB networks; our aim is to grow and develop network carriers amid the exponential growth of an open, harmonious, and flourishing mobile smart devices. This is made possible by providing ecosystem with our industry chain partners. carriers with the ability to expand broadband capacity, improve multi-Radio Access Technology Fixed Networks (RAT), multi-band and multi-layer coordination, and improve user experience while maintaining the Sales revenue from our fixed network equipment relation between cost and revenue. totaled CNY48,452 million in 2012. By the end of 2012: Huawei had deployed more With rapid developments in cloud computing and than 500 wireless networks, serving more than OTT video services, applications are migrating to two billion subscribers worldwide; Huawei had the cloud, per capita bandwidth consumption is won 139 LTE and 80 EPC commercial contracts, swinging upwards, and digital floods are starting of which 73 LTE and 59 EPC networks had been to form huge swells. Huawei advocates a digital commercially launched; Huawei LTE/EPC networks lifestyle characterized by “broadband inclusion had been deployed in 68 capital cities worldwide; for all” and is dedicated to providing consistent Huawei had deployed a total of 270 commercial customer experience on services that require zero UMTS networks, and 39 of the total 270 UMTS wait time and are available anytime, anywhere. networks have been upgraded to support DualIn addition, Huawei adheres to the Pipe Strategy Carrier HSPA+ for peak data rates of 42 Mb/s; and strives to build ubiquitous ultra-broadband Huawei had deployed 170 commercial SingleRAN networks as wide as the Pacific Ocean, thereby networks worldwide, all of which support enabling connectivity possibilities for the entire evolution towards LTE. society and considerably enriching life through communication. Huawei has been awarded the most LTE and LTE-Advanced standard patents. Huawei has In the next-generation network technology contributed 20% of all approved standards field, Huawei was the first to propose the E2E applications for 3GPP LTE Core Specifications Carrier SDN architecture, for which it has already (RAN1-RAN3). As of Q4 2012, Huawei had unveiled prototypes. These prototypes included 13 Management Discussion and Analysis the industry’s first broad network controller to Telecommunication Standardization Sector of the control hybrid SDN networking, the industry’s first International Telecommunication Union (ITU-T). In SDN-based BNG, the industry’s first optical line the OSS and service field, Huawei set up the Global terminal (OLT) integrated with an SDN controller, Network Evolution and Experience Center (GNEEC). and the industry’s first transport network SDN The center focuses on ensuring the smooth controller. With the Carrier SDN architecture, evolution of customer networks and showcases carriers are equipped with a simple, agile, resilient, Huawei’s world-leading service experience and and value-added network. expertise. The recently launched Huawei uTraffic, a network traffic analysis system, leveraged In the carrier IP network field, Huawei unveiled innovative technologies and leading platforms to the industry’s first 480G line card for backbone support traffic and bandwidth operations. This routers, demonstrating that the company is traffic analysis system is well positioned to help already at the forefront of the IP field in terms carriers provide efficient services, increase revenue, of core routing technologies. In addition, Huawei and improve their profitability. launched the world’s first 10GE LTE base station routers that help carriers successfully deploy By the end of 2012, Huawei’s fixed network LTE networks and efficiently transport mobile products and solutions had been deployed by 45 of data services. In the field of optical transport the world’s top 50 carriers. Our routers were used networks (OTNs), Huawei was the first to release by more than 20 mainstream carriers in Europe, 400G and 2T WDM prototypes, gearing up for maintaining a leading market share. We deployed ultra-broadband transmission in the future. The more than 830 SingleMetro commercial networks Petabit Packet Cross Connect (PPXC), an all-optical and 240 mobile bearer networks worldwide. In switch prototype Huawei demonstrated at the the transport field, we were awarded more than Optical Fiber Communication (OFC) Conference fifty 100G commercial contracts and constructed and Exposition 2012, was applauded as the 100G WDM networks totaling more than 100,000 most innovative and outstanding prototype in km. Huawei was the only vendor granted the Best the industry. In the microwave field, Huawei’s Optical Equipment Product – OTN award of the second-generation E-Band technology for carrier Next Generation Optical Awards from the Institute LTE bearer networks leads the IP microwave for International Research (IIR). Huawei was the industry in terms of concept, technology, market first to put second-generation E-Band microwave testing, and commercial use. In the FTTx access technology into commercial use in Europe. In network field, Huawei continued to promote the the access network field, mainstream European maturity of 40G TWDM PON and G.fast standards carriers put Huawei’s Vectoring solution into and lead the way into the GE era. Large-scale extensive commercial use. This solution received commercial use of Vectoring technology became the Best Broadband Access Award – Fixed award a reality. In the optical distribution network from InfoVision at the Broadband World Forum (ODN) field, Huawei established the intelligent 2012. The ODN solution effectively addresses the optical distribution network (iODN) industry difficulties in optical fiber deployment and O&M. and developed the L.64 industry standards on We have deployed more than 60 iODN commercial iODN. These standards were approved at the networks worldwide. Management Discussion and Analysis 14 In the future, the fixed broadband (FBB) network management capability that centers on end-users business faces both opportunities and challenges. experience. Huawei recorded large-scale growth On the one hand, the wide popularity of services in Europe and Asia Pacific among other markets and applications creates higher requirements for in its managed services. Huawei was awarded network bandwidth. Broadband networks will more than 330 managed service contracts. The become the infrastructure that drives national networks managed by Huawei serve more than economic development. Therefore, investments in 310 million subscribers, making Huawei the the bearer networks that support FBB and MBB fastest-growing managed services provider in the will remain stable. On the other hand, diversified world. Of particular note, we made large-scale services and the rapid growth of bandwidth breakthroughs in developed markets in Europe and traffic require that broadband networks be by providing managed services to carriers in the smarter, more flexible, and more cost-effective. UK, Spain, Germany, Italy, and Switzerland. In the The Internet industry is also striving to improve CEM field, we established joint innovation projects network efficiency by constantly creating with Vodafone and Canada-based TELUS for our innovative solutions. In the fixed network business SmartCare CEM service. In the service quality field, Huawei will be dedicated to providing carriers management and assessment system, service with value-added, resilient, agile, and ubiquitous modeling, and service quality optimization fields, ultra-broadband network solutions that are easy we worked with STC on CEM services and helped to operate and maintain and become a strategic it achieve market success. In the consulting and partner that carriers can rely on. system integration field, Huawei had built 19,000 indoor sites for 114 carriers in 63 countries, served Global Services 78 carriers in 45 countries, completed more than 260 data center projects, and provided green In 2012, our revenue from Global Services amounted energy services for more than 18,000 sites of 310 to CNY42,913 million. carriers in more than 150 countries by the end of 2012. Today, the ubiquity of MBB networks and services, the all-IP network evolution, the massive number In the network construction and maintenance of services and applications that result in field, in 2012, Huawei delivered wireless products instantaneousness and fragmentation of information, to 430,000 sites, fixed network products to and the demand of device users for a personalized 790,000 sites, and microwave products to 74,000 service experience combine to present a series of sites. During the same year, Huawei completed challenges and opportunities to the ICT industry. the planning and design of 81 key projects and successfully provided network assurance services Services are heavily emphasized by Huawei in its to 41 key events, including the London Olympics collaboration with carriers. Over the past several and Hajj. years, we have continuously strengthened the competitiveness of our service solutions and Huawei also continued to strengthen its development helped customers transform from developing of global service capabilities to globalize, centralize, its network-centric construction & maintenance and localize service delivery. Huawei has set up a capability to developing the integration and Global Service Center (GSC) in Romania, a Global 15 Management Discussion and Analysis Network Operation Center (GNOC) in India, overall solution to transform from Per Service Per Romania, and Mexico (under construction), and User (PSPU) Service Quality Management (SQM) to a Service Operation Center (SOC) in Indonesia. holistic customer experience management. We also have three centers of expertise (COEs) on managed services in Germany, India, and China.In Peering into 2013, the evolution of new addition, Huawei has established a Global Network technologies and new network architectures, Evolution & Experience Center (GNEEC) in Beijing. management of new services and customer experience, and innovation in O&M and business In the consulting and system integration field, models will bring more profound and dramatic Huawei kept abreast of technology, network, changes to the entire industry. Huawei Global and service developments and continuously Services will focus on telecom carriers and their enriched its service portfolios in collaborative vertical customers in specific industries, provide indoor and outdoor planning and optimization, more valuable and competitive service solutions, TDD/FDD collaborative planning, multi-vendor/ and continuously create value. multi-frequency/multi-mode indoor coverage co-building and sharing, intra-frequency macro and Carrier Software & Core Networks micro hybrid networks, and GSM/LTE non-standard bandwidth refarming. All of these initiatives helped Sales revenue in Huawei’s carrier software and improve Huawei’s competitiveness. core network business totaled CNY18,891 million in 2012. In the managed services field, Huawei invested in developing E-iNOC (a cross-territory, multiWe focused on strategic transformation towards network, and multi-vendor OSS management “service + product” solutions and were committed platform), the Workforce Management (WFM) to such fields as BSS, fixed mobile convergence system (a field O&M management system that (FMC), consumers and households, industryallows converged O&M of fixed and mobile specific solutions, and data center solutions. networks), a management and troubleshooting Huawei collaborates extensively with its carrier system for home networks and the Last Mile, customers by addressing different types of the Managed Services Unified Platform (MSUP) challenges they are facing, such as fluxes in user based on Process KPIs, and the Site Intelligent behavior, changes in operating environments, Management System (SIMS). These systems deliver and changes to the competitive landscape. superior next-generation managed services with Huawei takes this collaborative approach to help the optimal Total Value of Ownership (TVO). carriers transform their business operations, ICT infrastructure resources, operations support, and In the CEM field, the HUAWEI SmartCare CEM business enablement. service solution was further optimized in terms of customer experience management and consulting, In the BSS field, we officially launched the service modeling, service quality management Convergent Billing System Release 5 (CBS R5), process development, E2E demarcation of service which quickly dominated the market and has quality, and network optimization capability that been used by such global leading carriers as focuses on end users. This move enabled the Vodafone, KPN, and Telenor. With its mobile Management Discussion and Analysis 16 payment solution, Huawei has now become New VoLTE Product Launch and Best Innovative Vodafone’s strategic partner in the mobile money New Service Launch Enabled by IMS. field for its future platforms. Our managed services and next-generation business support system In the data center solutions field, we launched (NGBSS) solutions continued to deepen the IT telecom private cloud and public cloud solutions transformation and have become the benchmark and released high-end storage HVS servers that for the industrialization of the global telecom IT helped telecom carriers build rapidly growing industry. next-generation data centers. The market share of our telecom cloud computing products grew by In the consumer and household field, we more than 200%, and we started to work in this constructed large-granular solutions on platforms, area with multiple mainstream carriers worldwide. service, and the ecosystem, continuously promoted In recognition of Huawei’s excellent performance revenue growth from value-added services (VAS), in this field, we won the Global Excellent Telecom and supported the business transformation of Cloud Solution Provider of the Year award from carriers. Our solution helped XL, an Indonesian Frost & Sullivan. carrier, increase its monthly revenue by 15%. According to statistics from Gartner, Huawei’s In 2012, we ventured into MBB traffic operations service delivery platform (SDP) maintained and leveraged our E2E solution advantages to its leading market share globally for the third create more than 100 sales opportunities on consecutive year and was honored with the traffic operations and break into many high-value National Science and Technology Progress Award, markets. Our MBB VGS won the Solution the top award in China’s science and technology Excellence Award from the TM Forum and the arena. In the hybrid video field, Huawei maintained Best Use of Traffic Management for Improving its leading market share and was granted the Best Customer Experience award from the Broadband Multiscreen TV Solution award at the IP&TV World Traffic Management (BBTM) Congress. Forum 2012. Network Energy In the converged communications field, Huawei Mobile Softswitch served 3 billion subscribers Relying on its penetrating insights into the ICT globally. Huawei has successfully deployed 143 IMS industry, Huawei’s power supply solutions are networks, making it one of the leading players in more suitable for ICT scenarios. These solutions this field. Huawei’s SmartPCC has been deployed have been deployed by more than 300 carriers by 23 of the world’s top 30 carriers, positioning across 140 countries worldwide. By adhering to a Huawei among the top market share players in the 4S (Saving, Simple, Smart, and Scalable) concept, industry. In addition, Huawei won two prestigious Huawei is dedicated to in-depth research in the awards at the IMS 2.0 World Forum 2012: Best fields of site energy and data center energy. By 17 Management Discussion and Analysis doing so, Huawei aims to achieve the following and CMpak, which have helped them save billions targets: maximum conversion efficiency, optimal of dollars on energy consumption. ICT power supply, and security & reliability, guaranteeing the secure and reliable operation of In the data center energy solutions field, Huawei ICT services. launched the modular data center and container data center energy solutions, which can be In the site field, Huawei’s full portfolio of efficient deployed in multiple indoor and outdoor data power solutions meet customer needs for power center scenarios. These solutions feature “smart supply to main equipment rooms; modernizing and unified management, efficient and reliable energy systems of indoor sites; transformation operation, and quick and easy expansion”. of indoor to outdoor sites, and provisioning of Their design features have placed us among the complex power supplies in multiple outdoor pioneers in the next-generation modular data scenarios. Huawei has deployed a total of 1.2 center industry. In 2012, Huawei won the Data million site power systems worldwide and achieved Center Blueprints award from Datacenter Dynamics volume sales with mainstream carriers such as (known as the Oscars of the data center industry) British Telecom (BT), Telefonica, America Movil for the Desktop Cloud Container Data Center (AM), MTN, SingTel, and CUCC. In 2012, Huawei project. won Certificate of Merit in “Best in Class Site Design” Beauty Contest organized by Deutsche In the uninterruptible power system (UPS) field, Telekom and Green Technology Award at Huawei built next-generation secure, stable, and CommunicAsia 2012, as a result of recognition energy-saving UPS series, including the UPS8000, from customers and the industry. Huawei also the UPS5000, and the UPS2000, to meet customer unveiled the industry’s first high-efficiency and needs for small, middle, and large capacity power high-density large-capacity power system. supply scenarios. In 2012, Huawei was among the first companies globally to be given the In the hybrid power field, Huawei fully understands UPS “Energy Star” certification, laying a solid concerns of carriers in terms of the shortage and foundation for further market development. instability of power supplies in emerging markets. With this understanding, Huawei launched a series Enterprise Business of power supply solutions including diesel, grid, and solar hybrid, which help to optimize and In 2012, Huawei’s enterprise business experienced conserve of green energy. By doing so, we ensure stable growth, with its sales revenue reaching optimal TCO and a reduction of the operating CNY11,530 million, a year-on-year increase of expenditure (OPEX) by 30% to 50% and fulfill 25.8%. Against the backdrop of a new market our corporate social responsibility in energy environment and the sluggish global economy, conservation and emissions reduction by cutting revenue from the China Region increased steadily. down or even eliminating the use of fuel. Our new In addition, we actively developed markets outside energy-conserving products have been deployed China and made breakthroughs in high-value by a large number of customers, such as Airtel, regions. The channel business in regions outside MTN, Etisalat, Ethiopia Telecom, Ufone, Mobilink, China has taken shape. Management Discussion and Analysis 18 The influence of innovative ICT technologies, driven by experience-oriented design”, Huawei including cloud computing, Big Data, BYOD mobile provides customers with UC&C products and office, SDN, and broadband and wireless LTE, integrated solutions that feature mobility, continues to expand. By taking advantage of these converged video, and cloud collaboration. technologies, enterprises will inevitably revamp In 2012, Huawei launched such new UC&C their value creation and business models. products as unified communications (UC) 2.0, contact center (CC) 2.0, and the world’s first In 2012, Huawei focused on ICT infrastructure panoramic telepresence system (a high-definition and high-value customers/industries. We adopted videoconferencing system). Our IP phones were an open and cooperative approach. By adhering honored with the Germany iF Industrial Design to a strategy of cooperation and integration with award, known as the “Oscars” of the product partners, we worked with partners to provide design field. Huawei also joined international products, solutions, and services to customers. industry standards organizations in the UC&C Our main products and solutions gained field and has become a member of more than competitiveness and made breakthroughs in 10 industry organizations, such as the Unified high-value countries and markets. Communication Interoperability Forum (UCIF) and the Open Visual Communications Consortium In the enterprise networking field, Huawei (OVCC). In addition, we completed cross-product released multiple industry-leading flagship interoperability testing with 85 vendors in the products: CloudEngine 12800 series data center industry. Our core products have been deployed by switches that have the industry’s largest switching numerous customers in various industries globally, capacity and highest performance, the world’s including Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (BNB), first enterprise-grade WLAN access point (AP) Pemex, and the Industrial and Commercial Bank prototype that complies with the IEEE 802.11ac of China. These core products have also been fully standard, brand-new S9700 series high-end applied in large cross-territory enterprises to help switches, the next-generation aggregation router customers communicate and collaborate more NE20E-S, the enterprise cloud gateway AR G3, efficiently. and a 10GE campus solution. By developing professional WLAN planning, testing, and network In Gartner’s Magic Quadrant 2012, our networking, optimization tools, Huawei further enhanced UC, and CC products rose to the Challengers the unified network management capability of quadrant. eSight, its unified O&M management system for enterprise ICT. Huawei’s enterprise networking In the IT field, by adhering to the concept of products have been deployed by large customers in “Make IT Simple, Make Business Agile”, Huawei multiple industries around the world, including the launched innovative IT infrastructure and data State Grid Corporation of China, China National center solutions. These launches included Petroleum Corporation, Sochi 2014 Winter FusionCube (a converged infrastructure appliance), Olympics, and BovenIJ Hospital in the Netherlands. the OceanStor HVS series (industry-leading, high-end enterprise-grade storage products), an In the unified communications and collaboration OceanStor UDS mass storage system that can (UC&C) field, with a design philosophy of “R&D be expanded to the EB level, and other offerings 19 Management Discussion and Analysis to help customers simplify their IT systems and the company launched the Huawei Enterprise improve business agility. Huawei has built more BYOD Solution. This solution delivers the perfect than 260 data centers for customers around combination of security, efficiency, and experience the globe – 35 of them cloud-based. Huawei for mobile workstyles and helps enterprises provided storage solutions to more than 2,000 improve their work efficiency. customers across 80 countries, became a partner of the European Organization for Nuclear Research In vertical industries, Huawei recorded multiple (CERN) on storage products, helped build the achievements. We provided e-government, public China Mobile International Information Port (the security, digital education, and digital healthcare largest data center in the world), and deployed services in 89 countries and regions. Our GSM-R the world’s largest desktop cloud system at solution improved operations on the Harbin-Dalian Huawei. Approximately 70,000 employees use High-Speed Railway, the world’s first high-speed this cloud system for work every day. Huawei has railway in areas of deep freeze. We successfully consolidated its leading position in the media constructed a flexible and efficient campus information and Internet industries, deepened network for Hong Kong Stock Exchange and its cooperation with such media outlets as China offered a productive office collaboration solution Central Television, and provided green and efficient for Saudi Aramco. Phoenix Television adopted IT infrastructures for Tencent and Baidu. In 2012, Huawei’s full series of products, including modular Huawei also made all-around breakthroughs in the equipment rooms, core switches, storage devices, finance and healthcare industries. and telepresence offerings. Our smart hotel solution helped the Tengchong Resort & Villas in In the enterprise wireless broadband field, Yunnan Province upgrade into a super five-star Huawei was awarded 12 contracts for network modern resort. construction projects, including eWBB LTE commercial networks and contracts, and our Following a strategy of openness and cooperation, solutions were widely applied in the transportation, Huawei worked with system integrators (SIs), government, and energy industries. The eWBB Independent Software Vendors (ISVs), and other LTE wireless broadband communications network partners to bring innovation to products and Huawei deployed for China Southern Power Grid solutions. With approximately 1,000 partners, we marked the first application of LTE solutions in the leveraged our respective advantages, kept abreast electric power industry. The eWBB LTE broadband of customer needs, and provided innovative cluster has also been widely used in the Safe services and user experience for all industries. City, transportation, and many other sectors. Huawei’s GSM-R solutions cover up to 13,000 The channel policy and business processes of km of railways and have been deployed by EKB in Huawei’s Enterprise BG continued to improve, Turkey, North-South Railway of Turkmenistan, and and channel partner development is on the right many other customers. track. By the end of 2012, Huawei’s Enterprise BG had more than 2,800 channel partners worldwide. In keeping with booming expansion of mobile Additionally, Huawei actively promoted the “Fly office technology and based on Huawei’s own Easy” program in markets outside China and experience in deploying mobile applications, carried out the Channel Partner Enablement 360 Management Discussion and Analysis 20 Program to enhance the vitality of channel partners build an industry ecosystem that fosters and increase the quality and quantity of channel cooperation and win-win results, promote the partners. sound development of the ICT industry, and contribute to the ICT development of enterprises In 2012, we established a regional service channel and industries. partner network and ecosystem supported by six centers around the world. These centers include Consumer Business technical assistance center (TAC), spare parts, training & certification, project management, With the rapid development of network channel partner service operations, and authorized information technologies, consumers demand repair centers – fully covering 38 countries. The network access “anytime and any where”. network and ecosystem provide better service Ubiquitous access to network services requires support and experience to partners and customers closer connections between smart devices and and accelerate customer business success. networks. Leveraging its expertise accumulated in communications technologies over the past In the information age, enterprise ICT systems two decades, coupled with in-depth insights become more than just tools and support systems; into customer needs, network technologies, and they will be absolutely essential and intrinsic to future trends, Huawei is building a powerful brand nearly every enterprise activity. E2E real-time image centered on product experience. Huawei is systems will be built for enterprises, and the digital committed to becoming a leading global brand enterprise model will become an organization in smart devices, offering products and services norm. The ICT infrastructure is the core driving that deliver the inspired experience to consumers force behind enterprise innovation, transformation, everywhere. and competitiveness improvement. Huawei will proactively embrace the opportunities and In 2012, with the rapidly growing popularity challenges in the ICT development era, stay abreast of smart devices, Huawei’s consumer business of technological development trends, and remain increased steadily, earning global sales revenue steadfastly customer-centric. In addition, we will of CNY48,376 million – an increase of 8.4% jointly innovate with customers and partners, year-on-year. Annual shipments totaled 127 million focus on competitive enterprise ICT products and units, including 32 million smartphones – an solutions, and continuously create value for the increase of 60% year-on-year. business success of customers. In 2012, Huawei launched the Ascend lineup of By adhering to the transparency, stability, smartphones and marketed multiple models for cooperation, and win-win strategies, we will the brand, which marked Huawei’s shift from continue to stay focused, open, and cooperative, the traditional business-to-business (B2B) model and provide products for the integration of to the business-to-customer (B2C) model; from partners. We will work with our customers and its role as an ODM to its own brand; and from partners to jointly embrace ICT transformations, a focus on feature phones to smartphones. Our 21 Management Discussion and Analysis product scope extended from low-end products technology media outlet, which asserted that the to middle-range and high-end products. Thanks phone “performs exactly the way you’d expect a to these transformations, Huawei’s Consumer BG phone with four CPU cores to, and it’s Huawei’s achieved effective growth. best phone to date”. Keeping pace with market requirements, Huawei launched LTE-capable The Huawei Ascend is made for people of action devices in developed markets. In the US, Huawei who are idealists – challengers who have vision, partnered with MetroPCS to launch the M920, initiative, and belief that dreams can be realized an entry-level LTE-capable phone. In Western through hard work. Huawei Device strives to Europe, Huawei and a UK carrier jointly launched bring the latest technology to consumers so that the Ascend P1 LTE. In Japan, the Ascend D1 LTE everyone can benefit from new technologies. In from Huawei and NTT Docomo was also launched product development, Huawei Device adheres to its during a grand ceremony held in November 2012. quality strategy, attaching the utmost importance to improving consumer experience. We strive to Throughout the year, Huawei maintained its leading break through technical limitations to provide role in the MBB field. In the traditional wireless innovations tailored to consumer requirements. data access field, Huawei continuously innovated By doing so, we enable more people from around product technology, improved appearance, and the world to reap the benefits of technological delivered enhanced user experience. Huawei also progress and realize their dreams. The Ascend launched the world’s first full series of LTE Cat4 product lineup includes the D series with the data devices (including data cards, Mobile Wi-Fi, ultimate technology; the P series with the ultimate and customer premises equipment [CPE]). The fashion; the G series that offers the best blend company achieved rapid growth in the consumer of performance and cost; and the Y series for electronics (CE) field and became a mainstream ultimate accessibility. Simply put, Huawei tasks supplier to HP, Acer, Sony, and other world-known itself with providing consumers with the best electronics manufacturers. In the M2M field, devices in the world. Huawei provided customized solutions for the automobile, electric power, and other industries, In 2012, Huawei significantly improved the and tapped into the new Blue Ocean markets. competitiveness of its mobile phones. We released the Ascend P1, the slimmest smartphone in the In the home device field, Huawei strengthened world, and the Ascend D1 Quad, the fastest its investments in connected home solutions smartphone in the world. In addition, we launched that concentrate on access center, media center, the Huawei Emotion User Interface (UI) into automation center, open service cloud, and commercial use. Our device cloud service has efficient management cloud. Huawei added also taken shape. Currently, the Ascend P1 is to its momentum in this field with improved available in more than 40 countries. The Ascend understanding of consumer needs and a series of D1 Quad has also won high acclaim and was connected home devices. applauded by Engadget, a well-known science and Management Discussion and Analysis 22 Carriers in the US began to extensively use our awareness of Huawei’s mobile phones rose to innovative fixed wireless stations, helping them 25% in 2012. quickly attract new users and reduce O&M costs. In addition, Huawei’s innovative series of home In 2012, Huawei further accelerated its routers also won wide acclaim. The MediaPad development of device channels. While expanding 10 FHD, the fastest quad-core 10-inch tablet in carrier channels, Huawei Device also fully the world, was launched at the beginning of the developed other channels, including social and year and instantly became a hit in Russia, China, e-commerce channels. We established partnerships and the Asia-Pacific region among other markets. with more than 600 channel partners around the The recently unveiled Media Q breaks through world. Our total sales in the open market grew by performance limitations in individual device 23% year-on-year. In China, Huawei established products and enables multi-screen interaction strategic partnerships with such distributors as among mobile phones, tablets, TVs, and home Chinatelling and Aisidi as well as retailers, including computers (AirSharingTM ). This device brings Gome, Suning and Dixintong. In Russia, Huawei families closer together, allowing every family carried out in-depth cooperation with core retailers member to connect and share using their favorite and our sales revenue in the open market grew by media. In the converged Set Top Box (STB) field, 500% year-on-year in 2012. In Germany, the UK, Huawei has entered the UK and other high-end and Australia, Huawei established partnerships markets, providing more sources of TV programs, with local mainstream distributors to promote the enhancing interaction, and bringing unprecedented sales of our products through social channels. home entertainment experience. With the rapid development of mobile Internet, While continuously delivering product innovations smart devices will become the most important and breakthroughs, Huawei Device centered on portal through which consumers access the consumers and stepped up its branding campaigns. Internet. This development will give Huawei’s We sponsored the Atletico Madrid Football Club consumer business even more room for growth. and the Ski Jumping World Cup in Poland. In Along with ICT convergence, smart mobility will addition, the Ascend P1 was advertised on help enhance Huawei’s competitive edge. By Eurosport during the London Olympics. At the relying on a proven track record in radio-frequency end of 2012, Huawei Device launched sizeable technology, low power consumption, high-quality Christmas and New Year promotional activities photography, high-end audio, rapid sharing, and themed “Ascend to New Heights” in 45 countries other core technologies, Huawei will consistently worldwide. According to the Global Brand Survey deliver the inspired experience in smart devices for Report released by IPSOS, the global brand consumers worldwide. 23 Management Discussion and Analysis Results of Operations CNY Million 2012 2011 YOY (%) Revenue 220,198 203,929 8.0% Gross profit 87,577 76,448 14.6% – Gross margin 39.8% 37.5% 2.3% Total operating expenses and other income 67,620 57,866 16.9% – as % of revenue 30.7% 28.4% 2.3% Operating profit 19,957 18,582 7.4% – Operating margin 9.1% 9.1% 0.0% Net finance expense 1,629 5,897 -72.4% Income tax expense 2,711 810 234.7% Net profit 15,380 11,647 32.1% Sales revenue in 2012 amounted to CNY220,198 million, which represents an increase of 8.0% year-onyear. Net profit grew by 32.1% year-on-year to CNY15,380 million. Total Operating Expenses and Other Income CNY Million 2012 2011 YOY (%) Research and development expenses 30,090 23,696 27.0% – as % of revenue 13.7% 11.6% 2.1% Selling and administrative expenses 38,916 33,770 15.2% – as % of revenue 17.7% 16.6% 1.1% Other (income)/operating expenses -1,386 400 -446.5% – as % of revenue -0.6% 0.2% -0.8% Total operating expenses and other income 67,620 57,866 16.9% – as % of revenue 30.7% 28.4% 2.3% In 2012, the company’s total expense ratio grew 2.3% year-on-year. This increase was attributable to a 2.1% rise in the R&D expense ratio due to increased R&D investment to drive the company’s future growth and a 1.1% rise in the selling and administrative expense ratio due to higher bad debt provisions, of which, the administrative expense ratio declined. The ratio of other operating expenses (as percentage of revenue) declined by 0.8%. Management Discussion and Analysis 24 Net Finance Expense CNY Million 2012 2011 YOY (%) Exchange loss 1,085 4,876 -77.7% Other net finance expense 544 1,021 -46.7% Total net finance expense 1,629 5,897 -72.4% Net finance expense in 2012 amounted to CNY1,629 million, a decrease of CNY4,268 million from 2011. This was attributable to a decrease of CNY3,791 million year-on-year in exchange loss and a decrease of CNY477 million year-on-year in other net finance expenses. Financial Position CNY Million 2012 2011 YOY (%) Non-current assets 40,538 33,671 20.4% Current assets 169,468 160,178 5.8% Total assets 210,006 193,849 8.3% Among which: Cash and short term investments 71,649 62,342 14.9% Trade receivables 55,101 49,884 10.5% Inventory 22,237 26,436 -15.9% Non-current liabilities 28,765 24,171 19.0% Among which: Long-term borrowings 16,077 13,270 21.2% Current liabilities 106,217 103,450 2.7% Among which: Short-term borrowings 4,677 7,057 -33.7% Trade payables 33,536 29,364 14.2% Owner’s equity 75,024 66,228 13.3% Total liabilities and equity 210,006 193,849 8.3% Cash and short-term investment balances as of December 31, 2012 rose by 14.9% year-on-year to CNY71,649 million. Trade receivable balances increased by 10.5% year-on-year. As sales revenue grew steadily, the company continuously refined the management and structure of trade receivables. Huawei’s days sales outstanding (DSO) as of December 31, 2012 was 90 days, two days more than that of 2011. 25 Management Discussion and Analysis Inventory balances decreased by 15.9% year-on-year. The inventory turnover (ITO) of 60 days represented a 15-day improvement from 75 days in 2011. This progress was due to lower inventory balances driven by initiatives to improve contract quality, better integrate project delivery plans, and increase operating efficiency. Trade payables balances increased by 14.2% year-on-year. Huawei’s days payable outstanding (DPO) as of December 31, 2012 was 91 days, eight days more than that of 2011. Total short-term and long-term borrowing as of December 31, 2012 amounted to CNY20,754 million, an increase of 2.1% year-on-year. Cash Flow from Operating Activities CNY Million 2012 2011 YOY (%) Net profit 15,380 11,647 32.1% Adjustment for depreciation, amortization, 3,164 7,900 -59.9% and non-operating loss/(income) Cash flow before change in operating 18,544 19,547 -5.1% assets and liabilities Change in operating assets and liabilities 6,425 -1,721 -473.3% Cash flow from operating activities 24,969 17,826 40.1% Cash flow from operating activities in 2012 increased by 40.1% year-on-year to CNY24,969 million. This increase was attributable to: ■ Net profit growth of 32.1% year-on-year due to revenue growth and improved gross margin. ■ Impact of depreciation, amortization, and non-operating loss or income: The cash flow from operating activities in 2012 was CNY4,736 million less than that of 2011. ■ Improvements to the efficiency of working capital in 2012 contributed CNY6,425 million to the cash flow from operating activities. Financial Risk Management In 2012, Huawei continuously amended and improved its financial risk management policies and processes to further enhance the company’s capability to withstand financial risks and better support its business development. Management Discussion and Analysis 26 Liquidity Risk selling, and financing in currencies other than CNY and the functional currencies of its Huawei has established a well-functioning system operations. According to the foreign exchange for cash flow planning, budgeting, and forecasting policy guidelines of the Group, material foreign to assess its short-term and medium to long-term exchange exposures are hedged unless hedging liquidity needs. The company has implemented would be uneconomical due to market liquidity a variety of prudent financial measures to fulfill and/or hedging cost. The Group uses value at its overall liquidity needs, including centralizing risk models (VaR) to measure its foreign currency cash management, maintaining a reasonable level exposures, and uses the following techniques to of funds, and gaining access to adequate and mitigate such risks: committed credit facilities. In 2012, cash and shortterm investments increased by 14.9% year-on-year – Natural hedging: The Group continuously to CNY71,649 million, representing 34.1% of the structures their operations to match its total assets. An adequate capital reserve and a receivables and payables in a foreign currency, stable cash flow from operating activities enabled to the extent possible. Huawei to manage its liquidity and borrowing risks, – Financial hedging: For certain currencies thus ensuring financial stability for the company. where natural hedging does not fully offset the foreign currency position, the Group hedges Liquidity Trends using a combination of short and long-term foreign currency loans. CNY Million 2012 2011 YOY (%) Cash flow from Assuming all other risk variables remained 24,969 17,826 40.1% operating activities constant, if the U.S. dollar exchange rate fluctuates Cash and short term by 5%, the impact on the Group’s net profit would 71,649 62,342 14.9% investments be CNY1,009 million (2011: CNY536 million). Total borrowings 20,754 20,327 2.1% Interest Rate Risk In addition to maintaining liquidity, Huawei also Huawei’s interest rate risk arises from its shortoptimized the debt maturity structure to a more and long-term investments and interest-bearing reasonable level. liabilities. Through the analysis of its interest rate exposures, the company uses a combination 1 year Above CNY Million of fixed-rate and variable-rate bank loans to or below 1 year mitigate interest rate risks. At the end of 2012, Total borrowings 4,677 16,077 the company’s interest-bearing liabilities at fixed interest rates accounted for 30.0% of its total Foreign Exchange Risk interest-bearing liabilities. The Group’s functional currency is CNY and has foreign currency exposures related to buying, 27 Management Discussion and Analysis Credit Risk Research and Development The company has established and implemented Huawei has over 70,000 product and solution R&D globally consistent credit management policies employees, comprising more than 45% of our total and practices, processes, IT systems, and credit workforce worldwide. We have set up 16 R&D risk assessment tools. In addition, dedicated credit centers in countries that include Germany, Sweden, management organizations have been established the US, France, Italy, Russia, India, and China. across all regions and business units. The company has used risk assessment models to determine To gain a distinct competitive edge in the future, customer credit ratings and credit limits. It has also we have set up the 2012 Laboratories, which implemented risk control points over key processes functions as the innovation, research, and platform along the end-to-end sales cycle to manage credit technology development arm of the company. risks in a closed-loop manner. Huawei’s Credit We focus on making continuous investments in Management Dept regularly assesses global credit key technologies, architectures, and standards risk exposures, estimates potential losses, and in the ICT field and are dedicated to providing determines bad debt provisions as appropriate. broader, smarter, and more energy-efficient pipes In the event that a credit risk for a specific that require zero wait time, thereby creating a customer or outstanding trade receivable becomes better experience for users. We work closely inappropriately high, a special handling process is with partners from the industry, academia, and initiated to mitigate the risk. research institutes. Our goal is to take the lead in research, innovation, and implementation of Sales Financing future networks. Huawei has also set up 28 joint innovation centers with leading carriers to translate With global coverage, Huawei’s sales financing leading technologies into a competitive edge and team maintains close contact with customers to business success for customers. understand their financing needs and taps into diversified financing resources around the world. As of December 31, 2012, Huawei had filed 41,948 As a bridge for communication and cooperation patent applications in China, 12,453 under the between financial institutions and customers, the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT), and 14,494 sales financing team provides customers with outside China. Among these applications, 30,240 professional financing solutions that continuously patents have been granted. contribute to customer success. Third-party financial institutions engage with Huawei in export As an important contributor to the ICT industry, credit, leasing, and factoring activities to obtain Huawei applies standards to the industry in benefits and they bear the associated risks. Huawei key standards organizations and key standards has established systematic financing policies and projects, participates in and supports mainstream project approval processes to strictly control international standards, and makes a variety of financing risk exposures. positive contributions. At the ITU, for example, Management Discussion and Analysis 28 Huawei took the initiative to facilitate the networks has enabled people in different parts establishment of an organization to research of the world, and within their own countries, Carrier SDN. Huawei is a founding member of the to have a fair opportunity of development, to oneM2M global partnership project. By the end of promote equal communications among different 2012, Huawei had joined more than 150 industry cultures, and drive the advancement of civilization. standards organizations, including the 3GPP, IETF, Technology is fundamentally improving the health, IEEE, ITU, BBF, ETSI, ATIS, TMF, WFA, CCSA, and wealth, and prospects of humanity. However, with OMA. In 2012, Huawei submitted more than 5,000 these enormous benefits brought about by the proposals to these standards organizations and networked world, we are also facing increasing served as a board member for ETSI, ATIS, OMA, cyber security challenges. CCSA, WFA, and numerous other organizations. The company holds more than 180 positions in Cyber security is a shared global challenge which international standards organizations. is not limited to a particular geographical region, culture, language, or technology provider. All Huawei’s R&D expenses totaled CNY30,090 million stakeholders, including government and industry, in 2012, accounting for 13.7% of the company’s must collaborate to mitigate these risks and reduce annual revenue. Of the total R&D expenses, the chances that technology deployment is reduced CNY1,300 million was invested in research. Huawei due to the fear of cyber crime. To this end, Huawei has cumulatively spent more than CNY130,000 is dedicated to closely collaborating, innovating, million on R&D over the last decade. and establishing international standards with other global organizations and governments to ensure Cyber Security that the integrity and security of the networked solutions and services we provide meet or exceed As a responsible ICT provider, we take our the needs of our customers and provide the responsibilities to maintain the availability of our assurance and confidence required by their own technologies seriously while protecting them from customers. any form of damage, including cyber security. In this context, we believe that such threats will The Global Cyber Security Committee (GCSC) never cease. As such, we will never let up in is the highest level cyber security management our endeavors to design, develop, and support body at Huawei. John Suffolk is Huawei’s Global technology and solutions that significantly limit the Cyber Security Officer. Mr. Suffolk is tasked with possibility that our technology could be used for formulating strategies for the cyber security purposes for which it was never intended. assurance system as well as managing and overseeing the implementation of the system. He In 2012, we released a cyber security white paper reports directly to the CEO. In 2012, following the titled Cyber Security Perspective: 21st Century strategies and objectives set out in the Statement Technology and Security – A Difficult Marriage. on Establishing a Global Cyber Security Assurance As we point out in this paper, open networks System, we have continuously incorporated cyber have encouraged information flow and sharing, security elements into our core business processes lowered the costs of innovation, and helped (including R&D, supply chain, service delivery, improve the world’s capabilities in producing HR management, supplier management, and technological innovations. The development of so on) to roll out an end-to-end global cyber 29 Management Discussion and Analysis security assurance system. We have also conducted security with the industry during events such effective coordination in an open and transparent as the Budapest Conference on Cyberspace, the manner with external parties through multiple Worldwide Cybersecurity Summit in New Delhi, platforms, organizations, and channels. and other international cyber security forums. In 2012, we continued to improve the security We believe our holistic approach to cyber security, management, technical work force, and our open and transparent approach, and our organization building for all teams at different passion for independent testing and verification levels. We carried out systematic cyber security is a clear indication to our customers that we will awareness education for all Huawei staff and never stop in our endeavors to ensure that the contractors according to laws and regulations greatest level of risk mitigation is applied to our on cyber security and privacy protection. We products and their customers. strengthened our vulnerability management and disclosure policies and procedures to match best Critical Accounting Estimates practices and adapt to new business requirements. Our responsible disclosure process was adopted to The consolidated financial statements, on which coordinate with suppliers, computer emergency this Management Discussion and Analysis was response team (CERT) organizations, and security based, have been prepared in compliance with researchers in resolving product vulnerabilities. International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs). We participated in and passed supply chain For details, see note 1(a) to the consolidated security management system certification, such financial statements summary. as ISO28000. In addition, we improved supplier security system qualification and worked together The application of IFRSs requires the company with our suppliers to effectively reduce potential to make judgments, estimates and assumptions risks and security threats and ensure the security that will directly affect the company’s reporting of products and services delivered by Huawei. of its financial position and operating results. The accounting estimates and assumptions discussed In Canada, Spain, and other countries, we in this section are those that the management continued to cooperate with third-party testing considers to be the most critical to the company’s organizations to conduct independent security consolidated financial statements. audits and certifications, such as Common Criteria, on Huawei products. In the United Revenue Recognition Kingdom, we have continued to enhance the capabilities of our UK Cyber Security Evaluation The application of accounting principles related Centre (CSEC) to undertake independent security to the measurement and recognition of revenue evaluation of Huawei products. The knowledge requires the company to make significant judgments and expertise we learn from those tests and and estimates. Even for the same product, the evaluations are used to optimize all processes, company often has to determine the appropriate standards and policies of Huawei to continuously accounting treatment after analyzing the contract improve quality and security across all products terms and conditions. When installation, training, in all countries. In addition, we enthusiastically and other services are rendered and sold together shared our understanding and experience in cyber with a product, the company determines whether Management Discussion and Analysis 30 the deliverables should be treated as separate 31, 2011. The allowances are recorded based units of accounting and recognizes the revenue on the collectability of accounts receivable from accordingly. When there are multiple transactions customers. The company regularly reviews the with the same customer, the company applies allowances for doubtful accounts by considering significant judgments to determine whether factors such as historical experiences, customer separate contracts are considered as part of creditworthiness, the age of accounts receivable one arrangement based on contracts terms and balances, and current economic conditions that conditions. When an equipment that requires may affect a customer’s ability to pay. installation is delivered and accepted by a customer at different stages, the company determines The company’s provisions for doubtful accounts whether to recognize revenue by stages based on charged to the income statement were CNY3,416 assessment of whether the completed project is million and CNY1,481 million for fiscal years ended able to be used by the customer, and whether the December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, obtained certificate of acceptance would support respectively. If key customers’ creditworthiness payment collections. deteriorates, or if the default risk is higher than the historical trend, or if other circumstances arise, the Revenue recognition is also impacted by various estimates of the recoverability of amounts due to factors, including the creditworthiness of the the company could be overstated, and additional customer. The company regularly reviews estimates allowances could be required, which could have an of these factors to assess its adequacy. If these adverse impact on the company’s profit. estimates were to change, revenue will be impacted accordingly. Inventories Write-down For a construction contract, revenue is recognized The company’s inventor y balances were using the percentage of completion (POC) method, CNY22,237 million and CNY26,436 million as measured according to the percentage of contract of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, costs incurred to date to the estimated total costs respectively. Inventories are measured at the lower for the contract. If at any time these estimates of cost or net realizable value. The difference indicate the POC contract will be unprofitable, between the cost of the inventory and the net the entire estimated loss for the remainder of the realizable value is recorded as inventory provision. contract is recorded immediately as a cost. Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the Allowance for Doubtful Accounts estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. The following The company’s gross accounts receivable balances factors are considered for the recognition of were CNY58,592 million and CNY53,432 million net realizable value: purposes of the inventories as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, held, inventory aging, percentage of inventory respectively. The allowances for doubtful accounts utilization, inventory categories and conditions, were CNY3,491 million, or 6.0% of the gross and subsequent events with material influences accounts receivable balance as of December 31, on inventory value. The company reviews the 2012, and CNY3,548 million, or 6.6% of the inventory provisions periodically to ensure its gross accounts receivable balance as of December accuracy and reasonableness. 31 Management Discussion and Analysis The company’s inventory provisions charged to Income Tax the income statement were CNY17 million and CNY509 million for fiscal years ended December The company is subject to income taxes in China 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining the consolidated Provision for Warranties provision for income taxes. When recognizing revenue, the company estimates During the ordinary course of business, there the possible future liabilities that it may incur are many transactions and calculations where under its product warranty obligations and records the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. The a warranty provision. The warranty provision company recognizes tax liabilities for anticipated balances were CNY2,407 million and CNY1,962 tax issues based on estimates of whether million as of December 31, 2012 and December additional taxes will eventually be due. The 31, 2011, respectively. The company’s products company adequately accrues for tax liabilities for are generally covered by a warranty period of all open audit years based on its assessment 12 months. The company accrues for warranty of many factors, including past experiences and costs as part of cost of sales based on historical interpretations of tax law. Deferred tax assets are expenditure on material costs, technical support recognized to the extent that future taxable profits labor costs, and associated overheads. will be available against which the assets can be utilized. The warranty provisions accrued for fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 Assessment of tax exposures and recognition relies were CNY2,844 million and CNY2,449 million, on estimates and assumptions and may involve a respectively. series of complex judgments about future events. Where the final tax outcome of these future events Increases in warranty claims or higher cost of is different from the amounts that were initially warranty services will lead to actual warranty recorded, such differences will impact the income expenses exceeding the accrued warranty tax and deferred tax provisions for the period in provisions, and will in turn adversely affect the which such decision is made. company’s gross margin. Market Trends 32 Market Trends Beyond ICT: Embracing the next digital revolution mental/psychological world, and the world of products of the human mind (also known as the The history of human social development is, world of objective knowledge). In the future, the to some extent, the history of human scientific physical world will be married with the digital and technological progress. Humanity achieves world to form a new world. This integration will scientific and technological progress by pushing bring tremendous changes to the way we live and its physical and mental limits and breaking away work, the way businesses operate, and the way from the restrictions of time and space. This has society functions — a new age of digital citizens, been true in times both ancient and modern. digital enterprises, and digital society. Our ancestors built beacon towers and invented the wheel, while we have ubiquitous Internet Heavy reliance on networks will usher in an age connection and vehicles capable of reaching of digital citizenry. outer space. In the course of our scientific and technological development, two epoch-making Nowadays, the ways in which people communicate, inventions have been the steam engine and acquire information, study, have fun, shop, make the computer. The steam engine ushered in friends, and pair-bond are quite different from what the industrial age by providing far more power we saw just two decades ago. People not only than what manual labor and beasts of burden have more means to stay connected and obtain could generate. The computer brought us into information, but have exceeded the constraints the information age through data processing of their physical location or time zone. With the capabilities that far outperform the human brain. developments in this short time span, rather than waiting days or even months for letters to arrive, The past century has witnessed several waves of people now contact others in real time via email, progress made possible by information technologies, instant messaging, and social networking. Likewise, including those used for communications (telegraphy, people can read the news online anytime, anywhere, telephony, and broadcasting), home entertainment rather than clinging to their TVs or radios. Wikipedia (radio, TV), computing, and the Internet. Information and other interactive platforms allow people to easily technologies drive economic growth worldwide and find answers to their questions, without having to reshape the way people live and work. At present, wade through voluminous encyclopedias or wait we are evolving from a “society on wheels” to a for office hour-working librarians. Internet users “society on the network.” However, information exceeded 2.4 billion in 2012, over 34% of the systems are still regarded as aid tools and support world’s population, with this figure growing roughly systems, keeping the digital and physical worlds 8% each year. There are also as many as 1.1 billion somewhat parallel and compartmentalized. Now, as smartphone subscribers right now, an increase of the digital and physical worlds begin to merge, the 42% over 2011. However, this is just the beginning. development of the Internet of Things has proven As digital lifestyles are adopted, digital citizenry to be an effective catalyst of information-based will shape the behaviors of next-gen consumers, developments and is sure to bring groundbreaking changing the way people live, and shaking up changes to all of humanity. numerous industries. For example, traditional video sales and rental stores are disappearing, and the Beyond information and communications, the 244-year old Encyclopedia Britannica is no longer increasing integration of the digital and physical printed. It is very likely that in the next few decades, worlds will lead to a new digital revolution children will ask why the word newspaper contains the word paper in much the same way as our British philosopher Karl R. Popper divides human children today ask why the media is still referred to society into three parts: the physical world, the as the press. 33 Market Trends The age of digital business is drawing near, changed the way in which people live and work as seen by our commercial dependence on over the past few decades. They also spawn new networks for production and operations. economies and industries while reshuf fling traditional ones. N o doubt, the increasing Network developments have significant influence integration of the physical and digital worlds will on business activities. Which business today can have a more tremendous impact on society. Such even continue to operate if its network fails? integration will direct ICT development in a way E-commerce is booming and extending its reach that can better serve society. into every consumer buying decision, whether involving digital content (e-books and digital Smart infrastructure presents opportunities music), cars, or home appliances, or even small for further ICT development items like snacks and slippers. In 2012 alone, electronic retail sales worldwide totaled US$1.1 Technologically-speaking, ICT innovations mainly trillion. Information technologies will be further fall into f i ve gro up s: m o b ili t y, b ro a d b and applied to enterprise production and operations. interconne c tiv it y, s o cial net working, cloud Rather than being tools or support components, co m p u t in g , a n d b i g d a t a p ro ce s s in g. T h e ICT will become integral to production, decisionobjective of these innovations is to transform the making, customer relationship management, physical world into a smart world underpinned service provisioning, marketing, and logistics. ICT by smart ICT infrastructure, making the latter key will be employed in the building of end-to-end to advancing information-based development. systems that work in real time, playing a role in each and every link, from idea generation to From big data to “big” wisdom, the IT systems product conceptualization to precision marketing of carriers and enterprises are evolving from to efficient operations to on-time delivery. In other post-processing support systems to real-time words, digitization will become a key characteristic business systems. This transition marks a of the future enterprise. fundamental change in how IT functions. A borderless Internet gives rise to a digital society. We are living in what may be the “big bang” of information. In 2012, up to 2.4 zettabytes Thanks to the boundary-free nature of the Internet, of data (that’s 2.4 billion terabytes) was a large number of borderless virtual communities generated globally; it would take as many as and societies have come into being. A plethora of three trillion DVDs to store all this data. By 2020, these communities will combine to form a digital the amount of data generated is expected to society that transcends borders, cultures, and grow sixteen-fold. This data will have two major races. Facebook is home to over one billion users sources. The first is from the huge amount of (or netizens), making it the third largest “citizenry” transactions between enterprises and between in the world. This type of digital society, which enterprises and consumers. The second is from mirrors while extending beyond the physical world, countless interactions on the Internet, social will undoubtedly impact many aspects of social networks, enterprise service networks, and the administration and transformation, including Internet of Things. Social networking will be politics, economy, law, culture, news & media, particularly pervasive; it will be emblematic of security, and ethics, among others. all applications, not just for social networking utilities like Facebook. Typically, big data has As a communications tool and support system, four characteristics: variety, volume, velocity, and information technologies have significantly value. Velocity and value are most important. Market Trends 34 By combining the analytical capabilities of the after those related to the mainframe and client/ human brain to determine behavioral patterns server architecture. Presently, traditional enterprise and the data processing capabilities of computers, IT architectures are no longer capable of processing we can quickly analyze big data and leverage the voluminous amounts of data that they take in. digital assets to develop valuable diagrams that To answer this need, an Internet-oriented cloud show relationships, intentions, consumption computing architecture is required. This architecture patterns, interests, and mobility. From big data will form the basis of both big data and “big” to “big” wisdom, IT systems will be capable of wisdom. understanding not only the present preferences of customers but also their future tendencies. Low-bandwidth networks are hindering This will make social administration, corporate information-based development and user decision-making, and individual lifestyles smarter experience improvement. A ubiquitous Gigabit and more logical. Therefore, IT systems for both network is a prerequisite for any digital enterprises and carriers shall no longer function as society. To lay the foundation for a Terabitpost-processing support systems. Rather, they will network society, next-gen research is needed. become real-time business systems that facilitate business operations, a transition that marks a As public and private clouds develop, the amount fundamental change in IT. of data they carry is sure to mushroom, as the analysis of data is more effective when its storage As traditional IT enterprise architecture is no is centralized. To drive this migration, ubiquitous longer capable of processing the huge volumes networking with greater bandwidth is required to of data being encountered, an Internetsupport data upload and data usage. Ubiquitous oriented cloud computing architecture is broadband makes cloud computing accessible. needed. The rebuilding of data centers will Devices across the entire industry chain, including prove the basis of supporting big data. content creation devices (video cameras), cloud computing devices that process information, and Over the past two decades, most enterprises terminals where information is generated and have applied client-server architecture for their IT. consumed (PCs, tablets, etc.) all now support Although these systems were constantly upgraded, high-definition video, even smartphones that cost their technical architecture was not, making each only US$150. However, the global network, which upgrade repetitive and not transformative. With has an average bandwidth of only 3.1Mbps, is still client-server, the server primarily stores small volumes unable to support high-definition video, leading to of enterprise transaction data, leaving most data the aforementioned hindrances to user experience. scattered across employee PCs (clients). As Internet Therefore, we must accelerate the construction technologies have continued to develop, data has of Gigabit networks to enable seamless ultrabegun its migration from the PC to the cloud, broadband access, the basis for building a digital causing a sharp spike in data volume for the latter. society. We must also intensify our research into The need to store such vast volumes is exactly what and innovation efforts for technologies such as is driving innovations in computing and storage next-generation mobile access, next-generation architectures, and giving rise to the emergence digital subscriber line (DSL) access, passive optical of cloud computing architectures that feature network (PON) access, next-generation Internet, virtualization, parallel computing, distributed storage, and all-optical networking (AON). This focus on and automation, making for a dramatic change over future networks will lay a solid foundation for the traditional architectures. In fact, this new push is building a Terabit-network society. considered the third major wave of IT transformation 35 Market Trends To support evolution from a “hard” pipe to a Intelligent terminals will not just be tools for “soft” pipe, we should develop programmable, communications; they will become extensions scalable, application-agile, automatic, and open of our own senses. Terminals of the future will intelligent networks. Sof tware-defined be context-aware and have intelligent sensory networking (SDN) will lead to the development capabilities. of next-gen network architectures. What makes a terminal intelligent is far more than Technologies are enablers of network development. just its CPUs and operating system – It also relates In the past two decades, driven by advancements to its sensory capabilities. By using various sensors of technologies from time-division multiplexing (compasses, accelerators, gyroscopes, barometers, (TDM) towards all-IP, networks have undergone global positioning systems, light sensors, three different revolutions: analog to digital, fixed microphones, cameras, touch screens, temperature to mobile, and narrowband to broadband. At sensors, and infrared instruments), we can extend present, All-IP networks are undeniably the mainstay the human sensory and nervous systems in the for telco and enterprise networks. However, as form of intelligent terminals, bringing us onenetworks grow, with information flowing in and step away from true brain-machine interaction. out in uncertain directions and technologies being These intelligent terminals will be context-aware, upgraded rapidly, it is important that networks and able to both sense and predict behavior be flexible, intelligent, scalable, and automated. through features such as auto-completion. Equally important is a change in how we think By combining cloud-based big data analysis about network architectural design. The core capabilities with context-aware terminals, we can concepts for cloud computing development, such as provide personalized and intelligent services that virtualization, software decoupling from hardware, realize true human-machine interaction, enabling centralized resource pool scheduling, automatic a dramatic improvement in the user experience. deployment, high scalability, and on-demand service provisioning, provide valuable references for network To respond to the ICT transformation being driven development. Introduction of these concepts into by the integration of the physical world and digital the design of network architectures and products worlds, Huawei has developed a pipe strategy can form the concepts of SDN, including forwarding that covers cloud-based data center infrastructure and control element separation (FORces) to centralize (used for information storage and processing), network control and resource scheduling, software infrastructure networks (used for information decoupling from hardware to virtualize network transmission and delivery), and intelligent terminals functions, network function development of cloud(used for information creation and consumption). based architecture to realize automatic deployment Huawei has also set up its 2012 Laboratories, and high scalability, and application-aware network dedicated to researching next-generation development to improve network capabilities, technologies, while developing a SoftCOM among others. By adopting these concepts, we can (Software Defined Network + teleCOM) network lead the developments of next-generation product architecture development strategy. Huawei will architectures and network architectures, establish openly partner with industry peers to raise our an intelligent application-aware network that can information society to a new level. intelligently schedule traffic, improve user experience and network utilization, support traffic-based operations, and generate new revenue streams. Independent Auditor’s Report 36 Independent Auditor’s Report Independent auditor’s report on the consolidated financial statements summary to the Board of Directors of Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. We are the auditor of Huawei Investment & Management’s responsibility for the consolidated Holding Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries (the “Group”). financial statements summary We have audited the consolidated financial statements of the Group prepared in accordance Management is responsible for the preparation of with International Financial Reporting Standards a consolidated financial statements summary on (the “audited consolidated financial statements”) the basis described in Note 1(a). for the financial year ended December 31, 2012. We have issued an unqualified audit report dated Auditor’s responsibility March 15, 2013 on the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group for the financial Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the year ended December 31, 2012. consolidated financial statements summary based on our procedures, which were conducted in Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. is not a accordance with International Standard on Auditing public company and is not required to publish its 810, “Engagements to Report on Summary Financial audited consolidated financial statements under Statements”. Our work included examining, on a test the Company Law of the People’s Republic of basis, evidence supporting the consistency of the China. amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements summary to the audited consolidated The Group publishes a consolidated financial financial statements of the Group. We have not statements summary set out on pages 37 to performed an audit on the consolidated financial 79 comprising the consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 2012, the consolidated income statements summary, accordingly, we do not express statement, the consolidated statement of cash flow an audit opinion. for the year then ended, and an accounting policy summary and other explanatory notes, which is Opinion derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group. The audited consolidated In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements financial statements and the consolidated financial summary derived from the audited consolidated statements summary do not reflect the effects of financial statements of the Group for the year events that occurred subsequent to the date of ended December 31, 2012 are consistent, in all our report on the audited consolidated financial material respects, with those consolidated financial statements. statements, on the basis described in Note 1(a). The consolidated financial statements summary does not contain all the disclosures required by KPMG Huazhen (Special General Partnership) International Financial Reporting Standards in the Certified Public Accountants preparation of the audited consolidated financial 9th Floor, China Resources Building statements of the Group, and that reading the 5001 Shennan East Road consolidated financial statements summary is not Shenzhen 518001, China a substitute for reading the audited consolidated March 27, 2013 financial statements of the Group. 37 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes Consolidated Income Statement 2012 2011 Note CNY’million CNY’million Revenue 2 220,198 203,929 Cost of sales 132,621 127,481 Gross profit 87,577 76,448 Research and development expenses 30,090 23,696 Selling and administrative expenses 38,916 33,770 Other (income)/operating expenses, net 3 (1,386) 400 Operating profit before financing costs 19,957 18,582 Net finance expenses 5 1,629 5,897 Share of losses of associates/jointly controlled entities 237 228 Profit before income tax 18,091 12,457 Income tax 6 2,711 810 Profit for the year 15,380 11,647 Attributable to: Equity holders of the Company 15,365 11,736 Non-controlling interests 15 (89) Profit for the year 15,380 11,647 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 38 Consolidated Balance Sheet 2012 2011 Note CNY’million CNY’million Assets Property, plant and equipment 8 20,366 18,631 Intangible assets and goodwill 9 5,078 1,381 Trade receivables 14 497 29 Other receivables 15 407 17 Investments in associates and jointly controlled entities 10 493 683 Other investments 11 549 454 Deferred tax assets 12 9,805 9,095 Other non-current assets 3,343 3,381 Non-current assets 40,538 33,671 Other Investments 11 4,469 5,150 Inventories 13 22,237 26,436 Trade receivables 14 54,604 49,855 Bills receivable 5,225 5,475 Other receivables 15 15,407 16,070 Cash and cash equivalents 16 67,180 57,192 Assets held for sale 17 346 – Current assets 169,468 160,178 Total assets 210,006 193,849 Equity Equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 75,048 66,274 Non-controlling interests (24) (46) Total equity 75,024 66,228 Liabilities Borrowings 18 16,077 13,270 Defined benefit post-employment obligations 9,686 8,392 Deferred government grants 2,218 1,857 Deferred tax liabilities 12 784 652 Non-current liabilities 28,765 24,171 Borrowings 18 4,677 7,057 Income tax payable 1,653 2,323 Trade payables 19 33,536 29,364 Bills payable 6,737 8,685 Other payables 20 57,207 54,059 Provision for warranties 22(a) 2,407 1,962 Current liabilities 106,217 103,450 Total liabilities 134,982 127,621 Total equity and liabilities 210,006 193,849 39 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes Consolidated Statement of Cash Flow 2012 2011 Note CNY’million CNY’million Cash flows from operating activities Cash receipts from customers 258,332 253,847 Cash paid to suppliers and employees (230,991) (233,092) Other operating cash flows (2,372) (2,929) Net cash from operating activities 24,969 17,826 Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (5,426) 3,421 Net cash used in financing activities (9,180) (4,774) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 10,363 16,473 Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 16 57,192 41,501 Effect of foreign exchange rate changes (375) (782) Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 16 67,180 57,192 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 40 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Summary 1. Basis of preparation of consolidated financial (c) Translation of foreign currencies statements summary and significant accounting policies of the Group i) Foreign currency transactions Transactions in foreign currency during the (a) Basis of preparation year are translated to the respective functional currencies of group entities at the foreign Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. (the exchange rates ruling at the transaction dates. “Company”) and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) Monetary assets and liabilities denominated have prepared a full set of consolidated in foreign currencies at the balance sheet financial statements (“consolidated financial date are translated to the functional currency statements”) for the year ended December 31, at the foreign exchange rates at that date. 2012 in accordance with International Financial Exchange gains and losses are recognised in Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”), which collective profit or loss. term includes all applicable individual IFRSs, International Accounting Standards (“IASs”) Non-monetary assets and liabilities that and Interpretations issued by the International are measured in terms of historical cost Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”). in a foreign currency are translated using the foreign exchange rates ruling at the The consolidated financial statements summary transaction dates. Non-monetary assets and have been prepared and presented based liabilities denominated in foreign currencies on the audited consolidated financial that are stated at fair value are translated statements for the year ended December using the foreign exchange rates ruling at the 31, 2012 in order to disclose material dates the fair value was determined. financial and operational information. The intended users of the consolidated ii) Foreign operations financial statements summary can obtain The results of foreign operations, except access to the audited consolidated financial for foreign operations in hyperinflationary statements for the year ended December economies, are translated into CNY at the 31, 2012 upon consent of the Group’s exchange rates approximating the foreign Management through the email address, exchange rates ruling at the dates of the information@huawei.com. transactions. Balance sheet items are translated into CNY at the closing foreign (b) Functional and presentation currency exchange rates at the balance sheet date. The resulting exchange differences are All financial information in the consolidated recognised in other comprehensive income financial statements summary is presented and accumulated separately in equity in the in Chinese Yuan (“CNY”), which is the exchange reserve. However, if the operation Company’s functional currency. All financial is a non-wholly-owned subsidiary, then the information presented in CNY has been relevant proportionate share of the translation rounded to the nearest million. difference is allocated to the non-controlling interest. 41 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes The results of foreign operations in activities. In assessing control, the Group takes hyperinflationary economies are translated into consideration potential voting rights that to CNY at the exchange rate ruling at the currently are exercisable. balance sheet date. Prior to translating the financial statements of foreign operations in The Group measures goodwill at the hyperinflationary economies, their financial acquisition date as: statements for the current year are restated to account for changes in the general ■ the fair value of the consideration transferred; purchasing power of the local currency. plus The restatement is based on relevant price ■ the recognised amount of any nonindices at the balance sheet date. controlling interests in the acquiree; plus ■ if the business combination is achieved in When a foreign operation is disposed of stages, the fair value of the pre-existing such that control, significant influence or equity interest in the acquiree; less joint control is lost, the cumulative amount ■ the net recognised amount (generally fair in the translation reserve related to that value) of the identifiable assets acquired foreign operation is reclassified to profit or and liabilities assumed. loss as part of the gain or loss on disposal. When the excess is negative, a bargain When the Group disposes of only part of purchase gain is recognised immediately in its interest in a subsidiary that includes a profit or loss. foreign operation while retaining control, the relevant proportion of the cumulative The consideration transferred does not amount is reattributed to non-controlling include amounts related to the settlement interests. When the Group disposes of only of pre-existing relationships. Such amounts part of its investment in an associate or joint generally are recognised in profit or loss. venture that includes a foreign operation while retaining significant influence or joint Transactions costs, such as finder’s fee, control, the relevant proportion of the legal fees, due diligence fees, and other cumulative amount is reclassified to profit professional and consulting fees, that the or loss. Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred. (d) Business combinations Any contingent consideration payable is Business combinations are accounted for using measured at fair value at the acquisition the acquisition method as at the acquisition date. If the contingent consideration is date, which is the date on which control is classified as equity, then it is not remeasured transferred to the Group. Control is the power and settlement is accounted for within to govern the financial and operating policies equity. Otherwise, subsequent changes in of an entity so as to obtain benefits from its the fair value of the contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss. Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 42 (e) Subsidiaries and non-controlling interests Non-controlling interests are presented in the consolidated balance sheet within Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the equity, separately from equity attributable Group. Control exists when the Group to the equity holders of the Company. Nonhas the power to govern the financial controlling interests in the results of the and operating policies of an entity so as Group are presented on the face of the to obtain benefits from its activities. In consolidated income statement and the assessing control, potential voting rights consolidated statement of comprehensive that presently are exercisable are taken into income as an allocation of the total profit or account. loss and total comprehensive income for the year between non-controlling interests and An investment in a subsidiary is consolidated the equity holders of the Company. into the consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences Changes in the Group’s interests in a subsidiary until the date that control ceases. Intrathat do not result in a loss of control are group balances and transactions and accounted for as equity transactions, whereby any unrealised profits arising from intraadjustments are made to the amounts of group transactions are eliminated in full controlling and non-controlling interests within in preparing the consolidated financial consolidated equity to reflect the change in statements. Unrealised losses resulting from relative interests, but no adjustments are made intra-group transactions are eliminated in to goodwill and no gain or loss is recognised. the same way as unrealised gains but only to the extent that there is no evidence of When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, impairment. it is accounted for as a disposal of the entire interest in that subsidiary, with a resulting gain Non-controlling interests represent the or loss being recognised in profit or loss. Any equity in a subsidiary not attributable interest retained in that former subsidiary at directly or indirectly to the Company, and the date when control is lost is recognised at in respect of which the Group has not fair value and this amount is regarded as the agreed any additional terms with the holders fair value on initial recognition of a financial of those interests which would result in asset or, when appropriate, the cost on initial the Group as a whole having a contractual recognition of an investment in an associate or obligation in respect of those interests that jointly controlled entity (see note 1(f)). meets the definition of a financial liability. For each business combination, the Group (f) Associates and jointly controlled entities can elect to measure any non-controlling interests either at fair value or at their An associate is an entity in which the Group proportionate share of the subsidiary’s net has significant influence, but not control or identifiable assets. joint control, over its management, including participation in the financial and operating policy decisions. 43 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes A jointly controlled entity is an entity which together with the Group’s long-term operates under a contractual arrangement interests that in substance form part of the between the Group and other parties, where Group’s net investment in the associate or the contractual arrangement establishes that the jointly controlled entity. the Group and one or more of the other parties share joint control over the economic Unrealised profits and losses resulting from activity of the entity. transactions between the Group and its associates and jointly controlled entities are An investment in an associate or a jointly eliminated to the extent of the Group’s controlled entity is accounted for in the interest in the investee, except where consolidated financial statements under the unrealised losses provide evidence of an equity method. Under the equity method, impairment of the asset transferred, in the investment is initially recorded at cost, which case they are recognised immediately adjusted for any excess of the Group’s in profit or loss. share of the acquisition-date fair values of the investee’s identifiable net assets When the Group ceases to have significant over the cost of the investment (if any). influence over an associate or joint control Thereafter, the investment is adjusted for over a jointly controlled entity, it is accounted the post acquisition change in the Group’s for as a disposal of the entire interest in share of the investee’s net assets and any that investee, with a resulting gain or loss impairment loss relating to the investment being recognised in profit or loss. Any (see note 1(k)). Any acquisition-date excess interest retained in that former investee at over cost, the Group’s share of the postthe date when significant influence or joint acquisition, post-tax results of the investees control is lost is recognised at fair value and and any impairment losses for the year this amount is regarded as the fair value are recognised in the consolidated income on initial recognition of a financial asset statement, whereas the Group’s share of or, when appropriate, the cost on initial the post-acquisition post-tax items of the recognition of an investment in an associate. investees’ other comprehensive income is recognised in the consolidated statement of (g) Investment properties comprehensive income. Investment properties are buildings which When the Group’s share of losses exceeds are owned to earn rental income and/or for its interest in the associate or the jointly capital appreciation. controlled entity, the Group’s interest is reduced to Nil and recognition of further Investment properties are stated in the losses is discontinued except to the extent consolidated balance sheet at cost less that the Group has incurred legal or depreciation and impairment losses (see constructive obligations or made payments note 1(k)). Rental income from investment on behalf of the investee. For this purpose, properties is accounted for as described in the Group’s interest is the carrying amount note 1(u)(iv). of the investment under the equity method Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 44 Depreciation is calculated to write off ii) Subsequent costs the cost of buildings, less their estimated The cost of replacing part of an item of residual value (5%), using the straight line property, plant and equipment is recognised method over their estimated useful life of in the carrying amount of the item if it is 20 years. probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to (h) Other property, plant and equipment the Group and its cost can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced i) Recognition and measurement component is derecognised. The costs of Items of property, plant and equipment are the day-to-day servicing of property, plant measured in the consolidated balance sheet and equipment are recognised in profit or at cost less accumulated depreciation (see loss as incurred. below) and accumulated impairment losses (see note 1(k)). Cost includes expenditure that iii) Depreciation is directly attributable to the acquisition of Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost the assets. The cost of self-constructed items of items of property, plant and equipment, of property, plant and equipment includes less their estimated residual value, if any, using the cost of materials, direct labour, the initial the straight line method over their estimated estimate, where relevant, of the costs of useful lives as follows: dismantling and removing the items and Estimated restoring the site on which they are located, Estimated rate of useful and an appropriate proportion of production residual lives overheads and borrowing costs (see note value 1(v)). Freehold land is not depreciated Where parts of an item of property, plant Buildings 20 years 5% and equipment have different useful lives, Machinery, electronic the cost is allocated on a reasonable equipment and other 3 – 10 years 5% basis between the parts and each part is equipment depreciated separately. Motor vehicles 5 years 5% Decoration and leasehold Gains or losses arising from the retirement 2 – 5 years Nil improvements or disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment, are determined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and Where parts of an item of property, plant the carrying amount of the item and are and equipment have different useful lives, recognised in profit or loss on the date of the cost or valuation of the item is allocated retirement or disposal. on a reasonable basis between the parts and each part is depreciated separately. Both the Construction in progress is transferred to useful life of an item of property, plant and other property, plant and equipment when it equipment and its residual value, if any, are is ready for its intended use. No depreciation reviewed annually. is provided against construction in progress. 45 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes (i) Intangible assets iv) Amortisation Amortisation of intangible assets with finite i) Goodwill useful lives is charged to profit or loss on a Goodwill that arises on the acquisition of straight-line basis over the assets’ estimated subsidiaries is presented with intangible useful lives. The following intangible assets assets. For the measurement of goodwill at with finite useful lives are amortised from initial recognition, see note 1(d). the date they are available for use and their estimated useful lives are as follows: Goodwill is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses (see Software 3 years note 1(k)). In respect of equity-accounted Patents 3 – 22 years investees, the carrying amount of goodwill Trademark 10 years is included in the carrying amount of the investment, and any impairment loss is Both the period and method of amortisation allocated to the carrying amount of the are reviewed annually. equity-accounted investee as a whole. Intangible assets are not amortised while ii) Research and development their useful lives are assessed to be Research and development costs comprise indefinite. Any conclusion that the useful all costs that are directly attributable to life of an intangible asset is indefinite is research and development activities or that reviewed annually to determine whether can be allocated on a reasonable basis to events and circumstances continue to such activities. Because of the nature of the support the indefinite useful life assessment Group’s research and development activities, for that asset. If they do not, the change in the criteria for the recognition of such costs the useful life assessment from indefinite to as assets are generally not met until late finite is accounted for prospectively from in the development stage of the project the date of change and in accordance with when the remaining development costs are the policy for amortisation of intangible immaterial. Hence both research costs and assets with finite lives as set out above. development costs are generally recognised The Group has no intangible assets with as expenses in profit or loss in the period in indefinite useful life. which they are incurred. (j) Leased assets iii) Other intangible assets Other intangible assets that are acquired An arrangement, comprising a transaction or by the Group are stated in the consolidated a series of transactions, is or contains a lease balance sheet at cost less accumulated if the Group determines that the arrangement amortisation (where the estimated useful conveys a right to use a specific asset or assets life is finite) and accumulated impairment for an agreed period of time in return for losses (see note 1(k)). a payment or a series of payments. Such a Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 46 determination is made based on an evaluation are classified as available-for-sale securities of the substance of the arrangement and is are reviewed at each balance sheet date regardless of whether the arrangement takes to determine whether there is objective the legal form of a lease. evidence of impairment. Objective evidence of impairment includes observable data that i) Classification of assets leased to the Group comes to the attention of the Group about Assets that are held by the Group under one or more of the following loss events: leases which transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and rewards of ■ significant financial difficulty of the ownership are classified as being held under debtor; finance leases. Leases which do not transfer ■ a breach of contract, such as a default substantially all the risks and rewards of or delinquency in interest or principal ownership to the Group are classified as payments; operating leases. ■ it becoming probable that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or other financial ii) Operating lease charges reorganisation; Where the Group has the use of assets ■ significant changes in the technological, held under operating leases, payments market, economic or legal environment made under the leases are charged to that have an adverse effect on the debtor; profit or loss in equal instalments over the and accounting periods covered by the lease ■ a significant or prolonged decline in the term, except where an alternative basis fair value of an investment in an equity is more representative of the pattern of instrument below its cost. benefits to be derived from the leased asset. Lease incentives received are recognised If any such evidence exists, any impairment in profit or loss as an integral part of loss is determined and recognised as follows: the aggregate net lease payments made. Contingent rentals are charged to profit or ■ For investments in associates and jointly loss in the accounting period in which they controlled entities recognised using are incurred. the equity method (see note 1(f)), the impairment loss is measured by comparing (k) Impairment of assets the recoverable amount of the investment as a whole with its carrying amount i) Impairment of investments in debt and in accordance with note 1(k)(ii). The equity securities and others receivables impairment loss is reversed if there has Investments in debt and equity securities and been a favourable change in the estimates other current and non-current receivables used to determine the recoverable amount that are stated at cost or amortised cost or in accordance with note 1(k)(ii). 47 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes ■ For unquoted equity securities carried is made collectively where financial assets at cost, the impairment loss is measured carried at amortised cost share similar risk as the difference between the carrying characteristics, such as similar past due amount of the financial asset and present status, and have not been individually value of estimated future cash flows, assessed as impaired. Future cash flows discounted at the current market rate of for financial assets which are assessed return for a similar financial asset where for impairment collectively are based on the effect of discounting is material. historical loss experience for assets with Impairment losses for equity securities credit risk characteristics similar to the are not reversed. collective group. ■ For available-for-sale securities, the If in a subsequent period the amount of cumulative loss that has been recognised an impairment loss decreases and the in the fair value reserve is reclassified decrease can be linked objectively to an to profit or loss. The amount of the event occurring after the impairment loss cumulative loss that is recognised in was recognised, the impairment loss is profit or loss is the difference between reversed through profit or loss. A reversal the acquisition cost (net of any principal of an impairment loss shall not result in repayment and amortisation) and current the asset’s carrying amount exceeding fair value, less any impairment loss on that which would have been determined that asset previously recognised in profit had no impairment loss been recognised or loss. Impairment losses in respect in prior years. of available-for-sale debt securities are reversed if the subsequent increase in fair Impairment losses are written off against the value can be objectively related to an event corresponding assets directly, except for occurring after the impairment loss was impairment losses recognised in respect of recognised. Reversals of impairment losses trade debtors and bills receivable included in such circumstances are recognised in within trade and other receivables, whose profit or loss. recovery is considered doubtful but not remote. In this case, the impairment losses ■ For trade and other current receivables and for doubtful debts are recorded using other financial assets carried at amortised an allowance account. When the Group cost, the impairment loss is measured is satisfied that recovery is remote, the as the difference between the asset’s amount considered irrecoverable is written carrying amount and the present value of off against trade debtors and bills receivable estimated future cash flows, discounted directly and any amounts held in the at the financial asset’s original effective allowance account relating to that debt are interest rate (i.e. the effective interest reversed. Subsequent recoveries of amounts rate computed at initial recognition previously charged to the allowance account of these assets), where the effect of are reversed against the allowance account. discounting is material. This assessment Other changes in the allowance account and Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 48 subsequent recoveries of amounts previously independently (i.e. a cash-generating written off directly are recognised in profit unit). Goodwill acquired in a business or loss. combination is allocated to groups of cash generating units that are expected ii) Impairment of other assets to benefit from the synergies of the Internal and external sources of information combination. are reviewed at each balance sheet date to identify indications that the following assets ■ Recognition of impairment loss may be impaired or an impairment loss An impairment loss is recognised in profit previously recognised no longer exists or may or loss if the carrying amount of an asset, have decreased: or the cash-generating unit to which it belongs, exceeds its recoverable amount. ■ property, plant and equipment; Impairment losses recognised in respect ■ long-term leasehold prepayments; of cash-generating units are allocated ■ other long term deferred assets; and first to reduce the carrying amount of any ■ intangible assets and goodwill goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit (or group of units) and then, to If any such indication exists, the asset’s reduce the carrying amount of the other recoverable amount is estimated. In assets in the unit (or group of units) on addition, for intangible assets that are not a pro rata basis, except that the carrying yet available for use, goodwill and intangible value of an asset will not be reduced assets that have indefinite useful lives, the below its individual fair value less costs to recoverable amount is estimated annually sell, or value in use, if determinable. whether or not there is any indication of impairment. ■ Reversals of impairment losses An impairment loss is reversed if there has ■ Calculation of recoverable amount been a favourable change in the estimates The recoverable amount of an asset is used to determine the recoverable the greater of its fair value less costs to amount. sell and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is are discounted to their present value not reversed. For other assets, a reversal using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects of an impairment loss is limited to the current market assessments of time value asset’s carrying amount that would have of money and the risks specific to the been determined had no impairment loss asset. Where an asset does not generate been recognised in prior years. Reversals cash inflows largely independent of those of impairment losses are credited to profit from other assets, the recoverable amount or loss in the year in which the reversals is determined for the smallest group are recognised. of assets that generates cash inflows 49 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes (l) Inventories (m) Construction contracts Inventories are carried at the lower of cost Construction contracts are contracts and net realisable value. specifically negotiated with a customer for the construction of an asset or a group of Cost is calculated using the standard cost assets, where the customer is able to specify method with periodical adjustments of the major structural elements of the design. cost variance to arrive at the actual cost, The accounting policy for contract revenue which approximates actual cost on a firstis set out in note 1(u)(ii). When the outcome in first-out basis. The cost of inventories of a construction contract can be estimated includes expenditures incurred in acquiring reliably, contract costs are recognised as the inventories and bringing them to their an expense by reference to the stage of existing location and condition. In the case completion of the contract at the balance of manufactured inventories and work in sheet date. When it is probable that total progress, cost includes an appropriate share contract costs will exceed total contract of overheads based on normal operating revenue, the expected loss is recognised capacity. as an expense immediately. When the outcome of a construction contract cannot Net realisable value is the estimated selling be estimated reliably, contract costs are price in the ordinary course of business, less recognised as an expense in the period in the estimated costs of completion and the which they are incurred. estimated costs necessary to make the sale. Construction contracts in progress at the When inventories are sold, the carrying balance sheet date are recorded in the amount of those inventories is recognised consolidated balance sheet at the net amount as an expense in the period in which the of costs incurred plus recognised profit less related revenue is recognised. The amount recognised losses and progress billings, and of any write-down of inventories to net are presented in the consolidated balance realisable value and all losses of inventories sheet as the “gross amount due from thirdare recognised as an expense in the period party customers for contract work” (as an the write-down or loss occurs. The amount asset) or the “gross amount due to thirdof any reversal of any write-down of party customers for contract work” (as a inventories is recognised as a reduction in liability), as applicable. Progress billings not the amount of inventories recognised as an yet paid by the customer are included in the expense in the period in which the reversal consolidated balance sheet under “other occurs. receivables”. Amounts received before the related work is performed are included in the consolidated balance sheet, as a liability, as “other payables”. Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 50 (n) Trade and other receivables (q) Cash and cash equivalents Trade and other receivables are initially Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash recognised at fair value and thereafter at bank and on hand and call deposits with stated at amortised cost less impairment banks. Bank overdrafts that are repayable losses for bad and doubtful debts (see on demand and form an integral part of the note 1(k)), except where the receivables are Group’s cash management are also included interest-free loans made to related parties as a component of cash and cash equivalents without any fixed repayment terms or the for the purpose of the consolidated cash effect of discounting would be immaterial. flow statement. In such cases, the receivables are stated at cost less impairment losses for bad and (r) Employee benefits doubtful debts. i) Short term employee benefits and contributions (o) Interest-bearing borrowings and corporate to defined contribution retirement plans bond Salaries, annual bonuses, paid annual leave and contributions to defined contribution Interest-bearing borrowings and corporate retirement plans are accrued in the year in bond are recognised initially at fair value less which the associated services are rendered attributable transaction costs. Subsequent by employees. Where payment or settlement to initial recognition, interest-bearing is deferred and the effect would be material, borrowings and corporate bond are stated these amounts are stated at their present at amortised cost with any difference values. between the amount initially recognised and redemption value being recognised in ii) Defined benefit plan obligations the consolidated income statement over the The Group’s net obligation in respect of period of the borrowings or bond, together defined benefit plans is calculated separately with any interest and fees payable, using the for each plan by estimating the amount of effective interest method. future benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and (p) Trade and other payables prior periods; that benefit is discounted to determine the present value and the fair Trade and other payables are initially recognised value of any plan assets is deducted. The at fair value and subsequently stated at discount rate is the yield at the balance amortised cost unless the effect of sheet date on high quality corporate bonds discounting would be immaterial, in which that have maturity dates approximating case they are stated at cost. the terms of the Group’s obligations. The calculation is performed by management using the projected unit credit method. 51 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes When the benefits of a plan are improved, value of the expenditure expected to settle the portion of the increased benefit relating the obligation. to past service by employees is recognised as an expense in profit or loss on a straight Where it is not probable that an outflow line basis over the average period until of economic benefits will be required, or the benefits become vested. If the benefits the amount cannot be estimated reliably, vest immediately, the expense is recognised the obligation is disclosed as a contingent immediately in profit or loss. liability, unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote. Possible In calculating the Group’s obligation in obligations, whose existence will only respect of a plan, any actuarial gain or loss be confirmed by the occurrence or nonis recognised in profit or loss immediately. occurrence of one or more future events are also disclosed as contingent liabilities unless (s) Provisions and contingent liabilities the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote. i) Provision for warranties The Group provides warranty on its products (t) Income tax for a period typically covers 12 to 24 months. The warranty generally includes parts, labour Income tax for the year comprises current and service centre support. The Group tax and movements in deferred tax assets estimates the costs that may be incurred and liabilities. Current tax and movements under its warranty obligations and records in deferred tax assets and liabilities are a liability in the amount of such costs at recognised in profit or loss except to the extent the time revenue is recognised. Factors that that they relate to a business combination affect the Group’s warranty liability include or items recognised in other comprehensive the number of installed units, historical and income or directly in equity, in which case anticipated rates of warranty claims. The the relevant amounts of tax are recognised Group periodically assesses the adequacy of in other comprehensive income or directly in its recorded warranty liabilities and adjusts equity, respectively. the amounts as necessary. Current tax is the expected tax payable on ii) Other provisions and contingent liabilities the taxable income for the year, using tax Provisions are recognised for other liabilities of rates enacted or substantively enacted at uncertain timing or amount when the Group the balance sheet date, and any adjustment has a legal or constructive obligation arising as to tax payable in respect of previous years. a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate from deductible and taxable temporary can be made. Where the time value of money dif ferences respec tively, being the is material, provisions are stated at the present differences between the carrying amounts Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 52 of assets and liabilities for financial reporting The carrying amount of a deferred tax asset purposes and their tax bases. Deferred tax is reviewed at each balance sheet date and assets also arise from unused tax losses and is reduced to the extent that it is no longer unused tax credits. probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow the related tax benefit All deferred tax liabilities, and all deferred to be utilised. Any such reduction is reversed tax assets to the extent that it is probable to the extent that it becomes probable that that future taxable profits will be available sufficient taxable profits will be available. against which the asset can be utilised, are recognised. Future taxable profits that may Current tax balances and deferred tax support the recognition of deferred tax balances, and movements therein, are assets arising from deductible temporary presented separately from each other and differences include those that will arise from are not offset. Current tax assets are offset the reversal of existing taxable temporary against current tax liabilities, and deferred differences, provided those differences relate tax assets against deferred tax liabilities, if to the same taxation authority and the same the Group has the legally enforceable right taxable entity, and are expected to reverse to set off current tax assets against current either in the same period as the expected tax liabilities and the following additional reversal of the deductible temporary conditions are met: difference or in periods into which a tax loss arising from the deferred tax asset can be ■ in the case of current tax assets and carried back or forward. The same criteria liabilities, the Group intends either to are adopted when determining whether settle on a net basis, or to realise the asset existing taxable temporary differences and settle the liability simultaneously; or support the recognition of deferred tax ■ in the case of deferred tax assets and assets arising from unused tax losses and liabilities, if they relate to income taxes credits, that is, those differences are taken levied by the same taxation authority on into account if they relate to the same either: taxation authority and the same taxable ■ the same taxable entity; or entity, and are expected to reverse in a ■ different taxable entities, which, in period, or periods, in which the tax loss or each future period in which significant credit can be utilised. amounts of deferred tax liabilities or assets are expected to be settled or The amount of deferred tax recognised is recovered, intend to realise the current measured based on the expected manner tax assets and settle the current tax of realisation or settlement of the carrying liabilities on a net basis or realise and amount of the assets and liabilities, using settle simultaneously. tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted. 53 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes (u) Revenue recognition iii) Government grants Government grants are recognised in the Revenue is measured at the fair value of consolidated balance sheet initially when the consideration received or receivable. there is reasonable assurance that they Provided it is probable that the economic will be received and that the Group will benefits will flow to the Group and the comply with the conditions attaching to revenue and costs, if applicable, can be them. Grants that compensate the Group for measured reliably, revenue is recognised in expenses incurred are recognised as revenue profit or loss as follows: in profit or loss on a systematic basis in the same periods in which the expenses are i) Sales of goods and services rendered incurred. Grants that compensate the Group Revenue from sales of goods is recognised for the cost of an asset are recognised when the significant risks and rewards of as deferred income and consequently are ownership of goods have been transferred effectively recognised in profit or loss on a to the buyer. Revenue from provision of systematic basis over the useful life of the services is recognised at the time when asset. the services are provided. No revenue is recognised if there are significant iv) Rental income from operating leases uncertainties regarding the recovery of the Rental income receivable under operating consideration due, associated costs or the leases is recognised in profit or loss in equal possible return of goods. Revenue excludes instalments over the periods covered by value added tax or other sales taxes and is the lease term, except where an alternative after deduction of any trade discounts. basis is more representative of the pattern of benefits to be derived from the use of ii) Contract revenue the leased asset. Lease incentives granted When the outcome of a construction are recognised in profit or loss as an integral contract can be estimated reliably, revenue part of the aggregate net lease payments from a fixed price contract is recognised receivable. Contingent rentals are recognised using the percentage of completion method, as income in the accounting period in which measured by reference to the percentage of they are earned. contract costs incurred to date to estimated total contract costs for the contract. (v) Finance income and expenses When the outcome of a construction Finance income comprises dividend and contract cannot be estimated reliably, interest income on funds invested (including revenue is recognised only to the extent of available-for-sale financial assets), gains on contract costs incurred that it is probable the disposal of available-for-sale financial will be recoverable. assets, and changes in the fair value of financial assets held for trading. Interest income is recognised as it accrues using the Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 54 effective interest method. Dividend income or financial institutions; the bank or the from listed and unlisted investments is financial institutions fully bears the recognised when the equity holder’s right collection risk without the right to receive to receive payment is established; dividend payments from the Group in the event a income from listed investments is recognised loss occurs due to the non-collectibility of when the share price of the investment goes the receivables transferred. The Group’s ex-dividend. customers make payments of the receivables transferred directly to the bank or the financial Finance costs comprise interest expense on institutions. borrowings, unwinding of the discount on provisions and impairment losses recognised In a factoring without recourse, trade on financial assets. Borrowing costs that receivables transferred are derecognised are directly attributable to the acquisition, from the consolidated balance sheet. Excess construction or production of a qualifying of carrying amount of trade receivables over asset which necessarily takes a substantial cash received from the banks or financial period of time to get ready for its intended institutions arising from factoring without use or sale are capitalised as part of the recourse is included in the “other operating cost of that asset. Other borrowing costs expenses” of the consolidated income are expensed in the period in which they statement. are incurred. (x) Non-current assets held for sale The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences A non-current asset (or disposal group) is when expenditure for the asset is being classified as held for sale if it is highly incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred probable that its carrying amount will be and activities that are necessary to prepare recovered through a sale transaction rather the asset for its intended use or sale are in than through continuing use and the asset progress. Capitalisation of borrowing costs (or disposal group) is available for sale in is suspended or ceases when substantially its present condition. A disposal group is a all the activities necessary to prepare the group of assets to be disposed of together as qualifying asset for its intended use or sale a group in a single transaction, and liabilities are interrupted or completed. directly associated with those assets that will be transferred in the transaction. Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis. Immediately before classification as held-forsale, the measurement of the non-current (w) Factoring without recourse assets (and all individual assets and liabilities in a disposal group) is brought up-to-date Factoring without recourse constitutes in accordance with the accounting policies transfer of trade receivables. The Group before the classification. Thereafter, on transfers its trade receivables to banks initial classification as held for sale until 55 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes disposal, the non-current assets or disposal (y) Segment reporting groups are measured at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to Operating segments, and the amounts of sell. Any impairment loss on a disposal group each segment item reported in the financial is allocated first to goodwill, and then to the statements, are identified from the financial remaining assets and liabilities on a pro rata information provided regularly to the basis, except that no loss is allocated to Group’s most senior executive management inventories (see note 1(l)), financial assets for the purposes of allocating resources (other than investments in subsidiaries, to, and assessing the performance of, the associates and joint ventures), deferred tax Group’s geographical locations and various assets, assets arising from employee benefits product lines. or investment properties, which continue to be measured in accordance with the Group’s Individually material operating segments other accounting policies. are not aggregated for financial reporting purposes unless the segments have similar Impairment losses on initial classification as economic characteristics and are similar held-for-sale and subsequent gains or losses in respect of the nature of products and on remeasurement are recognised in profit services, the nature of production processes, or loss. Gains are not recognised in excess of the type or class of customers, the methods any cumulative impairment loss. As long as used to distribute the products or provide a non-current asset is classified as held for the services, and the nature of the regulatory sale, or is included in a disposal group that environment. Operating segments which are is classified as held for sale, the non-current not individually material may be aggregated asset is not depreciated or amortised. if they share a majority of these criteria. 2. Revenue 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Sales of goods and services 220,084 203,732 Rental income 114 197 220,198 203,929 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 56 3. Other (income)/operating expenses, net 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Expense on factoring without recourse 762 1,657 Government grants (750) (1,170) Net (gain)/loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment, (719) 30 and intangible assets Others (679) (117) (1,386) 400 Government grants During the year, the Group received unconditional government grants of CNY587,375,000 in respect of its contributions to the development of research and innovation in the People’s Republic of China (the “PRC”) (2011: CNY1,097,720,000). These grants were directly recognised as other income. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the Group received grants of CNY523,296,000 (2011: CNY575,649,000) which were conditional upon completion of certain research and development projects. These grants were initially recognised in the consolidated balance sheet as deferred government grants and amortised through the consolidated income statement on a systematic basis in the same periods in which the related research and development expenses were incurred. During 2012, CNY162,355,000 of conditional government grants were recognised in profit or loss (2011: CNY72,396,000). 4. Personnel expenses 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Expenses recognised in respect of defined benefit plan 2,240 2,426 Contributions to defined contribution plans 5,865 4,322 Total post-employment plan cost 8,105 6,748 Salaries, wages and other benefits 39,979 32,619 48,084 39,367 57 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 5. Net finance expenses 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Interest income (844) (376) Net gain on disposal of wealth management products (785) (391) Interest expense 1,758 1,398 Net foreign exchange loss 1,085 4,876 Others 415 390 1,629 5,897 6. Income tax in the consolidated income statement Taxation in the consolidated income statement represents: 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Current tax PRC enterprise income tax – current year 1,115 1,984 – under/(over)-provision in respect of prior years 37 (522) Overseas enterprise income tax – current year 2,147 1,490 – under/(over)-provision in respect of prior years 71 (113) 3,370 2,839 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of temporary differences (659) (2,029) 2,711 810 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 58 7. Segment reporting The Group divides its business into three operating Revenue information in respect of business segments segments in accordance with the types of products and services provided: 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million ■ Carrier Network Develops and manufactures a wide range of Carrier Network 160,093 149,975 wireless networks, fixed networks, carrier software and core networks, as well as services Enterprise Business 11,530 9,164 solutions to telecommunications operators. Consumer Business 48,376 44,620 Others 199 170 ■ Enterprise Business Total 220,198 203,929 Develops integratable information and communications technology (“ICT”) products and solutions including enterprise network Revenue information in respect of geographical infrastructure, cloud-based green data centers, segments enterprise information security and unified 2012 2011 communication & collaboration, and delivers these solutions to vertical industries such CNY’million CNY’million as governments, public utilities, enterprises, energy, power, transportation and finance. China 73,579 65,565 Europe, Middle East, ■ Consumer Business 77,414 72,956 and Africa (EMEA) Develops and manufactures mobile broadband devices, home devices, smartphones, as well as Asia Pacific 37,359 34,862 the applications on these devices, and delivers America 31,846 30,546 them to consumers and businesses. Total 220,198 203,929 The reportable segments are determined based on the Group’s organization structure, management requirement and reporting system. Each reportable segment is managed separately because each requires different technology and marketing strategies. The financial information of the different segments is regularly reviewed by the Group’s management to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance. 59 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 8. Property, plant and equipment Machinery, Decoration Freehold electronic Motor Construction Investment and land and equipment Total vehicles in progress properties leasehold buildings and other improvements equipment CNY’million CNY’million CNY’million CNY’million CNY’million CNY’million CNY’million Cost: At January 1, 2011 7,426 12,716 474 2,624 567 4,056 27,863 Exchange adjustment (26) (257) (18) (18) – (42) (361) Additions 7 2,699 72 2,744 – 259 5,781 Transfer from construction in progress – 21 – (46) – 25 – Disposals – (767) (44) – – (26) (837) At December 31, 2011 7,407 14,412 484 5,304 567 4,272 32,446 At January 1, 2012 7,407 14,412 484 5,304 567 4,272 32,446 Exchange adjustment (3) (14) (3) (17) – (8) (45) Additions 3 2,693 92 2,730 – 810 6,328 Transfer from construction in progress 1,969 1,131 – (4,253) – 1,153 – Disposals (634) (588) (33) – (133) (515) (1,903) At December 31, 2012 8,742 17,634 540 3,764 434 5,712 36,826 Depreciation: At January 1, 2011 1,488 7,495 281 – 260 2,331 11,855 Exchange adjustment (1) (133) (11) – – (28) (173) Depreciation charge for the year 358 1,717 72 – 29 522 2,698 Disposals – (511) (39) – – (15) (565) At December 31, 2011 1,845 8,568 303 – 289 2,810 13,815 At January 1, 2012 1,845 8,568 303 – 289 2,810 13,815 Exchange adjustment (1) (25) (1) – – (5) (32) Depreciation charge for the year 442 2,131 79 – 23 1,131 3,806 Disposals (120) (517) (28) – (27) (437) (1,129) At December 31, 2012 2,166 10,157 353 – 285 3,499 16,460 Carrying amounts: At December 31, 2011 5,562 5,844 181 5,304 278 1,462 18,631 At December 31, 2012 6,576 7,477 187 3,764 149 2,213 20,366 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 60 Investment properties The Group is engaged in the manufacturing, sales by the directors to be CNY273,496,000 (2011: and marketing of telecommunications equipment CNY478,684,000). The fair value is calculated by and the provision of related services. The Group management based on the discounted cash flow leased certain buildings to an ex-subsidiary, an exanalysis. associate and other third parties. Such buildings are classified as investment properties. The fair value of investment property is determined by the Group internally by reference to market The carrying value of investment properties as conditions and discounted cash flow forecasts. of December 31, 2012 is CNY149,274,000 (2011: The Group’s current lease agreements, which were CNY278,153,000). The fair value of investment entered into on an arm’s-length basis, were taken properties as of December 31, 2012 is estimated into account. 61 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 9. Intangible assets and goodwill Goodwill Software Patents Trademark Total CNY’million CNY’million CNY’million CNY’million CNY’million Cost: At January 1, 2011 – 980 753 25 1,758 Additions 221 443 223 52 939 Disposals – (14) – – (14) Exchange adjustment (3) – – – (3) At December 31, 2011 (restated) 218 1,409 976 77 2,680 At January 1, 2012 (restated) 218 1,409 976 77 2,680 Additions 3,419 309 707 5 4,440 Disposals – (31) (8) – (39) Exchange adjustment (28) – – – (28) At December 31, 2012 3,609 1,687 1,675 82 7,053 Amortisation and impairment loss: At January 1, 2011 – 586 431 22 1,039 Amortisation for the year – 232 37 2 271 Disposals – (11) – – (11) At December 31, 2011 – 807 468 24 1,299 At January 1, 2012 – 807 468 24 1,299 Amortisation for the year – 238 167 7 412 Disposals – (17) (1) – (18) Impairment loss 216 52 – 9 277 Exchange adjustment 4 1 – – 5 At December 31, 2012 220 1,081 634 40 1,975 Carrying amounts: At December 31, 2011 (restated) 218 602 508 53 1,381 At December 31, 2012 3,389 606 1,041 42 5,078 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 62 Amortisation and impairment loss Impairment testing for cash-generating unit containing goodwill The amortisation of software, patents and trademark is included in the “research and development For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill expenses” and “administrative expenses”. The is allocated to the Group’s cash-generating unit impairment loss is included in “other operating (“CGU”), which is either an operating segment or expenses” in the consolidated income statement. at a level not larger than an operating segment, as follows: 2012 2011 Terminal Terminal Cash-generating unit Amount of Amount of Discount value Discount value goodwill goodwill rate growth rate growth allocated allocated rate rate CNY’million % % CNY’million % % Enterprise business group 3,229 14.5 10.0 – – – International Turnkey Systems Technologies W.L.L. 220 36.4 4.0 218 38.0 4.0 (“ITS Bahrain”) Beijing Huawei Longshine Information Technology 154 19.1 3.0 – – – Company Limited (“Beijing Huawei Longshine”) 3,603 218 Others 6 – – – – – 3,609 218 Goodwill is allocated to the Group’s CGUs and reflect specific risks relating to the respective expected to benefit from the synergies of the CGU. Cash flow projections are based on fiveacquisitions. For annual impairment assessment year, eight-year and six-year financial budgets purposes, the recoverable amount of the CGUs approved by management for Enterprise business is based on their value-in-use calculations. The group, ITS Bahrain and Beijing Huawei Longshine, value-in-use calculations apply a discounted cash respectively based on their industry expertise. Cash flow model using cash flow projections based on flows beyond the previous-mentioned approved financial budgets approved by management. The financial budget’s periods are extrapolated using key assumptions for the computation of value-inan estimated growth rate. The growth rate does use include the discount rates and growth rates not exceed the long-term average growth rate for applied. The discount rates used are pre-tax rates the business in which the CGU operates. 63 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes During the year, an impairment loss of to Nil (2011: CNY217,759,000). The impairment loss CNY219,792,000 (2011: Nil) related to ITS Bahrain is recognised in the consolidated income statement was recognised and its carrying amount was reduced as “other operating expenses”. 10. Investments in associates and jointly controlled entities The Group has the following significant investment in associates: Ownership Form of percentage Name of associate Country/region Principal activity business structure 2012 2011 TD Tech Holding Limited Incorporated Hong Kong, PRC 49% 49% Research and development, (“TD Tech”) production and sale of TDSCDMA telecommunication products Tianwen Digital Media Incorporated Beijing, PRC 49% 49% Development, publication and Technology (Beijing) operation of digital media Co., Ltd. related services The Group’s unrecognised share of losses for the year ended December 31, 2012 and cumulative postacquisition losses as at that date in the above associates were Nil (2011: CNY4,765,000) and Nil (2011: Nil), respectively. Summary financial information on associates: Assets Liabilities Equity Revenues Profit/(Loss) CNY’million CNY’million CNY’million CNY’million CNY’million 2012 100% 2,033 1,506 527 3,283 – 2011 100% 1,221 857 364 1,355 (404) Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 64 Details of the Group’s interests in significant jointly controlled entities are as follows: Ownership Name of Form of percentage Country/region Principal activity jointly controlled entity business structure 2012 2011 Huawei Marine Systems Co., Incorporated Hong Kong, PRC 51% 51% Construction and operation of Ltd. (“Huawei Marine”) submarine fibres Chengdu Huawei Incorporated Chengdu, PRC 49% 49% Investment, lease of property Investment Co., Ltd. and machinery, developments of (“CD Investment”) high technology products and provision of related services, sales of telecommunication and electronic products In March 2012, the Group acquired additional Longshine respectively. Subsequent to the acquisition, 49% and 48% equity interests in Huawei Digital Huawei Digital HK and Beijing Huawei Longshine Technologies (Hong Kong) Co., Limited (“Huawei became wholly-owned subsidiaries of the Group Digital HK”) (formerly “Huawei Symantec (see Note 25 (c)). Technologies Co., Ltd.”) and Beijing Huawei Summary financial information on jointly controlled entities – Group’s effective interest: 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Non-current assets 804 532 Current assets 294 1,419 Non-current liabilities (525) (241) Current liabilities (323) (1,196) Net assets 250 514 Income 321 2,429 Expenses (358) (2,406) (Loss)/Profit for the year (37) 23 65 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 11. Other investments 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Non-current assets Equity securities – available-for-sale: – unlisted stated at cost 472 429 – listed stated at fair value 76 25 Debt securities – available-for-sale 1 – 549 454 Current assets Equity securities – held for trading 13 26 Investment in wealth management products – available-for-sale 4,456 5,124 4,469 5,150 Cost of individually impaired available-for-sale equity securities 37 44 As at December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Group’s indicated that the cost of the Group’s investment available-for-sale equity and debt securities were in them may not be recovered. Impairment losses individually determined to be impaired on the basis on these investments were recognised in the of a material decline and adverse changes in the consolidated income statement in accordance with market in which these investees operated which the policy set out in note 1(k). Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 66 12. Deferred tax assets and liabilities 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Accrual and provision 4,745 4,563 Property, plant and equipment 321 259 Impairment 1,088 538 Unrealised profit 2,487 3,136 Tax losses 236 170 Undistributed profits of subsidiaries (468) (369) Other deductible differences 928 429 Other taxable differences (224) (233) Fair value adjustments on business combinations (92) (50) Total 9,021 8,443 Unrecognised deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items: 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Deductible temporary differences 857 545 Tax losses 3,092 2,666 3,949 3,211 The tax losses are not expected to be utilised provision for accounts receivable, impairment loss before they expire. Management did not recognise on intangible assets and other provisions because any deferred tax assets in this regard. management believes that these provisions are unlikely to be allowed for tax deduction by the Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in tax authorities. respect of certain inventory provision, bad debt 67 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 13. Inventories 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Raw materials 6,313 5,896 Work in progress 2,462 2,664 Finished goods 5,734 6,700 Goods delivered but not completely installed 7,728 11,176 22,237 26,436 The analysis of amount of inventories recognised as an expense and included in the consolidated income statement is as follows: 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Carrying amount of inventories sold 96,551 99,013 Write down of inventories 17 509 96,568 99,522 14. Trade receivables 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Trade receivables due from related parties 525 613 Trade receivables due from third parties 54,576 49,271 55,101 49,884 Non-current 497 29 Current 54,604 49,855 55,101 49,884 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 68 (a) Ageing analysis The ageing analysis of trade receivables due from third parties at the balance sheet date is: 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Not past due 37,430 33,937 Less than 90 days past due 11,964 10,386 90 days to 1 year past due 6,983 5,703 1 year and above past due 1,690 2,793 58,067 52,819 Less: Impairment loss (3,491) (3,548) Total 54,576 49,271 (b) Impairment of trade receivables due from third parties Impairment losses in respect of trade receivables due from third parties are recorded using an allowance account unless the Group is satisfied that recovery of the amount is remote, in which case the impairment loss is written off against the trade receivables directly (see note 1(k)). The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables due from third parties during the year is as follows: 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million At January 1 3,548 4,147 Impairment loss recognised 3,416 1,481 Uncollectible amounts written off (3,477) (2,080) Acquisition of subsidiaries 4 – At December 31 3,491 3,548 69 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 15. Other receivables 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Advance payments to suppliers 2,388 2,065 Indirect taxes 4,797 4,397 Pledged deposits 1,832 1,347 Gross amount due from third-party customers for contract work 1,340 3,075 Others 5,457 5,203 15,814 16,087 Non-current 407 17 Current 15,407 16,070 15,814 16,087 16. Cash and cash equivalents 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Fixed deposits with banks 18,223 2,671 Cash and bank balances 48,957 54,521 Cash and cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheet and the consolidated cash flow statement 67,180 57,192 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 70 17. Assets held for sale 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Non-current assets held for sale – property, plant and equipment 346 – Property, plant and equipment The property, plant and equipment classified as held for sale is a result of the commitment of the Group’s management, in June 2012, to sell part of its investment properties. Efforts to sell the investment properties have commenced and the transaction is expected to be completed by the end of March 2013. Neither a gain nor a loss was recognised on reclassifying the non-current assets as held for sale during the year. 18. Borrowings 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Non-current liabilities Unsecured bank loans 786 1,047 Intra-group guaranteed bank loans 14,306 12,223 Corporate bond 985 – 16,077 13,270 Current liabilities Unsecured short-term bank loans 1,991 253 Intra-group guaranteed bank loans 2,266 1,978 Current portion of unsecured long-term bank loans 262 262 Current portion of intra-group guaranteed long-term bank loans 158 4,564 4,677 7,057 71 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes Terms and debt repayment schedule Terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows: Total 1 year or less 1 to 5 years CNY’million CNY’million CNY’million Intra-group guaranteed bank loans: CNY – variable at 6.35% 735 158 577 EUR – variable at 1.41% ~ 1.92% 2,492 124 2,368 INR – fixed at 10.20% ~ 12.50% 1,601 1,601 – JPY – variable at 1.06% 290 290 – JPY – fixed at 1.33% 251 251 – USD – variable at 1.68% ~ 2.71% 8,558 – 8,558 USD – fixed at 4.33% 2,803 – 2,803 16,730 2,424 14,306 Unsecured bank loans: BDT – variable at 13.75% ~ 14.5% 134 134 – CNY – variable at 3.00% ~ 5.90% 1,856 1,070 786 CNY – fixed at 5.90% 262 262 – DZD – fixed at 5.00% 58 58 – EUR – variable at 1.22% ~ 1.62% 453 453 – EUR – fixed at 2.01% 247 247 – VEF – fixed at 20.00% 29 29 – ZAR – fixed at 0.00% – – – 3,039 2,253 786 Corporate bond: CNY – fixed at 5.30% 985 – 985 20,754 4,677 16,077 The carrying amount of the above loans and borrowings approximates to their fair value. All of the Group’s bank facilities are subject to the fulfilment of covenants relating to certain of the Group’s balance sheet ratios, as are commonly found in lending agreements with banks. If the Group were to breach the covenants, the draw down facilities would become payable on demand. As at December 31, 2012, none of the covenants relating to draw down facilities had been breached (2011: Nil). Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 72 Corporate bond On May 11, 2012, Proven Honour Capital Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company had issued a principal amount of CNY1,000,000,000 corporate bond with three years maturity at an annual interest rate of 5.30%. This corporate bond is fully guaranteed by the Company. 19. Trade payables 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Trade payables due to related parties 840 894 Trade payables due to third parties 32,696 28,470 33,536 29,364 All of the trade payables are expected to be settled within one year or are repayable on demand. 20. Other payables 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Interest payable 1,174 1,807 Advances received 8,661 8,611 Accrued expenses 26,264 20,698 Gross amount due to third-party customers for contract work 2,331 2,325 Others 18,777 20,618 57,207 54,059 21. Construction contracts The aggregate amount of costs incurred plus recognised profits less recognised losses to date for the Group, included in the gross amount due from/to third-party customers for contract work at December 31, 2012, is CNY26,722,664,000 (2011: CNY27,053,171,000). 73 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 22. Provision and contingencies (a) Provision for warranties 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Balance at January 1 1,962 1,556 Provisions made during the year 2,844 2,449 Provisions utilised during the year (2,399) (2,043) Balance at December 31 2,407 1,962 The provision for warranties relates primarily to equipment sold during the year. The provision is determined based on estimates made from historical warranty data associated with similar products and services and anticipated rates of warranty claims for its products. The Group expects to settle majority of the liability within the next twelve months. (b) Litigation i) In July 2011, InterDigital Corporation (“IDC”) an investigation against the licensing fees filed a complaint with the United States requested by IDC, which is deemed exploitative, International Trade Commission (the “USITC” discriminatory, and in violation of the FRAND or “Commission”) and the United States District policies as well as the EC’s antitrust law. As of Court for the District of Delaware against December 31, 2012, the EC has yet to initiate Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. (“Huawei investigation into Huawei Tech’s complaint. Tech”) and Futurewei Technologies Inc. (“Futurewei”), both wholly-owned subsidiaries On January 2, 2013, IDC filed another two of the Company. The complaint alleged that complaints with the USITC and the United the sales of imported 3G wireless devices by States District Court for the District of the said subsidiaries within the United States Delaware against Huawei Tech, Futurewei, and had infringed IDC’s 3G wireless patents and Huawei Device USA Inc., another wholly-owned requested for issuance of exclusion order and subsidiary of the Company. The complaints cease and desist order against the accused 3G further alleged that the sales of certain 3G and wireless devices (“the first complaint”). 4G wireless devices sold by the said subsidiaries within the United States had infringed three In December 2011, Huawei Tech filed other IDC’s patents. a complaint against IDC in the PRC for violation of the fair, reasonable, and nonOn February 4, 2013, the Shenzhen Intermediate discriminatory (“FRAND”) policies and the People’s Court ruled that IDC had violated the PRC’s Anti-Monopoly Law. In June 2012, PRC’s Anti-Monopoly Law and ordered IDC Huawei Tech filed another complaint with the to compensate the Group for damages of European Commission (the “EC”) to request CNY20 million. The Court also ruled that the Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 74 royalty rate licensed to Huawei Tech for IDC’s products. Huawei Tech has been named as one Chinese essential standard patents in wireless of the thirteen respondents. On August 21, communication should not exceed 0.019% 2012, the USITC decided to institute Section of the actual sales prices of Huawei Tech’s 337 investigation against the accused electronic wireless devices. products. The USITC investigation is currently on-going. TPL filed another complaint before The hearing of the first complaint filed by IDC the United States District Court for the Northern with the USITC was scheduled for mid-February District of California for the same reason. The 2013 and the initial determination and final Group believes the claim by TPL is without merit determination are expected to be available and will defend this action in accordance with in June 2013 and October 2013, respectively. the provisions of law to safeguard the legitimate This ruling will have an impact on the Group’s rights and interests of the Group. exportation and sales of certain 3G wireless devices in the United States. iii) On February 22, 2012, Creative Technology Ltd. and its subsidiary, Qmax Communications At this stage, the Group is unable to predict the Pte. Ltd. (“Creative”), filed a lawsuit against outcome of this case, or reasonably estimate a Huawei International Pte. Ltd., a wholly-owned range of possible loss, if any, given the current subsidiary of the Company and asserted a status of the litigation. claim for misrepresentation and breach of contract for approximately CNY120 million. In ii) On July 24, 2012, Technology Properties Limited March 2012, the Group filed a counter lawsuit LLC (“TPL”) filed a complaint with the USITC, against Creative and demanded a claim of requesting the Commission to commence an approximately CNY50 million for breach of investigation under Section 337 of the Tariff Act contract as well as unreasonable and unilateral of 1930 to certain wireless consumer electronics termination of contract. This case is currently at devices and components manufactured by the preliminary stage of exchanging documents thirteen alleged companies and their affiliates and pre-trial conference. The Group believes by reason of patent infringement and requested the claim by Creative is without merit and will for issuance of exclusion order and cease and defend this action vigorously. desist order against the accused electronic 23. Operating leases (a) Leases as lessee Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Less than one year 472 364 Between one and five years 577 410 Above five years 58 – 1,107 774 75 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes The Group leases a number of warehouses, factory During the year ended December 31, 2012, facilities, office premises and staff apartments CNY2,334,125,000 was recognised as an expense under operating leases. The leases typically run in the consolidated income statement in respect of for an initial period of between one and five years. operating leases (2011: CNY2,052,028,000). None of the leases includes contingent rentals. (b) Leases as lessor The Group leases out certain of its properties under operating leases (see note 2). Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are receivable as follows: 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Less than one year 100 46 Between one and five years 9 47 109 93 During the year ended December 31, 2012, CNY114,044,000 was recognised as rental income in the consolidated income statement (2011: CNY196,819,000). 24. Capital commitments (a) Acquisition and construction of buildings Capital commitments of the Group in respect of acquisition and construction of buildings are summarised as follows: 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Contracted for 2,094 2,152 Authorised but not contracted for 4,376 5,257 6,470 7,409 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 76 (b) Other capital commitments Other capital commitments contracted by the Group are summarised as follows: 2012 2011 CNY’million CNY’million Acquisition of joint venture interests – 3,336 Establishment of an associate 25 40 Purchase of equity investments – 462 25 3,838 25. Group enterprises (a) Control of the Group The Group’s ultimate controlling party is the Union of Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. (the “Union”). (b) Major subsidiaries Place of Ownership interests Subsidiaries incorporation 2012 2011 Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. PRC 100% 100% Shanghai Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd. PRC 100% 100% Beijing Huawei Digital Technologies Co., Ltd. PRC 100% 100% (formerly “Huawei Digital Technologies Co., Ltd.”) Shenzhen Huawei Technologies Software Co., Ltd. PRC 100% 100% HUAWEI TECHNICAL SERVICE CO., LTD. PRC 100% 100% Huawei Machine Co., Ltd. PRC 100% 100% (formerly “Imfocus Technologies Co., Ltd.”) HiSilicon Technologies Co., Limited PRC 100% 100% Huawei Device Co., Ltd. PRC 100% 100% Huawei Software Technologies Co., Ltd. PRC 100% 100% Huawei Tech. Investment Co., Limited Hong Kong 100% 100% Huawei Device (Hong Kong) Co., Limited Hong Kong 100% 100% Huawei Technologies Coöperatief U.A. Netherlands 100% 100% HUAWEI INTERNATIONAL PTE. LTD. Singapore 100% 100% PT. Huawei Tech Investment Indonesia 100% 100% HUAWEI DO BRASIL TELECOMUNICACOES LTDA Brazil 100% 99.36% 77 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes (c) Acquisition of subsidiaries i) On March 30, 2012, Huawei Tech. Investment Limited (“Longshine Information”) for a Co., Limited (“Huawei Tech Investment”), a consideration of CNY115,966,000. As a result wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, of this acquisition, the Group equity interest in acquired the remaining 49% stake in Huawei Beijing Huawei Longshine increased from 52% Digital Technologies (Hong Kong) Co., Limited to 100% and Beijing Huawei Longshine became (formerly “Huawei Symantec Technologies Co., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. Ltd.”) (“Huawei Digital HK”) from Symantec Hardware Holding LLC (“Symantec Hardware”) Beijing Huawei Longshine is a China-based for a consideration of USD530,000,000 company established in 1996. Beijing Huawei (equivalent to CNY3,336,767,000). As a result Longshine is principally engaged in production of this acquisition, the Group’s equity interest and sale of network communications products, in Huawei Digital HK increased from 51% to computer hardware and software and provision 100% and Huawei Digital HK became a whollyof related services. owned subsidiary of Huawei Tech Investment, which in turn is a wholly-owned subsidiary of In the post acquisition date to December 31, the Company. 2012, Beijing Huawei Longshine contributed revenue of CNY130,140,000 and profit of Huawei Digital HK is a Hong Kong-based joint CNY12,577,000 to the Group’s results. If the venture established by Huawei Tech Investment acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2012, and Symantec Hardware in 2008. Huawei Management estimates that consolidated Digital HK is principally engaged in research revenue would have been CNY130,288,000, and development, production and sale of and consolidated loss for the year would have network storage and security products. been CNY9,487,000. In determining these amounts, Management has assumed that In the post acquisition date to December 31, the fair value adjustments that arose on the 2012, Huawei Digital HK contributed revenue of acquisition date would have been the same CNY3,224,747,000 and loss of CNY68,801,000 if the acquisition had occurred on January 1, to the Group’s results. If the acquisition had 2012. occurred on January 1, 2012, Management estimates that consolidated revenue would have iii) On October 30, 2011, Huawei Technologies been CNY4,289,369,000, and consolidated loss Coöperatief U.A., a wholly-owned subsidiary for the year would have been CNY375,091,000. of the Company, acquired 100% equity In determining these amounts, Management interest in International Turnkey Systems has assumed that the fair value adjustments Technologies W.L.L. (“ITS Bahrain”) for a cash that arose on the acquisition date would have consideration of USD81,031,000 (equivalent to been the same if the acquisition had occurred CNY472,237,000). The cash consideration has on January 1, 2012. been determined on a provisional basis in the initial accounting due to the working capital ii) On March 31, 2012, Huawei Software Technologies of ITS Bahrain does not meet the conditions Co., Ltd. (“Huawei Software Tech”), a whollystipulated in the Sales and Purchase Agreement owned subsidiary of the Company, acquired (“SPA”) which is USD10,000,000. the remaining 48% stake in Beijing Huawei Longshine Information Technology Company The consideration was finalised and determined at Limited (“Beijing Huawei Longshine”) from USD72,262,000 (equivalent to CNY419,492,000) Longshine Information Technology Company subsequent to the issue of 2011 consolidated Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes 78 financial statements but before the end of the ITS Bahrain is a company incorporated in Bahrain measurement period on October 17, 2012. As a and principally engaged in providing integrated result of this measurement period adjustment, information technology solutions and software the comparative information presented in the services. 2012 consolidated financial statements had been restated. The above acquisition had the following effect on the Group’s assets and liabilities on the acquisition date: Recognised values on acquisition 2012 2011 Huawei Beijing Huawei ITS Bahrain Digital HK Longshine CNY’million CNY’million CNY’million (restated) Note 25(c)(i) Note 25(c)(ii) Note 25(c)(iii) Property, plant and equipment 88 2 7 Available-for-sale investments 26 – – Intangible assets 375 92 251 Trade and other receivables 509 62 65 Inventories 543 16 – Cash and cash equivalents 1,025 33 31 Trade and other payables (1,629) (24) (103) Interest-bearing loans (170) (63) – Defined benefit post-employment plans (313) – – Deferred tax liabilities (61) (14) (53) Total net identifiable assets 393 104 198 Acquisition-related costs 28 – 4 Consideration, satisfied by cash 3,337 116 419 Cash acquired (1,025) (33) (30) Net cash outflow 2,312 83 389 The trade and other receivables comprise gross contractual amounts due of CNY576,364,000 (2011: CNY64,912,000), of which CNY4,584,000 (2011: Nil) was expected to be uncollectible at the acquisition date. 79 Consolidated Financial Statements Summary and Notes Goodwill Goodwill was recognised as a result of the acquisition as follows: Recognised values on acquisition 2012 2011 Huawei Beijing Huawei ITS Bahrain Digital HK Longshine CNY’million CNY’million CNY’million (restated) Note 25(c)(i) Note 25(c)(ii) Note 25(c)(iii) Total consideration paid 3,337 116 419 Fair value of pre-existing interest 315 142 – Fair value of identifiable net assets (393) (104) (198) 3,259 154 221 Huawei Digital HK Beijing Huawei Longshine The remeasurement to fair value of the Group’s The remeasurement to fair value of the Group’s existing 51% interest in Huawei Digital HK resulted existing 52% interest in Beijing Huawei Longshine in a gain of CNY269,107,000, which has been resulted in a loss of CNY24,152,000, which has included in “other income” in the consolidated been included in “other operating expenses” in income statement. the consolidated income statement. The goodwill is attributable mainly to the skills The goodwill is attributable mainly to the skills and and technical talent of Huawei Digital HK’s work technical talent of Beijing Huawei Longshine’s work force, and the synergies expected to be achieved force, and the synergies expected to be achieved from integrating the company into the Group’s from integrating Beijing Huawei Longshine into the existing security and storage technology business. Group’s existing software business. None of the None of the goodwill recognised is expected to be goodwill recognised is expected to be deductible deductible for tax purposes. for tax purposes. Other business combination Other business combination during the financial year which does not have any material effect on the financial position and results of the Group is not shown above. Company Information 80 Company Information Corporate Profile Awards and Honors Huawei is a leading global ICT solutions provider. On December 12, 2012, Huawei won the Data Through our dedication to customer-centric Center Blueprints award from Datacenter innovation and strong partnerships, we have Dynamics (known as the Oscars of the data established end-to-end capabilities and strengths center industry) for the Desktop Cloud across the carrier network, enterprise, consumer, Container Data Center project at the first and cloud computing fields. We are committed Datacenter Dynamics Greater China Awards. to creating maximum value for telecom carriers, enterprises and consumers by providing On November 21, 2012, Huawei won the Best competitive ICT solutions and services. Our Use of Traffic Management for Improving products and solutions have been deployed in Customer Experience award for our VGS at over 140 countries, serving more than one third the 2012 annual summit of the BBTM Congress. of the world’s population. This is the second such prestigious award for Huawei after the company was presented with Huawei’s vision is to enrich life through the Award for Most Innovative Service Launch communication. By leveraging our experience and Enabled by Traffic Management in 2011 along expertise in the ICT sector, we help bridge the with MegaFon, the second largest carrier in digital divide by providing opportunities to enjoy Russia. broadband services, regardless of geographic locations. Contributing to the sustainable On November 13, 2012, Huawei received development of society, the economy, and the the Global Excellent Telecom Cloud Solution environment, Huawei creates green solutions that Provider of the Year award from Frost & enable customers to reduce power consumption, Sullivan at the Global Community of Growth, carbon emissions, and resource costs. Innovation, and Leadership 2012. This is the only award in the global telecom cloud market. 81 Company Information On October 19, 2012, Huawei was honored Light Reading (an authoritative international at the Broadband World Forum 2012 with the communications media agency), and R&D 100 Best Broadband Access Award – Fixed from Award (known as the Oscar for scientific and InfoVision for our Vectoring solution, which technological innovation). boasts the world’s highest capacity. On June 14, 2012, Huawei received a On September 26, 2012, Huawei won the Best prestigious award for the Best Cloud Platform Cloud Contact Center Solution award at the for Africa for our Galax Cloud Platform at the 2012 China Best Customer Contact Center and awards dinner of the Cloud Africa Summit CRM Awards. This honor demonstrates the hosted by Informa Telecom. industry’s recognition of Huawei’s efforts to boost the development of the contact center On May 23, 2012, Huawei won the Best LTE and customer service industries. Commercial Performance and Best LTE Core Network Element awards at the 2012 LTE World On September 21, 2012, Huawei was Summit. This is the third consecutive year for granted the Best Unified Communications Huawei to win these awards. and Collaboration Solutions Provider award at the 2012 China Enterprise Networking & On May 22, 2012, Huawei was granted the Communications Conference and the China Solution Excellence Award from TMF for our Enterprise Networking and Communications VGS solution. This is the second time Huawei Awards (CENA). has won this award. On July 18, 2012, Huawei was presented On May 1, 2012, acknowledging the company’s with the Green Technology Award for its exceptional commitment to the Middle integrated green and energy-conserving East technology landscape, Huawei was outdoor site solution for network energy at distinguished as Managed Services Provider of CommunicAsia 2012. As a barometer of the the Year in Telecoms during the Network World communications industry in Asia Pacific, this Middle East Awards 2012. award demonstrates the industry’s recognition of Huawei’s green energy solutions. On April 10, 2012, Huawei won Certificate of Merit for excellent site solution designs in “Best On June 21, 2012, Huawei was the only vendor in Class Site Design” Beauty Contest organized granted the Best Optical Equipment Product by Deutsche Telekom. – OTN award of the Next Generation Optical Awards from the Institute for International On January 30, 2012, Huawei won the Best Research (IIR) at the WDM and Next Generation Backhaul Solution for Africa award for our Optical Networking Forum in Monaco. This outstanding contributions to the construction is another top industry innovation award for of IP backhaul networks in South Africa, which the Huawei OTN solution after winning the raised Africa’s communications technology level InfoVision award, 2009 Top Picks award from to international standards. Risk Factors 82 Risk Factors All risk factors mentioned in this Annual Report, processes. Through strategic planning, all domains particularly those outlined in this section, refer to systematically identify and assess their risks. In key future uncertainties that could have a material the 2012 business plan, all domains developed effect on the company’s business objectives. They countermeasures against key risks, thereby giving were identified from the company’s strategic priority to risk monitoring and reporting in daily planning, business model, external environment, operations. The company ensures the continuity and financial system. Major risk factors are events of business operations by taking risks into account that will significantly impact the company’s during strategic decision making and planning, competition landscape, reputation, financial while also preemptively controlling risks in business conditions, operating results, and long-term plans and execution. prospects within the next 18 months. Hereinafter, all risk factors refer to major risk factors. Strategic Risks Huawei’s Risk Management System Intense competition: The markets in which Huawei operates are highly competitive in terms Based on the Committee of Sponsoring of price, functionality, and service quality, as Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) well as the timing of new product and service framework and in line with our organizational development. In certain geographical markets, structure and operating model, Huawei designed our main competitors may offer more attractive and implemented an enterprise risk management prices, products, services, or other incentives. The (ERM) system with a corresponding ERM policy. The rapid development of science and technology, and ERM system consists of three major organizations/ changes in alternative technologies or industry roles and an operational mechanism: standards will lead to shorter product lifecycles and may attract more new entrants into the The Finance Committee (FC) makes routine markets in which we operate. decisions on corporate risk management. In this market context, the ability to fully All business executives are responsible for risk understand and satisfy customer needs is a management of their assigned domains. prerequisite as technologies change rapidly and competition intensifies. To stay competitive The Enterprise Risk Mgmt Dept assists the and secure our expected operating results, we FC and all business executives in controlling must constantly introduce new products and corporate-level risks. functionalities into the market while reducing the total costs for our customers. Huawei has incorporated risk management factors into its strategic planning and business planning 83 Risk Factors External Risks Natural disasters: Earthquakes, floods, and other natural disasters may impact the company’s supply Economic environment: The global economic chain operations, and slow down or even prevent downturn could cause telecom carriers to postpone delivery in a certain region or even all regions. investments or initiate other cost-cutting measures to improve their financial conditions. These factors Operational Risks could result in reduced demand for network infrastructures and services, which would in turn Business continuity: Although Huawei strives to affect Huawei’s operating results. avoid single-source supplier solutions, it is not always possible. Finding an alternative supplier Country-specific risks: Huawei conducts business or redesigning products may be time-consuming. in more than 140 countries. Operating in these As such, supply and delivery of our products countries involves certain risks, such as civil unrest, to our customers could be disrupted if any of economic and political instability, imposition of our single-source suppliers were to meet with exchange controls, nationalization of private difficulties. To mitigate this risk, we periodically assets, and debts. All these risks require Huawei assess and conduct audits on our suppliers, and to have a high aptitude for risk management. In initiate product replacements or redesign. addition, there may be uncertainties in the legal environment in certain regions. Although we strive Rising labor costs: Increasing labor costs in China to comply with all such laws and regulations, may offset the company’s efforts to improve unintentional violations could have material efficiency and ultimately affect our profitability. adverse effects on our business. Information security: While Huawei has judiciously Trade barriers: Today, the complex international adopted information security measures to protect economic and financial conditions along with our intellectual property rights, they may not be increasingly fierce industry competition may adequate to prevent infringement or improper challenge Huawei with different types of trade use of our information, patents, or licenses. barriers in the countries it operates. Measures Misappropriations of this nature will cause losses resulting in trade barriers have become more to Huawei even though we may be protected to complicated and include trade investigations, some extent by intellectual property law. the imposing of large amounts of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties, and setting special Financial Risks product quality and technical specifications and requirements. All of these measures may impact For further information on financial risks, see the import of Huawei products. Although we “Financial Risk Management” on pages 25 to 27 proactively respond to mitigate risks from such of this Annual Report. trade barriers, these barriers may still adversely affect Huawei’s operating results. Corporate Governance Report 84 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Structure Adhering to “customers as our focus and dedicated employees as our foundation” from our core values, we continue to improve our corporate governance structure, organizations, processes, and appraisal systems to achieve long-term effective growth. Shareholders’ Meeting Independent Board of Directors Supervisory Board Auditor Executive Committee Human Resources Strategy & Development Finance Committee Audit Committee Committee Committee CEO/EVPs Group Functions Financial HR  Finance Corporate Strategy BP&IT Cyber Investment Development Marketing Security Ethics & Management JCR PR&GR Legal Affairs Internal Audit Compliance Service BG Platform (SBG) 2012 Laboratories Integrated Business Services (IBS) Carrier Network Enterprise Consumer Manufacturing BG BG BG Huawei University Huawei Internal Services Regional Organizations Shareholders Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. (the “company” or “Huawei”) is a private company wholly owned by its employees. Shareholders of Huawei are the Union of Huawei Investment & Holding Co., Ltd. (the “Union”) and Mr. Ren Zhengfei. The Union contributed 98.82% of the company’s total share capital. Through the Union, the company implements an Employee Shareholding Scheme (the “Scheme”), which involved 74,253 employees as of December 31, 2012. They are represented by and exercise their rights through the elected representatives (the “Representatives”). The Scheme effectively aligns employee contributions with the company’s long-term development, fostering Huawei’s continued success. As of December 31, 2012, Mr. Ren Zhengfei contributed 1.18% of the company’s total share capital as the individual shareholder, and his participation in the Scheme accounts for 0.21% of the company’s total share capital. As such, Mr. Ren’s investment in the company accounts for nearly 1.4% in total. 85 Corporate Governance Report Board of Directors and Committees In 2012, the BOD held 12 meetings. Throughout the year, the BOD reviewed and approved the The Board of Directors (BOD) is the decisioncompany’s medium-to-long-term business plan, making body for corporate strategy and the annual business plan and budget, quarterly management. The BOD guides and oversees the operational performance reports, corporate overall business operations and makes decisions governance structure and organization building, on significant strategic issues. The BOD has business ecosystem building, appointments and established the Human Resources Committee, the compensation policies for senior management, and Finance Committee, the Strategy & Development other major HR and financial policies and activities. Committee, and the Audit Committee to assist and support BOD operations. The BOD is comprised of 13 members, who were elected by all the Representatives. The members The key roles and responsibilities of the BOD of the BOD are Chairwoman Ms. Sun Yafang; include: Deputy Chairmen Mr. Guo Ping, Mr. Xu Zhijun, Mr. Hu Houkun, and Mr. Ren Zhengfei; Executive Deciding on the company’s strategic directions; Directors Mr. Xu Wenwei, Mr. Li Jie, Mr. Ding Yun, approving its medium-to-long-term business and Ms. Meng Wanzhou; and Directors Ms. Chen plan; monitoring the execution of the plan. Lifang, Mr. Wan Biao, Mr. Zhang Ping’an, and Mr. Providing advice and guidance to management Yu Chengdong. regarding significant issues, including major risks and market changes. In 2012, the attendance record for each Director Reviewing the company’s business operations, is as follows: organization, and processes; approving major organizational restructurings, business Director Meetings Attended transformations, and process transformations. Ms. Sun Yafang 11 Approving the company’s major financial Mr. Guo Ping 12 policies, financial arrangements, and business Mr. Xu Zhijun 12 transactions. Mr. Hu Houkun 12 Approving the company’s operational and Mr. Ren Zhengfei 12 financial results; approving the company’s Mr. Xu Wenwei 12 financial statements. Establishing the company’s monitoring Mr. Li Jie 12 mechanisms and overseeing their execution. Mr. Ding Yun 12 Establishing the company’s governance Ms. Meng Wanzhou 12 structure and organizing its optimization and Ms. Chen Lifang 12 deployment. Mr. Wan Biao 12 Deciding on the selection, appraisal, and Mr. Zhang Ping’an 12 compensation of the Chief Executive Officer; Mr. Yu Chengdong 12 approving the appointment and compensation of other members of senior management. Approving the corporate-level HR planning and major HR policies. Corporate Governance Report 86 The BOD has established the Executive Committee, Managing the policies and providing guidance which acts as the executive body of the BOD while for employee learning and development at all the BOD is adjourned. Members of the Executive levels. Committee include Mr. Guo Ping, Mr. Xu Zhijun, Setting policies related to employee compliance Mr. Hu Houkun, Mr. Xu Wenwei, Mr. Li Jie, Mr. with internal regulatory requirements and Ding Yun, and Ms. Meng Wanzhou. In 2012, the managing disciplinary actions against major Executive Committee of the BOD held 18 meetings. violations. Providing routine guidance on policies related Human Resources Committee to the occupational health and safety of employees. The Human Resources Committee manages and Managing the strategic HR plans and key HR improves organizational capabilities such as transformation activities. organization, talent, and culture. This committee establishes key HR management policies under The Human Resources Committee meets on a the authorization of the BOD and oversees monthly basis and convenes special sessions the execution of these policies. To support the whenever needed. At the invitation of the company’s business development, the committee committee, business executives and field-specific ensures that HR policies reflect the company’s HR experts may attend the meetings as non-voting management philosophy while also considering the participants. The Human Resources Committee business characteristics and management models held 12 meetings in 2012 to meet the requests of regions, BGs, and functional departments. of the BOD and globalized business development needs of multiple business groups. The subjects The key roles and responsibilities of the Human discussed included but were not limited to the Resources Committee include: following: HR strategy planning which focused on talent, organization, incentive, culture, Managing the succession plans, allocation and other managerial elements; selection and schemes, and matters related to managerial development of staff members for key managerial appointments or removals, performance and professional positions; optimization of the appraisals, compensation, and incentives for key company’s compensation and incentive structure; managers and talent under the authorization of review and approval of organizational restructuring the BOD. proposals; development of a governance Managing overall incentive policies, policies mechanism for flexible headcount budgeting; related to social security benefits, the employee discipline and compliance management; compensation structure, and job matching. development of HR policy frameworks and policies; Managing policies for organizational key implementation decisions; supervision of policy development and optimization; managing the implementation. HR budget and headcount planning for each budgetary unit. 87 Corporate Governance Report The Human Resources Committee is comprised Reviewing the company’s annual budgeting of 19 members, including BOD members, senior plan, approving the annual budget for each business executives, and senior HR experts. The responsibility center, and ensuring closedChairman of the committee is Mr. Hu Houkun. The loop management of the corporate-level members include Mr. Guo Ping, Mr. Xu Zhijun, Mr. plan, budget, accounting, and performance Xu Wenwei, Mr. Li Jie, Mr. Ding Yun, Ms. Meng appraisals. Wanzhou, Mr. Li Jian, Mr. Zha Jun, Ms. He Tingbo, Reviewing the capital structure plan; making Mr. Zhang Ping’an, Mr. Yu Chengdong, Mr. Liang proposals for major financing activities, the Hua, Mr. Peng Zhiping, Mr. Li Yingtao, Mr. Wan asset structure, and profit distribution. Biao, Mr. Tian Feng, Mr. Li Shanlin, and Mr. Peng Reviewing the company’s key financial policies, Bo. annual financial statements, and issues related to information disclosure. Finance Committee Reviewing capital operations and strategic cooperation projects, submitting proposals The Finance Committee is positioned as the to the BOD, and periodically assessing the overall enterprise value integrator of the company. execution of such projects. Under the authorization of the BOD, the Finance Reviewing the company’s risk management Committee exercises macro-control over the framework, advising on trade compliance company’s business operations, investment issues, and establishing a business continuity activities, and enterprise risks, helping to strike management system. a dynamic balance between opportunities and resources. This facilitates the company’s effective The Finance Committee meets on a monthly basis growth. and convenes special sessions whenever needed. Based on business needs and requests of the The key roles and responsibilities of the Finance BOD, the Finance Committee held 12 meetings in Committee include: 2012. At the meetings, the committee reviewed such items as the company’s medium-to-long-term Aligning resources with business needs based business plan, annual budgeting plan, operational on the company’s resources and resource management, capital operations projects, the acquisition capabilities. capital structure, enterprise risk management, Setting financial objectives for the growth and subsidiary and joint venture management. and investment projects of the company The Finance Committee discussed and established and responsibility centers; determining the relevant financial policies and systems, reviewed standards, structure, and pace for resource and decided on relevant activities, and monitored investments. the execution of these activities. Measuring the monetary value of key strategies, conducting forward-looking forecasts and analysis, and submitting proposals to the BOD. Corporate Governance Report 88 The Finance Committee is comprised of 20 Managing the company’s strategy for strategic members, including BOD members and financial partnerships and alliances, as well as the experts. The Chairman of the committee is Mr. selection of strategic partners and allies. Guo Ping. The members include Mr. Xu Zhijun, Mr. Managing the company’s business portfolios Hu Houkun, Mr. Xu Wenwei, Mr. Li Jie, Mr. Ding and scope. Yun, Ms. Meng Wanzhou, Mr. Liang Hua, Mr. Wan Managing the company’s pricing policies, Biao, Mr. Peng Zhiping, Mr. Tian Feng, Mr. Fang commercial authorization principles, and actual Weiyi, Mr. Song Liuping, Mr. Yao Fuhai, Mr. Jiang pricing of key strategic products. Xisheng, Mr. Li Jin’ge, Mr. Peng Qiu’en, Mr. Yi Managing the company’s medium-to-longXiang, Mr. Yang Yuefeng, and Mr. Qiao Nengdong. term technology development plan, standards and patent strategy, and major technology Strategy & Development Committee investments. Managing the company’s medium-to-long-term The Strategy & Development Committee (SDC) business transformation strategy, process and considers, sets, and executes the company’s management system structure, and quality strategic directions. The SDC gains insight into policies. major trends concerning the industry, technologies, Reviewing the company’s business portfolios and customer needs; and identifies opportunities frequently to ensure investments are made in and paths for the company’s development. the strategic domains. Through macro -management of industrial investments, technologies, business models, The SDC held 12 meetings in 2012 and a fourand transformations, the SDC ensures that the day strategy and development workshop in company continues to achieve effective growth September. In accordance with the positioning through concerted efforts. and responsibility determined by the BOD, the SDC focuses on the company’s strategy formulation The key roles and responsibilities of the SDC and direction. By setting the business positioning include: and directions of related industries, the SDC has enabled the company’s core business to be Managing the company’s medium-to-long-term focused on the targeted carrier, enterprise, and strategic plan, significant annual targets, and consumer customers so that BGs can develop the top priorities of the year. and operate based on the characteristics of their Managing the company’s brand strategy, specific customers and industries. Through strategy architecture, and characteristics, as well as planning and execution, the SDC established a the publicity strategy and direction of the closed-loop strategy management system to help company. the company achieve business objectives. 89 Corporate Governance Report The SDC is comprised of 23 members, including Reviewing the selection of external auditors; BOD members, senior business executives, and reporting the change of external auditors to field-specific senior experts. The Chairman of the the BOD for approval, and approving all related committee is Mr. Xu Zhijun. The members include fees; assessing the effectiveness of external Mr. Guo Ping, Mr. Hu Houkun, Mr. Xu Wenwei, auditors’ performance. Mr. Li Jie, Mr. Ding Yun, Ms. Meng Wanzhou, Mr. Supervising the integrity, completeness, and Hou Jinlong, Mr. Zhang Ping’an, Mr. Li Yingtao, legal compliance of the company’s financial Mr. He Gang, Mr. Zha Jun, Mr. Tang Qibing, Mr. statements; reviewing accounting policy Zhang Xinyu, Mr. Peng Bo, Mr. Deng Biao, Mr. Yu compliance and application as well as disclosure Chengdong, Mr. Wang Tao, Mr. Liang Hua, Mr. of financial statements. Zheng Yelai, Mr. Wu Qinming, Ms. He Tingbo, and The Audit Committee approves the control Mr. Peng Zhongyang. KPIs at the beginning of each year, and has the right to summon Global Process Owners (GPOs) Audit Committee and business executives to report their control work. The Audit Committee oversees internal controls under the authorization of the BOD. The oversight The Audit Committee meets on a quarterly basis responsibilities include monitoring the internal and convenes special sessions whenever needed. control system, internal and external audits, and At the invitation of the Audit Committee, business corporate processes, as well as compliance with executives and field-specific experts may attend laws and regulations and the Business Conduct the meetings as non-voting participants. The Guidelines (BCG). Audit Committee held four meetings in 2012. Focusing on topics such as risk management and The key roles and responsibilities of the Audit internal control construction, the Audit Committee Committee include: reviewed and approved the annual internal audit planning and the updated three-year roadmap for Approving the internal audit plan of the year; global process control construction, and listened reviewing the scope of the internal audit plan, to the internal control maturity trend reports, resources required for its execution, and the the Semi-Annual Control Assessment (SACA) results of the execution. reports, and the control improvement work reports Approving corporate policies related to internal presented by GPOs. The Audit Committee also control management; approving the company’s improved employee compliance with Huawei’s internal control development plan and key BCG by publicizing major audit findings and nonmilestones; regularly assessing the company’s compliance cases. In addition, the Audit Committee overall internal control posture. discussed the management improvement proposal Overseeing the effectiveness of the ethics with the external auditor. and compliance function, and the company’s compliance with legal and regulator y requirements as well as corporate policies. Corporate Governance Report 90 The Audit Committee is comprised of 9 members, The Supervisory Board is comprised of 5 members, including members of the Supervisory Board, BOD who were elected by all the Representatives. The members, and field-specific experts. The Chairman members of the Supervisory Board are Chairman of the committee is Mr. Liang Hua. The members Mr. Liang Hua, and members Mr. Peng Zhiping, include Mr. Peng Zhiping, Mr. Ren Shulu, Mr. Mr. Ren Shulu, Mr. Tian Feng, and Mr. Deng Biao. Tian Feng, Mr. Li Jie, Mr. Chen Zhaohui, Mr. Peng Zhijun, Mr. Hui Chun, and Mr. Zhou Daiqi. Rotating CEOs Supervisory Board Huawei implements the rotating CEO system under the leadership of the BOD. Acting as the Pursuant to the requirements of the Company primary person of the company’s operations and Law of the People’s Republic of China, Huawei crisis management during his tenure, the rotating has established a Supervisory Board. The key and acting CEO is responsible for the company’s roles and responsibilities of the Supervisory survival and development. Board include overseeing the company’s financial and operational performance, monitoring the The rotating and acting CEO is responsible for responsibility fulfillment of BOD members and convening and chairing the meetings of the senior management, as well as the standardization Executive Committee of the BOD. During routine of BOD operations. Members of the Supervisory management decision making, the rotating and Board attend BOD meetings as non-voting acting CEO apprises members of the BOD and the participants. Supervisory Board of his responsibility fulfillment in a timely manner. In 2012, the Supervisory Board held one meeting, reviewing and assessing the financial Three Deputy Chairmen take turns to act as the performance of the company, and conducting rotating and acting CEO for a tenure of six months. training sessions and workshops regarding In 2012, the acting tenures for the three rotating its roles and responsibilities for financial CEOs are as follows: supervision. Throughout the year, members of the Supervisory Board attended 12 meetings of Mr. Hu Houkun: October 1, 2011 – March 31, 2012 the BOD as non-voting participants, monitoring Mr. Xu Zhijun: April 1, 2012 – September 30, 2012 the financial performance of the company, the Mr. Guo Ping: October 1, 2012 – March 31, 2013 responsibility fulfillment of BOD members and senior management, and the standardization of BOD operations. 91 Corporate Governance Report Members of the Board of Directors, the Supervisory Board, and the BOD Committees Members of the Board of Directors From the left in the first row: Mr. Hu Houkun, Ms. Sun Yafang, Mr. Guo Ping, Ms. Chen Lifang, Mr. Xu Wenwei From the left in the second row:  M r. Zhang Ping’an, Mr. Yu Chengdong, Mr. Xu Zhijun, Mr. Ren Zhengfei, Mr. Ding Yun, Ms. Meng Wanzhou, Mr. Li Jie, Mr. Wan Biao Corporate Governance Report 92 Director Biographies Ms. Sun Yafang Review Board, Corporate EVP, and Chairman of Ms. Sun joined Huawei in 1989, and had served the SDC. as an engineer of the Marketing & Sales Dept, Director of the Training Center, President of the Mr. Hu Houkun (Ken Hu) Procurement Dept, General Manager of Wuhan Born in 1967, Mr. Hu holds a bachelor’s degree Office, President of the Marketing & Sales Dept, from Huazhong University of Science and Chair of the Human Resources Committee, Chair Technology. Mr. Hu joined Huawei in 1990 and has of the Business Transformation Executive Steering served as President of the Marketing & Sales Dept Committee (BT-ESC), Chair of the Strategy and in China, President of the Latin America Region, Customer Standing Committee, and President of President of the Global Sales Dept, Chief Sales & Huawei University. Since 1999, Ms. Sun has been Service Officer, Chief Strategy & Marketing Officer, the Chairwoman of the Board. Chairman of the Corporate Global Cyber Security Committee, Chairman of the BOD of Huawei Prior to joining Huawei, Ms. Sun worked as a USA, Corporate EVP, and Chairman of the Human technician at the state-owned Xinxiang Liaoyuan Resources Committee. Radio Factory in 1982, a teacher at China Research Institute of Radio Wave Propagation in 1983, Mr. Ren Zhengfei and an engineer at Beijing Research Institute of Born on October 25, 1944 into a rural family Information Technology in 1985. where both parents were school teachers, Mr. Ren Zhengfei spent his primary and middle school Ms. Sun was born in 1955, and graduated in 1982 years in a remote mountainous town in Guizhou with a bachelor’s degree from Chengdu University Province. In 1963, he studied at the Chongqing of Electronic Science and Technology. Institute of Civil Engineering and Architecture. After graduation, he was employed in the civil Mr. Guo Ping engineering industry until 1974 when he joined Born in 1966, Mr. Guo holds a master’s degree the military’s Engineering Corps as a soldier tasked from Huazhong University of Science and to establish the Liao Yang Chemical Fiber Factory. Technology. Mr. Guo joined Huawei in 1988 and Subsequently, Mr. Ren had taken positions as a has served as an R&D project manager, General Technician, an Engineer, and was lastly promoted Manager of Supply Chain, Director of Huawei as a Deputy Director, which was a professional Executive Office, Chief Legal Officer, President of role equivalent to a Deputy Regimental Chief, but the Business Process & IT Mgmt Dept, President of without military rank. Because of his outstanding the Corporate Development Dept, Chairman and performance, Mr. Ren was invited to attend the President of Huawei Device, Corporate EVP, and National Science Conference in 1978 and the Chairman of the Finance Committee. 12th National Congress of the Communist Party of China in 1982. Mr. Ren retired from the army Mr. Xu Zhijun (Eric Xu) in 1983 when the Chinese government disbanded Born in 1967, Mr. Xu holds a doctorate degree the entire Engineering Corps. He then worked in from Nanjing University of Science & Technology. the logistics service base of the Shenzhen South Mr. Xu joined Huawei in 1993 and has served Sea Oil Corporation. As he was dissatisfied with his as President of the Wireless Product Line, Chief job, he decided to establish Huawei with a capital Strategy & Marketing Officer, Chief Products & of CNY21000 in 1987. He became the CEO of Solutions Officer, Chairman of the Investment Huawei in 1988 and has held the title ever since. 93 Corporate Governance Report Mr. Xu Wenwei (William Xu) Ms. Chen Lifang Born in 1963, Mr. Xu holds a master’s degree from Born in 1971, Ms. Chen graduated from Northwest Southeast University. Mr. Xu joined Huawei in 1991 University in China. Ms. Chen joined Huawei in and has served as President of the International 1995 and has served as Chief Representative of Technical Sales & Marketing Dept, President of the Beijing Representative Office, Vice President of the European Area, Chief Strategy & Marketing the International Marketing Dept, Deputy Director Officer, Chief Sales & Service Officer, President of of the Domestic Marketing Management Office, the Joint Committee of Regions, and CEO of the President of the Public Affairs and Communications Enterprise BG. Dept, and Corporate Senior Vice President. Mr. Li Jie (Jason Li) Mr. Wan Biao Born in 1967, Mr. Li holds a master’s degree from Born in 1972, Mr. Wan holds a bachelor’s degree Xi’an Jiaotong University. Mr. Li joined Huawei from the University of Science and Technology of in 1992 and has served as Regional President, China. Mr. Wan joined Huawei in 1996 and has President of the Global Technical Service Dept, served as Director for the UMTS RAN System, President of the Human Resource Mgmt Dept, and President of the UMTS Product Line, President of President of the Joint Committee of Regions. the Wireless Product Line, and CEO of Huawei Device. Mr. Ding Yun (Ryan Ding) Born in 1969, Mr. Ding holds a master’s degree Mr. Zhang Ping’an (Alex Zhang) from Southeast University. Mr. Ding joined Huawei Born in 1972, Mr. Zhang holds a master’s degree in 1996 and has served as Product Line President, from Zhejiang University. Mr. Zhang joined Huawei President of the Global Solution Sales Dept, in 1996 and has served as Product Line President, President of the Global Marketing Dept, Chief Senior Vice President, Vice President of Strategy & Products & Solutions Officer, and CEO of the Marketing, Regional Vice President, Vice President Carrier Network BG. of the Global Technical Service Dept, CEO of Huawei Symantec, COO of the Enterprise BG, and Ms. Meng Wanzhou (Cathy Meng) President of the Carrier Software & Core Network Born in 1972, Ms. Meng holds a master’s degree Business Unit. from Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Ms. Meng joined Huawei in 1993. Mr. Yu Chengdong (Richard Yu) She obtained her M.A. in 1998. Ms. Meng has Born in 1969, Mr. Yu holds a master’s degree served as Director of the International Accounting from Tsinghua University. Mr. Yu joined Huawei in Dept, CFO of Huawei Hong Kong, President of 1993 and has served as 3G Product Director, Vice the Accounting Mgmt Dept, President of the Sales President of the Wireless Technical Sales Dept, Financing & Treasury Mgmt Dept, and currently, President of the Wireless Product Line, President CFO of Huawei. of the European Area, Chief Strategy & Marketing Officer, Chairman of Huawei Device, and CEO of the Consumer BG. Corporate Governance Report 94 Members of the Supervisory Board From the left: Mr. Deng Biao, Mr. Ren Shulu, Mr. Liang Hua, Mr. Tian Feng, Mr. Peng Zhiping Supervisory Board Member Biographies Mr. Liang Hua (Howard Liang) the Capital Construction Investment Management Born in 1964, Mr. Liang holds a doctorate degree Committee, and currently, President of the Internal from Wuhan University of Technology. Mr. Liang Service Mgmt Dept. joined Huawei in 1995 and has served as President of Supply Chain, CFO of Huawei, President of the Mr. Tian Feng Business Process & IT Mgmt Dept, President of the Born in 1969, Mr. Tian holds a bachelor’s degree Global Technical Service Dept, and Chairman of from Xidian University. Mr. Tian joined Huawei in the Audit Committee. 1995 and has served as EVP of the Middle East and Northern Africa Area, President of the Middle Mr. Peng Zhiping (Benjamin Peng) East Region, President of the China Region, CEO Born in 1967, Mr. Peng holds a master’s degree of Huawei Agisson, Vice President (acting) of the from Fudan University. Mr. Peng joined Huawei in Human Resource Mgmt Dept, EVP of Huawei 1996 and has served as President of the Terminal University, Director of the Institute of Education of Product Line, President of the Optical Network Huawei University, and Director of the Disciplinary Product Line, President of the Supply Chain Mgmt and Supervisory Sub-committee of the Human Dept, President of the Procurement Qualification Resources Committee. Mgmt Dept, Chief Operations & Delivery Officer, President of the Integrated Business Services (IBS), Mr. Deng Biao (Alex Deng) and Chief Supply Chain Officer. Born in 1971, Mr. Deng holds a bachelor’s degree from Jiangxi University. Mr. Deng joined Huawei Mr. Ren Shulu (Steven Ren) in 1996 and has served as President of the Access Born in 1956, Mr. Ren holds a bachelor’s degree Network Product Line, President of the Network from Yunnan University. Mr. Ren joined Huawei Product Line, President of the Carrier Software & in 1992 and has served as President of Shenzhen Core Network Business Unit, and President of the Smartcom Business Co., Limited, Chairman of Business Process & IT Mgmt Dept. 95 Corporate Governance Report Committee Member Biographies Only the biographies of committee members not listed in “Director Biographies” or “Supervisory Board Member Biographies” are included in this section. (The order in which the biographies are provided is based on the number of strokes needed to complete the Chinese character that corresponds to the member’s surname.) Mr. Fang Weiyi Mr. Li Jian (James Lee) Born in 1965, Mr. Fang holds a master’s degree Born in 1973, Mr. Li holds a master’s degree from from the Aeronautics Computing Technique Xidian University. Mr. Li joined Huawei in 2001 Research Institute. Mr. Fang joined Huawei in and has served as General Manager of the Nigeria 1995 and has served as an engineer, Director of Representative Office, President of the Western the Intelligent Network Product Line, Director Africa Region, Special Assistant to Chief Sales of the Strategy and Planning Dept, President of & Service Officer, President of the Accounts and the Finance Mgmt Dept, President of the Sales & Regions Business Mgmt Dept, President of the CEE Delivery Finance Mgmt Dept, and currently, CFO & Nordic Region, President of the Latin America of the Carrier Network BG and member of the Area, Vice President of the Joint Committee of Finance Committee. Regions, and member of the Human Resources Committee. Mr. Jiang Xisheng Born in 1966, Mr. Jiang holds a bachelor’s degree Mr. Li Shanlin from Xidian University. Mr. Jiang joined Huawei Born in 1968, Mr. Li holds a master’s degree from in 1989 and has served as Vice President of the Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics. Marketing & Sales Dept, General Manager of the Mr. Li joined Huawei in 1996 and has served as General Procurement Dept, Vice President and an R&D project manager, Department Manager at CFO of Huawei Electric, Director of the Investment Huawei Technologies India Private Limited, Deputy Mgmt Dept, Vice President of the Finance Dept, Chief of the Beijing Research Center, Director Chief Secretary of the BOD, and member of the of the R&D Dept of the Data Communications Finance Committee. Product Line, Deputy Director of the HR Branch of Products & Solutions, Vice President of the Human Mr. Tang Qibing Resource Mgmt Dept, and member of the Human Born in 1970, Mr. Tang holds a master’s degree Resources Committee. from the University of Electronic Science and Technology of China. Mr. Tang joined Huawei Mr. Li Jin’ge in 1996 and has served as Vice President of the Born in 1968, Mr. Li holds a bachelor’s degree from Global Technical Sales Dept, Vice President of the Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications. Middle East and Northern Africa Area, General Mr. Li joined Huawei in 1992 and has served Manager of the Turkey Representative Office, as Regional Vice President, Regional President, President of the Central Asia Region, President of President of the Global Technical Sales Dept, the Global Sales Dept under the Enterprise BG, and President of the Sub-Sahara Area, member of the member of the SDC. Joint Committee of Regions, and member of the Finance Committee. Corporate Governance Report 96 Mr. Li Yingtao President of the GSM Product Line, President of Born in 1969, Mr. Li holds a doctorate degree the GSM&UMTS Product Line, Director of the from Harbin Institute of Technology. Mr. Li joined Global Wireless Solution Sales Dept, President of Huawei in 1997 and has served as Chief of the the Handset Product Line of Huawei Device, and Sweden Research Center, Director of the Product member of the SDC. Mgmt Dept of Wireless Marketing, Director of the Research Dept of Products & Solutions, Ms. He Tingbo (Teresa He) Director of the General Technology Office of Born in 1969, Ms. He holds a master’s degree from Products & Solutions, President of the Central Beijing University of Posts and Telecommunications. Research & Development Unit, President of the She joined Huawei in 1996 and has since served 2012 Laboratories, Director of the Integrated as ASIC engineer/senior engineer/chief engineer, Technology Management Team, member of the R&D Director of HiSilicon, President of HiSilicon, Human Resources Committee, and member of Vice President of the 2012 Laboratories, member the SDC. of the Human Resources Committee, and member of the SDC. Mr. Yang Yuefeng Born in 1971, Mr. Yang holds a master’s degree Mr. Wang Tao (David Wang) from Huazhong University of Science and Born in 1972, Mr. Wang holds a master’s degree Technology. Mr. Yang joined Huawei in 1996 and from Xi’an Jiaotong University. Mr. Wang joined has served as an engineer in the Hardware Dept, Huawei in 1997 and has served as PDT Manager of Director of the Multimedia Product Line, President the PS Core Network Product Line, Chief Engineer of the Fixed Terminal Product Line, Vice President in the UMTS Technical Sales Dept, Director & CFO of Huawei Device, and member of the of the Wireless Product Line in the European Finance Committee. Area, Director of the Technical Sales Dept in the European Area, General Manager of the Mr. Wu Qinming subsidiaries in Italy/Switzerland, President of the Born in 1972, Mr. Wu holds a bachelor’s degree Wireless Network Business Dept, and member of from Peking University. Mr. Wu joined Huawei the SDC. in 1996 and has served as General Manager of the Router Product Line, General Manager of the Mr. Song Liuping Software Dept at the Beijing Research Center, Born in 1966, Mr. Song completed his postdoctoral Director of the Enterprise Product Line, Deputy research at Beijing Institute of Technology. Mr. Director of the Marketing Dept of the Optical Song joined Huawei in 1996 and has served Network Product Line, Director of the Strategic as Manager of the Product Strategy Planning Development Dept, and currently, President of Office, Director of the Intellectual Property Rights the Investment Mgmt Dept, Vice President of the Dept, Director of the External Cooperation Dept, Corporate Development Dept, and member of President of the Legal Affairs Dept, Chief Legal the SDC. Officer, ST member of Products & Solutions, AT Deputy Director of the Standard & Patent Mr. He Gang Dept under the Research Dept, Chairman of the Born in 1973, Mr. He holds a master’s degree Patent Review Board, and member of the Finance from Xidian University. Mr. He joined Huawei in Committee. 1998 and has served as a GSM hardware engineer, 97 Corporate Governance Report Mr. Zhang Xinyu (Bill Zhang) Mr. Zheng Yelai (Leif Zheng) Born in 1972, Mr. Zhang holds a master’s degree Born in 1973, Mr. Zheng holds a master’s degree from Nanjing University. Mr. Zhang joined from Northwestern Polytechnical University. Mr. Huawei in 1997 and has served as Director of the Zheng joined Huawei in 1999 and has served as Marketing Dept under the Core Network Product Product Manager of the Wireless Product Line, Line, Director of the Marketing Dept in the AsiaOM SPDT Director of the Wireless Product Line, Pacific Region, Vice President of the Northern President of the Wireless OSS&Service Product Latin America Region, Vice President of the Carrier Line, President of the IT Product Line, and member Network BG, and member of the SDC. of the SDC. Mr. Chen Zhaohui (Edward Chen) Mr. Zha Jun Born in 1967, Mr. Chen holds a master’s degree Born in 1971, Mr. Zha holds a master’s degree at China Institute of Atomic Energy in Beijing. from Zhejiang University. Mr. Zha joined Huawei in Mr. Chen joined Huawei in 1994 and has served 1997 and has served as an R&D product manager, as General Manager of the UK Representative Director of the IMS Product Line, President of Office, President of Huawei Device, Chairman of the Router and Network Security Product Line, the CSR Committee, Vice President of the Business President of the Network Product Line, President Process & IT Mgmt Dept, and member of the Audit of the Fixed Network Business Unit, member of Committee. the Human Resources Committee, and member of the SDC. Mr. Yi Xiang (Steven Yi) Born in 1975, Mr. Yi holds a bachelor’s degree Mr. Hou Jinlong from Wuhan University. Mr. Yi joined Huawei in Born in 1970, Mr. Hou holds a bachelor’s degree 1998 and has served as Director of the Sales Mgmt from Shanghai Jiaotong University. Mr. Hou joined Dept in the Asia-Pacific Area, General Manager of Huawei in 1996 and has served as an R&D project the Pakistan Representative Office, President of manager, Director of the Wireless Technical Sales the Middle East Region, President of the Sales & Dept, Vice President of the Marketing Dept, Delivery Finance Mgmt Dept, and member of the Director of the Wireless Marketing Dept, CEO of TD Finance Committee. Tech Ltd., President of the Energy & Infrastructure Product Line, President of the Network Energy Mr. Zhou Daiqi Product Line, and member of the SDC. Born in 1947, Mr. Zhou graduated from Xidian University. Mr. Zhou joined Huawei in 1994 and Mr. Yao Fuhai has served as an ATM product manager, Chief Born in 1968, Mr. Yao holds a bachelor’s degree Engineer and General Manager at the Multimedia from the University of Electronic Science and Dept, Director of the Hardware Dept, Chief of the Technology of China. Mr. Yao joined Huawei Xi’an Research Center, Director of the HR Branch of in 1997 and has served as Director of the Products & Solutions, and currently, Director of the Pricing Center, Vice President of the Business Corporate Committee of Ethics and Compliance, Process & IT Mgmt Dept, Vice President of the and member of the Audit Committee. Strategy Cooperation Dept, Vice President of the Global Technical Sales Dept, President of the Global Technical Service Dept, President of the Procurement Qualification Mgmt Dept, and member of the Finance Committee. Corporate Governance Report 98 Mr. Peng Bo (Vincent Peng) the Tax Mgmt Dept, Vice President of the Finance Born in 1976, Mr. Peng holds a bachelor’s degree Mgmt Dept, Deputy Director of the Business from Harbin Institute of Technology. Mr. Peng Control and Enterprise Risk Mgmt Dept, and joined Huawei in 1999 and has served as an currently, Chief Risk Review Officer, and member account manager of the Customer Relationship of the Audit Committee. Mgmt Dept, an account manager of the Hong Kong Office, Director of the Vodafone Account Mr. Peng Qiu’en (Ted Peng) Dept, Vice President of the Western European Born in 1971, Mr. Peng holds a master’s degree Region, President of the Global Sales and Key from Zhongnan University of Economics and Law. Accounts Dept, President of the Global Sales Dept Mr. Peng joined Huawei in 1997 and has served as of the Carrier Network BG, member of the EMT Director of the Budget & Cost Mgmt Dept, Director for the Carrier Network BG, member of the Human of the Financial Planning & Analysis Dept, Vice Resources Committee, and member of the SDC. President of the Sales & Delivery Finance Mgmt Dept, CFO of the India Region, President of the Mr. Peng Zhongyang Finance Mgmt Dept, and member of the Finance Born in 1968, Mr. Peng holds a bachelor’s Committee. degree from Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Mr. Peng joined Huawei in 1997 and Mr. Hui Chun (Clark Hui) has served as a transmission product engineer Born in 1963, Mr. Hui holds a master’s degree from in the Technical Service Dept in the South China Huazhong University of Science and Technology. Area, Transmission Product Project Manager Mr. Hui joined Huawei in 1989 and has served as and a business expansion engineer at the Russia President of the Procurement Qualification Mgmt Representative Office, Transmission Product Project Dept, Vice President of Finance & President of Manager at the Yemen Representative Office, the Business Control Dept, Vice President of the Account Manager at the Yemen Representative Business Process & IT Mgmt Dept, and currently, Office, General Manager of the Yemen Director of the Engineering Inspection Dept and Representative Office, President of the North member of the Audit Committee. Africa Region, and President of the China Region. Mr. Qiao Nengdong (Joe Qiao) Mr. Peng Zhijun (Peter Peng) Born in 1973, Mr. Qiao holds a master’s degree Born in 1969, Mr. Peng holds a master’s degree from Nankai University. Mr. Qiao joined Huawei from Shanghai University of Finance and in 1998 and has served as Vice President of the Economics. Mr. Peng joined Huawei in 1997 and Accounting Mgmt Dept, CFO of the Northern has served as Director of the Investment Mgmt Africa Region, CFO of the Enterprise BG, and Dept, CFO of the Latin America Area, Director of member of the Finance Committee. 99 Corporate Governance Report Independent Auditor The CEO of the Enterprise BG is Mr. Xu Wenwei. The CEO of the Consumer BG is Mr. Yu An independent auditor is responsible for auditing Chengdong. a company’s annual financial statements. In accordance with applicable accounting standards Service BGs (SBGs) are responsibility centers that and audit procedures, the independent auditor provide end-to-end support and services for BGs. expresses an opinion as to whether the financial SBGs shall continuously increase efficiency and statements are true and fair. reduce operating costs. Huawei has established five SBGs: the 2012 Laboratories, Integrated Business The scope of the financial audit and the annual Services (IBS), Manufacturing, Huawei University, audit results are subject to review by the Audit and Huawei Internal Services. The President Committee. Any relationship or service that may of the 2012 Laboratories is Mr. Li Yingtao; the potentially affect the objectivity and independence President of IBS is Mr. Peng Zhiping; the President of the independent auditor can be discussed with of Manufacturing is Mr. Li Jianguo; the President the Audit Committee. The independent auditor of Huawei Internal Services is Mr. Ren Shulu. may discuss any issues identified or any difficulties encountered during the course of the financial The Group Functions provide BGs with support, audits with the Audit Committee. services, and supervision. They are positioned to offer accurate, timely, and effective services KPMG has been Huawei’s independent auditor to field offices and strengthen supervision while since 2000. delegating sufficient authority to field offices. Acting as the company’s special commissioner, the Business Structure Joint Committee of Regions (JCR), under the Group Functions, coordinates and monitors authority, and The company has established three BGs: the Carrier manages managers on behalf of the Company. The Network BG, the Enterprise BG, and the Consumer JCR organizes the development of the company’s BG. Each BG is a responsibility center for the endregional strategies worldwide and supervises to-end operations in a particular customer domain. their execution. The JCR also manages regional BGs are the main driving force behind Huawei’s platform building and organizational operations. operations. Each BG is responsible for ensuring The President of the JCR is Mr. Li Jie. effective growth and improving efficiency for the company as well as achieving business objectives The Financial Investment Management Platform is and ensuring customer satisfaction for its business responsible for the profits and losses of financial domain. investments. This platform oversees finance and business operations. Each BG has established an executive management team (EMT) to manage its operations. The CEO of Continuous Improvement of Management each BG is also the head of that BG’s EMT. Systems The CEO of the Carrier Network BG is Mr. Ding Huawei established global management systems Yun. to promote and pass down our corporate culture Corporate Governance Report 100 while achieving effective business management. and safety), and ISO27001 (information security). The aim is to: Huawei also obtained certification in SA8000 (CSR) in the device domain. Advocate customer centricity and further enable customer success. Huawei has also successfully passed the Ensure risks are controlled and business comprehensive audits, regular assessments, and continuity is guaranteed. stringent reviews conducted by 22 of the world’s Shoulder corporate social responsibilities (CSR) top 50 carriers. The items covered include financial to promote sustainable social development. stability, quality management, delivery, supply chain management, knowledge management, Huawei’s management systems are based on project management, information and cyber ISO9001 (an international standard for quality security, risk management, EHS, CSR, and business management systems) and TL9000 (an international continuity. We enjoy wide recognition from our standard for quality management systems of the customers in these key domains, as evidenced by telecom industry). Through continuous evolutions, their choice of Huawei as a strategic partner. Huawei has developed the capabilities of making frequent self-assessments and improvements Strategy to Execution to continuously meet the requirements and expectations of customers and other stakeholders. Huawei launched its “Develop Strategy to Execute (DSTE)” closed-loop management system to We fulfilled the requirements of our management gradually shift to the business operating model systems in accordance with our corporate strategy in which business planning, budgeting, and and strengthened the building of customerperformance appraisal are driven by strategy. This centric and process-based management systems action aims to ensure that the medium-to-longto effectively support business development and term strategic objectives of the company and continuous improvement. In order to streamline each business unit are taken into account in the processes end-to-end, Huawei incorporated annual plan and budgets, thus helping ensure that requirements associated with quality, internal business units are well coordinated. This action also controls, Environment, Health, and Safety (EHS), aims to establish stable and sustainable business cyber security, and CSR into marketing, R&D, systems and assist the company in achieving its supply chain, procurement, delivery, service, and strategic and business objectives. other business domains. Huawei also promoted continuous improvements through quality During the annual business planning and measurement in accordance with best practices budgeting, Huawei utilizes balanced scorecards to of the industry. measure its organizational performance. Corporate strategic objectives are broken down into To ensure that the products and services we organizational performance objectives at all levels. provide to our customers are effective and At Huawei, work reports are conducted level-byreliable, we had our systems certified by multiple level, personal business commitments (PBCs) are independent third parties. Additionally, Huawei managed for employees, and the applications obtained certification in ISO9001/TL9000 (quality), of organizational and individual performance ISO14001 (environment), OHSAS18001 (health results are strengthened. These approaches ensure 101 Corporate Governance Report that organizational and individual objectives are financial management system to facilitate the aligned with the company’s objectives and that the company’s sustainable and profitable growth company’s strategy is effectively understood and through data-based management. To date, implemented across the organization. Huawei has nearly finished streamlining financial and business processes and data Management Transformations at the transaction level. Currently, Huawei is developing and enhancing comprehensive In 2012, Huawei made further management financial capabilities related to operations and improvements and implemented a variety of decision making. transformation programs to improve customer satisfaction and internal operational efficiency Continuous Optimization of the Integrated and reduce operating risks. These transformations Product Development (IPD) Process: Huawei included: continues to optimize the structured processes, heavyweight teams, governance systems, and Customer Relationship Management (CRM) IT enablers in the IPD domain to constantly Transformation: Huawei developed customerimprove IPD operational efficiency and product centric marketing, sales, and service strategies competitiveness. Huawei also develops products to ensure that we remain focused on designed for marketing, manufacturing, customer expectations/requirements, improve procurement, servicing, and other purposes efficiency, and reduce costs while creating to boost end-to-end operational efficiency. maximum value for customers to enable their Additionally, Huawei is transforming its service success and eventually Huawei’s success. IPD process to meet the requirements of Huawei developed the Develop and Manage new industries, a move instrumental to the Customer Relationship Plan, Manage Customer development and transformation of the service Expectation and Satisfaction, and Lead to Cash industry. (LTC) processes, and constructed and deployed the IT system that supports the LTC process. Projec t Management and Knowledge Management Transformations: Huawei is Customer Issue Management Transformation: building a management culture focused on This transformation aims to ensure that issues project operations. The aim is to change related raised by customers are resolved in accordance processes, organizations, resource allocation with contracts in a timely and effective manner mechanisms, and appraisal mechanisms so that to protect service continuity and cyber security projects are treated as independent operating of customer equipment and networks. This units. To improve organizational efficiency, initiative also drives the company to improve its Huawei also deploys a resource buy-and-sell products and management to ensure customer mechanism that enables project teams to buy satisfaction. Through the release and use of the resources from Group Functions. In addition, Issue to Resolution (ITR) process system, issues Huawei deploys knowledge and document raised by customers are handled effectively and management, and establishes knowledge managed in a closed loop. communities to enhance knowledge and experience sharing, thus improving employees’ Continuous Integrated Financial Services (IFS) efficiency. Transformation: Huawei is building a global Corporate Governance Report 102 Organizational Capabilities placing a high value on business ethics, and strictly complying with laws and regulations. Huawei Business departments widely adopt the shared has established its BCG to define the company’s service model to consolidate global resources. standards for acceptable conduct. Huawei also Huawei has established 12 Centers of Expertise provides training programs, requires all employees (COEs) and 22 Shared Service Centers (SSCs) to acknowledge their understanding of and across 13 countries to support the company’s commitment to complying with the BCG, and asks globalization strategy and operational excellence. all employees to sign the BCG on a regular basis. Huawei is operating and improving its COEs and SSCs in terms of finance, service resource delivery, Huawei has a well-established governance structure and procurement fulfillment worldwide. Huawei with clear authorizations and accountabilities. has also established HR, IT, and bidding SSCs to The governance structure is comprised of the better provide quality and efficient services for BGs BOD, its committees, Group Functions, and multiand regional organizations, enabling them to focus level administrative teams. Huawei has clearly more on customers. While reasonably allocating defined roles and responsibilities for its teams to resources around the globe, Huawei created 3,500 ensure checks and balances. The CFO of Huawei jobs in the countries (excluding China) in which the is in charge of internal control management. COEs and SSCs are located, boosting employment The Business Control Dept identifies areas for and economic development in local communities. improvement and reports improvements made in terms of internal controls to the CFO and assists the Establishment of the Internal Control System CFO in building the internal control environment. The Internal Audit Dept independently monitors Huawei has designed and implemented an and assesses the effectiveness of internal controls internal control system based on its organizational for all operational activities. structure and operational model. The internal control framework and its related management Risk Assessment system apply to all business and financial processes of the company and its subsidiaries and business Huawei has established a dedicated risk units. This internal control system is based on management department to regularly assess COSO model, which consists of five components: risks related to all business processes around Control Environment, Risk Assessment, Control the globe. This department identifies, manages, Activities, Information & Communication, and and monitors the significant risks, forecasts Monitoring. The internal control system also potential risks caused by changes in both the includes internal controls for financial statements internal and external environments, and submits to ensure that the financial statements are true, risk management strategies along with mitigating complete, and accurate. measures for decision making. Control Environment All process owners are responsible for identifying, assessing, and managing different types of A control environment is the foundation for an risks and related internal control measures. The internal control system. Huawei is dedicated assessment factors include the likelihood of to maintaining a corporate culture of integrity, negative events and potential impact. 103 Corporate Governance Report Control Activities business processes and internal controls to ensure that all the up-to-date information is available Huawei has established the Global Process to all employees. The company has established Management System (GPMS) and the Business a mechanism for process owners at all levels to Transformation Management System (BTMS), regularly communicate with one another, review released the global Business Process Architecture the executional effectiveness of internal controls, (BPA), and appointed Global Process Owners and follow up on resolving internal control issues. (GPOs) based on the BPA. As the role responsible for process and internal control building, GPOs Monitoring identify Key Control Points (KCPs) and the Separation of Duties Matrix for each process and The company has established an internal complaint apply them to all regions, subsidiaries, and business channel, an investigation mechanism, and an units. GPOs organize monthly compliance tests on accountability system. We have clearly defined the KCPs to continuously monitor the effectiveness guidelines in the Agreement on Honesty and of internal controls and publish test reports. GPOs Integrity, which stipulates that, suppliers can optimize processes and internal controls based report any improper conduct concerning Huawei on business pain points to improve operational employees through the channels provided in the efficiency and help achieve business objectives. agreement. In addition, GPOs perform SACAs to assess the effectiveness of the overall process design and The Internal Audit Dept independently assesses executional effectiveness of each business unit and the internal control effectiveness of the company then report the results to the Audit Committee. and investigates any suspected violations of the BCG. The Internal Audit Dept reports the audit and Information & Communication investigation results to the Audit Committee and senior management. The company has established information and communication channels to ensure timely Huawei has established an internal control acquisition of information related to customers appraisal and accountability system for GPOs and and suppliers, as well as other information. Huawei regional managers. The Audit Committee regularly has established an online forum that provides a reviews the internal control effectiveness of the channel for employees to communicate with each company and considers reports on action plans other. for internal controls and the progress of plan execution. The Audit Committee has the right Corporate management holds regular meetings to request that the GPOs or top management with departments at all levels to help them with of each business unit provide explanations for operational issues and ensure that management identified internal control issues and, if necessary, decisions are effectively implemented. All take corrective actions. The Audit Committee may business policies and processes are available on also suggest that the Human Resources Committee the company’s intranet. Managers and process take disciplinary action when necessary. owners regularly organize training programs on Sustainable Development 104 Sustainable Development In line with our actual business operations and Bridging the Digital Divide stakeholder requirements, Huawei achieved an all-around transition from a corporate social To provide people across all geographic responsibility strategy to a sustainability strategy in areas with ease-of-access to voice 2012. Huawei promotes sustainable development communications services by focusing on the following four strategic To enable ubiquitous broadband availability initiatives: for all Connectivity To cultivate ICT professionals and transfer Bridge the digital divide by providing everyone ICT knowledge in local communities where with access to information and communications Huawei operates services, facilitating ICT knowledge transfers, To leverage leading ICT solutions to help and boosting efficiency. different industries boost efficiency and information-based development, thereby Safeguard stable and secure network driving social progress operations, and prioritize network stability and security over Huawei’s commercial interests. As part of Huawei’s sustainability strategy, our Promote environmental protection by providing Bridging the Digital Divide initiative is fully aligned energy-efficient green ICT solutions that reduce with our core corporate strategy: the Pipe Strategy. carbon emissions and drive cyclical economic The “pipe” refers to an information system that growth. focuses on technology and industry perspectives. The system carries information from its generation, Seek win-win development by caring for aggregation, transmission, and switching, all the employees, operating with integrity and way into the “information Pacific”. As digital in compliance with applicable laws and floods approach, we are committed to enhancing regulations, contributing to society, and pipe capacity, increasing pipe capabilities, and playing a leading role in assuring harmonious optimizing pipe management to deliver ever development across the industry chain. wider pipes that enable ubiquitous broadband availability. It is through these efforts that we enrich life through communication and improve work efficiency. 105 Sustainable Development Case: Huawei’s 2T WDM prototype supports voice Case: Huawei connects the blue planet using calls for two billion people at the same time. 100G WDM networks with a total length longer than the circumference of the Earth. In July 2012, Huawei launched the world’s first 2T Wavelength Division Multiplexing (WDM) As of September 2012, Huawei deployed topprototype with a capacity as high as 56 Tbit/s. of-the-class 100G networks for more than 40 Compared to the 100 Gbit/s per channel data rate customers in over 30 countries and regions, offered by industry peers’ commercial systems, our including Europe, the Middle East, Latin America, prototype increases the rate by twenty-fold to 2 and the Asia Pacific. Spanning over 50,000 Tbit/s and expands the fiber capacity to 56 Tbit/s, kilometers – longer than the circumference of the which means it is possible for two billion people Earth – these 100G networks connect people at to communicate simultaneously through just one high speeds. pair of fibers. London Paris Berlin Moscow Istanbul Case: Telecom Seeds for the Future Program Case: Huawei’s education cloud solution ensures balanced development in education As a key Huawei ICT talent development project, in urban and rural areas under the jurisdiction the Telecom Seeds for the Future Program aims to of Guangzhou City. cultivate ICT talent for local communities, transfer knowledge, develop people’s understanding of and Huawei’s education cloud solution provides an interest in the telecom industry, and encourage education cloud platform for the Guangzhou local countries and regions to play a part in Bureau of Education, enabling educational building digital communities. To date, the program resource sharing among all schools across the has granted scholarships to thousands of students city. After connecting to the metropolitan area from 50 universities across 14 countries. network (MAN) of Guangzhou Digital Education Sustainable Development 106 Town, schools in both urban and rural areas can Network Stability access the same educational resource platform, realizing broader sharing of quality resources for Huawei is committed to safeguarding the stability students in outlying areas. Moreover, replacing of customer networks and business activities. To traditional personal computers with thin clients that end, we have established a comprehensive (TCs) means a sharp reduction in device costs. In assurance system supported by product designs, addition, TCs provide different users with wider solutions, and network assurance systems. access to teaching resources, such as basic office We have also developed efficient emergency automation, multimedia, 3D, high definition video, response mechanisms capable of quickly restoring and mobile utilities. With all these advantages, our customer networks to normal operations and education cloud solution helps overcome some of smooth communications at critical moments (e.g., the longest standing hurdles to making computers earthquakes, tsunamis, upheavals, wars, and widely available in rural areas. cyber attacks). Thanks to these measures, we can provide stable communications services necessary Safeguarding Stable and Secure Network to safeguard people’s lives and assets. Operations Huawei’s Comprehensive Customer Network Assurance System To develop capabilities and mechanisms for ensuring network and business stability To establish hierarchical emergency Huawei’s goal is to promptly and efficiently assurance organizations and operation respond to network assurance needs of customers mechanisms to ensure smooth around the globe on a 24-hour basis. To that communications end, Huawei has gone all out to establish a Responsibility To enhance product robustness and resistance comprehensive customer network assurance to attacks, and provide internationally system that considers numerous factors, including recognized security assurance approaches organizational structures, designated personnel, To maintain openness and transparency processes, and IT tools. by proactively communicating and cooperating with stakeholders; comply Huawei invests heavily in network assurance to with applicable security standards, laws, ensure everyone is able to communicate, and and regulations; and protect product security and the rights and interests of acquire and share information anywhere, anytime. customers In 2012, Huawei safeguarded communications security for one third of the world’s population and supported the stable operations of 1,521 As a leading global ICT solutions provider, Huawei networks for more than 600 customers in over 140 attaches the highest priority to the stability and countries and regions. Huawei spared no effort in security of customer networks and business guaranteeing network availability during 41 critical activities, particularly when earthquakes, tsunamis, events (e.g., conflict in Nigeria), natural disasters and other natural disasters and emergencies strike. (e.g., earthquakes in Chile), and special occasions We keep on challenging ourselves and innovating (e.g., the London Olympics and Hajj). Our more continuously to fully support the stability and than 3,000 engineers worldwide provide services security of network equipment in a variety of around the clock. severe conditions and honour our commitment of collaborating with customers. 107 Sustainable Development Case: Huawei maintained network stability in the aftermath of a typhoon in the Philippines. On the evening of December 4, 2012, Typhoon Bopha suddenly hit Mindanao Island in the Philippines, pulling down a large number of buildings and drastically ruining infrastructures. This Category 5 super typhoon was the strongest ever to sweep southern Mindanao Island, with a speed of 260 km/h upon touchdown. This catastrophe killed 1,500 people and left 310,000 Cyber Security homeless. As mobile services were disrupted by the disaster, victims were unable to contact their Huawei fully understands the significance of cyber relatives or rescuers, acquire the latest information, security and adopts viable measures targeting or seek help. Within just three days after the improvements to product and service security, in disaster, a team consisting of Huawei, Vodafone order to help customers mitigate security risks and Foundation, Smart Communications, and Télécoms win the trust of our stakeholders. To ensure cyber Sans Frontières worked together to build an instant security, Huawei has formulated cyber security network in the coordination center located in policies and processes, set up organizations Baganga Town. This super GSM network has specializing in matters related to cyber security, been researched and developed by Huawei and and established and implemented an end-to-end Vodafone at the Mobile Innovation Center in global cyber security assurance system. Madrid. The instant network is a self-contained portable system weighing 100 kg that can be Integration of Cyber Security into Business packed into three suitcases and taken anywhere Processes in any commercial flight. Furthermore, the instant network can be deployed within 40 minutes. In Huawei integrates security assurance activities into emergencies, the instant network played a critical all business processes relating to R&D, supply chain, role in establishing and restoring communications market & sales, project delivery, and technical for the local community. During the 17-day services. Such integration, as the fundamental deployment period, the network supported requirement of the quality management system, is 296,926 calls and 578,994 text messages, thereby implemented under the guidance of management effectively facilitating disaster relief and postregulations and technical specifications. disaster recovery efforts. Furthermore, Huawei oversees and optimizes business processes by conducting internal audits and undergoing security assessments and audits performed by governmental security agencies and independent third parties. Huawei’s security management system has obtained BS7799-2 and ISO27001 certifications since 2004. Sustainable Development 108 Huawei’s Global Cyber Security Platform for Huawei prioritizes environmental protection Information Sharing and Mutual Assistance requirements during production, service, and business activities. In this regard, we integrate As a global company, Huawei is committed to carbon reduction and environmental protection cooperating closely with stakeholders and building ideas into products lifecycles and continuously a platform for sharing and mutual assistance. innovate technologies to boost the energy Based on this platform, Huawei pursues continuous efficiency of our products and solutions. As part innovations and sets standards together with of our drive to reduce waste and greenhouse industry peers. In so doing, we ensure that the gas emissions, we continue to improve resource integrity and security of our network solutions utilization in our operations. While adopting green and services reach or exceed customer needs, and initiatives on our own, we assist other industries in help customers build confidence in serving their transitioning into a low-carbon economy. We aim own clients. to fuel social sustainability and achieve the goals of “Green Communications”, “Green Huawei”, and Huawei continuously plays an active role in setting “Green World”. security standards in conjunction with the ITU Telecommunication Standardization Sector (ITU-T), Green Green Huawei Green World Communications the 3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP), the Huawei promotes Huawei contributes to Huawei is committed to energy conversation, a green world. Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), and other providing leading green emission reduction, ICT solutions. and clean production international telecom standards organizations. initiatives. Huawei has joined security organizations, such as the Forum for Incident Response and Security Case: Huawei’s high-efficiency power supply Teams (FIRST), in addition to collaborating with equipment facilitated China Telecom’s Hubei mainstream security companies. Through these Branch in upgrading power supply. initiatives, we aim to contribute to a more robust industry and effectively ensure cyber security for Huawei’s Network Energy Product Line provided our customers worldwide. China Telecom Hubei Branch with a solution of TP-series high-efficiency switching power supply Promoting Environmental Protection equipment for its subsidiary sites in Wuhan, Huangshi, Jingzhou, and Yichang in Hubei Province. To prioritize environmental protection This marks the first occasion the Hubei Branch requirements during production, service, and business activities has adopted new-generation high-efficiency power To minimize negative environmental supply systems on such a large scale. This event also Green impacts throughout product lifecycles marks the beginning of the widespread application To drive low-carbon and cyclical economic of high-efficiency power supply products in China. growth As a result, Huawei’s energy-saving solution To push forward green initiatives with helped the customer reduce equipment energy partners, and increase positive influence on the industry chain consumption by as much as 60%. 109 Sustainable Development Case: Huawei assessed product carbon footprint. Seeking Win-Win Development 1. In 2012, our S5700 Ethernet switch was the To care for employees and offer varied first switch product in China with a carbon career paths that help realize their footprint certificate from a third-party individual value certification institute. To proactively make social contributions to countries and communities in which Win-Win Huawei operates 2. Through cooperation with professional institutes To operate with integrity and in compliance in 2012, Huawei referred to industry standards with applicable laws and regulations and regulations to comprehensively develop To focus on managing Huawei’s own risks capabilities in carbon footprint analysis of our To cooperate closely with suppliers and device products. We are able to release carbon play a leading role in assuring harmonious footprint data for all of our device products. development across the industry chain In addition, we have optimized methods for assessing the carbon footprint of such devices Maintaining value chain sustainability is a shared as mobile phones, mobile broadband products, responsibility of all players in the value chain, and home devices. We have released assessment reports for the carbon footprint of ten select including Huawei. Huawei’s growth hinges on products. social progress. We believe that closely cooperating with players upstream and downstream is essential to building our unique competitive edge. It is Raw Material and through cooperation that we can achieve winManufacturing 64.63% win results and contribute to sustainable social Mobile Phone Assembly 5.15% development. Distribution 16.15% Product Usage 13.84% Caring for Employees Recycling 0.23% The individual value each employee has to offer Total greenhouse gas emissions: 42.98kg CO2e comprises the total value Huawei has to offer. Holding to the principle of “dedicated employees as the foundation”, Huawei encourages all employees to give full play to their expertise Raw Material and and provides varied career paths to help them Manufacturing 0.12% Home Gateway realize their individual value. We hope that every Assembly 20.95% employee is proud of being Huawei people. Distribution 3.05% Consumer Use 0.13% End of Life 75.75% Workforce Diversification At the end of 2012, Huawei had approximately Total greenhouse gas emissions: 118.87kg CO2e 150,000 employees from 156 countries and Analysis of carbon emission by regions across six continents. Our non-Chinese Huawei Home Hub 3 gateway Sustainable Development 110 employees numbered approximately 30,000, which Investment in global employee benefits in 2012: have increased each year from 2010 to 2012. On CNY5.81 billion China’s mainland, as many as 4,000 employees represent 36 out of China’s 56 minority ethnic Case: Huawei helped ease employee stress. groups. Our diversification strategy brings together Huawei treats employees as our most valuable a diversified workforce, inclusive of all ethnicities, assets and strives to help them achieve a worklanguages, and belief systems. life balance. To that end, Huawei utilizes a variety of means to ease the stress of employees. Employee Benefits Worldwide For example, Huawei organized several selfcheck activities to measure stress, attracting Huawei has established a comprehensive employee approximately 70,000 participants as of the end of benefits system. In addition to providing mandatory December 2012. While promoting these activities, insurance, Huawei offers a series of commercial we handed out brochures with useful physical insurance plans for employees, including personal and mental tips, inspiring employees to take care accident insurance, critical illness insurance, life of themselves and others. We also encouraged insurance, medical insurance, and business travel employees to carry out our “3+1” campaign (make insurance. a friend, join in a sports activity, take up a hobby, and read a thought-provoking book), which proved good for their physical and mental health. R&D 45.36% Delivery and Service 22.81% Others 13.40% Sales 10.51% Manufacturing and Supply Chain 7.76% Strategy Marketing 0.16% Workforce Allocations to Each Operational Area 111 Sustainable Development Contributing to Society We believe that communications connect people and allow them to acquire information across economic, societal, and geographic boundaries. We recognize the need for individuals to play a role in protecting the world’s environment and resources. We believe that education is critical to creating opportunities for continuity and fairness in development. Therefore, we contribute to local charity, health care, and disaster relief efforts in countries and regions in which we operate. An Overview of Huawei’s UK Spain 1. Continued efforts in the 1. Donated instant network Major Social Charitable Activities in 2012 Huawei Undergraduate equipment to the Red Work Experience Program Cross to quickly restore 2. Supported The Prince’s communications services US Trust Foundation in case of disasters 1. Volunteered at schools in 2. Signed an MOU for Santa Clara Germany launching the Huawei 2. Sponsored K to College, Donated laptops to Labdoo, Undergraduate Work an NGO a non-profit organization Experience Program which supports child education in developing countries Poland Supported the School with France Class 2.0 Program in education 1. Continued efforts in the Huawei Undergraduate Hungary Work Experience Program Continued support for the 2. Organized the first Innovative Leaders of Tomorrow technical conference at Scholarship ESIEE Engineering School Turkey Italy Supported disaster relief efforts Signed an MOU for launching following an earthquake in the Huawei Undergraduate Work Van Province Experience Program Mexico Supported an ICT innovation contest among youngsters Bolivia Zambia Nigeria Carried out volunteer activities Upgraded equipment at the University 1. Granted scholarships to ICT Teaching Hospital students at the University of aiming to raise educational awareness Tanzania Lagos Implemented the Huawei ICT 2. Supported the Nungtso Star Program for Tanzania Charity Foundation Education, which improves ICT education South Africa Angola Suppor ted antichild-abuse Supported the E-Net Project that campaigns provides free Internet access to youngsters Morocco Continued efforts in the Telecom Tunisia Sponsored the Chinese Bridge Seeds for the Future Program Competition to promote cultural exchanges Sustainable Development 112 Russia Established an ICT Training laboratory Japan Philippines 1. Continued to support 1. Offered help in areas disaster relief efforts swept by Typhoon Washi; in Japan following an 2. Supported the Eagle earthquake and ensuing Conservation Program tsunamis Foundation to carry out India 2. Supported the Keidanren environmental activities 1. Continued support for the Committee on Nature in the Philippines. E-Hope Program Conservation Fund in 2. Supported students enrolled environmental protection Australia in Chinese universities through projects Supported the Tour de Cure the Huawei Maitree Scholarship Foundation in the fight Program Malaysia against cancer Launched the Telecom Seeds UAE for the Future Program, which China improves ICT education and Donated to the Care Continued efforts in the Huawei cultivates talent Association and carried out Undergraduate Work Experience charitable activities Program Indonesia Continued support for the Telecom Seeds for the Future Program, which improves ICT education and cultivates talent 113 Sustainable Development Operations in Compliance with Applicable To better honour our commitment to trade Laws and Regulations compliance, Huawei has set up the Trade Compliance & Customs Compliance Committee Huawei abides by ethical business practices, and the Trade Compliance Office led by the Chief conforms to international conventions as well as Legal Affairs Officer. These organizations approve laws of local countries, and operates with integrity. and oversee the implementation of Huawei’s trade We adhere to the Huawei Business Conduct compliance policies and ensure legal compliance to Guidelines, implement “transparent procurement” the greatest extent possible in terms of policies, and “transparent sales”, and oppose bribery organizations, and processes. Regarding projects and corruption. In addition, we advocate fair involving export control, we have established competition and obey antidumping and antitrust a standard export control process in which we laws and regulations defined by local countries, carry out many export control measures, including thereby creating a harmonious business ecosystem. customer reviews, checks on ultimate purposes, and investigations into risky factors. Through We have incorporated compliance management these measures, we ensure our Internal Control into every business scenario. Our Legal Affairs Program (ICP) is effectively implemented across Dept provides legal guidance in export control, the company. cyber security, trade competition, human resource management, and anti-bribery and anti-corruption Huawei’s Trade Compliance Office tasks. The department also identifies, assesses, and warns internal and external legal risks, and The Trade Compliance Office is tasked with assists other business departments in ensuring formulating and revising Huawei’s export control legal compliance during operations. To mitigate policies; establishing the standard operations risks related to intellectual property rights (IPR), procedures for export control; archiving documents the department protects our own IPR while and information concerning export control; carrying respecting the rights of other intellectual property out publicity and training activities regarding holders and ensures that Huawei complies with export control regulations and systems; performing international IPR regulations. internal and external audits; and supervising and guiding other business departments to meet export Export Control control requirements in their business activities. Huawei strictly abides by all applicable export Focus on Managing Huawei’s Own Risks control laws and regulations enforced by Chinese and international authorities. We effectively fulfill Huawei has established a sustainability management our export control responsibilities and obligations, system to manage sustainability risks in a more and prioritize these obligations over Huawei’s standard way. Through systematic assessments commercial interests. Sustainable Development 114 and by studying stakeholder concerns, we have for this product, we communicated with identified several types of sustainability risks supervisory agencies in the US, namely, the and developed appropriate control measures. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) For example, Huawei has always attached great and the Telecommunication Certification importance to employee health and safety Body (TCB). After multiple rounds of rigorous management. With increasing investments reviews, we were granted FCC certification, in employee health and safety, we develop thereby signifying a product entry permission processes and guides and adopt improved issued by the country with the most stringent measures to prevent safety incidents. We also electromagnetic radiation controls in the world. spare no efforts to provide secure products to customers and consumers. Centered on customer 2. With its power-reducing technology for needs, we remain committed to providing quality hot spots, our LTE TDD mobile phone can products and services while lowering operating automatically adjust the radiant power of its costs. In addition, we insist on ensuring that Wi-Fi transmitter or 3G transmitter based on product and service sustainability is integrated application scenarios. This feature allows this into every routine task across the company, mobile phone to meet the FCC’s multiple legal thereby protecting consumer rights and improving requirements on usage of a mobile phone as a customer satisfaction. wireless router. Case: Prevention of Electromagnetic Radiation. 3. The wireless APs, wireless routers, and other equipment we launched for the enterprise Huawei has many R&D departments and professional market were tested in the most severe laboratories engaged in researching, testing, and conditions to measure the electromagnetic assessing electromagnetic radiation technologies radiation emitted by the built-in Wi-Fi for a variety of products, such as mobile phones, transmitters. The testing results verified that data cards, tablets, fixed stations, wireless access the electromagnetic radiation emitted by such points (APs), wireless routers, and wireless base devices is well within safe ranges provided the stations. These departments partner with product equipment is used as intended. security certification organizations in key countries and regions around the world to ensure that our 4. We developed a hearing-aid compatibility products meet all laws and regulations related to (HAC) assessment mechanism for devices used health and safety in each locale. by those with hearing impediments. With this mechanism, users can safely and conveniently 1. We developed the first LTE TDD mobile phone use mobile phones. of the industry, for which testing standards are not in place yet. To gain market entry 115 Sustainable Development Supply Chain Management Proportions of suppliers in key regions in 2012 We believe that the success of a supplier will Europe 22.62% benefit the supplier itself, Huawei, and Huawei’s Asia 26.06% Africa 13.33% customers. Therefore, apart from managing our China (including Hong Kong, own sustainability and proactively fulfilling our Macao, and Taiwan) 13.77% South America 12.74% social responsibilities, we require our suppliers to Oceania 1.14% North America 8.71% incorporate a comprehensive sustainability strategy Other regions 1.63% into their core operations and routine business activities. This requirement is essential to ensuring supply chain sustainability, establishing Huawei as a Case: 2012 Huawei Global Supplier Sustainability role model in supply chain sustainability, and building Conference up the confidence of customers around the globe. On October 18, 2012, Huawei hosted the 2012 The United Nations Global Compact China Network Global Supplier Sustainability Conference, which granted the “2012 CSR Best Practice” award to attracted more than 360 attendees, including Huawei in recognition of our management initiatives international CSR experts, NGO members, and in supply chain sustainability. representatives from 170 suppliers and five carrier customers (British Telecom, Deutsche Telekom, Vodafone, France Telecom, and China Mobile). The conference was themed “Climate Change: Important for Us and for Future Generations”. Topics included cyclical economies, energy efficiency, innovative solutions, and other sustainability-related items. Supplier Localization As a global company, Huawei gives preference to suppliers from the local communities in which we operate. Our choice aims to support local companies in the supply chain and contribute to local socialeconomic and environmental development. For details, please see Huawei 2012 Corporate Sustainability Report. Abbreviations, Financial Terminology, and Exchange Rates 116 Abbreviations, Financial Terminology, and Exchange Rates Abbreviations Abbreviations Full name ATIS The Alliance for Telecommunications Industry Solutions ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode BG Business Group BNG Broadband Network Gateway BP Business Plan BPO Business Process Owner BSS Business Support System BYOD Bring Your Own Device CAGR Compound Annual Growth Rate CDMA Code Division Multiple Access CRM Customer Relationship Management CSR Corporate Social Responsibility DSL Digital Subscriber Line DSTE Development Strategy to Execution DWDM Dense Wavelength Division Multiplexing EHS Environment, Health and Safety EMT Executive Management Team EPC Evolved Packet Core ETSI European Telecommunications Standards Institute FBB Fixed Broadband FMC Fixed Mobile Convergence FTTH Fiber To The Home GPS Global Position System GSM Global System for Mobile communications HSPA High-Speed Packet Access IAS International Accounting Standards IASB International Accounting Standards Board ICP Internal Control Program ICT Information and Communications Technology IDC Internet Data Center IEEE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard IFS Integrated Financial Services 117 Abbreviations, Financial Terminology, and Exchange Rates Abbreviations Full name IMS IP Multimedia Subsystem IP Internet Protocol IPD Integreted Product Development IT Information Technology ITR Issue To Resolution ITU International Telecommunication Union LTE Long Term Evolution MBB Mobile Broad Band NOC Network Operation Center ODN Optical Distribution Network OMA Open Mobile Alliance OSS Operations Support System OTN Optical Transport Network OTT Optical Transmission Technology PCT Patent Cooperation Treaty POC Percentage of Completion R&D Research and Development RAN Radio Access Network RCS Rich Communication Suite Service SBG Service Business Group SDB Service Database SDN Software Defined Networking SDP Service Delivery Platforms SP Strategic Plan TCO Total Cost of Ownership TDM Time Division Multiplexing TD-SCDMA Time Division-Spatial Code Division Multiple Access TVO Total Value of Ownership UCD User Centric Design UGC User Generated Content UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System VGS Value Growth Solution WCDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WiMAX Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access Abbreviations, Financial Terminology, and Exchange Rates 118 Financial Terminology Operating profit Inventory turnover days (ITO) Gross profit less research and development Inventories at the end of the year divided by cost expenses, selling, general and administrative of sales, and multiplied by 360 days expenses, plus other operating income, less other operating expenses Days of payables outstanding (DPO) Cash and short term investments Trade payables at the end of the year divided by cost of sales, and multiplied by 360 days Cash and cash equivalents plus other current investments Cash flow before change in operating assets and liabilities Working capital Net profit plus depreciation, amortization, Current assets less current liabilities unrealized exchange loss, interest expense, loss on disposal of fixed and intangible assets, and other Liability ratio non-operating expense, less unrealized exchange gain, interest income, investment income, gain on Liability expressed as a percentage of total assets disposal of fixed and intangible assets, and other non-operating income. Days of sales outstanding (DSO) Exchange rates Trade receivables at the end of the year divided by revenue, and multiplied by 360 days Exchange rates used in consolidation of financial statements: CNY/USD 2012 2011 Average rate 6.3049 6.4487 Closing rate 6.2285 6.2949 Copyright © 2013 HUAWEI INVESTMENT & HOLDING CO., LTD. All Rights Reserved. GENERAL DISCLAIMER THE INFORMATION IN THIS DOCUMENT MAY CONTAIN PREDICTIVE STATEMENTS INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, STATEMENTS REGARDING THE FUTURE FINANCIAL AND OPERATING RESULTS, FUTURE PRODUCT PORTFOLIO, NEW TECHNOLOGY, ETC. THERE ARE A NUMBER OF FACTORS THAT COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS AND DEVELOPMENTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED IN THE PREDICTIVE STATEMENTS. THEREFORE, SUCH INFORMATION IS PROVIDED FOR REFERENCE PURPOSE ONLY AND CONSTITUTES NEITHER AN OFFER NOR AN ACCEPTANCE. HUAWEI MAY CHANGE THE INFORMATION AT ANY TIME WITHOUT NOTICE. Printed on environmentally friendly paper. 100% post-consumer content, acid-free & chlorine free paper.
