PAE 2012 Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact Table of Contents Letter from PAE 1 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 2 Human Rights 3 Labor Standards 4 The Environment 5 Anti-Corruption 6 Appendix 7 2012 Communication on Progress Letter from PAE Dear Colleague, In 2012, PAE placed a significant emphasis on strengthening its infrastructure to more effectively support its operational programs, and in turn their respective customers, and also to position the organization for future growth. As a result of several structural alignments, strategic initiatives and consistent training, we feel that the implementation of our continued commitment to the principles of the Global Compact is stronger than ever. Throughout the course of the year, several key leaders were hired into senior positions at PAE; an Advisory Board comprised of respected industry leaders was established to offer insight and guidance to PAE leadership; and PAE successfully implemented a new business system for use across the expanding company. One of the major themes that carried through all three of those processes was a renewed focus on PAE’s Ethics and Compliance program. In March 2012, the charter provided to the PAE Advisory Board included an expectation that Board members would recommend appropriate and effective compliance strategies to the PAE senior leadership. In July of 2012, PAE introduced a new leadership position of the Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer. The individual in this role was assigned the responsibility of leading both the existing ethics function and also coordinating PAE’s compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements, as well as our existing policies and procedures. At the end of the year, PAE successfully implemented the existing business platform of the Defense Support Services, LLC entity, which was acquired in 2011, across the companye. In addition to these changes at the corporate level, PAE’s program teams continued to support an impressive portfolio of missions in accordance with the Global Compact principles. As PAE continues to strengthen its infrastructure, we will continue to apply the lessons we learned from our past and customize them for our success in the future. We are proud to recommit ourselves to the principles of the Global Compact, and we pledge to maintain and continually increase our support of responsible, ethical and business operations. Mike Dignam Chief Executive Officer 2012 Communication on Progress 1 The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of international human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and The PAE badge, shown above, is distributed to every employee to wear with their site badge. It serves as Principle 9: Encourage the development and a constant visual reminder of the vision, mission and diffusion of environmentally friendly values that every employee has agreed to support technologies. through their daily actions. The reverse side of the badge includes the PAE Ethics Officer’s contact Anti-Corruption information in various formats, to ensure that every employee has the ability to report a concern or ask Principle 10: Businesses should work against for guidance. corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2012 Communication on Progress 2 Human Rights Principles of the UNGC: Businesses should support guidance customized for the nature and location of the and respect the protection of international human work our employees perform. rights; and make sure they are not complicit in human PAE Code of Conduct rights abuses. PAE’s Code of Conduct stipulates that all employees PAE Values are required to comply with our own corporate policies, One of PAE’s core corporate values is to “perform as the laws of the United States and the laws that govern one team with excellence, integrity and respect.” We their country of operation. Our zero tolerance policy is expect that all employees apply this value to their work in place to protect employees from discrimination and every day whether they support our customers’ harassment, and employees may report any violation of missions directly or indirectly. In a direct sense, PAE’s this policy or any other concern to the Ethics Officer. Global Stability & Development business unit includes While these and other regulatory measures are effecprograms that provide critical support to the civil infrative, it is truly the management team that sets the tone structure of post-conflict countries and assist foreign and expectations for the rest of the workforce. Through governments that are challenged to provide for the their example and the corporate policies in place, PAE uses every resource at its disposal to support and needs of their citizens. In other countries, PAE protect human rights. provides logistics and training to support basic human needs within the context of peacekeeping and humanitarian missions. PAE Initiatives PAE’s orientation process includes an explanation of the company’s expectations of behavior as stated in the Code of Conduct entitled Leading the Way, to ensure that employees are cognizant of our ethical standards from their first day of work onwards. These expectations are reinforced through annual ethics and compliance trainings. Among the courses, special attention is paid to ethics awareness, diversity and inclusion, creating a harassment-free workplace and Equal Employment Opportunities. PAE educates its employees on the U.S. Federal Acquisition Regulation and provides additional training to mitigate even PAE Program Spotlight: the slightest perception of inappropriate behavior. In South Sudan, PAE refurbished and maintained PAE is committed to ethical performance of our work, several critical roads that had fallen into disrepair and and we support the industry-wide efforts of the Internawere preventing the delivery of resources to the tional Stability Operations Association to promote refugee camps along the northern border of the universal standards of conduct. In addition, PAE has country. PAE later was contracted to drill boreholes developed a standard operating procedure to help our on the settlements of the camp in an effort to provide employees recognize and report instances of human a regular supply of clean drinking water. trafficking, which is one of the fastest growing criminal activity in the world. Our Code of Conduct provides 2012 Communication on Progress 3 Labor Standards Principles of the UNGC: Businesses should uphold the they comprehend and voluntarily agree to follow the freedom of association and the effective recognition of policies by which PAE is governed. the right to collective bargaining; the elimination of all Forced labor and child labor are strictly prohibited in forms of forced and compulsory labor; the effective every area where we work. We promote the use of our abolition of child labor; and the elimination of Ethics HelpLine, and PAE’s Chief Ethics & Compliance discrimination in respect of employment and Officer works closely with PAE’s Legal department, occupation. Human Resources and Program Managers to thorPAE Values oughly investigate allegations, and take action if necessary. PAE’s commitment to fair labor standards provides employees with the right to collective bargaining; fair PAE Code of Conduct compensation for the work they do; and protection from PAE’s support of our employees’ fair labor rights every form of discrimination. We believe that our around the world is vital to maintaining a productive employees are our most valuable assets, and we workforce. In turn, we expect our employees to create prioritize their individual and collective needs a culture of fairness and equality amongst themselves accordingly. With the acquisition of Defense Support by treating each other as they wish to be treated. This Services in 2011, the PAE workforce expanded with is a recurring theme throughout our policies and Code the addition of several union labor groups, and we are of Conduct; employees of our company must lead with proud of the effective collaborations between PAE integrity and excellence. Labor Relations and these teams to most effectively support the missions of our customers. PAE Initiatives PAE has continued its partnerships with organizations such as the International Stability Operations Association and the United Nations Global Compact to expand awareness of globally recognized fair labor standards. PAE’s workforce is diverse; comprised of individuals who represent a wide spectrum of age, ethnicities, religions and races. To protect our employees from abuse or harassment and to ensure that our working environment is inclusive and respectful of all employees, PAE implements a zero tolerance policy PAE Training Spotlight: against any sort of discrimination. PAE employees are educated and trained on our labor Every PAE employee is trained on our policies on nonpolicies on the first day of their employment, and the discrimination, Equal Employment Opportunity, our entire workforce is re-trained on key elements of our culture of leading with integrity and excellence, our business conduct on an annual basis. We prohibit commitment to maintaining a safe and healthy work discrimination in any form and take an active approach environment, among many others. At the conclusion of to recruiting and developing a diverse workforce, which our new-hire orientation and every annual ethics and we believe is one of our greatest organizational compliance training, every employee is required to sign strengths. and return an acknowledgement page, confirming that 2012 Communication on Progress 4 The Environment Principles of the UNGC: Businesses should support a nation-specific environmental laws are absent. Our precautionary approach to environmental challenges; contractors make every effort to incorporate standards undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental of the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design responsibility; and encourage the development and (LEED) certification system for all of our construction diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. projects. We choose to use products that are safe for our client, the environment and our employees. Our PAE Values goal is to reduce waste; maximize the utility of any unaPAE recognizes that the safety of our employees and voidable waste; and conserve energy, water and any the protection of the environment are imperative to other natural resources in the construction and/or ensuring our operational success. Our Environmental maintenance phase of our programs. Safety and Health (ESH) initiatives are implemented by PAE Code of Conduct local ESH representatives on sites where PAE is the majority owner of contract operations. We have continOur Code of Conduct addresses our company’s ued the efforts from previous years to reduce hazardcommitment to a safe and healthy work environment, ous environmental releases and other ESH incidents and we ask that all members of our organization on contract sites around the world. consider themselves ambassadors of public safety. Not only are all employees responsible for complying Our ESH organization continues its active request for with ESH regulations and laws, they are also required input from our diverse workforce, in an effort to by policy to report any injury sustained or accident combine the knowledge from our different backgrounds observed on a job site to their management and experiences. immediately. PAE Initiatives PAE emphasizes to its employees that prevention is the first line of defense against hazardous environmental impacts. Our Target Zero goal an initiative aimed at eliminating injuries and negative environmental impacts applies throughout the company. We have continued pollution prevention initiatives and recurring training for all on-site employees on proper disposal of hazardous waste. We have also continued our recycling and reusable materials plan at international project sites. Our ESH representatives record, log and report all safety incidents and environmental releases. These incidents are tracked on a system modeled after a PAE Program Spotlight: blend of the ISO-9000, ISO-14000 and OHSAS-18000 certification requirements. In April of 2012, PAE took over many of the operations & maintenance responsibilities on a program that Our ESH standards apply to our procurement process probably has one of the most strict environmental standas well. PAE upholds U.S. standards for purchasing ards on Earth: the Antarctic Support Contract. Our team only materials that do not contain lead or asbestos from there and around the world is committed to preserving international vendors. We adhere to the Overseas the natural environments where our customers’ Environmental Baseline Guidance document when missions are located. 2012 Communication on Progress 5 Anti-Corruption Principles of the UNGC: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. PAE Values Given the different cultures in each of the countries where PAE operates, our employees have and will continue to encounter varying interpretations of business protocol. Because a gesture could be considered typical etiquette in one country and bribery in another, PAE and other contractors must be proactive in training their employees to follow the most conservative definitions of extortion and bribery. PAE provides employees with ample training to prepare them for any instance of corruption they might PAE employees are trained to be sensitive to the confront, and implements precautions to ensure that norms of all other cultures, while still abiding by the the laws of the United States and foreign governments requirements of the U.S. government. are strictly followed. Through diligent instruction and annual reinforcement of policies and procedures corruption policies. In the event of a corruption claim, through our annual ethics and compliance trainings, the Ethics & Compliance Office works closely with our PAE employees receive a comprehensive education on General Counsel to investigate thoroughly. how to operate ethically and professionally. PAE Initiatives PAE’s position against corruption is not only the concern of our Ethics and Legal departments. Our PAE’s Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer has initiated a Procurement team is required to compare vendors’ Campaign for Compliance, in which she holds monthly costs to ensure fair competition. Procurement personmeetings with all of the program managers to discuss nel are also specially trained to not accept gifts of any major compliance focus areas and hold an open disvalue from potential vendors, to avoid even the percepcussion on challenges that our teams face. Complition of bribery. Additionally, our International Trade ance with the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), Compliance Office procures the appropriate authorizawhich is a key consideration in all of our international tions for international shipments to fulfill all regulatory operations, is addressed with these teams regularly. requirements. These policies are also included in the annual Ethics Awareness and Business Conduct training, which all PAE Code of Conduct employees must complete. PAE’s Code of Conduct provides guidance on how to In 2012, PAE held a roundtable with a member of the respond to offers of gifts and courtesies, how to ensure PAE Advisory Board, to provide employees with an ethical business operations, how to appropriately interexternal perspective of the importance of FCPA compliact with former government employees, and how to ance. PAE’s corporate newsletter, GAIN Insight, regunavigate conflict of interest, bribery, and the Truth in larly includes perspectives from the Ethics & Compliance Negotiations Act. PAE is dedicated to combating corOffice and examples of unethical behavior in our indusruption of all kinds and stands firmly against abusing try, to emphasize the importance of following our antientrusted power for personal gain. 2012 Communication on Progress 6 Appendix Leading the Way: Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available online at: http://www.pae.com/about-pae-ethics 2012 Communication on Progress 7 Appendix Leading the Way: Code of Ethics and Business Conduct 2012 Communication on Progress 8 1320 N. Courthouse Rd. Suite 800 Arlington, Virginia 22201 1-888-526-5416 www.pae.com
