RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT FTSE PUBLICATIONS UN Global Compact and the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) Communication of Progress 2012/13 FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2012 Contents. 1. Foreward by Mark Makepeace, Chief Executive FTSE Group 2. Introduction 3. The UN backed Principles for Responsible Investment 3.1 We will incorporate ESG issues into investment analysis and decision making processes 3.2 We will be active owners and incorporate ESG issues into our ownership policies and practices 3.3 We will seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by the entities in which we invest 3.4 We will promote acceptance and implementation of the Principles within the investment industry 3.5 We will work together to enhance our effectiveness in implementing the Principles 3.6 We will each report on our activities and progress towards implementing the Principles 4. Promoting the UN Global Compact Principles worldwide 4.1 The UNGC principles mapped against the FTSE4Good Index criteria 4.2 Environmentally friendly technology (reinforcing FTSE’s support to Principle 9) 5. FTSE Group and Corporate Responsibility 5.1 Demonstrating Corporate Responsibility 5.2 UN Global Compact Principles: Assessment of FTSE Group 6. Appendixes 6.1 GoodCorporation assessment methodology 6.2 Mapping UN Global Compact Principles against GoodCorporation references 1 FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2012 1. Foreword. The investment and finance sector is at an important In 2005 FTSE was approached by the UN Environmental juncture. As an industry, we have grown in technological Program Finance Initiative and the UN Global Compact to sophistication over recent decades but with these join a small group of leading investment institutions to advances, has come an over-focus on factors that are develop the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI). most easily measured. There has also been a loss of trust We were only too pleased to contribute to this important from the public and serious questions about stewardship and exciting initiative and very much welcomed the in the investment chain. launch of the Principles in 2006. FTSE Group was an inaugural signatory, and, for a long period, the only index We are now at a point in time where a significant provider signatory. A significant proportion of global proportion of market participants; from institutional assets are linked to FTSE indices, we have clients in investors, to managers, to consultants and index around 100 countries representing a large proportion of providers; have developed an appreciation that a much the financial and investment services sector. We also work broader range of issues affect a company’s long-term with over twenty exchanges around the world. FTSE is performance than just conventional financial factors. At therefore in a unique position to support our clients in the its core, this is about stewardship and long term investing. integration of “extra-financial” factors. This document We are still early in the development of appropriate sets out how we intend to do this, thereby supporting the metrics and measurement systems but I am proud to say implementation of the Principles, not just at FTSE, but that FTSE Group intends to continue being at the centre across the industry. of the debate. In 2001 FTSE launched the FTSE4Good Series which aimed to measure the performance of In addition, this report covers our commitments to the companies that met a range of environmental and social PRI’s sister initiative the United Nations Global Compact indicators. Over the following years, guided and directed which is more focused on how we at FTSE Group, as a by the independent FTSE4Good Policy Committee, the company, address these issues in our own operations. Our index has matured and these environmental and social commitment to the principles underlying both of these indicators have been systematically enhanced year-oninitiatives grows year-on-year as we continue to year. Ten years after the launch of FTSE4Good, in 2011, strengthen our own operations and support our clients in we unveiled the ESG Ratings which provide quantifiable integrating these considerations in their investments. measurements of ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) risk and performance. This helps investors to Mark Makepeace integrate these considerations into their investment and Chief Executive stewardship approaches. FTSE Group 2 FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2012 2. Introduction. This report sets out progress in relation to our efficient, transparent and well regulated Environmental Markets Series, and the US commitments to both the United Nations capital markets has perhaps never been Green Building Council/ NAREIT for green real Global compact and the Principles for greater. This macro-economic background estate indices. Responsible Investment (PRI). In 2006 we highlights the importance of the role played pledged our support to the Principles by London Stock Exchange Group. This year, In 2012 FTSE took a significant further step in underpinning the Global Compact and have new corporate responsibility policies and an our journey to support investor ESG worked in a number of ways to develop this, associated governance structure were integration, and the transition to a low carbon one of them was to support the creation of developed for the Group on which FTSE is economy, by announcing the establishment of the PRI which focuses on how investors can represented. The LSE Group Corporate a dedicated ESG Service Unit. This unit has consider and integrate environmental, social Responsibility Report makes a number of added capacity and analytical depth to the and governance (ESG) issues. Over the last 10 commitments to further enhance the Group’s Responsible Investment team. This investment years there has been a remarkable evolution approach to corporate responsibility but it is into growing dedicated ESG resources is both in the scale and sophistication of investment worth highlighting the group’s aim to a direct response to the increasing demand approaches that account for ESG. “encourage, promote and support voluntary FTSE is seeing from the global investment disclosure of Environmental, Social and community for integrated ESG services and a FTSE plays a central role in the operation of Governance (ESG) issues by companies listed testament of FTSE’s continued commitment global capital markets, through the indices, on our markets”. This leverages the influence to back the Principles. classification systems and analytical tools that of the exchange to encourage the supply of support investors in making investment corporate data to the investment community Whilst it is paramount to focus on how FTSE decisions. Recently a number of significant to better enable the integration of this can support the investment community on changes have taken place at FTSE, including information into the investment decision ESG integration, we did not lose sight of our the acquisition by the London Stock Exchange making and stewardship. duty to report on our own progress and we Group, of the remaining 50 per cent that it did once again invited GoodCorporation to not already own. FTSE and the wider LSE FTSE’s work in responsible investment began carry out an independent verification of Group working closely together provides even in 2001 with the launch of FTSE4Good. Since FTSE’s operations, the results of which are greater opportunities to take forward our then responsible investment has been a presented here. support of the Principles of the United prominent feature of our work. FTSE4Good Nations Global Compact, and those for has evolved and we developed new tools to Responsible Investment. help clients integrate ESG factors into investment strategies. There is also now a The political, economic, and social range of other ESG indices working environment in which we operate is collaboratively with different leading partner undergoing much change and the need for organisations including Impax for the FTSE 3 FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2012 3. The UN backed Principles for Responsible Investment: How our products help investors embrace the six principles. Principle 1. We will incorporate of portfolios, and will be able to test ESGenvironmental technology, also sometimes ESG issues into investment defined portfolios and incorporate these referred to as cleantech. results into the investment decision process. analysis and decision making The Environmental Markets Classification processes. FTSE4Good Index Series System (EMCS) and its associated Index family FTSE’s ESG Service Unit is responsible for a provide a tool for investors to identify, Since 2001, FTSE4Good has been the world’s range of services, briefly outlined below, which categorise, benchmark and track companies leading index of companies demonstrating help investors incorporate ESG factors into operating in these new emerging sectors of strong environmental, social, and governance their investment decisions, and support the economy. There are currently 6 Sectors performance. FTSE4Good has evolved clients in considering how a transition to a low and 26 Subsectors in the EMCS, and 18 significantly since launch to include an ever carbon economy may impact their assets. The Environmental Markets indices. The six current increasing range of material ESG issues. team has extensive ESG knowledge and sectors are; Renewable & Alternative Energy, Overseen by an independent, expert Policy capital markets experience so is ideally placed Energy Efficiency, Water Infrastructure and Committee and supported by an evolving to support investors in using the transparent, Technology, Waste Management & criteria platform and direct company systematic and ESG quantifiable tools that Technologies, Pollution Control, and communication programme, FTSE4Good has FTSE has developed over the last decade. Environmental Support Services. made a significant and measurable impact on the behaviour of companies worldwide while FTSE works with a range of leading ESG The classification system and indices are providing investors with a tool for partners and providers in delivering and overseen by the independent FTSE benchmarking and tracking ESG-driven funds. supporting ESG services, including; EIRIS, Environmental Markets Committee is made up Impax Asset Management, CDP, and Trucost. of investor, and clean technology specialists The independent FTSE4Good Policy and is Chaired by Jack Ehnes (CEO, CalSTRS). Committee has investor, business, NGO, union The services we provide to help our clients and academic representatives, is Chaired by incorporate ESG considerations into their The FTSE Environmental Markets comprises Sir Mark Moody-Stuart (also Chairman of the investment strategies are as follows; 19 indices across two sub-families; FTSE Foundation of the UN Global Compact and Environmental Technology and FTSE Hermes Equity Ownership Services). The ESG Ratings Environmental Opportunities. They measure FTSE4Good Index Series currently consists of the performance of global companies that The FTSE4Good ESG Ratings offers a 12 benchmark and tradable indices covering have significant involvement in environmental comparable ESG risk and performance profile Global, US, Europe, Japan, UK and Italy, and business activities as defined by the EMCS. of companies globally. The Ratings cover includes an Environmental Leaders index. The FTSE Environmental Opportunities Index around 2400 stocks worldwide including all Series requires companies to have at least those FTSE defines as being large or mid cap FTSE Environmental Markets 20% of their business derived from and listed in developed markets. The six ESG FTSE Environmental Markets encompass a environmental markets and technologies, as criteria covered are Environmental classification system and index family for opposed to at least 50% for the FTSE Management, Climate Change, Supply Chain Environmental Markets. These companies are Environmental Technology Index Series. There Labour Standards, Human & Labour Rights, defined as providing products and services are global, regional and country specific Corporate Governance and Countering offering solutions to environmental benchmark and tradable indices. Bribery. Using FTSE’s ESG analysis tools, challenges, or that improve the efficiency of investors can assess the ESG characteristics natural resource use and includes 4 FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2012 FTSE Green REIT Series Principle 2. We will be active Principle 4. We will promote With buildings and construction materials owners and incorporate ESG acceptance and production accounting for at least 30% of issues into our ownership implementation of the greenhouse gas emissions globally and using policies and practices and; Principles within the 75% of electricity in the US, global real estate Principle 3. We will seek investment industry. is a critical sector to target in the transition to the low carbon economy. These new indices appropriate disclosure on As outlined above, FTSE’s products provide have been developed based on quantitative ESG issues by the entities in the tools and analysis of ESG factors. FTSE measures of REIT environmental performance also plays a leading role in the most important which we invest. ESG and sustainable investment initiatives through the proportion of properties that are certified as green. FTSE’s Green Real Estate FTSE is an index, data and analytics company, globally. For a number of these organisations Indices provide investors with a structured not an asset manager, or owner. However, and initiatives FTSE is not only a member but and disciplined system to track this transition, FTSE has had a significant and measureable is also represented on the board or through and more importantly, to model and measure impact on corporate ESG disclosure and advisory councils. These include UKSIF, US SIF, risk and return from green properties. Initially practices around the world. New ESG criteria ASRIA, EuroSIF, RIIA, the UN backed PRI, and FTSE has developed a US index and intend to are regularly developed through market Luxflag. In order to raise further awareness, develop and launch indices for other regions, consultation to capture emerging ESG risks. FTSE regularly speaks at conferences and in as well as a global index. As these requirements are introduced, FTSE’s the media making the case for ESG integration. ESG team works closely with these companies The team has participated in over 200 Custom ESG Indices to help them understand criteria and what is conferences and seminars in over 20 countries being asked of them. Due to its unique position during the course of the last decade. The FTSE ESG Service Unit and the FTSE in the market, and its reputation, FTSE’s able Custom team work with clients to design to achieve effective dialogue with companies and create an index or data product to suit globally in relation to the criteria inclusion specific investment strategies or mandates. requirements for the FTSE4Good Index Series. Your index can be based on one of our existing This process has teeth, in that deadlines are indices, or on a tailored universe specific to set for the implementation of new criteria and your market requirements. We can also companies who do not demonstrate customise products and information for asset compliance are deleted from the index. owners and fund managers to aid your individual performance reporting To date, this programme of corporate requirements. We have also worked with a communication and dialogue has been a range of third party ESG providers in remarkable success, with around 60% of over developing these custom solutions. 1000 dialogues FTSE has had with companies in the last 11 years resulting in improvements to ESG disclosure and practices. Research from Edinburgh and Nottingham Universities have also demonstrated how effective the FTSE4Good index and this related corporate communication and dialogue has been in effecting change in corporate behaviour. From an analysis of the responses of over a 1000 companies the academics found that the rate of improvement on ESG more than doubles when the company is in direct dialogue with FTSE regarding FTSE4Good criteria1. 1 See Mackenzie et al (Nov 2011) at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1966474 and Slager (2012) at http://www.nottingham.ac.uk/business/ICCSR/assets/The-FTSE4GOOD-index_engagement-and-impact.pdf 5 FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2012 Principle 5. We will work Principle 6. We will each together to enhance our report on our activities and effectiveness in implementing progress towards implementing the Principles. the Principles. FTSE has developed many long term This report is a reflection of our commitment successful partnerships with a range of to this principle and follows on from a history different organisations including stock of regular reporting about our journey in exchanges, specialist research groups, Responsible Investment, see our FTSE4Good investment institutions, associations and 5 and 10 year reports2, and our previous UN academic institutions. To provide the best Global compact Progress Reports2. choice of tools for investors FTSE works in collaboration with a range of leading ESG partners and providers in delivering ESG services, including; EIRIS, Impax Asset Management, CDP, and Trucost. This collaborative working, together with our active participation in influential ESG initiatives already discussed means that FTSE works with institutional investors around the world on the challenges of ESG incorporation. An example of a specific PRI inspired initiative was FTSE leading PRI collaborative engagement projects through the clearing house with PRI signatories targeting companies regarding the FTSE4Good index ESG thresholds. 2 See http://www.ftse.com/About_Us/FTSE_Corporate_Responsibility/UN_Global_Compact.jsp 6 FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2012 4. Promoting the UN Global Compact Principles worldwide. 4.1 The UNGC principles mapped against the FTSE4Good Index criteria The following is a selection of the FTSE4Good criteria. There is a close correlation of principles. The full criteria can be found at: www.ftse.com/Indices/FTSE4Good_Index_Series/F4G_Download_Page.jsp UN Global Compact Principles HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 FTSE4Good Human and Labour Rights Criteria Protection of Human Rights Businesses should support and respect the Example: “A clear statement of support for the Universal Declaration of Human protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Rights.” In addition “A statement to respect all the ILO core labour standards... alternatively signatories to the UN Global Compact are considered to meet this Principle 2 requirement.” Complicity in Human Rights abuse Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. FTSE4Good Human and Labour Rights Criteria Example: “Guidelines governing the use of armed security guards based on UM basic principle...” LABOUR Principle 3 FTSE4Good Supply Chain Labour Standards Freedom of association and Collective Bargaining Businesses should Example: “Policy/Code to commit to, or be based on, the four ILO core uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the convention areas: …Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining...” right to collective bargaining. FTSE4Good Supply Chain Labour Standards Principle 4 Example: “Policy/Code to commit to, or be based on, the four ILO core Forced and Compulsory Labour Businesses should uphold the convention areas: Forced Labour...” elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. FTSE4Good Supply Chain Labour Standards Principle 5 Example: “Policy/Code to commit to, or be based on, the four ILO core Child Labour Business should uphold the effective abolition of child convention areas: Child Labour...” labour. FTSE4Good Human and Labour Rights Criteria Principle 6 Example: “Adopting an equal opportunities policy and/or a commitment to Discrimination – Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination diversity... Providing evidence of equal opportunities systems…” in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 FTSE4Good Environmental Criteria Precautionary Approach Business should support a precautionary Example: “Policy refers to all key issues... Commitment to targets... monitoring approach to environmental challenges. and audit.” Principle 8 FTSE4Good Environmental Criteria Environmental Responsibility Business should undertake initiatives to Example: Environmental Management System indicators include promote greater environmental responsibility. “Identification of significant impacts... objective and targets in key areas... audits.” Reporting indicators include “Data... and...performance against Principle 9 targets.” Environmental Friendly Technologies Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. FTSE4Good Environmental Criteria Example: Policy indicators include “...product or service impact... and... strategic moves towards sustainability.” ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 FTSE4Good Countering Bribery Criteria Corruption Business should work against corruption in all its forms, Example: Policy indicators include “Prohibits giving and receiving bribes.” including extortion and bribery. Management Systems indicators include “Procedures to remedy noncompliance.” Reporting requires “Policy to be publicly disclosed.” 7 FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2012 4.2 Environmentally friendly FTSE has set up an independent committee of The global investment community now has a technology (Reinforcing FTSE’s clean technology and investment professionals company classification system with sufficient to govern the research and management. levels of granularity and precision to define support to principle 9) The series is in collaboration with the this growing area and assist in the design of FTSE has developed a range of market leading environmental technology specialist, Impax investment products. environmental markets indices, reinforcing its Asset Management who carry out the support to this principle. research for the indices. Further information can be found on: www.ftse.com/environment FTSE Environmental Markets FTSE Environmental Markets Index Series Classification System The FTSE Environmental Markets Index Series The FTSE Environmental Markets Classification measures the performance of companies System (EMCS) is the world’s first comprehensive globally that have significant involvement in global classification system for environmental environmental markets, including renewable markets. This unique classification system of & alternative energy, energy efficiency, water environmental technology that has six sectors, technology and waste & pollution control. The and 25 sub-sectors. FTSE Environmental Technology index series and the FTSE Environmental Opportunities index A potential barrier to investment in this area in series require companies to have a significant the past has been the difficulty in defining this proportion (50% and 20% respectively) of their market and understanding its investment business in the development and deployment characteristics. This classification system aims of environmental technologies, including to enable investors globally to clearly identify renewable & alternative energy, energy efficiency, and measure investment opportunities in water technology and waste & pollution environmental markets. control. This is also underpinned by the FTSE Environmental Market Classification System. FTSE Environmental Market Index Series FTSE Environmental Technology Index Series FTSE Environmental Opportunities Index Series FTSE ET 50 Index (Global) FTSE EO 100 Index FTSE Environmental Opportunities All-Share Index Sector Indices Regional Indices FTSE EO FTSE EO FTSE EO FTSE EO FTSE EO FTSE EO FTSE EO FTSE EO Waste & Pollution Water technology Energy Efficiency Renewable & UK Indices Europe Index US Index Asia Pacific Control Index Index Alternative Energy Indices technology Index Index FTSE EO FTSE EO FTSE EO FTSE EO Waste & Pollution Water technology Energy Efficiency Renewable & Control 30 Index 50 Index Alternative Energy technology Index 50 Index Waste Water Energy 8 FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2012 5. FTSE Group and Corporate Responsibility. 5.1 Demonstrating Corporate 5.2 UN Global Compact Responsibility Principles: Assessment With our involvement in high profile responsible of FTSE Group investment initiatives it is crucial that, as a The following is extracted from the company, we practice corporate responsibility GoodCorporation Assessment Report: ourselves. So again, this year, FTSE invited GoodCorporation to carry out an independent KEY: Assessment grades as awarded by the annual verification audit and assessment. assessor. They assessed FTSE on its responsibility to employees, clients, suppliers, shareholders, • F ail: There is no policy or system, or it has the community and the environment. There largely broken down. are 65 areas of management practice that • M inor non-compliance: There is a policy are assessed, highlighting not only where the and system but it is not always working. company is strong but also highlighting areas • O bservation: There is a policy and system for action and improvement. that works but potential improvements have been identified. GoodCorporation is an assessment organisation founded in 2000 that carries out independent • Merit: The policy and system work well. assessments for clients of how well they • C ommendation: The policy and system are implement in reality their principles of responsible examples of best practice. business management. The GoodCorporation Standard was developed in co-operation with the Institute of Business Ethics through a broad consultation process and was released in 2001 and undergoes a triennial review. Assessments have been carried out in over 40 countries, and the process is overseen by an Advisory Panel. 9 FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2012 Assessment of FTSE against the principles of the UN Global Compact GoodCorporation UNGC principle FTSE’s performance Grade reference 1. Businesses should EMP1 – EMP9 FTSE scores mainly merits (and only one observation) on the key Merit support and respect EMP12 – EMP13 GoodCorporation points which relate to human rights. the protection of EMP17 – EMP19 internationally FTSE’s main support of human rights comes through the FTSE4Good proclaimed human index, which puts it in an unusual position to set standards for listed rights companies to strive to attain. Human Rights criteria are also included in the inclusion criteria for the index. The FTSE4Good index has been made more challenging through the creation of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) ratings which gives further incentives for companies to improve their performance. 2. Businesses should EMP1 – EMP9 FTSE’s adherence to good human rights practices are embodied in Merit make sure that they EMP12 – EMP13 its ethical and human resource policies and procedures. They were are not complicit in EMP17 – EMP19 assessed by GoodCorporation in June 2011 and there were no findings human rights abuses which indicate violations of human rights. A surveillance visit was completed in September 2012 to verify that there were no adverse developments in any area. 3. Businesses should EMP5 Freedom of association is expressed in the Ethical Conduct Policy and Merit uphold the freedom FTSE’s support of the UN Global Compact. Employees have little interest of association in joining a union but feel properly consulted by the management. and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4. Businesses EMP18 All FTSE employees have a clear and fair contract. The staff handbook Merit should uphold the also contains clear policies on resignations and retirements. elimination of all forms of forced and FTSE’s adherence to good human rights practices are embodied in compulsory labour its ethical and human resource policies and procedures. They were assessed by GoodCorporation in June 2011, confirmed by a surveillance visit in September 2012, and there were no findings which indicate violations of human rights. 5. Businesses should EMP19 The Ethical Conduct Policy includes a commitment to not using child Merit uphold the effective labour. abolition of child labour 6. Businesses EMP14 The Ethical Conduct Policy and Staff Handbook detail the policy on Merit should uphold EMP17 equal opportunities clearly and thoroughly, and explain each step of the elimination procedures applicable in case of non-compliance. Reports are made to of discrimination senior management regarding the policy. Employees confirm that the in respect of policy works in practice. employment and occupation 10 FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2012 GoodCorporation UNGC principle FTSE’s performance Grade reference 7. Businesses ENV1 – ENV2 The FTSE Group Environmental Policy statement commits FTSE to Merit should support good environmental performance as ‘a fundamental element’ of their a precautionary corporate social responsibility programme. approach to environmental The annual report on environmental impact and progress covers areas challenges of direct and indirect impact. Progress of targets are compared and targets clearly stated for the next year. FTSE continues to set targets for reducing its environmental impacts and monitors progress with great care. The attitude and action is in stark contrast to many office-based companies who perceive they have ‘no significant impacts’. 8. Businesses should ENV3 – ENV5 The main influence which FTSE can have in promoting environmental Merit undertake initiatives responsibility is through the FTSE4Good index. Environmental criteria to promote greater have always existed but have been strengthened since the beginning. environmental Many companies found the criteria challenging and deadlines were responsibility set for compliance and FTSE engaged with many companies. FTSE has a process of engaging with the companies and timetables are set for improvement. 9. Businesses ENV4 Environmental technologies are not relevant to FTSE’s products directly. Merit should encourage ENV5 Its London office has a BREEAM rating of Excellent. It also has influence the development COM1 through the environmental criteria of FTSE4Good (see 8). and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 10. Businesses should CUS11 This policy regarding bribery is set out in the staff handbooks and Merit work against all SUP8 the new FTSE Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy. Employees forms of corruption, COM7 must declare any unsolicited payments or substantial favours to their including extortion COM8 manager or the HR manager. After consideration these are either and bribery refused, returned or donated for charity auction. External stakeholders interviewed were not explicitly aware of this policy but were confident that FTSE’s professional approach to business would include a commitment to this point. FTSE has also promoted anti-corruption practices through the Countering Bribery Criteria of FTSE4Good, in which it has collaborated with Transparency International. 11 FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2012 6. Appendix. 6.1 GoodCorporation The GoodCorporation assessment covers The verifier checks Assessment Methodology key stakeholders and the UN Global Compact principles. 1. A policy exists GoodCorporation’s methodology is designed to carry out independent assessments of The assessor: 2. A system is in place to business practices. There are several key • I nterviews key managers in the organisation implement the policy components to achieving this independence: from HR, HSE, sales, procurement, finance, community relations, etc to understand how 3. A record exists to show that • The work is carried out entirely by the system works GoodCorporation staff and associates, practices are supposed to work, reviewing records, documents and system outputs who have no connection with FTSE. as necessary. 4. Stakeholders, when asked, • GoodCorporation supplies no services to agree the system works • Selects and interviews samples of employees, clients other than independent assessment. and is fair customers, suppliers, partners, shareholders, • The report is reviewed by GoodCorporation’s regulators and industry bodies, community 5. Verifier then grades: fail, independent Accreditation Council, which organisations and NGOs, as relevant to assesses the content for robustness, minor non-compliance, the organisation. consistency and appropriateness of observation, merit, or the grading. •U  ses all the evidence gathered to evaluate commendation how effectively the practices are working in • The assessment is based on a four-step reality, grading each practice to help monitor process which seeks to establish how and benchmark performance. processes work in practice as well as in principle, involving feedback from internal •M  aps the GoodCorporation assessment of and external stakeholders. practices against the UN Global Compact principles • Access can be demanded to any documentation and GoodCorporation selects the stakeholder samples. 12 FTSE UN Global Compact Report 2012 6.2 Mapping UN Global PRINCIPLE 2 Businesses should make PRINCIPLE 8 – Business should Compact Principles against sure that they are not complicit in human undertake initiatives to promote greater rights abuses. environmental responsibility. GoodCorporation References • EMP1-EMP7, EMP10, EMP11, EMP16, EMP17 • E  NV4: There is a process to encourage The following was done by GoodCorporation: employees and contractors working on the organisation’s behalf to participate actively PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold in environmental protection. support and respect the protection of the freedom of association and the internationally proclaimed human rights. • C  OM1: The organisation’s plans and effective recognition of the right to • EMP1: There are clear employment terms activities take account of its impacts on collective bargaining. and conditions for all employees. communities. • E MP5: Freedom of association and • E MP2: There is a process to ensure that the organisation of employee is respected. privacy of employees is respected. PRINCIPLE 9 – Business should encourage • E MP3: There is a clear disciplinary procedure the development and diffusion of that is fairly applied. PRINCIPLE 4 Businesses should uphold environmentally friendly technologies. the elimination of all forms of forced and • E MP4: There is an effective process to deal • E  NV1: The organisation identifies and compulsory labour. with employee complaints and grievances. measures the impacts of its operations • EMP1-EMP7, EMP10, EMP11, EMP16, EMP17 and products on the local and global • E MP5: Freedom of association and environment, including climate change. organisation of employee is respected. • E  NV2: The organisation monitors and • E MP6: There are effective employee PRINCIPLE 5 – Business should uphold the continuously reduces its environmental communication and consultation process. effective abolition of child labour. impacts. • E MP7: There is a process to monitor • E MP17: There are processes to ensure that • C  OM1: The organisation’s plans and compliance with relevant employment laws employment practices for young people activities take account of its impacts on and regulations. follow internationally accepted standards. communities. • E MP10: There is a process to ensure that employees know how and when their pay PRINCIPLE 6 Business should uphold the and benefits are determined. PRINCIPLE 10 – Business should work elimination of discrimination in respect of against corruption in all its forms, • E MP11: Local cost of living and market rates employment and occupation. including extortion and bribery. are taken into account when setting pay and • E MP12: The organisation encourages benefits. • C  OM5: There is a process to ensure that diversity and recruits, promotes and rewards there are no forms of bribery or corruption • E MP16: There is a policy not to employ employees on the basis of merit alone. in relation to public officials and forced, bonded or otherwise exploited public bodies. labour. PRINCIPLE 7 – Business should support a • C  US12: There is a process to ensure that • E MP17: There are processes to ensure that precautionary approach to environmental there are no forms of bribery or corruption employment practices for young people challenges. in relation to customers. follow internationally accepted standards. • E NV1: The organisation identifies and • S  UP9: There is a process to ensure that measures the impacts of its operations there are no forms of bribery or corruption and products on the local and global in relation to suppliers and contractors. environment, including climate change. • E NV2: The organisation monitors and continuously reduces its environmental impacts. 13
