Global Compact Communication On Progress Steelcase 2012 Steelcase 2012 CSR report Note from Our CEO 1 Our Vision 2 Global CSR Strategy 3 Targets and Performance 5 Real Estate Optimization 8 End of Use Strategies 10 Our Promise to Customers Sustainable Procurement Strategies Employee Wellbeing and Productivity 12 15 Promises Kept 17 Key Partners 19 Our Promise to Partners Supplier Partners Dealer Partners 21 23 Promises Kept 25 Our Promise to Community Social Investment Promises Kept 27 29 Wellbeing 31 Training and Development 33 Our Promise to Employees Workplace Health and Safety 35 Diversity and Inclusion 37 Promises Kept 39 Innovative Products and Applications 42 Energy Use and Efficiency 44 Renewable Energy 47 Our Promise to Environment Transportation and Packaging Waste Reduction 49 51 Water Conservation 53 Promises Kept 55 Our Promise to Ourselves Governance 58 Global Environmental Metrics 60 Note from Our CEO As I reflect on our 100th anniversary year, I couldn’t be more excited about the future of Steelcase. During our centennial celebration, we have looked to the future Imagine the potential when sustainability is fundamental rather as well as the past. Steelcase has always been a company than incidental to every business. At Steelcase, we believe we dedicated to unlocking human promise – and as a part of that, can harness the power of our actions to make enduring positive a company devoted to sustainable business practices. Our change. Our sustainability initiatives benefit the communities commitment to these practices ensures we contribute to the where we live and work. They also advance the fitness of our social, economic and environmental conditions that allow people company. We’ll work to make every decision through the lens of to reach their full potential. its impact on people, profit and the planet. We made amazing progress on our 2012 environmental footprint Weaving sustainability into the core of our business unlocks reduction goal, and that success has us fired up to keep the the potential for real change. And change happens thanks momentum going. Moving forward, we’re going to up the ante to people. With 100 years of momentum, we look forward to on our promise of sustainability. We’ll challenge ourselves to deepening our promise to bring sustainable value to the people push harder, leverage our leadership and make a deliberate we care about most – our customers, employees, shareholders, leap forward. Sustainability will be a motivating force for driving partners and communities. innovation and transformation within the company. I invite you to take a look at what we’re doing. Read the stories, examine the plan. Then join us as we shape the next century together. Jim Hackett, President and CEO 1 Our Vision Having a clear vision is the first step toward making real progress. As we continue to advance sustainability within the company, our desire is to bring lasting value to our customers, employees, shareholders, partners, communities and the environment. We are humbled yet inspired by the challenge and the potential. How we arrived at this moment is important. Research and insights direct our path, leading us to expand our vision for sustainability in an organic, intrinsic way. Footprint reductions have given us the fuel for invention. We will continue to push ourselves forward using our creativity and innovation to fully realize our goals. Steelcase is no stranger to sustainability. We’re celebrating 100 years of not simply growing, but innovating. Not simply creating goods, but creating good. Not simply earning profit, but earning trust. We share this report as an open dialogue, documenting our momentum by sharing real-life stories from the people who are transforming the future and transcending their job descriptions to impact the world. People are the heart of possibility. What’s possible for our company and society in the next 100 years? We can’t wait to find out. One decision, one deed, one day at a time. 2 Global CSR Strategy From the very beginning, a century ago, the founders of Steelcase instilled the values of social and environmental responsibility. Our founders believed these values were part of what made a company successful. These values still exist today, evolving within our sustainability strategies and global business practices. They are fortified by our strong commitment to integrity and doing the right thing for our customers, shareholders, employees, business partners, associates and neighbors. These principles are the foundation of our company, passed on from decade to decade and employee to employee. 3 Global CSR Strategy At Steelcase, we live by a set of values that guide day-to-day Our commitment is to: interactions and provide a compass for our company: • Strengthen sustainable development in our worldwide • Act with integrity operations and in our supplier partners, including • Tell the truth environmental and human health, social responsibility and • Keep commitments economic prosperity • Treat people with dignity and respect • Ensure operations protect the environment and health of • Promote positive relationships our employees, neighbors and customers through actions • Protect the environment that conserve resources, reduce waste and promote a • Excel closed loop system • Invest in education and training to ensure stakeholder Past, present and next: engagement and employee ownership and stewardship Engaging with stakeholders • Engage with suppliers, dealers, customers, researchers Many occasions create opportunities to reflect, recharge and and environmental agencies refocus. At Steelcase, we’re taking advantage of our 100th birthday to do just that – to dream big about the future. We’re You will continue to see: setting our sights high as we think about what it means to create • Transparency and authenticity – When we hit our mark, holistic value as a globally integrated company operating in a we’ll momentarily celebrate, and then move on to globally connected world. challenging ourselves further. When we miss our targets, Beginning in 2011 and continuing into 2012, we’ve been on a we’ll determine the cause and push harder. quest for insights and understanding around sustainability and • Products and solutions designed to benefit people its impact on and meaning to our stakeholders now and in the • Actions that further the science and practice of future. During this time we have: sustainability through collaboration with customers, business partners and environmental thought leaders • Embarked on a company-wide corporate social and • Socially responsible operations environmental responsibility diagnostic • Collaboration with and increasing expectations of our • Surveyed our customers and studied their inquiries to supply chain partners understand their corporate priorities around sustainability • Reporting of global metrics • Hosted workshops to listen to architect and design partners, • Perseverance toward reducing our global environmental customers and other thought leaders on their vision for the footprint by another 25 percent by 2020 future of sustainability • Completed an internal culture survey to help us further understand the expectations of our employees The purpose of all this work is to help Steelcase advance our social and environmental performance to match the expectations of our many stakeholders, shareholders and partners. Key strategic objectives We are taking an intentional step forward, elevating sustainability as a lens for innovation on a global scale. We’re focused on the future and defining the action that will shape our next 100 years. 4 Targets and Performance Careful measurement is key to managing impact. In this year of upping the ante on our social and environmental practice, we’re also committed to measuring and reporting on our progress in a transparent and authentic way. This is a snapshot of the information we are using to measure ourselves within social, environmental and economic domains. We will continuously strive to expand our reporting as we begin tracking metrics in areas we haven’t addressed before, refine existing metrics for global accuracy and improve our focus on sustainability and comprehensive progress reporting. 5 Targets and Performance Social FY 2011 FY 2012 For more information Volunteer hours reported 5,798 5,361 Community – Social Investment, page 27 Employee retention Not reported 76.5% Employees – Wellbeing, page 31 Monetary and in-kind donations Not reported $1.1 million (Steelcase Inc.) Community – Social Investment, page 27 $3.6 million (The Steelcase Foundation) Number of women in management globally Not reported 24% Americas Employees – Diversity and Inclusion, page 37 22% Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) 3% Asia Pacific (AP) Environment Goal CY 2006–2011 For more information Greenhouse gas emissions reduction 25% 37% Environment – Energy Use and Efficiency, page 44 VOC emissions reduction 25% 53% Environment – Energy Use and Efficiency, page 44 Water use reduction 25% 54% Environment – Water Conservation, page 53 Waste reduction 25% 23% Environment – Waste Reduction, page 51 PVC material elimination PVC-free by 2012 Not yet. We continue work to eliminate Environment – Innovative Products PVC and other materials of concern. and Applications, page 42 Goal FY 2012 For more information Renewable energy commitment Continue investing 25% of electricity use in U.S.; Environment – Renewable Energy, page 47 in renewable 100% of electricity use in WorkLife energy and WorkLab centers in Paris and Strasbourg, France Percentage of products sold with No official goal 90% Americas Environment – Innovative Products sustainability certifications* 88% EMEA and Applications, page 42 Economic FY 2011 FY 2012 For more information Revenue $2.4 billion $2.7 billion ir.steelcase.com Gross margin 29.4% 29.4% ir.steelcase.com Net income $20.4 million $56.7 million ir.steelcase.com *Includes SCS Indoor AdvantageTM, NF Environnement, Blue Angel, BIFMA level® and Cradle to Cradle® certified products For more metrics, please visit csr.steelcase.com/GRI/ to explore our Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index. 6 Our Promise to Customers Real Estate Optimization 8 End of Use Strategies 10 Sustainable Procurement Strategies 12 Employee Wellbeing and Productivity 15 Promises Kept 17 Customers Real Estate Optimization “Optimize the workplace to deliver on what our customers need and their people want.” How do you maximize office real estate without minimizing your employees’ workplace experiences and performance? How do you realize real estate compression goals and still create workplaces that unlock the promise of people? Optimizing space starts with understanding how work is done today, how it’s changing and what people will need to be productive. By sharing our research-based insights and offering innovative products and solutions, we help organizations get the most out of their real estate while also supporting their employees’ performance and wellbeing. The results are worth the effort: an efficient real estate footprint means less unnecessary construction, less energy used and fewer greenhouse gas emissions. Most importantly, it empowers workers to do their best work. 8 Customers > Real Estate Optimization Overview Fully supporting the human experience at work within a smaller footprint is a powerful opportunity for businesses throughout the world to make a difference in the world. But square feet or meters per person are only part of the story. Using our deep insights to better understand the ways people interact with their spaces and each other equips us to help companies gain greater value from what they own or lease – and to consume only the space they need. Here are some of the ways we help optimize workplaces to deliver sustainable value and meet the needs of organizations and workers while also reducing environmental impact. Reclaiming workspace impact of reduced commuting and airline travel. We create solutions that address these new patterns of work, incorporating Traditional buildings are due for a makeover. The World Business workplace technology that allows workers to connect and Council for Sustainable Development reports that, globally, collaborate seamlessly, including new models for “third place” buildings account for at least 40 percent of energy consumption co-working places that provide fully supported options for and, as patterns of work have changed and average daily people working away from their corporate office or home, occupancy rates are as low as 40–50 percent at many regularly or occasionally. companies, many buildings have become models of inefficiency. But they don’t have to be. Solutions for different modes of work Every square foot or meter of real estate can work more Through our research, we’ve discovered that people engage in efficiently when it’s carefully planned as part of a portfolio of four modes of work during the workday. They collaborate. They spaces to support different modes of work. We’ve helped focus. They learn. They socialize. One space isn’t conducive transform underutilized café spaces into both working and for all four activities. A range of spaces provides everyone in eating spaces used throughout the entire workday. Similarly, the organization with what they need for any particular task, at by breaking the paradigm that all individual spaces should be any particular time. From private pods to team spaces, from assigned, we’ve helped to convert outdated, empty “cubicle assigned spaces to shared environments, the user’s experience farms” into constantly used, shared settings equipped must be at the center of planning for each type of workspace. with technology that supports face-to-face and distance So when a company moves from a larger footprint to a smaller collaboration. These are just a few of many examples. By one, the space is so well designed and utilized it doesn’t feel designing workplace settings for multiple functions, we help smaller. And even if the footprint shrinks, a space can still feel businesses make better use of their real estate and help them and function better for the people who work there. Time and operate more sustainably. time again, our customers tell us how Steelcase solutions, centered on human insights, have positively impacted employee Engaging a mobile workforce satisfaction, productivity and wellbeing. Today workers are more mobile than ever, connected via technology and able to work almost anywhere. Employees Helping customers optimize their real estate investments presents on the same team may be in different locations, time zones enormous opportunities for innovation, energy savings and or countries. Working together now often means switching large-scale impact. And workers can benefit in the process with between a virtual and physical presence, with the positive better support for all the ways they work throughout the day. Goals We aim to help businesses optimize their real estate while fully supporting the human experience. For relevant Key Performance Indicators, please visit csr.steelcase.com/topic/customers/real-estate-optimization/. 9 Customers End of Use Strategies “Even waste can be used for good.” Waste not, want not. It’s an old expression with modern applications. Many of our customers are making a tangible effort to reduce waste and make the most out of office furniture they no longer need. Through Steelcase’s end of use program, we offer options for addressing used furniture in responsible ways. Whether it’s recycling unusable products or extending product life by reusing, refurbishing, reselling or donating it, at the heart of our end of use program is keeping our sustainability promise. Partnering with our customers, we can do exactly that. 10 Customers > End of Use Strategies Overview Even waste can be used for good. Our end of use program helps businesses Extending dispose of their surplus office furniture in ways that are socially, environmentally and Overview the useful life economically beneficial – and we see it through from beginning to end. of thousands We start by understanding a larger picture of exactly what furniture our customers of products are looking to remove. Thanks to our partners, in many cases we are able to help per year with non-furniture assets as well. By listening to our customer’s desired outcome, we can develop options to achieve their goal – whether that outcome is revenue, landfill diversion or a way to help others in need. We’ve done our homework, explored the options and developed these five ways to extend the life of unused furniture and keep it out of landfills. Selling Materials reclamation We can assist our customers in developing a fair market price Reclaiming materials found in office furniture and other assets for used furniture. We can act as an agent to sell the furniture is not always a small undertaking. Yet we live in a world of finite on the open market, or in many cases provide credits to offset resources, and closing the loop through recycling is critical the cost of new Steelcase furniture. to achieving a sustainable future. Not only do we design our products to optimize recycling, we can separate recyclable Refurbishing materials in other used furniture so they can be reclaimed and New fabrics, new finishes, new components – refurbishing can made into something new again. We can help determine the bring new life to existing Steelcase furniture. In fact, reusing existing feasibility and the value of these materials to our customers. furniture may also help earn credit toward LEED certification. ® Asset management Charitable reuse Even though one particular location of a business may be Businesses can support others while helping the environment. ready to dispose of certain furniture, other offices within We can assist in matching used office furniture and other the organization may benefit from having it. We can help by equipment with nonprofit and charitable organizations – across managing our customers’ furniture inventory, making their current town or across the globe. It’s an opportunity to make a investments go further. difference in cities devastated by natural disasters, countries Through all these efforts, together with our customers and other rebuilding their infrastructures or simply an organization in need. businesses, we have extended the useful life of thousands of furniture products, and dramatically reduced the amount of waste dumped into landfills. It’s further proof that the threads of sustainability can be woven into any stage of our business. Goals When customers find themselves with excess or unneeded furniture, our goal is to help them extend its use or find a new life for it through materials reclamation. For relevant Key Performance Indicators, please visit csr.steelcase.com/topic/customers/end-of-use-strategies/. 11 Customers Sustainable Procurement Strategies “We design our products with human and environmental health in mind for the wellbeing of people and the planet.” Anyone can be a vendor. Our aim is to add value. We feel most rewarded when we assist companies in achieving their sustainability goals and work together to create purchasing strategies to advance their progress. At Steelcase, we provide products that contribute to LEED® certification criteria. We design our products to support human and environmental health for the wellbeing of people and the planet. Moreover, we empower businesses by providing metric-based decision-making tools and by offering third-party certifications. 12 Customers > Sustainable Procurement Strategies Created over Overview Overview 100 customized Every year, Steelcase furnishes millions of square feet of space for our customers. Real estate is often one of a company’s largest areas of environmental impact; environmental therefore, it has a significant effect on corporate sustainability goals. We can help metric reports our customers understand the impact of their furniture decisions and work toward for our global new goals around sustainable procurement. customers Here are our strategic sustainable procurement tools: Product development initiatives: weight. This is the best way we know to understand the current environmental performance of the products they purchase from Design for the environment us and to help inform their decisions going forward. Currently Many of the components in our products are examined offered in the Americas, environmental metrics reporting will down to the molecular level to ensure they meet human and soon be offered in all regions in which we operate. environmental health criteria. When we encounter materials of concern, we work to eliminate them. We measure the Employee wellbeing and productivity impact of key products at every phase – design, manufacture, People are a company’s most valuable asset. Employee delivery, use and reuse, recycling and end of life – to uncover wellbeing and productivity go hand in hand, so when we opportunities to improve. Many of our products reconfigure to design a workspace, we consider not only the people who work in new ways when a company’s needs change. When work in it, but the environment as well. We continually seek our customers are ready for something new, they can take more renewable and innovative materials for our products. We advantage of our end of use program. For more information, see design spaces in order to facilitate collaboration and access to our Innovative Products and Applications section and our Waste information, wherever people work. For more about what we’re Reduction section. doing, visit our Employee Wellbeing and Productivity section. LEED contributions Certifications We help customers seeking LEED certification to identify We work with many third-party certifiers to ensure our products products and programs that can contribute to LEED criteria. meet environmental and social sustainability standards in areas The categories in which we can assist include Materials and like indoor air quality, materials chemistry, textiles, sustainably Resources, Indoor Environmental Quality and Innovation, harvested wood and more. While we do not design to a specific Ergonomics Training, Sustainability Training, Innovation in certification standard, the work we do often translates nicely Design, Low-Emitting Materials and Systems Furniture. into many certifications for external assurance of our progress. Information related to our products’ environmental attributes For more about our certifications, please see our Innovative can be found in our Product Environmental Profiles, available in Products and Applications section. the Americas at www.steelcase.com/pep and by request in the EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) and Asia Pacific regions. Companies who want to reach their sustainable procurement goals have a committed partner in Steelcase. More than simply Environmental metrics reporting a manufacturer and seller of office furniture, we work alongside By collecting and analyzing details about the furniture products businesses as consultants, full of product knowledge, industry our customers purchase, we’re able to help our customers intelligence and passion for making our world a better place. measure the human and environmental impact of the decisions they make. We measure their past and anticipated purchases against the rigor of recognized and respected sustainability certifications, recycled content, material makeup and product 13 Customers > Sustainable Procurement Strategies Goals Our goal is to add value to our customer relationships by sharing concrete environmental metrics that enable companies to make informed decisions about their furniture purchases. We aim to work with companies to understand and meet their procurement goals relating to sustainability. For relevant Key Performance Indicators, please visit csr.steelcase.com/topic/customers/sustainable-procurement-strategies/. 14 Customers Employee Wellbeing and Productivity “Productivity goes hand in hand with wellbeing.” Wellbeing means different things to different people. It can be hard to define because it involves bringing harmony to many aspects of day-to-day life. It can be equally hard to achieve. Work environments significantly impact a person’s wellbeing because people spend so much of their waking time at work. That’s why we aim to create workspace solutions that optimize human and environmental health. By designing products and applications that provide ergonomic support and encourage movement, and by paying close attention to the materials we use in our products, we’re investing in the physical, mental and social wellbeing of people. 15 Customers > Employee Wellbeing and Productivity Overview 215 Our commitment to wellbeing and productivity starts at the very beginning of our product creation process. Our researchers, often partnering with leading universities and institutes, generate valuable insights into the ways people are best supported in various work happy families from situations and settings. These insights translate into products and applications that trips avoided through address wellbeing in a holistic way to positively affect worker health, how they feel and the use of HD how they perform. In turn, this provides a competitive advantage for employers by reducing videoconferencing healthcare costs, improving productivity and creating a stage for innovations that can fuel economic growth and solve our most pressing global challenges. The workplace can support the wellbeing of people in these ways: Avoid materials of concern in products Drive productivity What’s inside counts. We put a lot of effort into understanding For businesses around the world, productivity and financial the chemical makeup of our products. We continually look advantages go hand in hand with wellbeing. Thanks to ongoing for better, more renewable and innovative materials to deliver research, we continue to make new discoveries about how to solutions that optimize indoor air quality and support human and create workplace solutions free from hazards and intentionally environmental health. We keep our eyes fixed on the horizon for designed for optimal wellbeing. When productive work is materials innovations that will deliver superior performance in effortless and social encounters happen easily, employees feel ways that further support humans and their wellbeing. fulfilled and productive, and the stage is set for possibility. Allow for movement Bring nature in By providing environments that intentionally encourage Science has shown that people respond positively to some movement and “sharing the load” among muscles, ligaments environments more than others. Often these attractions are and nerves, workers can actually leave healthier at the end of a based on deep affinities with the natural world. This is becoming long day than when they arrived. Seating products that enable even more prevalent as the pervasiveness of technology leaning, swiveling, stretching and fidgeting promote movement, continues to expand in the workplace and beyond it. as do adjustable work surfaces that encourage people to stand People especially gravitate to natural light, outside views and up for part of every day. Not only is movement good for the fresh air. Workplaces with abundant windows and transparency limbs, it keeps blood flowing to bring a steady stream of oxygen throughout the space, plus easy access to walkways, patios and glucose to the brain to keep synapses firing. and/or terraces, are important investments in workers’ sense of Provide a range of settings wellbeing. Bringing nature inside with colors, natural materials, textures, waterfalls, fountains, plants and imagery are also Designing for wellbeing means providing workers choice and important ways to connect workplaces with nature and improve control over how and where they work. Cognitively and socially, feelings of wellbeing. people need and want focus as well as interaction. The key to this balance is three-fold: provide spaces that support a range of tasks, Wellbeing is more imperative now than ever before: the success make it easy to switch between different modes of work and allow of any organization depends on the health of its workers, and people to migrate between collaborative and private environments workplaces play an important role in sustaining business as a so they can focus, re-energize and de-stress as needed. healthy ecosystem over time. For relevant Key Performance Indicators, please visit csr.steelcase.com/topic/customers/employee-well-being-and-productivity/. 16 Customers Promises Kept End of Use Strategies > France: Vive la furniture When an office upgrades its furniture, where do the old desk chairs go? Or the corner café that’s closing – what happens to its comfy couches? In France, there’s a new destination. Steelcase has teamed up with 13 other companies to form Valdelia, a new econetwork dedicated to organizing and promoting the valuing and recycling of furniture from offices, schools, health facilities, cafés, hotels and other professional spaces. In 2010, we recycled more than 8,500 workstations – materials that might otherwise have wound up in landfills. With urging from the government, Valdelia has begun in the Ile-de-France and Loire regions, with the goal of recycling or reusing 80 percent of France’s office furniture by 2015. With the formation of Valdelia, Steelcase and an entire network of future-focused firms are saying “bonjour” to new life for old furniture. End of Use Strategies > Paris: Eco-answers for furniture and waste In 2011, Europe’s most diversified postal operator, La Poste, was consolidating offices near Paris. But what to do with all those extra office materials? That’s where Steelcase came in. We quickly assessed the furniture, offered options for reuse and recycled 16 tons of waste (from furniture to electronics to paper, and everything in between). The old spaces were left empty and clean, keeping all those unwanted materials out of the landfill. The waste was processed by a certified recycling center and is fully traceable. Steelcase and La Poste now have a five-year contract – the beginning of a beautiful eco-friendship. Sustainable Procurement Strategies > Moscow: To Russia, with LEED® In all of Russia, there are only four LEED-certified buildings. Two are in Moscow, and one of those is the home of the regional headquarters of Siemens, a global powerhouse in electronics and electrical engineering. Since utilities are heavily subsidized by the Russian government, many investors don’t see why they should spend extra on green construction. But for Siemens, like Steelcase, sustainability is a core value. Operating in the industry, energy and healthcare sectors across Russia, Siemens asked Steelcase to provide versatile furniture that helps contribute to its LEED Gold certification. Steelcase was more than happy to oblige. Now Siemens is proud of this landmark building in Russia’s capital, viewing its regional headquarters as a reference project that visitors are welcome to tour, admire and learn from. 17 Our Promise to Partners Key Partners 19 Supplier Partners 21 Dealer Partners 23 Promises Kept 25 Partners Key Partners “When people work together toward a common goal, the potential for change is remarkable.” When people work together toward a common goal, the potential for change is remarkable. That’s why collaboration is at the core of our business. We’re most creative when we’re working in harmony with our collaborators: suppliers, designers, researchers, customers, associates, affiliates and peers. We look to the world’s respected change agents, as well as up-and-coming innovators, for pioneering ideas that will help us improve on the tried-and-true and advance the next big discovery. Together we can do more, and be more, for the sake of unlocking human promise. 19 Partners > Key Partners Collaboration Overview is key to At every level of our business, collaboration is key. When ideas are freely shared, making true we all benefit. This philosophy is at the heart of how we operate, and we never and lasting stop looking for ways to celebrate open communication with the vibrant, diverse change pool of people we’re proud to work with. Customers Supplier partners We see our customers as more than just people who At Steelcase, we believe all sustainability roads ultimately lead purchase our products: they’re integral to everything we do at to the supply chain. That’s why we work closely with hundreds Steelcase. Their evolving needs and insights, as well as their of suppliers on critical sustainability issues like materials own sustainability and leadership goals, inspire us to improve assessment, worker safety, technology, process improvements, and increase our own performance. We’re committed to the avoidance and elimination of chemicals of concern, and delivering excellence and value in a way that not only meets our strategies for energy and materials reduction. Through our customers’ needs, but exceeds them. For more information, see supply partners, we can create lasting change that can have our Customers sections – Real Estate Optimization, End of Use ripple effects both inside and outside of our industry. For more Strategies, Sustainable Procurement Strategies and Employee information, see our Supplier Partners section. Wellbeing and Productivity. Communities Employees Making the world a better place starts close to home. Since our Our employees are the lifeblood of our company. Without founding in 1912, we’ve made community support an innate them, we wouldn’t be who we are or where we are today. Our part of our business. The communities where we work, live employees constantly inspire us with their creativity, innovation and serve support us in countless ways, and we enjoy doing and commitment to excellence. Making sure our employees everything we can to give back. After all, when our communities have what they need to reach their full potential – a supportive are thriving, we all benefit. Giving back isn’t just part of our culture, access to education, healthy working conditions history – it’s essential to our future. For more information, see and more – is one of our most important goals. For more our Social Investment section. information, see our Employees sections – Wellbeing, Training and Development, Workplace Health and Safety and Diversity Academic and research partnerships and Inclusion. Growth means change, and change means embracing fresh, new ideas. Our academic and research partners continually Steelcase dealer network engage us in exciting, cutting-edge research that helps us Being a good neighbor is important to us. We want to do our improve our practices and reach our sustainability goals. part to contribute to the health and wellbeing of the communities Just as no person is an island, no company achieves greatness we serve. That’s why our dealer network is so crucial. They alone. As we move forward, we’ll continue to create sustainable are our eyes, ears and hands in these communities. With their solutions with our partners, sharing with them a legacy of support, we can help people thrive in the places where our progress for future generations. dealers work and live. For more information, see our Dealer Partners section. For relevant Key Performance Indicators, please visit csr.steelcase.com/topic/partners/key-partners /. 20 Partners Supplier Partners “Harness the power of cooperation to advance new processes and materials.” We admit that we’re picky. Our suppliers are selected based on quality, technical competence, innovation, price, sustainability performance and the ability to deliver on time. Being that particular means our suppliers are the best in the business and share our high standards. We view our suppliers as vital partners on initiatives like innovation, materials assessment, social responsibility, safety and process improvements. It is partnerships like these that cause true and lasting change. 21 Partners > Supplier Partners Overview At the heart of how we do business are longstanding core values that reflect the principles of our founders. We want to do business with suppliers who have the same goals and convictions we do. We work hard to find partners who share our vision of social responsibility and environmental stewardship. We seek supplier relationships that promise long-term collaborations – partnerships that harness the power of cooperation to advance new processes and materials. As we qualify, select and manage our suppliers, we use a riskIn 2013, Steelcase intends to advance our social responsibility based approach that doesn’t just comply with legal obligations, initiatives. We aim to be more explicit with our suppliers about our but upholds our core values and global business standards. values regarding human rights, labor practices and environmental We use a number of processes and procedures in selecting impact. We intend to scale up our own employee education, the right partners, and work closely with our suppliers to ensure implement supplier training modules, begin risk assessments and performance in areas like labor practices, human rights, diversity continue the verification and monitoring of our partners. and environmental impact. We assess their performance against We see suppliers as true partners in innovation. We look for our criteria during both initial qualification and requalification. partnerships beyond the traditional supply base. Affiliations As an example of supplier engagement in action, in 2011, with women in Kenya handcrafting slipcovers might once have we asked the top 75 percent of suppliers in the Americas to seemed unlikely, but they’re the perfect picture of what it means complete self-assessment surveys that covered human rights to drive social innovation, breaking the traditional lines of supplier and labor practices, including freedom of association, collective engagement in ways that benefit communities. bargaining and child and forced labor. We received good news: We believe business is not just about products and profit – it’s our suppliers responded favorably that they support our position about people. We want every aspect of our business to support on these critical practices. Self-declaration is a good start, but it human potential and growth. That means taking steps to make is not the end game for us. sure our supply chain is fair, responsible and diverse. Because when people and communities thrive, we all thrive. For relevant Key Performance Indicators, please visit csr.steelcase.com/topic/partners/supplier-partners/. 22 Partners Dealer Partners “It’s about more than just furniture, and more than just business. Human relationships make all the difference.” Steelcase dealers do more than sell furniture. They bring our products to life. Most of our dealerships are independent businesses owned and operated by dynamic entrepreneurs who are deeply committed to the communities they serve. In turn, we want to do everything we can to support their success and to celebrate diversity within our dealerships. These partners are the face of Steelcase, and we’re proud to stand behind such an energetic team of leaders striving to reach their full potential. 23 Partners > Dealer Partners Overview 650+ dealerships located Doing business with Steelcase should be a positive, hassle-free experience. We can’t make that happen without our dealers. We’re proud of the Steelcase dealer network, which happens to be the largest and most experienced in the around the world industry. Across the globe, we have more than 650 dealerships, most of which are independently owned. Dealers help us realize our full potential. They provide us Our commitment to diversity plays out on a corporate level essential local knowledge, skilled labor, workplace installation in our hiring practices, our supplier relationships, the awards and regional asset management. Building off our extensive we’ve won and the educational initiatives we’ve begun. This research, Steelcase dealers offer our customers innovative commitment to diversity extends to our dealerships, too. Across workplace solutions. Some even offer a full suite of services, the United States, we have 33 woman-owned and 11 minorityincluding turnkey installation of audio-visual technology, floor owned dealerships. We have six certified HUBZone dealerships, coverings, ceilings and other interior fittings. located in historically underutilized business zones. We do everything in our power to help our dealers succeed. Supporting our dealers is one way Steelcase can advance Steelcase provides education and training, leading workplace our mission to unlock human promise. That’s why Steelcase research, attractive sales incentives and more. Because we celebrates diversity and works hard to support our dealers. know the power of collaboration, we invite dealers to connect We know it’s about more than just furniture, and more than just with each other at periodic dealer meetings for training and business. It’s about human relationships and the difference they sharing ideas. can make. The more access we have to diverse perspectives, the tighter the Steelcase company fabric will be. The more diverse we are, the more creative our ideas and solutions will be. We encourage all our business partners – from suppliers to service providers to consultants – to embrace and integrate diversity into their organizations. For relevant Key Performance Indicators, please visit csr.steelcase.com/topic/partners/dealer-partners/. 24 Partners Promises Kept Key Partners > Reduce, reuse, recycle ... recreate CREER (Cluster Research: Excellence in Ecodesign & Recycling) was formed in 2007 by pulling together a group of European companies, subject matter experts and technical centers that lead their fields to promote research in ecodesign and the recycling of products. As a founding member, we continue to engage with our peer organizations and individuals in CREER to build a knowledge base and tools to advance recycling, designing for the environment and life cycle analysis. There are currently about 40 members of CREER, and we hope the collaborative effort will inspire even more companies to join in developing sustainable business practices. Supplier Partners > 3M Steelcase sought a new solution for attachment and bonding to achieve our materials chemistry goals and obtain Cradle to Cradle® product certification. So we turned to 3M™ for help. 3M Industrial Adhesives and Tapes began to research and develop possible solutions. The design process opened a dialogue between the two companies, as Steelcase evaluated materials 3M developed and provided critical viewpoints from a customer perspective. Steelcase was not the only one to benefit from this collaborative innovation – 3M will soon introduce a new product to the market that meets Cradle to Cradle requirements. Please see the Promise Kept: 3M video on our website at csr.steelcase.com/stories. 25 Our Promise to Community Social Investment 27 Promises Kept 29 Community Social Investment “Being a good neighbor is the most direct way to make a positive difference.” We recognize that the communities where we work, live and serve give us so much. They provide us with employees, business partners, customers, neighbors and friends. So it’s only fitting that we give back by investing our time and effort into helping those communities thrive. Through cash and furniture donations, volunteerism, community leadership and partnerships with nonprofits, we support many initiatives around the world. We think globally and contribute locally, focusing on worthy causes for community and economic development, education, diversity, human services, arts and culture, and the environment. Sure, it’s the right thing to do, but it’s also smart business. Through our community activities, we gain new skills, compassion and awareness of others’ needs. 27 Community > Social Investment Overview 5,361 volunteer service Building our communities into prosperous, vibrant places is more than a goal. It’s part of who we are. Being a good neighbor is the most direct way to make a hours donated positive difference, and we do that by building bonds with people we share the globally neighborhood and the planet with. At Steelcase, our hearts are big and our minds are focused. Giving back isn’t confined to a special division of Steelcase. We Since our founding in 1912, we’ve zeroed in on giving and encourage every employee to develop meaningful relationships volunteer activities that build public trust, foster education, by serving on boards, volunteering and making donations. And respond to community needs, instill employee pride and support we support their efforts. Our Friends InDeed program in Grand our values and business objectives. In 1951, we established Rapids, Michigan, and the Steelcase Community Outreach the Steelcase Foundation to direct attention to areas of human Program (SCOR) in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, are living examples service, health, education, community development, the arts and of programs where employees can volunteer during working the environment. The foundation acts as an independent trust to hours and be paid for their time. support charitable, scientific, literary and educational causes. It’s What do these social investments get us? Successful, vital become a catalyst for partnerships and problem solving. communities, which are the springboard to a better tomorrow We give back in tangible ways: much-needed money and for us all. goods. And in an intangible way: time. Together, we make cash and furniture donations on a regular basis to help support hundreds of organizations. In 2011, the company and our employees donated approximately $1.1 million and 5,361 volunteer hours, and the Steelcase Foundation awarded $3.6 million in grants. Goals Steelcase aspires to extend our impact on the communities in which we work, live and serve. To do so, we have been working to formalize our global community outreach practice by designating local volunteer champions to work with local teams to develop action plans. This will help ensure that we can better measure our impact on communities around the world and report it in the future. For relevant Key Performance Indicators, please visit csr.steelcase.com/topic/community/social-investment/. 28 Community Promises Kept Social Investment > United Way Think globally, act locally. What does this philosophy actually mean for a company with a global footprint? Steelcase joined with long-time partner United Way to figure out where our footprints overlap around the world – and to open up new creative opportunities for serving and giving. As a result, Steelcase is bringing together corporate leaders and United Way Worldwide representatives to share ideas and explore the question, “What does it look like when companies with a global footprint set out to make a difference in their communities around the world?” We can’t wait to see. Please see the Promise Kept: United Way video on our website at csr.steelcase.com/stories. Social Investment > Detroit: Warmth for the Homeless It all started with a class project. Detroit design student Veronika Scott was challenged to “design to fill a need.” A homeless shelter volunteer, Veronika thought about the frigid, snowy winters that the homeless endure, and soon the big idea hit: a self-heated, waterproof coat that turns into a sleeping bag at night. Ingenious concept, but where to get the materials? Enter Steelcase. Members of the supply chain team arranged for Steelcase’s plant in Kentwood, Michigan, to send scrap fabric to be used as lining for the coats, made of Tyvek and wool. To date, Steelcase has donated 6,000 yards of fabric (roughly 3.5 miles), while 22,000 homeless Detroit residents have received these warm, durable coats. 29 Our Promise to Employees Wellbeing 31 Training and Development 33 Workplace Health and Safety 35 Diversity and Inclusion 37 Promises Kept 39 Employees Wellbeing “When employees feel fulfilled and productive, the stage is set for possibility.” Wellbeing speaks to an overall sense of contentment, happiness, health and prosperity. An intangible benefit like that doesn’t happen by accident. At Steelcase, we’re intentional about helping our employees and their families enjoy a healthy, happy life. In the U.S., we’ve partnered with the Mayo Clinic to help support our goal. From our counseling program, to our health benefits, to an environment that allows employees to control sensory stimulation and stressors, we are actively contributing to the wellbeing of our most valued asset – our people. 31 Employees > Wellbeing Overview 100% of global employees have A healthy working environment isn’t just free from harmful conditions or harassment. By our definition, it embraces health-promoting spaces and programs as well. When creating workspaces for our employees around the world, we apply the same principles access to healthcare and we use for our customers. We provide a range of open spaces that give our employees wellness opportunities the ability to control their environments, amping up or down the amount of sensory stimulation they want based on the work they need to do and their comfort level. Our global rewards philosophy includes benefits and Critical to our employees’ wellbeing is respecting their need for compensation designed to promote the wellbeing of all our confidentiality and privacy during the workday. Additionally, we employees and their families. We plan our programs to be both believe in treating one another with dignity and respect. These compliant and competitive within markets where our employees go a long way toward creating a sense of safety and wellbeing are located. We strive to help our people achieve a stable at work. work-life balance, offering programs like free counseling, flexible Even our concerted sustainability efforts to reduce business work hours, paid time off, parental leave and bereavement travel positively affect our people, who are then able to spend leave. And we even offer childcare in some locations. In the more time at home with their families, instead of in airports. U.S., we’ve also teamed up with the Mayo Clinic to create a wellness program providing information on disease prevention, For Steelcase, the connection is clear. The health and wellbeing counseling and education. We make sure our employees of our people influence the health and wellbeing of our company, around the globe enjoy access to appropriate healthcare and our communities and our world. It’s a ripple effect we hope will wellness opportunities. continue well into the future. Goals Through our global strategy, we intend to incorporate all aspects of wellbeing into each local plan around the world to ensure our employees are engaged, healthy, productive and happy. In the future, we plan to improve our knowledge about competitive benefits and leverage research to improve our offering, measure governance globally and leverage wellbeing strategies to engage our employees. For relevant Key Performance Indicators, please visit csr.steelcase.com/topic/employees/wellbeing/. 32 Employees Training and Development “Flexibility, loyalty and the opportunity for career development are all important in making sure our people love what they do.” The Steelcase promise to our employees is simple – we value them as individuals and want to help them reach their full potential. We know that flexibility, loyalty and the opportunity for career development are all important in helping our people love what they do. So we created Steelcase University, a unique learning and development program offering a range of educational opportunities, including instructor-led and virtual classrooms, self-paced development and on-the-job training and coaching, all designed to help our employees become the most knowledgeable and best performing workforce in the business. We’re always learning new things, and we want our employees to feel challenged and supported as they grow and pursue their professional passions. 33 Employees > Training and Development Among the top 10organizations honored Overview While Steelcase is a global company with locations around the world, it is still by the American intimate at the same time. We’re small enough to care about our people and Society for Training and big enough to prove it in meaningful ways. Development’s BEST Awards competition Take career development, for example. We challenge, motivate Beyond Steelcase University, our educational assistance and reward our people to continually enhance their knowledge program in the U.S. encourages our employees to participate in and skills. This helps them to align job performance with the advancing their knowledge through degree programs. Both fullgoals of the company, all while weaving in their passions and time and part-time employees in the U.S. are eligible for tuition strengths. assistance. The heart of this commitment is Steelcase University. A variety Then there’s our intern program. As a future-focused company, of courses and programs address performance areas like we look ahead and see the value and fresh perspective our leadership ingenuity, business acumen, sales expertise, product interns bring. We genuinely want them to gain usable, real-world knowledge, people skills, technical know-how and computer experience by participating in meaningful projects. We invite competence. Employees can learn via instructor-led or virtual them to meet with Steelcase leaders and learn about a variety of classrooms, self-paced web courses and on-the-job training. professional disciplines within the company. We view our interns as integral members of our team. Because our company is committed to weaving sustainability into our everyday decisions, we launched the Steelcase At the end of the day, learning and development aren’t just sustainability course in 2009. Over the past three years, about creating a strong company workforce. They’re about cumulatively, more than 10,000 employees have completed this fostering strong leaders who create innovative, sustainable required course, which teaches key sustainability terms; our solutions to have impact far beyond our business. strategy, goals and expectations; environmental sustainability in product design; and ways each individual can develop a personal performance measure. For relevant Key Performance Indicators, please visit csr.steelcase.com/topic/employees/training-development/. 34 Employees Workplace Health and Safety “The spirit behind our employee health and safety initiatives is to promote mutual respect.” We are always striving to improve our global health, safety and wellbeing culture, and that starts in the workplace. For starters, we’ve created a smoke-free work environment in every Steelcase office and manufacturing plant around the globe. In the Americas, we offer health education, disease prevention training and access to information online through our Encompass program. We work hard to make sure our Steelcase family enjoys safe, healthy conditions at work. 35 Employees > Workplace Health and Safety 3 of our global Overview We make every effort to ensure that our work environment is a healthy, enriching place to be. Our people are accountable to act as responsible manufacturing facilities stewards of their work environments, contributing to the health and safety are Occupational Health of fellow workers, the community and the natural environment. The spirit and Safety (OHSAS) behind all our employee health and safety initiatives is to promote mutual 18001 registered respect of others, both inside and outside our doors. Below are some of the ways we keep our surroundings safe and healthy for everyone. Maintaining a safe, healthy and Information when you need it productive work environment The Encompass website provides U.S. employees access to We leave nothing to chance when it comes to keeping our information online, on-site or on-call. It covers topics and issues workers safe. All our facilities have an established safety program on parenting, aging, life balance, working, general living and designed to meet all applicable laws, regulations and corporate tools. It literally covers most aspects of life and gives suggested policies. Our goal is that employees observe all safety and health solutions. rules, taking proper precautions and reporting all accidents, injuries, unsafe practices or conditions. We are responsible for Protecting the environment taking prompt and appropriate action to correct violations. To Each time we act on our core value of taking care of people and further ensure a safe, healthy and productive work environment, our planet, we make a positive contribution to our employees, we’ve established guidelines that serve the best interest of customers and communities. Our goal is to be proactive and employees, management, communities and the world at large. to continually incorporate environmental, health and safety considerations into our products, activities and services. We strive Quality, value and innovation to meet or exceed all applicable environmental requirements. Our concern for people’s health and safety goes beyond the walls It’s our responsibility to do the utmost for our employees’ health and of Steelcase to the people who use our products. During design safety needs. When they have peace of mind, they’re supported and production, we consistently monitor product quality and and free to focus on doing their best. That’s good for everyone. safety, and we’re dedicated to making continuous improvements. We know it’s our responsibility to design, manufacture and deliver products that conform to or exceed industry and regulatory standards for product quality and safety. Goals Steelcase intends to create a globally integrated database for gathering and reporting all health and safety issues, including a global injury database and a monthly performance summary for all facilities around the world. For relevant Key Performance Indicators, please visit csr.steelcase.com/topic/employees/workplace-health-safety/. 36 Employees Diversity and Inclusion “Diversity in our workforce makes our company stronger, smarter and more creative.” At Steelcase, we’re bound together by our core values. Values that allow us to embrace, express and celebrate our differences. Diversity in our workforce makes our company stronger, smarter and more creative. Our hiring and training practices reflect our commitment to inclusion, and we’ve won the U.S. Department of Labor Exemplary Voluntary Efforts Award twice for our innovative efforts to encourage diversity. We define diversity as people from different cultures, countries, races, backgrounds, genders, generations, abilities, worldviews, religions and sexual orientations. So, we will continue to foster a work environment that breaks down barriers and promotes understanding and respect. It’s a big world we live in, and we all benefit by making our company a vibrant community that attracts top talent from all the world’s cultures and groups. 37 Employees > Diversity and Inclusion Overview Received the We’re guided by a desire to see our employees reach their full potential. For that to EVE happen, we must make diversity and inclusion one of our highest priorities. In every aspect of our business, we support the fundamental principles of human rights set forth Award from the by the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and related international U.S. Department covenants, and we abide by the employment laws of the countries where we operate. of Labor twice for On this foundation, we have built policies that further illustrate our dedication to antiexemplary volunteer discrimination and the protection of vulnerable groups. efforts in diversity There isn’t a single part of our business that isn’t impacted by our commitment to diversity and inclusion. This core value is expressed in our relationships with our employees, suppliers, clients and the communities where our employees live and work. Embracing diversity • Global Business Standards • Equal Employment Opportunities Our employees are our most valued resource. We want every • Assistance for Employees with Life-Threatening Illnesses Steelcase employee to be treated with dignity and respect. And • Harassment Prevention Policy we won’t tolerate anything less. Our people have the right to • Core Values work in an atmosphere that is free from any discrimination or • Corporate Diversity Statement disruptions in the workplace. • Employment Equity (Canada) To make sure we’re working together on this goal, we always Our commitment to diversity and inclusion has won us the U.S. hire and promote fairly. We encourage open communication Department of Labor Exemplary Voluntary Efforts (EVE) Award at every level with our “open door” policy and our Integrity twice. But the real benefit of our commitment to fairness and Line, which connects employees to a trained communications respect is knowing our employees go to work in a supportive, consultant who can help address ethical concerns. encouraging environment. Further evidence of our commitment to anti-discrimination and protection of vulnerable groups includes, but is not limited to, these standards, policies and initiatives: Goals In 2013, we plan to measure diversity training globally. By 2015, we plan to make all global information on diversity, human rights, harassment and related policies easily accessible online as well as through a new global handbook. For relevant Key Performance Indicators, please visit csr.steelcase.com/topic/employees/diversity-inclusion/. 38 Employees Promises Kept Wellbeing > China: Celebrating families All work and no play? Not on our watch. This past fall, our Dongguan plant in China hosted Family Day for our employees. The event was an opportunity for our people and their families to enjoy time together amid games, food and fun. There was even some good-natured competition in the form of balloon-bursting contests, relay races and table tennis – with prizes for the winners. A total of 99 families participated. The smiles and laughs, however, were too numerous to count. Wellbeing > Grand Rapids, MI: The road to wellness starts here It’s easy to talk about employee health, to offer seminars and hand out pamphlets. But at Steelcase headquarters in Grand Rapids, Michigan, we turned information into action with fun events designed to spark real change in our people’s awareness and behaviors – and build relationships along the way. Here are four simple yet inspiring events we’ve recently hosted: Step Exchange. Encouraged to form competitive teams with new colleagues, employees “raced” to walk the number of steps equivalent to a 10K. A total of 250 people participated in the day-and-a-half-long event, with more than 2 million steps walked and 2,500 new connections started. Take Home Wednesday. Sometimes “fast food” can actually be healthy. In one hour, ten Steelcase volunteers cut up chickens, bagged whole vegetables and created spice packets. Employees were invited to take home the ingredients for dinner. The food ran out in 40 minutes. Our employees later shared emails and pictures of their families cooking and enjoying their homemade meals. Make Your Own Omelets. If breakfast is the most important meal of the day, Steelcase people know how to start the morning right. Ten volunteers set up nine cook stations with all the fixings for an appetizing omelet: 30 dozen eggs, a case of green peppers, half a case of onions, five pounds grated cheese and ten pounds of ham. The scene was irresistible to the 180 employees who came to cook up custom omelets – and instant community, sunny side up. Five-Minute Tune-Up. Our manufacturing employees work hard physically every day. Most wouldn’t take the time to visit a spa, so we brought a mini-spa to them. In the middle of our wood manufacturing plant, six professional massage therapists gave five-minute massages to 240 employees during their breaks. More than 400 nutrition bars were also handed out. The news spread quickly, and soon other Steelcase office and manufacturing locations inquired about creating similar experiences. Training and Development > Michigan: Awarded for our BEST thinking Because we believe innovation begins in the minds of our people, we decided to spend a year researching new design-thinking methodologies. The result was a new Steelcase University class called “Think.” The “Think” curriculum directly led to the development of a versatile new classroom chair we dubbed the Node™. Excited that employee training inspired such an innovative product, we were proud when the American Society for Training and Development named Steelcase among the top ten organizations honored in its BEST Awards. Seventythree organizations in ten countries competed for this honor, the training industry’s most coveted recognition. Moving forward, we’ll continue to invest in our people through Steelcase University, on-the-job training, coaching and more. When you think about it, it’s the best way to sustain innovation in the future. 39 Employees > Promises Kept Training and Development > France: The art of selling Steelcase Campus Ecole de Vente, located in France, is a program where motivated and talented students spend one year in an apprenticeship-style learning environment. They learn to hone their negotiating skills as well as deepen their understanding of the complex balance of the human, operational and financial stakes of selling. We see our sales people as our brand ambassadors, and we’re excited to help the next generation of leaders sharpen their craft. Workplace Health and Safety > Malaysia: Healthy mindset in Malaysia Last April, Steelcase workers in the Malaysian cities of Kuala Lumpur and Puchong participated in a comprehensive annual health fair. The week long expo kicked off with 47 employees donating blood to Malaysia’s National Blood Center. Other events included free health screenings, free eye exams, an educational briefing on colon cancer, a fire safety talk and an interdepartmental employee weight loss competition. Diversity and Inclusion > Michigan: Inspiration and hope at WMCAT Steelcase is a major contributor and supporter of the West Michigan Center for Arts and Technology (WMCAT). This isn’t just a worldclass facility providing skills training and arts education: it’s a place of hope. Every year, hundreds of high schoolers and adults attend WMCAT programs, learning new skills, being inspired to expand their imaginations and flourishing in a nurturing environment that emphasizes respect. The WMCAT motto is that success is measured by more than just numbers – but the numbers are impressive, too. High schoolers in WMCAT have a 90 percent graduation rate (compared to a 40 percent average at typical urban schools). In the Adult Skills Training Program, 93 percent of participants are placed in well-paying jobs. Diversity and Inclusion > Michigan: Women leading and succeeding At Steelcase, we nurture a culture of respect among all our people. That’s why we’re honored to have received the Inforum BoardAccess™ Award in recognition of the high percentage of women on our board of directors. In recent years, research has shown that women are rising through the ranks of Fortune 500 companies worldwide, and we’re pleased Steelcase reflects that trend. Diversity within gender, race, background, experience and other variables creates the rich mosaic that fosters innovation and success within Steelcase and beyond. 40 Our Promise to Environment Innovative Products and Applications 42 Energy Use and Efficiency 44 Renewable Energy 47 Transportation and Packaging 49 Waste Reduction 51 Water Conservation 53 Promises Kept 55 41 Environment Innovative Products and Applications “Products have to be great for both people and the world we live in.” Being a globally integrated enterprise means that one innovation, idea or success is something that can be leveraged and celebrated in other parts of the world. The insights gained from our design for the environment approach benefits the entire global product development process, and we continue to learn from the results of our ongoing research and development work and adapt new materials and processes. Our three design for the environment platforms help us minimize our impact on human and environmental health, while providing highquality, forward-thinking furniture and workplace solutions. 42 Environment > Innovative Products and Applications In the Americas region, Overview 90% of the products purchased Products have to be great for both people and the world we live in. That’s a tall order, but at Steelcase, three overarching design for the environment platforms guide us: materials chemistry, life cycle thinking and end of use strategies. It’s in 2011 were certified by a critical that we understand a product’s impact on human health and our environment third-party organization for at every phase of its life cycle – from material extraction to production and right environmental performance through end of use. We’re always looking for ways to innovate and improve. Materials chemistry finally what will happen to it at the end of its life. In our EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa) region, we’ve completed Life We take a precautionary approach to ensure that the materials Cycle Assessments (LCAs) for 25 percent of our current product we use in our products consider human and environmental portfolio. In the Americas region, formal LCAs are conducted on health. It’s not enough to wait for a new law or definitive proof key higher volume and higher impact products, and we’re aiming that a material is of concern before we act. Our materials to expand our LCA work in 2013. Insights gained from our LCAs, chemistry practice has assessed 1,200 materials in partnership whether they are used surgically or holistically, help us make with our suppliers. Together, we have discovered ways to informed decisions about materials, processes and distribution phase out or eliminate materials of concern. In many cases strategies within our global product development process. the materials, processes and business solutions we’re seeking don’t yet exist. Material innovation requires that we take a Recycling and end of use collaborative approach. The process of finding, validating and These days, we live in a “throw-away” culture. But at Steelcase, even co-creating new options involves material manufacturers, we create office furniture that lasts. We know our customers will design partners, suppliers and university researchers. These use our products a long time, even as their needs change. That’s partnerships are essential to finding bridge solutions as well as why we design products and create applications that are easily permanent alternatives – and to creating true and lasting change reconfigured, upgraded or disassembled for replacement. When not just for our company, but for other companies within and customers are ready for something new, they can take advantage outside our industry who can benefit from our investments. of our end of use program, keeping products out of landfills by Life cycle thinking refurbishing, selling, recycling or donating them. A commitment to designing sustainable products is a We don’t just care about selling goods. We want to create commitment to understanding the social and environmental innovative products for the way people work – and live. And we’re impacts at every point of every product’s life cycle. We use an eager to continue collaborating with others who share our vision ecodesign strategy that considers each stage of a product’s of sustainability and environmental stewardship to seek innovative existence, from what materials we use to how we manufacture solutions to optimize product life. and transport the product, to how the product will be used and Goals PVC-free by 2012? Not yet. We have had success eliminating PVC from a number of product parts and lines. While we celebrate our accomplishments on these levels, we are aware we have more work to do, and we are committed to finding quality substitutes and new innovations to avoid PVC and other materials of concern in our products in the future. For relevant Key Performance Indicators, please visit csr.steelcase.com/topic/environment/innovative-products-and-applications/. 43 Environment Energy Use and Efficiency “No act of conservation is too small, because they all add up to make a big difference.” Managing energy use is never about doing just one thing. At Steelcase, we’ve been investing a lot of time on many initiatives to further optimize the company’s energy impact. There’s progress to share against our 25 percent reduction goal. Since 2006, our efforts have resulted in a 37 percent drop in energy consumption and corresponding greenhouse gas emissions. We’ve taken a moment to celebrate, but we are committed to doing even more. We’re continuing to emphasize conservation in our operations, to invest in renewables and to work to understand and optimize the life cycle impacts of our products. 44 Environment > Energy Use and Efficiency Overview 37% As we further infuse sustainability into the everyday work lives of our people, we’re asking our energy management programs to accomplish more across many more dimensions. Before establishing a program, we ask a few questions. Will it sustain a productive work reduction in environment? Comply with regulations? Support our energy reduction goals? Reduce greenhouse greenhouse gas emissions? Lead to greater insight about more ways to conserve? gas emissions Thanks to planning ahead and pursuing measurable actions, we have exceeded our goal of between 2006 25 percent reduction by 2012. We have reduced our energy consumption and associated and 2011 greenhouse gas emissions by 37 percent, even with years of increased sales and production. In addition to managing our energy use, we are also focused on optimizing the types of energy we use. By using less and sourcing better, we can make the most of what we use. Here are some of our approaches to reaching that goal: Worldwide operational impact Accountability is key to reaching our energy conservation and greenhouse gas reduction goals. To track our progress, we There is a suite of initiatives that drive our energy conservation have created a comprehensive measurement and reporting and greenhouse gas emission reductions in our operations: system. We’ve also created a month-by-month greenhouse gas inventory and tracking system for our facilities worldwide. • Modernizing our manufacturing system to optimize where products are made • Applying lean manufacturing principles to maximize the Environmental management systems productivity of each facility and eliminate excess capacity in manufacturing • Updating our procurement standards to purchase the latest in Around the world, all but one of the Steelcase plant operations energy-efficient equipment are ISO 14001 registered. This means our environmental • Engaging employees by providing regular updates, trainings management system meets the requirements of the International and conversations on the topic of energy conservation Standards Organization and assures we have a systematic • Dramatically increasing the percentage of full truckloads to way of managing our impact and risk with methods that meet reduce the number of truck trips internationally accepted criteria. A list of registered facilities • Establishing “no idle” policies and a driver incentive program, worldwide includes: which has improved the miles-per-gallon ratio of our fleet • Purchasing renewable energy credits (RECs) that equate • All Steelcase facilities in Europe; Michigan and Alabama, to approximately 25 percent of our electricity use in North United States; Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; Tijuana, Mexico; and America, and RECs that equate to approximately 100 percent Dongguan, China, are currently registered under ISO 14001. of our electricity use in the offices in France Our goal is to have the one remaining manufacturing facility • Maintaining equipment, both manufacturing and office-related, registered by the end of FY 2013. for peak performance, and powering it down during non• Facilities in Durlangen and Rosenheim, Germany, are Ecoworking hours Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) III certified. 45 Environment > Energy Use and Efficiency Products and energy encourage our suppliers to set goals and strategies for energy optimization through programs like the Green Suppliers Network Embodied energy is the total energy required to produce in the U.S. These partnerships allow us to gather energy use a good or service – energy that is inherent in the good or information from key suppliers – data that helps us manage service. Our goal is to decrease the amount of embodied embodied energy. It also helps us deliver sustainability product energy across all phases of our products’ lives. Life Cycle certification to our customers – a symbol of assurance. Assessments are a product development tool to help us deliver on the goal. By conducting Life Cycle Assessments on key Renewable energy products, we understand the product’s impact throughout its From wind farms to hydroelectric power renewable energy life, glean insights to improve new products and create action credits, we are enthusiastically investing in expanding the global steps to reduce embodied energy. For more information, see renewable energy portfolio. For details on our progress and our our Innovative Products and Applications section and our plans, please see our Renewable Energy section. Transportation and Packaging section. The ambitious goals we’ve set for energy efficiency have Working with supplier partners challenged and inspired us. Reaching those goals has opened At Steelcase, we believe a commitment to sustainable business our eyes to even greater possibilities moving forward as we practices can only happen by collaborating and creating shared continue to fulfill our promise. objectives with our suppliers. We’re helping suppliers quantify energy use and associated greenhouse gas emissions. We Goals Our goal is to reduce our global greenhouse gas emissions another 25 percent by the end of 2020. For relevant Key Performance Indicators, please visit csr.steelcase.com/topic/environment/energy-use-and-efficiency/. For more information on greenhouse gas emissions and VOC emissions, see the graphs on page 60. 46 Environment Renewable Energy “Renewable energy is a natural evolution of our commitment to be stewards of the environment.” Investing in renewable energy is critical to the sustainability of our planet. It’s something we’re enthusiastic about here at Steelcase. Maybe because it’s such a positive concept, full of possibility. There’s certainly never been a more important time to invest in it. Along with energy efficiency and reduction efforts, we have been supporting new and existing technologies to advance the world’s renewable energy portfolio. Right now, we’re exploring diversification of our renewable energy investments. We’re especially excited about our latest plan, rolling out in 2013. Stay tuned for updates on this facet of our sustainability promise. 47 Environment > Renewable Energy Overview For us, investing in renewable energy isn’t about marketing statements to make us sound “greener.” Our approach is straightforward and transparent: we work to optimize The equivalent of energy consumption in our operations, reduce the embodied energy in our products 25% and support the development of renewable energy technologies. Investing in the advancement of global renewable energy is about taking real steps toward a cleaner, more sustainable place to live. of Steelcase’s One example of our commitment was in 2008, when we became the sole investor in U.S. electricity green power from the Wege Wind Energy Farm. It was the first time any corporation usage comes from made an upfront financial commitment like that. On the wind farm, turbines stand 243 feet Wege Wind Farm high and produce enough power for nearly 3,000 homes. Beneath the peacefully turning blades, there’s abundant room for wheat and grain sorghum to grow. Our investment and commitment to the Wege Wind Energy Farm continue today. Here are a few interesting facts about what Steelcase is doing • Since January 2011, we’ve purchased biomass RECs around the world to support renewable energy: equivalent to approximately 100 percent of our electricity usage for the WorkLab centers in Strasbourg, France (1,000 MWh). • The green power produced at the Wege Wind Energy Farm • Beginning in September 2011, we’ve purchased biomass RECs is equivalent to approximately 25 percent of Steelcase’s U.S. equivalent to approximately 100 percent of our electricity electricity use. usage for the WorkLab center in Paris, France (400 MWh). • As an exploration in renewable power in 2012, we purchased hydroelectric power renewable energy credits For us, renewable energy is a natural part of our commitment (RECs) equivalent to approximately 100 percent of our to innovation and the environment. And we’re willing to put our electricity usage in our German facilities, including Durlangen money where our hearts and minds are. Because if we all do our and Rosenheim and the Worklife center in Rosenheim part to invest in energy that protects the planet, the future looks (approximately 12,400 MWh). promising indeed. Goals We commit to investing in renewable energy and diversifying our investments to expand the global renewable energy portfolio. For relevant Key Performance Indicators, please visit csr.steelcase.com/topic/environment/renewable-energy/. 48 Environment Transportation and Packaging “Our goal is to get our products to their destinations by leaving the lightest possible ecological footprint.” It pays to think things through, especially when it comes to reducing the impact of packaging and transporting our products and the travel of our people. At Steelcase, we consider the distribution of our products from the very start: the product’s design. That’s how we create ideas that allow us to protect our products, pack our trucks more efficiently and discover higher-performing, sustainable packaging. Even our drivers help our efforts, by reducing idle time and fuel consumption. Along with our product-related initiatives, we know optimizing the time our people spend traveling on business can have a positive impact – both on our employees’ wellbeing and the wellbeing of the planet. We have deployed a global videoconferencing system of approximately 80 units around the world. We encourage telecommuting and flexible work schedules to minimize travel. With each step forward, we’re finding more ways to shrink our travel footprint. 49 Environment > Transportation and Packaging 50 hybrid cars Overview Avoiding needless consumption provides our customers with maximum value and uncovers new opportunities to improve. By rethinking how we package and transport our products, added to our we’re reducing costs and improving our sustainability performance for our customers, our sales fleet dealers and our company. At the drawing board its enhanced performance and keep costs under control. Along with these initiatives, we are continually exploring new materials Early design decisions affect the economic and environmental like compostable packaging. performance of a product at every stage of life, including transport. By integrating strategies for efficient packaging and Transportation efficiency shipping into front-end product design, we reduce costs and Maximizing space in each truckload. Using railway freight waste. For example, we’ve created office chairs that ship alternatives. Reducing fuel consumption by optimizing travel “knocked-down” for easy assembly at their final destination. routes. Creating driver incentive programs to reduce idle time Shipping more products in the same amount of space means and diesel fuel usage. You get the picture: there’s much that can fewer delivery trips and less greenhouse gas emissions. be done once our products hit the road. In the past decade in Packaging materials the U.S., we’ve increased our miles per gallon by 13 percent, which has resulted in savings of 222,205 gallons of fuel. In the It takes at least 15 years to grow a tree, while a carton is useful past fiscal year, we’ve increased our average shuttle cube in the for only a few days. So the less material a product carries along U.S. by 35 percent – meaning more product and less air, less for the ride, the better for the customer and the planet. In the fuel, and fewer trips overall. U.S., 60 percent of our products are shipped uncartoned – in blankets and reusable containers – which creates less weight Other initiatives and less waste. For example, most of our work surfaces ship Our products aren’t the only ones that require transportation to on wooden pallets, avoiding 2,400 tons of carton scrap each get where they’re going. So do our people. With our sustainability year and saving nearly 42,000 trees. The result: more products promise in mind, and our goal to help people connect and per truckload, fewer delivery trips, less packaging for customers collaborate more directly and more frequently, we’ve encouraged to dispose of and less waste for landfills. When cartons are telecommuting, teleconferencing, the use of high definition absolutely necessary, we’ve switched from heavy to lightweight videoconferencing and alternative work locations to minimize corrugated paper, saving 1,000 tons of paper waste each year. energy use and emissions. It also keeps them home with their We also recycle incoming packaging. For example, vendors’ friends and families more often – an important part of supporting corrugated packaging is reused as dividers in Steelcase parts our people. The bonus: in 2011, videoconferencing saved us inventory operations. approximately $700,000, and avoided an estimated 215 trips and 376 tonnes of CO2 equivalents. Better options Our Europe sales team now has 50 hybrid cars to use when When packaging is unavoidable, we replace traditional visiting customers. And the coaches we use when visitors tour synthetic materials with more sustainable options that can our Grand Rapids headquarters are biodiesel fueled. be used again and again. In the U.S., we have eliminated 80 percent of our polyurethane packaging in favor of paper and Our goal is to get our products and people to their destinations preferable plastics, like expanded polyethylene. Our expanded by leaving the lightest possible ecological footprint. It’s a polyethylene not only contains 28 percent recycled material, but long road. But thanks to the ingenuity of our employees and is also recyclable itself. We are changing our packaging design partners, we’re getting there. to minimize the amount of material used to take advantage of For relevant Key Performance Indicators, please visit csr.steelcase.com/topic/environment/transportation-and-packaging/. 50 Environment Waste Reduction “Reducing waste is a challenge we embrace. Moving forward, it will be a promise we continue to live up to every day.” Reduce, reuse, recycle. Slogans don’t make progress – people do. Since resetting our goals in 2006 to aim for a 25 percent reduction by 2012, we have cut our global solid waste generation by 23 percent. Even though we may have missed our mark, we’re proud of the 80 percent reduction we’ve made since we started tracking waste 11 years ago. Progress as well as near misses move us to push harder. We made a promise to be good global citizens. We will continue to be creative with manufacturing processes and product design not only to reduce our waste, but also to improve material utilization rates so we can keep that promise. 51 Environment > Waste Reduction Overview 23% reduction in waste Goals beg to be reached. Our success in reducing global waste generation is the result of meticulous planning and vigorous follow-through. And we’re confident that between 2006 we’ll reach our 2020 goal to reduce global waste by another 25 percent because we and 2011 take nothing for granted. We prefer to take action. Here are a few of the actions we’re taking right now: Waste reduction in plants and collected over 750 tons of household recyclables in 2011 alone. Grassroots programs include opportunities like the Adopt-Amanufacturing Highway clean-ups. At Steelcase, we want our manufacturing processes to be as efficient as possible. We look for the best strategies for Even mealtimes are subjected to scrutiny. Steelcase has avoiding waste, from recycling and composting to incinerating implemented a comprehensive food waste composting program with energy recovery. We’ve created yield-based metrics that at our Grand Rapids and Kentwood, Michigan, locations. In allow us to constantly assess and improve our operations these locations, all tableware in our cafes are biodegradable, from the ground up. These metrics help measure not only how allowing our food-service waste to go to a single commercial much waste is disposed of, reused or recycled, but also how composting operation, where it’s turned into nutrient-rich efficient we are in using the materials we purchase. We’ve material that’s used to make landfills grow smaller and gardens created yield-based metrics for many of our manufacturing grow greener. ingredients, including powder paint, steel, laminate and veneer, with more metrics to be added as part of our commitment to Highlighted product and packaging understanding and reducing our waste. Continually improving initiatives our metrics and refining our goals is one of the ways we can Reducing waste is something we think about all the time, from make a positive impact. the beginning of our product development cycle to the end. We design our products with disassembly and recyclability in mind. Waste reduction at the corporate When we ship our products, we look for ways to reduce or and employee levels eliminate packaging, replacing traditional materials with betterWe’re always looking for ways to keep the Steelcase office performing sustainable options whenever possible. And the environment clean and sustainable as well. Part of our Steelcase end of use program helps businesses conveniently “Greening the Office” initiative included moving toward and responsibly cycle out end of need furniture and equipment. eliminating trash containers at individual workstations and Because of these efforts, we’ve helped keep millions of tons of installing color-coded recycling and composting containers in waste out of landfills. shared break areas and mail stations. At our Michigan locations, our employees continually learn new ways to reduce waste, and As we move into the next century, we’re challenging ourselves to they can even bring household materials that may be difficult build on the momentum we’ve created. We’ll continue to look at to dispose of in their area for free recycling on site. In fact, we every aspect of our company in the search for new and innovative waste reduction possibilities. Goals Our goal is to reduce our global waste another 25 percent by the end of 2020. For relevant Key Performance Indicators, please visit csr.steelcase.com/topic/environment/waste-reduction/. For information on waste and recycling, see the graph on page 60. 52 Environment Water Conservation “We’ll continue to seek out new, innovative water conser vation methods.” As one of Earth’s most precious resources, water is top of mind here at Steelcase. We’ve made substantial progress and drastic reductions in water consumption – nearly 54 percent since 2006 – but there’s still more to do. As we move into our next 100 years, we’ll continue to seek out new, innovative conservation methods that consider the good of our business as well as our planet. 53 Environment > Water Conservation Overview 54% reduction in water Every drop counts. To some, this may seem an overstatement. But peering into the future, desiring to protect our world and the people in it, we know water conservation is a vital investment of time, money and effort. In comparison to consumption between many other industries, we use significantly less water; however, that hasn’t 2006 and 2011 stopped us from looking for innovative ways to conserve it through more efficient use or eliminating its use altogether. The challenge has inspired us to reinvent the way we do In total, we have lowered our global water consumption by things. In several locations, we have launched an improved 75 percent since 2001. More good news: after resetting our pretreatment process for the way our metal parts are cleaned environmental footprint goals in 2006 to reduce them by 25 prior to being powder-painted. This system reduces water percent by 2012, our water use went down 54 percent. We’re consumption by 50 percent or more. Additionally, our humbled by these achievements, and inspired to do more. stakeholders can rest assured that the wastewater from our An emerging issue is the idea of a “water footprint.” The water facilities is discharged to local municipal water treatment footprint is the study of a product’s impacts on water during systems. Evaluating and controlling our materials helps to its whole life cycle, through both quantitative and qualitative make sure wastewater meets the requirements of the municipal assessments. We have partnered with research organizations systems to which we discharge. to further understand this particular indicator of water use. By Our water conservation efforts also extend past manufacturing. learning how our products impact water use along their life cycles, We utilize stormwater collection and retention systems to manage we can take action toward making the Steelcase water footprint water flow and to provide irrigation for lawns at our facilities. For as small as possible. example, the company’s EMEA headquarters in Schiltigheim, Because water is all around us, people tend to take it for France, has installed permeable paving, native landscaping and granted. But none of us can afford to do that. As a company, infiltration areas to minimize runoff and water use. we’ve pledged to take care of this life-giving liquid that everyone needs, every day. Goals Our goal is to reduce our water use by 25 percent by the end of 2020. For relevant Key Performance Indicators, please visit csr.steelcase.com/topic/environment/water-conservation/. For information on water consumption, see the graph on page 60. 54 Environment Promises Kept Innovative Products and Applications > Everywhere: Two heads (or ten) are better than one People. Space. Information. These are the essential ingredients for collaboration, and collaboration is vital for innovation. Steelcase’s media:scape® fuses furniture with technology to reshape the way people work together. Whether co-workers are across the table or across the globe, they can share information, contribute ideas and even co-create content. For teams working together from afar, media:scape enriches social connections between people by enabling them to connect more informally, and more often. In addition, media:scape with HD videoconferencing creates dynamic, multipurpose spaces that everyone can use throughout the day, even when the video is turned off. Steelcase has made a concerted effort to reduce our business travel yet keep connected to one another through videoconferencing. In 2011, videoconferencing saved us approximately $700,000 in transportation costs, and avoided an estimated 215 trips and 376 tonnes of CO2 equivalents. Thanks to these reductions, our employees gained valuable time at home with their families. Renewable Energy > Texas: Fresh air and promises Fields of wheat and grain sorghum grow on a farm just outside the small town of Panhandle, Texas. It looks like any other farm except for the 243-foot turbines that produce clean wind power. The Wege Wind Energy Farm is full of these quiet giants producing enough power for nearly 3,000 homes. All the electricity generated is used in the local community. What makes this program special is that we are also investing in Glen Hodges, the farmer whose family has owned this land for more than 50 years. For Glen, wind power is an important crop that will help sustain his family farm for years to come. For us, it’s the opportunity to invest in the promise of renewable energy. Waste Reduction > Grand Rapids, MI: A thoughtful inconvenience At Steelcase global headquarters, you won’t find personal wastebaskets at our employees’ desks. It’s not something a visitor would necessarily notice, but our people do. Gone are the days of mindlessly tossing all garbage into the trash. Instead, each employee takes the care to separate compostable items from landfill items, and then delivers the scraps to a Victor2 recycling center (a Steelcase product) within their building. And, thanks to compostable flatware and food containers offered by our on-site cafeteria, the compost pile is larger than it used to be. In all, we’re saving two to three tons a month from going to landfills. It’s just another example of how small, intentional steps can lead us further down the path to a sustainable future. 55 Environment > Promises Kept Water Conservation > Making a splash in conservation Water conservation is more important than ever. The product Life Cycle Assessment community has put great efforts in developing methods to address water use, and a new international standard for water footprinting is coming. Rather than wait for an international standard to become official, Steelcase has partnered with the leading environmental Life Cycle Assessment consultant, Quantis, to analyze the water footprint of our Eastside visitor chair. This research has measured the water impact all along the product life cycle. 56 Our Promise to Ourselves Governance 58 Ourselves Governance “Creating positive experiences wherever people work, and helping them achieve their full potential.” It’s been said that example is leadership. We take that statement to heart, especially when it comes to sustainability strategies. The Steelcase leadership team is a dynamic one, comprised of senior executives and a board of directors that includes members of our founding families and others with diverse professional and personal experience. The result is a group of inquisitive, ambitious thinkers committed to unlocking human promise, creating long-term shareholder value and making our world a more sustainable place. 58 Ourselves > Governance Overview Our Corporate Leadership Structure: the Steelcase Board of Directors is an effective and balanced blend of members from the third generation of our founding families – with the 11/12 Steelcase Board knowledge, insights and historic perspective that brings – and other members whose professional and personal backgrounds offer an invigorating spectrum of experience. Of our 12 board members, 11 are independent, ensuring diversity of opinion and experience to of Directors are help our company prosper responsibly. independent Our executive officers are made up of a diverse and dynamic team of passionate individuals. These six executives – three women, three men – are integral to ensuring we achieve our sustainability goals. Additionally, they inspire us to continually set our sights to the future, so we can continue to create meaningful value for all our stakeholders. Global sustainability steering have been designed to foster conduct that’s beyond reproach. The Steelcase Global Business Standards, Code of Business committee Conduct and Code of Ethics for Chief Executive and Senior In 2011, we formalized a global Corporate Social and Financial Officers are the triple-layered foundation that sustains Environmental Responsibility steering committee made up our company daily. They clearly communicate our expectations of key senior leaders in administration, human resources, for our people, no matter where they are in our organization, procurement, environmental operations, environmental strategy, to be responsible stewards and contribute to the safety and community involvement and corporate relations. They help wellbeing of fellow workers, their communities and the natural keep the company on track with our sustainability goals. We’re environment. adding more core functions as we further our commitment to environmental and social governance. As an extension of the As we move into our next 100 years, Steelcase is poised to steering committee, we have global practice teams in the field, further advance sustainability within our company around the setting goals, establishing more sophisticated metrics, and world. We’re leveraging leadership to set aggressive targets, promoting and advocating for sustainability around the world. clear hurdles, heighten performance and meet goals, all while keeping our eyes on a larger goal: creating positive experiences Of course, beyond the committee and the practice teams, each wherever people work, and helping them achieve their full and every Steelcase employee is accountable for delivering on potential – for their companies, their communities and for the the social and environmental policies as they relate to his or her environment we share. role. We’ve built these ideas into our business ethics, which For relevant Key Performance Indicators, please visit csr.steelcase.com/topic/ourselves/governance/. 59 Global Environmental Metrics 58% reduction 160k 1,400 140k 1,200 120k 1,000 100k 800 80k 600 60k 400 40k 20k 200 0 0 Progress since 2006 goal reset: 37% 95% reduction 400 1,400 350 1,200 300 1,000 250 800 200 600 150 400 100 50 200 0 0 Progress since 2006 goal reset: 53% 30k 71% reduction 1,400 25k waste portion 1,200 1,000 20k 800 15k 600 10k 400 5k 200 0 0 Progress since 2006 goal reset: 23% 75% reduction 140 MM 1,400 120 MM 1,200 100 MM 1,000 80 MM 800 60 MM 600 40 MM 400 20 MM 200 0 MM 0 Progress since 2006 goal reset: 54% 60 ©2013 Steelcase. All rights reserved. Please recycle. Trademarks used herein are the property of Steelcase Inc. or their respective owners.
