2013 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) Banarra Making sustainability your business Contents 1. Introduction .................................................................................................................. 3 1.1 This Report .................................................................................................................... 3 1.2 Who we are ................................................................................................................... 3 1.3 How we promote sustainability including the Global Compact’s ten Principles ....................................................................................................................... 4 2. Message of Support from the Managing Director ......................................................... 5 3. Promotion & Implementation of Human Rights Principles........................................... 6 3.1 Policies, assessment and goals ........................................................................................ 6 3.2 Implementation and measurement of outcomes ............................................................... 6 4. Promotion & Implementation of Labour Principles ...................................................... 9 4.1 Implementation and measurement of outcomes ............................................................... 9 5. Promotion & Implementation of Environmental Principles ........................................ 11 5.1 Policies, assessment and goals .......................................................................................11 5.2 Implementation and measurement of outcomes ..............................................................11 6. Promotion & Implementation of Anti‐Corruption Principles ...................................... 13 6.1 Policies, assessment and goals .......................................................................................13 6.2 Implementation and measurement of outcomes ..............................................................13 7. Feedback ..................................................................................................................... 15 This Report is only available online at www.banarra.com © 2013 Banarra Page 2 of 15 1. Introduction 1.1 This Report This is Banarra’s second United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Report (COP) covering the 2012 calendar year. Banarra became a Signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (Global Compact) in 2011 and this COP is submitted to fulfil Banarra’s communications and reporting responsibilities under the Global Compact. For the last six consecutive years, Banarra has been using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines as the basis for publicly reporting on its sustainability impacts and related performance. The reporting process helps us to ‘walk the talk’ by subjecting ourselves to the same standards and processes we expect our clients to apply to their businesses. We believe “what gets reported, gets measured, gets managed” – it is this concept that keeps us mindful of our own sustainability impacts and that enables us to systematically manage these to further promote a sustainable future for people and the planet. Recognising the challenge of simplifying, reducing and linking several reporting requirements placed on reporting organisations today, Banarra is eager to integrate our account of our Global Compactrelated performance into our annual, GRI-based Sustainability Report. However, at this time, our sustainability and Global Compact reporting timelines are not yet aligned. Banarra is considering how to resolve this in order to produce a joint COP/GRI report in coming years. We believe this will not only better reflect the true integration of the Global Compact Principles into our business-wide, overarching management of sustainability impacts and performance, but will also represent a reporting approach as encouraged by both the Global Compact and GRI. 1.2 Who we are Banarra is an Australian-based small-to-medium sized enterprise (SME) providing specialised professional services to organisations looking to develop or enhance their sustainability performance and reporting. Based in Sydney, Australia, we deliver our services primarily to business, government and not-forprofit sectors within Australia and overseas. Our extensive expertise across the sustainability spectrum means Banarra’s service offerings enable clients to effectively manage and realise their sustainability challenges and opportunities. Our current service offerings include:  Social & Human Rights Management;  Strategy and Transformation;  Accountability (Sustainability Assurance & Reporting);  Sustainable Supply Chain Management; and  Environment and Climate Change Management. For further information about us and what we do and to read our sustainability reports please visit www.banarra.com. © 2013 Banarra Page 3 of 15 1.3 How we promote sustainability including the Global Compact’s ten Principles Banarra believes a sustainable future for people and the planet is possible when organisations and their stakeholders relate more equitably. Through listening, insight and action, Banarra enables organisations and individuals to make sustainability their business, thereby promoting sustainability principles well beyond Banarra’s immediate sphere of influence. Banarra is proud of its own commitment to, and performance across, the ten Global Compact Principles. Our commitment is formalised in our policies and procedures. Performance is measured on an on-going basis for most Principles and reported annually according to our annual reporting cycle. In 2011, it was identified that accountabilities for performance against the Principles should be part of Management’s respective roles and actioned in 2012. This process did not explicitly occur due to significant management attention on implementing new systems and processes for managing the business – including our approach to employee relations. Coupled with our formal processes, Banarra’s people are selected on their capabilities and their “fit” with Banarra’s values. Because of our strong ethics, Banarra’s people imbue the workplace with a social and environmental consciousness. Banarra annually offsets its greenhouse gas emission from business travel with Gold Standard VCUs as part of our intent to deliver a social dividend in every business decision we make. Banarra is also an active member of our local council’s Better Business Partnership which promotes sustainability business-to-business across energy, waste, water, community support, sustainable purchasing, sustainable transport and staff support. As Banarra is only an SME with 18 employees and three Associates, our real contribution to sustainability, and to the promotion and implementation of the Global Compact’s ten Principles, is through the advice, capacity-building and support we provide to our clients. Our primary objective is to make a greater impact by supporting our clients in their contribution to a more sustainable future. By working with a diverse range of organisations from government through to large Australian and multi-national corporations, Banarra’s sphere of influence within which we promote core sustainability principles goes well beyond that of a typical SME. Banarra’s active involvement in sustainability-related national and global debates and initiatives, such as the development of the G4 Guidelines by the Global Reporting Initiative and the Integrated Reporting Framework by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), further enables us to promote core sustainability principles. In addition, Banarra has significantly contributed to the United Nations Global Compact Network Australia during 2012. Our Managing Director continues to be on the Board of the Australian Network, thereby demonstrating Banarra’s commitment to, and leadership role within, the Global Compact. Team members of Banarra also attended, and in some cases presented at, the Leadership Groups on human rights, anti-corruption and environment. The following sections relating to the four core areas of the Global Compact elaborate on how we specifically promote and implement the ten Principles through Banarra’s daily work. © 2013 Banarra Page 4 of 15 2. Message of Support from the Managing Director I am pleased to present Banarra’s second UN Global Compact COP Report and to clearly reiterate Banarra’s ongoing commitment to the Global Compact and its Principles in our day-to-day work, including our client work. Banarra’s involvement with the Global Compact continues to strengthen our commitment to sustainability through continuous improvement with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. This Report communicates to our stakeholders what actions we have taken to implement the ten Global Compact Principles, and to support broad UN development goals. With sustainability being at the very core of what we do, and of what we enable our clients to do, I am pleased with our progress during 2012 to further promote and integrate the Global Compact Principles into the way we and our clients work. We promote and support implementation of the Principles by:  Leading by example in terms of how Banarra identifies and manages our impacts on people and the environment – detailed here and in our online sustainability reports;  Supporting our clients, particularly other Global Compact signatories, through advice and audit services – I’m particularly proud of the human rights impact and risk assessments we delivered in the last year. It has become a significant body of work that we have seen directly improve our clients’ human rights performance. In addition, we have been able to reflect on our learning and contribute globally to what is a practice area that is still new but rapidly evolving; and  Contributing to thought leadership and advocacy such as through our work on labour practices and supply chain rating indicators for an independent, progressive think tank; and our papers at conferences such as the International Association of Impact Assessment and the Minerals Council of Australia Sustainable Development Conference during 2012. In addition, we contribute in a whole range of ways, from my own Directorship of the UNGC Network Australia to colleagues in Banarra contributing to GRI G4 working groups. I am always open to being challenged, and there is so much of how we manage the business and deliver our services that happens to align with the Global Compact Principles. The real challenge, and one that we need to keep working towards, is to make the connection between the two more explicit and strategic. Richard Boele Managing Director, Banarra © 2013 Banarra Page 5 of 15 3. Promotion & Implementation of Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 3.1 Policies, assessment and goals Banarra is committed to supporting and respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights through upholding our performance and monitoring any potential risks. Our business activities are low risk in relation to direct complicity in human rights violations, being a small officebased consultancy located in Australia. Banarra’s material issues identification process has not identified any human rights risks as material for our business. However, there has been an identification and acknowledgement of a potential human rights-related risk concerning employee well-being, specifically work-related stress. How we monitor, manage and respond to this potential risk is outlined under the “Promotion & Implementation of Labour Rights” section of this COP. Internationally proclaimed human rights are covered in Banarra’s People Manual, which also includes our formal internal complaints and grievance mechanism. Human rights that are specifically relevant for our business are those relating to health and safety, anti-discrimination and collective bargaining, and are further explained under “Promotion & Implementation of Labour Rights” section of this COP. The nature of our work requires us to work and travel both nationally and internationally; the “Banarra Travel and Accommodation Policy” ensures the safe and comfortable travel of all our employees and includes relevant training, insurance, identification of risks and adequate mitigation measures. Respect for and the protection of human rights is at the very heart of our business and we apply the same approach internally and externally when working with suppliers, contractors, clients and communities. Banarra delivers a number of Social & Human Rights service offerings to its clients:  Conducting human rights risk and impact assessments;  Designing and implementing human rights and community relations management systems;  Conducting audits relating to community relations management systems; and  Designing and testing of community complaints and grievance mechanisms. The approach that we take involves listening to and taking into account stakeholder perception, mapping out potential solutions and responses to identified risks and impacts, and building internal capacity and understanding of human rights issues, particularly in the Australian context and within clients’ senior management. 3.2 Implementation and measurement of outcomes Implementation of Banarra’s own human rights risk management is based on our “People Management Policy” which is introduced to all Banarra employees through our induction process and is fully implemented across the business. Banarra’s strongest contribution to the promotion and implementation of the Global Compact’s human rights principles is through our Social and Human Rights Management service offerings. It is these services that enable us to help our clients to understand and respond to their human right-related responsibilities, including those set out in the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and © 2013 Banarra Page 6 of 15 Human Rights. Our work includes working with clients to develop and implement human rights management systems, identify and reduce human rights risks and impacts, respond to human rights violations and adhere to the highest international human rights standards. Banarra has developed and delivered a wide range of tailored approaches for implementation of human rights management systems and assessments, globally. In the past year, our work in this area has been implemented through various projects predominantly in the resources sector in Australia and overseas, particularly in challenging contexts. Banarra is thus very cautious to respect human rights during any work we undertake, as it can involve countries with poor human rights records and high risks of human rights violations. One project over the past year involved the design and delivery of a protocol for auditing site performance of a mining company operating in the Asia Pacific region. In addition, Banarra has also built the company’s Community Relations Management System and continues to support its Community Relations team. This project has significantly increased the site’s capacity and performance in relation to dealing with the community and their human rights. Another project equipped a resources company to more effectively manage its human rights risks for an operation in South America through a facilitated human rights risks assessment. Moving from the site to corporate level, our team has also successfully developed and delivered a human rights framework for a multinational mining company’s operations globally. Our human rights services have also broadened to include more projects on the rights of Indigenous Peoples, particularly through cultural heritage and stakeholder engagement. Banarra provided expert advice and evidence to progress a native title claim and developed an Indigenous joint management plan encapsulating both Indigenous values and conservation values. Our commitment is to continue to assist Indigenous Peoples through our work in the future; an example of this is one of our upcoming projects where we will assist an Indigenous group in the development of a plan identifying a clear path forward for maintaining their traditional law and culture. Our work has also supported the not-for-profit sector in its endeavour to better campaign for the protection and realisation of fundamental human rights. One of our pro-bono projects for the Australia Tibet Council included the evaluation of the organisation and the success of the visit of Tibet’s Prime Minister in Exile to Australia. Banarra’s involvement in promoting and supporting human rights goes well beyond our projects. Our Managing Director, Richard Boele sits on the Board of Directors of the UN Global Compact Network Australia and is also active as a steering committee member. In this capacity, he has represented the Australian Network at the first annual Forum on Business and Human Rights in Geneva in December 2012. Banarra actively participates in the three Leadership Groups on human rights, environment and anti-corruption, and has delivered a number of human rights workshops. Our commitment to human rights was further strengthened through our engagement at conferences internationally:  We spoke about human rights impact assessment at the International Association for Impact Assessment Conference in Portugal;  We co-presented on Building Management Systems from the Bottom Up at the Minerals Council of Australia’s Sustainable Development conference in Thailand;  We discussed social risk and human rights due diligence in South America’s resource sector at the 2nd Annual South American Diggers Conference in Sydney;  We presented on anthropology and Aboriginal heritage surveys in Canberra; and  We spoke about corporate human rights due diligence: tracking and communicating human rights performance at the United Nations Association of Australia in Melbourne. © 2013 Banarra Page 7 of 15 We have also briefed Australian government’s representatives on the value of Australia joining the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Banarra is a member of the Minerals Council of Australia’s Gender in Communities Dialogue, endeavouring to promote and raise the awareness of women’s rights in communities. The impact that we have on our clients has been measured through our client survey that is provided to each client once the project is completed, the results of which are publicly disclosed in our sustainability report. © 2013 Banarra Page 8 of 15 4. Promotion & Implementation of Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Banarra is committed to upholding the rights of its employees and supporting its clients to do the same. Banarra recognises its employees’ rights to freedom of association and collective bargaining (Principle 3) and recognises the importance of having a well-balanced team through our policies that support diversity and non-discrimination (Principle 6). The nature of Banarra’s work means that the labour-related risks referred to in Principles 4 and 5 on forced and compulsory labour as well as child labour) are not applicable to Banarra, nor does Banarra not knowingly engage where there are known-risks relating to these areas. Banarra labour practices are managed through a number of policies and processes. In line with the growth of our business over the past year we have focused on formalising our processes relating to labour, which has involved developing new policies and revising existing ones. There has been a particular focus on work health and safety (including travel safety in response to an increased international travel for client work), learning and development, working time and arrangements (including Parental Leave and TOIL). In Banarra’s first COP, work-life balance and employee wellness were identified as material issues to the business. Banarra is pleased to report that through internal initiatives, employee wellbeing has improved. In Banarra’s 2012 Sustainability Report, we committed to formalising part-time working principles and defining leadership, roles and responsibilities within our business. Progress against these commitments continues to be made and will be reported on in our next Sustainability Report. Banarra also promotes labour rights through our client work. Over the past year, we have focused particularly on labour practices in the supply chain with a range of corporate clients. Working alongside an Australian union, we have been developing an accountability mechanism to drive improved labour practices in the cleaning industry. We have also been working with a union-funded think-tank to develop labour practices and supply chain indicators for a corporate responsibility dashboard which enables the think-tank to rate the performance of 26 companies across Australia. 4.1 Implementation and measurement of outcomes As Banarra’s labour processes have been strengthened, we have sought to engage both internally and externally on the revisions of policies and other documentation that governs our labour practices. Changes are clearly communicated to all employees in a timely manner. Additionally, any changes to legislation that cover employee rights, such as changes to Workers Compensation, are shared through our weekly team meetings. In an effort to bring greater focus on the areas of compliance, recruitment, and learning and development Banarra also created a new role of Human Resource Coordinator. This role will help formalise and strengthen our efforts in relation to these areas. A number of approaches are used to monitor and evaluate Banarra’s labour practices performance. In relation to diversity, Banarra reports in our annual Sustainability Report data relating to gender, age, and place of birth. At the time of our 2012 Sustainability Report, our business comprised predominantly of women (71%) and a majority of our workforce was 30 years of age or under (57%), © 2013 Banarra Page 9 of 15 followed by those 30-50 years of age (36%). In 2011, 52% of employees culturally identified themselves as Australians, with the remaining employees’ birth countries spanning Africa, Europe and North America. Work health and safety are monitored on an ongoing basis, with WHS incident reporting at weekly team meetings and through monthly Management Team WHS incident reporting. Additional means of monitoring and evaluating performance include the Management Team Review, annual employee survey, and our professional development process. © 2013 Banarra Page 10 of 15 5. Promotion & Implementation of Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 5.1 Policies, assessment and goals Banarra strives to take early actions in response environmental challenges before damage occurs (Principle 7). We work both internally as well as with our clients to promote greater environmental responsibilities (Principle 8). We also encourage the use of environmental friendly technologies (Principle 9). Our environmental practices are governed by Environmental, Procurement, and Travel and Accommodation policies. Banarra’s Environmental Policy formalises our focus on minimising our environmental impact wherever possible through improved behaviours and purchasing practices. Our Procurement Policy enable us to achieve the environmental objectives outlined in our Environmental Policy by committing to supporting staff to make appropriate decisions around the sourcing of key materials used within the business, such as paper, IT equipment, accredited GreenPower and carbon offsets. Lastly, our Travel and Accommodation Policy outlines our commitment to encourage the use of public transport and hybrid or highly fuel efficient cars where public transport is not an option. As a SME in the professional services sector, office waste, paper usage and greenhouse gas emissions from the purchase of utilities such as electricity and the consumption of transport fuel (e.g. flights, taxis, and hire cars) are the biggest contributors to our environmental footprint. Last year we publicly committed to participating in the Carbon Neutral Program to be certified under the National Carbon Offset Standard (NCOS) as carbon neutral. After assessing the relative market benefits of certification against the cost of third party verification and licencing fees for a business of our size, we decided not to participate in the program. In spite of this, we continue to offset our measured scope 1, 2, and 3 emissions through the purchase and retirement of carbon. We also continue to engage with Low Carbon Australia, the administrators of the program, and will keep a watching brief on the accessibility of this program for SMEs. 5.2 Implementation and measurement of outcomes We educate and encourage staff to adopt environmentally friendly practices during the induction process and on an ongoing basis. Banarra purchases 100% recycled paper and set our default printer settings to double-sided and black and white printing. We also purchase recycled stationery where possible. Within the office we recycle paper, glass, plastics and metal and e-waste. Banarra also purchases 100% GreenPower for its office energy needs and we encourage all employees to turn off equipment when not in use. Banarra offsets its carbon emissions for all business related travel (taxi, staff cars and flights) through the purchase of offset credits from GreenPower or Gold Standard accredited renewable energy projects. We are also currently exploring the option of offsetting our paper use as well. In December 2012, Banarra opened a second office space to accommodate our expanding team. In the refurbishment of the new space, Banarra sought to recycle all material taken out of the space, use environmentally friendly products and re-use furniture. In the design, we also strove to achieve better environmental outcomes through skylights to reduce the need for artificial light. Over the past year, we have streamlined our processes for data collection and analysis to better enable our environmental performance to be monitored and evaluated. We measure and publicly © 2013 Banarra Page 11 of 15 report in our annual Sustainability Report our office paper use, total waste and recycled we generate, energy use, and all business related travel and associated carbon emissions. As detailed in our 2012 Sustainability Report, our business experienced a 29% increase in GHG emissions when normalised against FTE or revenue. A large proportion of this growth is attributed to business flights. Given our expected growth in the coming year, it is anticipated that our environmental footprint will continue to grow, most noticeably through the consumption of transport fuels through increased domestic and international travel. Therefore, we will continue to review and revise our practices to minimise and better manage our environmental footprint. In particular, we will look to increase our use of our teleconferencing facilities, including Skype. Our work with clients in the environmental space over the past year has had a greater focus on environmental strategy and cultural change; assisting clients to articulate and deliver on their environmental objectives. This has been done through the delivery of projects that include identification and setting of environmental indicators, development of guidelines to govern sustainability practices, and assisting the establishment of a corporation tasked with driving innovation through commercial investments in renewable energy, energy efficiency and low emissions technologies. © 2013 Banarra Page 12 of 15 6. Promotion & Implementation of Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 6.1 Policies, assessment and goals Banarra continues to consider the risk of corruption within our business, or involving Banarra employees, as low. In terms of our formal systems relevant to anti-corruption, our employees’ conduct is governed by a Personal Conduct Policy included in Banarra’s People Manual. The policy states that “Banarra expects its employees to achieve and maintain a high standard of ethics, professional conduct and work performance” and that management of any behaviour in conflict with this policy directly involves notification of the Managing Director. The policy also covers gifts and gratuities management guidelines. In addition, all decision-making, including that of our Leadership Team, must be in accordance with Banarra's Conflict of Interest Policy. While the management of anti-corruption and bribery by organisations still largely resides in their legal and or compliance departments, Banarra considers it to be a matter of organisational culture and ethical awareness among a company’s employees. Banarra places great importance on the values and ethical conscience of our employees, including management. Consideration of how well individuals demonstrate Banarra’s values in their daily conduct at work is a formal part of all annual performance reviews. Furthermore, for the last three years we have achieved an ethics score of 100% in our annual employee survey. Beyond our own performance in this area, Banarra endeavours to make a positive impact with regard to corruption and bribery prevention or incident response management through assisting and advising our clients on how to identify and manage their potential and actual impacts in this area. Our services focus on organisational culture, leadership and decision-making as well as systems building, and include organisational change management, ethical culture assessments, leadership training and other related offerings. Banarra also takes an advocacy role to directly and indirectly promote, educate and help implement the anti-corruption Principle, such as through lectures on ethical business conduct and our participation in the Global Compact Leadership Group on Anti-Corruption. 6.2 Implementation and measurement of outcomes Both Banarra’s People Manual and Personal Conduct Policy are fully implemented within Banarra and included in both our induction process and annual performance review. Furthermore, they are directly linked with Banarra’s highest governance body, the Managing Director. Specific responsibility for monitoring the conduct of employees formally lies with our managers and informally with everyone at Banarra. In terms of maintaining our high level of personal conduct and ethical culture, which Banarra employees are known for by our clients, we aim to keep our annual employee survey ethics score at a consistently high level. In last year’s COP, we reported our intent to further integrate considerations of personal values and ethics into our recruitment process; an area particularly important due to the continuous growth of our business. During the reporting period, we were able to significantly progress in this area with the commencement of our Human Resources Coordinator, a newly created role within the Banarra governance structure that has helped formalise and streamline Banarra’s recruitment process including placing increased focus on finding new employees that can demonstrate the right cultural and ethical fit. © 2013 Banarra Page 13 of 15 In terms of our client work during 2012, we were able to significantly increase our strategy work in the organisational and cultural change management space, and were fortunate to work with one of Australia’s leading property companies as well as with corporates operating in high corruption risk countries. As committed to in our 2012 COP, Banarra has significantly increased its internal resources to advocate for, and contribute to thought leadership on the topic of, anti-corruption and bribery as well as ethics. In June 2012, Christiane Meyer, one of our Consultants, was accepted onto the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s G4 Working Group on Anti-Corruption and participated in the development of ethics-related elements of the next generation of GRI Guidelines. Furthermore, Banarra has also continued to participate in the Global Compact Network Australia Leadership Group on AntiCorruption. In 2013, Banarra will continue to share our insights and views in this space as well as contribute to thought leadership wherever possible. © 2013 Banarra Page 14 of 15 7. Feedback Enquiries regarding or feedback on this Report are welcomed and encouraged, and can be directly addressed to: Richard Boele, Managing Director 768 Pacific Highway Gordon NSW 2072 Australia Tel: +61 2 9418 2656 Fax: +61 2 8006 5493 or Email: richard@banarra.com © 2013 Banarra Page 15 of 15
