Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts 2012 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Executive Statement of Continued Support Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts became a member of the United Nations Global Compact in 2011, with the desire of integrating its 10 Principles as a reference framework for sustainable operations across the group. This is our first Communication on Progress (COP) Report, which aims to show how we have started to review policies and structures and develop more standards in line with the principles of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Shangri-La’s COP is being released in March 2013, a month before the group’s 2012 Sustainability Report is made public. The 2012 Sustainability Report will include direct responses to the principles as well as references to the GRI indicators for increased transparency. Please visit http://www.shangri-la.com/corporate/about-us/corporate-social-responsibility/sustainability/ for the full Sustainability Report in late April 2013. The coverage of this COP is 01 January 31 December 2012 and will refer to the data of 72 operating hotels and one marina club whose corporate social responsibility (CSR) and sustainability operations are managed by the corporate office, Shangri-La International Management Limited (“SLIM”). This entity is the signatory to the UN Global Compact. The report does not cover the six hotels that opened during 2012, as they are not able to demonstrate operations of over one year. New hotels in the planning and development stages and Shangri-La’s business in property rentals are also outside the scope of this report. Shangri-La remains dedicated to both its social responsibility and overall ethical practice. It aims to ensure the highest level of integrity in all of its operations, and we see our commitment and participation in the United Nations Global Compact as a key driver for this. We will demonstrate our continued support and commitment through our annual communication on progress. GREG DOGAN President and CEO Shangri-La International Hotel Management Limited Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts Hong Kong-based Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts (www.shangri-la.com), one of the world's premier hotel companies, currently owns and/or manages 78 hotels under the Shangri-La, Kerry and Traders brands, with a room inventory of over 32,000. Over four decades, the group has established its brand hallmark of “hospitality from the heart.” The group has a substantial development pipeline with upcoming projects in mainland China, India, Malaysia, Mongolia, the Philippines, Qatar, Sri Lanka, Turkey and the United Kingdom. our permanent employees to complete upon Human Rights employment and with regular refresher training. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human At every location, Shangri-La ensures that its rights; and properties extend the value of human rights and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in respect the rights of the communities that surround human rights abuses. us. Through programmes within our social responsibility campaign, our hotels seek to respond Shangri-La Hotels and Resorts remains committed to some of the most urgent human rights challenges to observing the highest standards of human rights in a consultative manner that is appropriate and and aims to uphold its principles in the workplace respectful of local traditions and regulations. and, more importantly, amongst relationships with various stakeholders. Our business partners in particular share the journey by demonstrating compliance with our This is underscored best in our company values of Shangri-La Supplier Code of Conduct. This humility, courtesy, respect, helpfulness, sincerity requires suppliers to provide safe and healthy and selflessness. Shangri-La’s sense of hospitality working conditions, to use fair hiring practices, to comes from a caring company and we aim to treat their workers with dignity and respect, and to deliver engaging experiences that come straight adhere to environmentally responsible practices in from our hearts. This genuine sense of service manufacturing. To that end, the code includes governs the way we run our business and it is standards in the areas of Labour and Human Rights, strongly rooted in upholding human rights. Health and Safety, Environmental Impact, Ethics and Management Commitment. In living out our values of respect and courtesy, Shangri-La aims to keep a fair workplace that is We will award business based upon quality and governed by our Code of Conduct. This price without personal favouritism. We will framework guides our various relationships, endeavour to create long-term win-win including issues regarding human rights, diversity, relationships with quality suppliers that allow us to equality and equal opportunities. It is our policy to enjoy excellent quality, price and supplier abide by the Labour Codes and national laws in all involvement in continuously improving our product, countries in which we have operations and to services and profitability. comply in general with the Fundamental Conventions of the International Labour Neither we nor our immediate family will own, have Organization (ILO). a vested interest in or be a director of any supplier of goods or services to Shangri-La, except by way Any Shangri-La colleague that commences work, of shares in a public company. whether at the corporate or hotel level, is oriented on the articles of the Code of Conduct. Shangri-La has only recently started aligning these policies directly under the UN Global Compact It is imperative that every employee has a perfect Principles but we have long been monitoring understanding of our expectations of behaviour, not compliance across our hotels through our Human just of policies and manuals. In order to ensure Resources Department. Furthermore, there are the best understanding, training programmes have many avenues in place for feedback, such as the been put in place and are made compulsory for all Employee Engagement Survey (formerly known as the Staff Opinion Survey), which has been in place Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and since 1996. The 2011 and 2012 surveys garnered compulsory labour; a participation rate of over 98% and the survey Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; serves as an honest barometer of the drivers for and satisfaction for our biggest asset – our People. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. There are a number of other avenues our colleagues can utilise to provide feedback. Shangri-La is an Equal Opportunity Employer. All They can raise suggestions for internal processes, of our employees are made familiar with the group’s improvement in workflow and ideas for service commitment to non-discrimination on the grounds of through the “E-Voice” programme – available in our gender, marital status, pregnancy, race, religion or hotels and in our corporate office. They can also disability. Employees also understand that equal ask questions about issues in the business or employment opportunities are made available to all concerns with the management, anonymously if colleagues irrespective of their gender, marital they wish, through the “Speak Up” programme, or status, pregnancy or disability. No colleague is to utilise the Whistle-blowing Policy. Employees from be treated less favourably than any other in the top down are invited to participate in Excom comparable circumstances and all are entitled to Dialogues, State of the Hotel sessions and other enjoy good working relationships with one another workshop / conference forums. in an environment free from harassment. We respect and support the protection of human rights of our colleagues, and our employment policies are designed to comply with all local labour laws. This includes our firm stance against human trafficking, sexual harassment and the exploitation of children. In cases where young adults are in hotel traineeship or internship programmes, we ensure that they are protected by contracts signed either by the institutions they represent or by their parents / guardians. As mentioned earlier in this report, suppliers and business partners are encouraged to operate sustainably and are audited based on the ShangriLa Supplier Code of Conduct. The document enforces strict regulations and zero tolerance on indentured labour, trafficking, slavery or child labour. Any person who believes he or she may have been discriminated against in violation of these principles or who observes any discrimination in violation of Labour Principles these principles should discuss the matter with the Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom Human Resources Department. If for any reason of association and the effective recognition of the the employee does not want to discuss the matter right to collective bargaining; with individuals in the Human Resources Department, he or she may discuss the matter with the Group Director of Human Resources, who has Shangri-La mitigates impacts on the environment by overall responsibility for the group’s Equal ensuring that our day-to-day operations promote Employment Opportunity policy. and implement responsible environmental practices and continual improvement. Furthermore, the company will ensure that all personnel actions, including compensation, benefits, Shangri-La continues to work with EarthCheck, an transfer, lay-off, return from lay-off, companyinternationally recognised environmental sponsored training, education, tuition assistance, benchmarking and sustainability programme and social and recreation programmes, will be designed to address the challenges of climate administered without regards to race, colour, change and improve the environmental religion, natural origin, age, disability or history of performance of the travel and tourism sector. disability (except where physical or mental abilities Using a science-based approach, EarthCheck is are a bona fide occupational requirement and the used by the world’s leading companies to address individual is not able to perform the essential risk, deliver bottom line efficiencies, maximise the functions of the position even with reasonable guest experience and minimise environmental accommodation), sex (unless gender is a bona fide footprints. For more information about the occupational qualification) or other protected EarthCheck programme, please visit characteristic. www.EarthCheck.org. Based on the EarthCheck 2012 report, Shangri-La has delivered on: • 9.9% reduction in water consumption per guest night as we move towards a 15% reduction by 2015 based on 2010 levels • 12% reduction in energy consumption per guest night from 2011 as we move towards a 20% reduction by 2015 based on 2010 levels • 11.6% CO2 emissions per guest night reduction from 2011 as we move towards a 20% reduction by 2015 based on 2010 levels. Whilst total CO2-e emissions, energy and water consumption increased between 2010 and 2012 (2010 was the first year of benchmarking), guest nights have gone up by 30% and the number of hotels has increased from 64 to 72 (for the purposes of this COP). Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a According to the EarthCheck report, if the Shangriprecautionary approach to environmental La hotels did not experience any change in their challenges; guest night consumption and had remained at 2009 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater levels (the year prior to benchmarking), it is environmental responsibility; and estimated that the group would have consumed a Principle 9: encourage the development and further: diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. • 360,601 t of CO2-e; • 1,742,344,799 mJ of energy; and, • Low temperature laundry and “Green” • 3,510,311 kl of water. housekeeping practices have been put into place to reduce the use of chemicals, water and heat in the Shangri-La continues to monitor and manage laundry systems. property-specific reduction targets as well as • Paperless check-in / check-out systems were support the hotels that perform well. It is introduced during 2012, and these have become noteworthy that while only 45 hotels have standard for all hotels in the future. completed ISO 14001 certification, all other hotels continue to strengthen initiatives in environmental “Sanctuary, Shangri-La’s Care for Nature management systems. Programme” was introduced in 2009, and it aims to make a concerted effort to ensure that biodiversity Shangri-La hotels have shown improvements in conservation and habitat protection is consistent resource management, especially after having across all locations exceptionally rich in biodiversity. introduced technologies that help efficiencies. Some of these include: Properties with “Sanctuary” projects work on an • LED lights in back-of-house areas as well as in individualised project that is further developed, guestrooms, where more than half of the light tracked and monitored to engage stakeholders fittings are installed with long-life low-energy better. The following is a list of “Sanctuary” consumption compact fluorescent projects: lamps. • Shangri-La’s Living Waters Project • In public areas where incandescent lamps are o Shangri-La Hotel, Qingdao used, dimming controls have been installed to vary o Traders Hotel, Shenyang and reduce energy use. • Shangri-La’s Care for Panda Project • Building management systems and timer controls o Shangri-La Hotel, Chengdu shut off the building facade, garden and landscape • Shangri-La’s Reef Care Project lighting automatically at predetermined times. o Shangri-La’s Mactan Resort and Spa, Cebu • At least 95% of Shangri-La hotels have key card o Shangri-La’s Fijian Resort and Spa, Yanuca, Fiji switches in the guestrooms, which automatically • Shangri-La’s Care for Nature Project switch off all lighting, set the fan speed to the lowest o Shangri-La Rasa Sentosa Resort and Spa, setting and set the thermostat to the energy-saving Singapore mode when guests remove the key card from the o Shangri-La’s Boracay Resort and Spa, Philippines key card slot. • Shangri-La’s Dugong Care Project • Solar energy is available in some hotels where hot o Shangri-La’s Tanjung Aru Resort and Spa, Kota water facilities are churned from power generated Kinabalu by solar panels. • Shangri-La’s Turtle Care Project • Glass water bottling is available in most resorts to o Shangri-La’s Villingili Resort and Spa, Maldives eliminate adding plastics to landfill-bound waste, o Shangri-La’s Rasa Sayang Resort and Spa, especially in remote / island locations. Penang / Golden Sands • Shangri-La complies with strict air quality Resort, Penang guidelines, which cover the use of low-volatile • Shangri-La’s Orang-Utan Care Project organic compounds. Hotels must comply with o Shangri-La’s Rasa Ria Resort and Spa, Kota local indoor air quality regulations and are Kinabalu encouraged to follow low-VOC emission standards. Eco centres in four resorts enhance the experience Shangri-La Hotel, Qingdao and Traders Hotel, of learning about the natural environment. Shenyang have launched “Sanctuary, Shangri-La’s Shangri-La’s Fijian Resort and Spa, Yanuca, Fiji Living Waters Project.” Both hotels have maintains the Marine Education Centre, which not committed to raising awareness on water issues, as only serves as an exhibit area of underwater the surrounding communities face a looming water species but also as an assembly point for guest crisis. Using best practices in water management, activities such as mangrove planting, fish house Shangri-La Hotel, Qingdao has commenced building and coral tray planting. At Shangri-La’s working with a rural community in order to secure a Rasa Sayang Resort and Spa, Penang, the Eco safe and reliable potable water supply. Traders Centre sits in a breezy hut of exhibit information Hotel, Shenyang has invested in an educational showcasing the value of turtles in the ecosystem programme developed with the local environmental and the rest of the natural environment in Penang. protection agency to target schoolchildren in At Shangri La’s Boracay Resort and Spa, particular to raise awareness of water issues. Philippines, the Eco Centre may be modest in size, but it offers a wealth of learning material, from By the end of 2012, the “Sanctuary, Shangri-La’s multimedia entertainment to replicas of various Care for Panda Project” was launched at Shangriisland species that need protection. Lastly, at La Hotel, Chengdu. This flagship project supports Shangri-La’s Villingili Resort and Spa, Maldives, the the brand-new Du Jiangyan Panda Centre due to Eco Centre is strategically located to entice every open in mid 2013. Shangri-La will support the guest to learn not only about the underwater bounty development of bamboo plantations and panda surrounding the island, but, more importantly, also feeding facilities. Information on all “Sanctuary, about all the environmental conditions that make Shangri-La’s Care for Nature” projects can be found the Maldives a pristine yet delicate ecotourism at http://www.shangri-la.com/corporate/aboutdestination. us/corporate-social-responsibility/csrprojects/sanctuary/ and on the individual hotel In 2012, “Sanctuary, Shangri-La’s Care for Nature websites. Project” was launched in various city hotels in China to encourage the protection of habitats. ShangriLa Hotel, Xian and Golden Flower Hotel, Xian have launched “Sanctuary, Shangri-La’s Care for Nature Project” to work with the Zhouzhi Nature Reserve located in the Qinling Mountains. The Qinling region is one of the areas with the richest biodiversity in China, and is home to the most wellknown species of the giant panda and the golden monkey. The hotels have invested in the muchneeded upgrading of the patrolling facilities to enable the nature reserve staff to better monitor Anti-Corruption Principles species count and security. The project will also Principle 10: Businesses should work support alternative livelihood opportunities in the against corruption in all its forms, surrounding communities, including beekeeping and including extortion and bribery. Ayurvedic herb farming. Shangri-La maintains a steadfast commitment to ethical and governance standards. While the Code of Conduct governs the behaviour of all our As this is our first COP, Shangri-La will ensure that colleagues, the Shangri-La Supplier Code of it meets its yearly communication on progress to the Conduct echoes the same principles and ensures Global Compact and sets out the progress that we responsible practices, including a policy of zero are making in implementing the 10 principles into tolerance of practices such as bribery or corruption. our overall functions and performance. Shangri-La is still working on strengthening its overall Ethics and Governance Campaign, which will include a review of policies and standards, a gap analysis in training and enforcement measures and a movement to revise and reissue policies in compliance with international standards such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Summary Shangri-La has pledged its commitment to conform, promote and integrate the Global Compact into its management strategy and day-to-day operations.
