Bristol-Myers Squibb U.N. Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 Bristol-Myers Squibb is a participant of the United Nations Global Compact, which is the world’s largest corporate citizenship and sustainability initiative. To Our Stakeholders I am pleased to submit Bristol-Myers Squibb’s third annual Communication on Progress report. We remain firmly committed to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. In fact, the principles are fully aligned with our company Mission and Commitment, which place a premium on corporate citizenship, sustainability, ethics and the fair and equitable treatment of all people. Through this annual Communication on Progress, we describe the important ways in which we put the Global Compact principles into practice over the past year. This information will also be shared with our stakeholders whenever and wherever appropriate. Bristol-Myers Squibb is a company rooted in a firm commitment to the highest standards of business integrity. We therefore not only embrace the values of the United Nations Global Compact. We live them. Sincerely, Lamberto Andreotti Chief Executive Officer Introduction Bristol-Myers Squibb joined the U.N. Global Compact in December 2010 and this year we further integrated its principles encompassing Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption across our company. Our commitment to the U.N. Global Compact is available to all employees and externally to the public on our company website. We continue to focus on opportunities for improvement. As a founding member of the Pharmaceutical Health Care Working Group, we collaborated with Business for Social Responsibility to develop and endorse the Guiding Principles on Access to Healthcare, which include a principle on respecting human rights. We established the annual CEO Inspirational Integrity Award open to all employees globally. We continued to provide anti-bribery training in addition to our biennial Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics training. Annual Earth Day celebrations were held at more than 50 global sites, as part of our Go Green initiative to engage employees to take individual and collective action to protect the environment. Bristol-Myers Squibb funded a Center for Green Schools Fellowship through which the U.S. Green Building Council placed a Fellow at the New Jersey School Boards Association. The Fellow will help New Jersey School districts create healthier, more sustainable learning environments by working with leaders to provide direction, training and resources toward greening school buildings. We currently serve as Co-Chair of the American Chemical Society Green Chemistry Pharmaceutical Roundtable and have published green chemistry practices to support the development of more environmentally friendly technologies. We issued a mid-term progress report on our Sustainability 2015 Goals, which is available on-line to our employees and the public. The Bristol-Myers Squibb sustainability website is a GRI-based report. We received the GRI G3 Application Level Check confirming fulfillment of the Level B+ content requirements. Bureau Veritas North America conducted an independent assurance of select environmental data reported in our corporate sustainability report, including greenhouse gas emissions, energy and water use. We reported our CO2 emissions and water use through the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and achieved a position on the CDP S&P 500 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index. We also completed the CDP supply survey with selected key suppliers. The company continued its collaboration as a board member of the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain Initiative, which promotes similar Principles for Responsible Supply Chain Management among our suppliers. We worked with our security contractors in North America and Europe to confirm that their ethics policies or codes of conduct include a statement that addresses the protection of human rights. Our chief executive officer established a Diversity Council that focuses on global diversity and employee inclusion. In 2013, the company was ranked among the “Top 50 Companies for Diversity” by DiversityInc. Bristol-Myers Squibb also achieved a top 10 ranking in Corporate Responsibility magazine’s “100 Best Corporate Citizens” for the 5th consecutive year. The Company published a Supplier Diversity brochure communicating our commitment and policy to actively seek to include small and diverse suppliers in our strategic sourcing and procurement processes. Our website contains additional information about our policies, goals and progress relevant to the U.N. Global Compact, as well as our Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility programs. These resources include our Sustainability Report, which follows the format of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), with measurement of outcomes related to various performance indicators and targets. Below is a list of the U.N. Global Compact principles and a table that identifies the relevant content from our website. Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Bristol-Myers Squibb Website References Human Labor Environment AntiRights Corruption Responsibility Message from CEO Our Mission and Commitment Our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics Our Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics for Third Parties Sustainability Report GRI Index Workplace Policies Our Suppliers Diversity & Inclusion Social Progress Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation Sustainability 2015 Goals Achievements Our Employees Management Approach Environment, Health and Safety Policy Management Systems Sustainability Goals and Key Indicators Environmental Performance Go Green Corporate Governance Our Compliance and Ethics Code of Conduct for U.S. Pharmaceuticals Counterfeit Drugs Human Rights Policy Human Rights Statement California Transparency in Supply Chains Act
