CSR Report Corporate Social Responsibility Report MHI Social and Detailed Environmental Report Version Creed 1. We strongly believe that the customer comes first and that we are obligated to be an innovative partner to society. 2. We base our activities on honesty, harmony, and a clear distinction between public and private life. 3. We shall strive for innovative management and technological development from an international perspective. Reason for Instituting the Creed (Issued June 1, 1970) In Japan there are many enterprises with their own “creeds” company, the mental attitude of employees, and the future which simply represent their management concept. directions of the company. Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. has a creed of this The reason for instituting the present creed is so that all type, also. It was instituted in 1970 on the basis of the policy of us can call to mind our one hundred years of tradition and advocated by Koyata Iwasaki, president of Mitsubishi Goshi strive for further development in the future. Kaisha in the 1920s, to indicate the essential attitude of the Editorial Policy MHI uses its website for the comprehensive disclosure of Scope of this Report information related to the MHI Group’s CSR initiatives. MHI Target organization: also produces a CSR Report digest version (brochure) to The information contained in this report pertains to Mitsubishi succinctly convey the activities that are the target of great Heavy Industries, Ltd. and its Group companies (117 in Japan interest from society and are also highly important to MHI. and 119 overseas). Some articles, however, only include deIn 2012, MHI made great efforts towards activities and scriptions of MHI’s activities. reports with a greater awareness of dialogues with stakeholders. Both the website and the brochure included oneTarget period: on-one interviews between managers and outside experts, From April 1, 2011 to March 31, 2012 dialogues with outside experts to formulate the “MHI (includes information on some activities after March 31, 2012) Environmental Vision 2030,” and initiatives related to continuing support for reconstruction after the Great East Japan Earthquake. Guidelines and Other Reference Material In addition, MHI also reports on its representative ef• Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) forts with the aim of resolving issues on a global scale that “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1 version)” are in line with the three themes of the CSR Action Guidelines. • Japanese Ministry of the Environment “Environmental Reporting Our website contains detailed information—focusing Guidelines (2007 edition)” on “Management,” the “Environmental Report,” and the • ISO 26000 “Social Contributions Report”—that is not included in the NOTE: A “Guideline Comparison List” will be posted on our website. brochure. In the future we will continue to improve these reports in response to your feedback. Date of Issuance June 2012 (previous issue: June 2011) Structure of CSR information disclosure Recent efforts are included under “CSR” on the MHI website. High MHI CSR activity reports Detailed version (website) Stakeholder interest Disclaimer In addition to objective information on the past and present status of Digest version (brochure) Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. and its Group companies, this report also URL contains plans, perspectives and forecasts based on business plans and http://www.mhi.co.jp/en/csr/ other materials. These forecasts are made using information available at the time of publication and therefore the actual outcome of future business activities may differ from these forecasts. Importance for MHI High 1 Detailed Version MHI Social and Environmental Report Corporate Social Responsibility Report C O N T E N T S Dialogue 3 MHI’s CSR as a manufacturer with operations of global scale Economist Yoko Takeda and President and CEO Hideaki Omiya MHI Environmental Vision 2030 .................................................................. 7 Dialogues with Stakeholders ........................................................................ 9 Approach to Environmental and Energy Technologies In Line with MHI’s “Environment Vision 2030” Dialogue: In this section, economist Yoko Takeda CSR of the MHI Group ............................................................................................ 11 and MHI President and CEO Hideaki Omiya discuss global CSR Special Feature Close ties with the Earth ............................................................................. 13 Providing energy and environmental solutions responding to regional issues worldwide Close ties with Society ................................................................................. 17 Helping resolve the world’s food problems through construction of fertilizer plants Dialogues with Stakeholders: This section contains summaries of dialogues with three outside experts on the theme of the MHI Environmental Vision 2030 A bridge to the next Generation ........................................................... 21 Creating model “smart communities” for the future of people everywhere Continuing Support of Disaster Recovery Efforts ....................................... 25 We continue to support the restoration of social infrastructure and revitalization of the disaster region Overview of the MHI Group .................................................................................. 27 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Management ............................................................................................................... 35 Special Feature Close ties with the Earth: Corporate Governance........................................................................................... 36 This feature introduces our red thermal power Promotion of CSR ................................................................................................... 39 plant projects in India and China, which help to resolve environmental and energy-related issues. Compliance ............................................................................................................... 45 Environmental Report ............................................................................................. 57 Environmental Management ................................................................................ 58 Targets and Progress ............................................................................................ 66 Material Balance....................................................................................................... 69 Environmental Accounting .................................................................................... 70 Countermeasures against Global Warming ..................................................... 72 Resource Conservation, Waste Management and Water Resources........ 81 Management of Chemical Substances ............................................................. 86 Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact .............. 90 Special Feature Close ties with Society: This section introduces efforts in Indonesia related to the Social Contributions Report ................................................................................. 96 fertilizer plant business that contributes to the resolution of the world’s food problems. Commitment to Our Customers ......................................................................... 97 Commitment to Our Shareholders and Investors ....................................... 106 Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers) .................................... 110 Commitment to Our Employees ...................................................................... 114 Social Contribution Activities ............................................................................ 125 CSR Action Plans .................................................................................................... 137 Recognition from Society .................................................................................... 140 Progress toward a Sustainable Society ........................................................ 145 Main Third-party Opinions on Past CSR Reports and Our Responses .... 149 Third-Party Opinions, Acting on Third-Party Opinions ............................ 151 Special Feature A bridge to the next GRI Guideline Comparison List ......................................................................... 154 Generation: Here, we introduce demonstration testing in Japan and Spain as efforts to realize CSR-Related Data .................................................................................................. 163 “smart communities.” Corporate Design (Cover) With the goal of building a brand image for the group, MHI has determined a new corporate design. The design features the Global Arch that evokes an image of “Our Technologies, Your Tomorrow,” and MHI Blue has been newly adopted as the corporate color. 2 Dialogue Toward resolution of energy and environmental issues Contributing to realization of a sustainable society through wide-ranging products and technologies Takeda: How to achieve economic growth and simultaneously protect the environment, in order to realize a sustainable society, is becoming an issue all over the world. To begin, I would like to ask you what MHI is doing toward resolving the world’s energy and environmental problems. Omiya: Among the myriad issues facing the world today, we believe energy and environmental issues are particularly J-Series gas turbine important. In our business plan released this April, for example, we made expansion of our energy and environrelating to energy and the environment: from making the power mental business operations a core strategy. MHI possesses needed, effectively storing it, competently circulating it, the complete spectrum of products and technologies efficiently using it, and aggressively exploring for new MHI’s CSR as a manufacturer with operations of global scale How should MHI contribute to the realization of a sustainable society through its global manufacturing operations? To answer this question, MHI President and CEO Hideaki Omiya discussed matters with Yoko Takeda, Chief Economist at Mitsubishi Research Institute, and a proactive voice representing the private sector in initiating governmental proposals. Hideaki Omiya President and CEO, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. After joining MHI in 1969, Hideaki Omiya was long involved in aircraft development, and in 1999 he became Deputy General Manager of the Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works. He subsequently served as Director, Executive Vice President and General Manager of the Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Headquarters, and in April 2007 he was appointed Director and Senior Executive Vice President in charge of Production System Innovation Planning. He became President and CEO in April 2008, making this his fifth year in the position. 3 resources conducted in harmony with the well-being of our the top share — of all power produced by geothermal planet and of mankind. energy worldwide. In the area of power generation, which is most basic to In geothermal plants, the enormous heat energy from the energy issue, today MHI is providing the world with a magma deep below the surface of the Earth is used to variety of power plants capable of making efficient use of drive a turbine — and turbines are an area where we have our finite energy resources while also meeting environmenoutstanding technological strength built up over many tal demands. Our GTCC power plants — GTCC standing for years. Geothermal power generation also requires proper “gas turbine combined cycle” — incorporate the company’s removal or treatment of the impurities and noxious gases “J-Series” gas turbines, which have achieved the world’s contained in the hot water found underground — and highest level of power generation efficiency. Our IGCC through the years we have made steady progress in plants — IGCC being “integrated gasification combined technological developments of that sort, in addition to cycle” — deliver 20% higher generation efficiency than improving the performance, economy and reliability of conventional coal-fired thermal power plants. geothermal systems. Takeda: From a long-term perspective, concerns are rife In the years ahead, we hope to provide geothermal about the eventual depletion of our main energy resources power generation facilities to regions where such resources today: fossil fuels. are abundant — North America, Europe, Southeast Asia — Omiya: At MHI we also offer a range of power generation as well as in places where geothermal development has so systems that make no use of fossil fuels but instead use far lagged, such as Africa and South America. renewable energies: nuclear power plants, for example, and plants that run on wind, geothermal or hydro power. This breadth of available options is another defining trait of our energy and environmental business operations. Takeda: Among the options you just mentioned, geothermal power is attracting particular attention today. With geothermal generation, CO2 emissions are extremely low and power supply can remain stable, since operations aren’t affected by weather conditions. Moves to deregulate this sector are underway here in Japan, and interest is increasing all around the world. Omiya: MHI has been involved in geothermal generation for more than 40 years, and to date we have constructed a total of 100 power generating facilities of this kind in 13 countries. Together they account for roughly 25% — Hellisheidi geothermal power plant (Iceland) Yoko Takeda Chief Economist, Research Center For Policy And Economy Mitsubishi Research Institute, Inc. Yoko Takeda completed a Masters Degree in Public Policy at Georgetown University’s Graduate School of Arts and Sciences. In 1994 she joined the Bank of Japan, where she was involved in work relating to overseas economic research, exchange equalization operations, analysis of domestic and overseas financial markets, etc. She joined the Mitsubishi Research Institute, Inc. in 2009 and then became a Chief Economist in 2012. 4 Dialogue People Mover/Light Rail Transit and so on. I believe you have also been involved in production of parts for the Boeing 787, which was frequently in the news last year. Omiya: Yes, we were in charge of producing the main wings for the Boeing 787, the world’s first large passenger plane to adopt wings made from composite materials. Our CI statement at MHI is “Our Technologies, Your Tomorrow.” From the perspective of the society’s future, energy and environmental issues are important, of course; but there are also many other issues that have to be addressed in order to realize a sustainable society. Takeda: Food and water shortages on global scale are another issue of great concern as populations continue to increase and the emerging nations experience economic growth. What business developments is MHI pursuing in these areas? Omiya: We offer large-scale desalination plants that can convert seawater to potable water, and we also possess comprehensive water treatment technologies — for example for treating waste water, recycling water and so on. We are also contributing to resolving global food problems through the construction of highly efficient large-scale fertilizer plants. Takeda: That’s a considerable portfolio. I imagine only a Also focusing on energy savings in our few companies anywhere are involved in such a broad products and production processes range of social infrastructure businesses. Takeda: Another important factor in resolving energy and environmental issues is curbing energy consumption. What Developing “smart communities” initiatives is MHI taking in this regard? integrating technologies accumulated Omiya: One initiative is making the products we provide through many years more energy-efficient. We are making every effort we can to Omiya: Recently, we took important steps to provide new pursue optimal energy efficiency in all our product categosolutions capable of contributing to issues of global scale ries, in order to ease their burden on the environment. In the through total integration of our abundant portfolio of area of motor vehicles, for example, which are so indispensproducts and technologies. In January of this year we set up able to our lives, the company’s turbochargers and lightera new Engineering Headquarters integrating our in-house weight hollow-head valves are contributing to improved systems handling EPC: engineering, procurement and engine efficiency. Many other products — OLED (Organic construction. Our intent is to bring together all our technoLight-Emitting Diode) lighting and room air conditioners, logical and project management strengths developed for instance — are also contributing to energy savings in through our experience in large-scale infrastructure works everyday life. — plant construction projects, high-speed railway systems Another area into which we are directing great effort is and such — to enable us to take up challenges involving reducing CO2 emissions from our production processes. In even larger-scale projects. keeping with the Kyoto Protocol, we set a target to reduce Takeda: Specifically, what areas are you intending to our CO2 emissions by an average 6% from the level of 1990 focus on? in the five years from 2008 to 2012. That translates to an Omiya: “Smart communities,” for one. As cities in the average yearly emission limit of 443,000 tons — and in 2011 emerging nations undergo sharp population increases as we reduced our emissions down to 437,000 tons. Today we well as ever greater concentration of their populations, continue to carry out a planned program toward achieving problems relating to shortages of energy and water our target, for example by upgrading the production resources, traffic congestion, increased waste and so forth facilities and air-conditioning systems at all our bases of are becoming increasingly serious. In order to resolve such operation. compound problems, it is necessary to consider what form Takeda: As I understand, MHI is in the process of formulattomorrow’s cities should take from various angles, and then ing an “Environmental Vision.” develop the appropriate infrastructure paying heed to Omiya: We are calling it the “MHI Environmental Vision people’s lifestyles as a whole. 2030,” but it sets out not just our philosophy concerning the environment but also our commitment to contribute to sustainable social development through our products, technologies and total solutions, including other aspects of social infrastructure. Contributing to improvement of social infrastructures worldwide Helping to resolve problems of global scale: in transportation, traffic, and food and water Takeda: As you have indicated, MHI has an extremely wide variety of products and technologies in areas other than energy and the environment: aircraft, ships, Automated Smart community demonstration testing, Keihanna 5 Takeda: In carrying out smart community projects, another necessity is to coordinate companies that have special know-how across a diverse spectrum. In other words you need to have the ability to manage such projects integrally, don’t you? Omiya: Yes, and at MHI we have already served in that kind of coordinating role in smart community demonstration projects at various locations around the world: in Japan, the project in the Keihanna region; and other projects in Spain and the United Arab Emirates. Going forward we hope to apply what we have learned through these projects to build the smart cities of tomorrow all over the world. Takeda: Today the future of the global economy is very opaque. I hold high hopes for MHI’s current initiatives, but in terms of profitability, wouldn’t you agree that the picture is severe in some respects? Omiya: As far as profitability is concerned, smart communities, as a business, still have a long way to go. Nevertheless, achieving a sustainable society is a task that must be addressed squarely by all mankind, and we believe that by steadily developing the products and technologies that will contribute to that end, we will enhance our corporate value in the mediumand long-term contexts. trouble this caused to our customers and to many others, MHI’s social responsibility and I assure you measures to prevent any such reoccurrence will continue to be taken. as a manufacturer We believe that nothing is more important to ensuring safety and quality than the awareness of our employees: The greatest mission: to ensure safety how much each and every employee takes pains to ensure and quality safety and quality. In April of this year we increased the Takeda: As an ordinary citizen, other major concerns are video presentations and exhibited items in our Accident product safety and quality. Exhibit and Materials Room within the Technical Training Omiya: It goes without saying, as a manufacturer our most Center in Nagoya, upgrading this facility so that it can more important social responsibility is to ensure the safety of our vividly convey the tragedy that accidents cause and the products. Especially in the wake of the Great East Japan tension experienced at accident sites. Going forward we will Earthquake last year we have become all the more aware of continue to strengthen and fully implement education the public’s demand for safe, secure, quality products. relating to safety and quality, in order to raise awareness in The earthquake caused infrastructural damage to all our employees even further. thermal power generating facilities we had delivered, and we have done everything within our capability to restore Pursuing CSR globally, always respecting them. After the disaster we also proposed and carried out a regional differences variety of measures to be taken at the PWR (pressurized Takeda: When you undertake business globally as MHI water reactor) nuclear power plants we had delivered to does, I imagine there must be slight differences in how CSR utility customers: not just emergency safety countermeashould be applied in each different region. sures but also stress tests and measures to ensure safety in Omiya: In expanding our business operations overseas, in the medium-to-long term. Also, at TEPCO’s Fukushima many cases we have entered partnerships with local Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, although the reactor there is companies. When doing so, we naturally respect local of a different type from ours, we have contributed to prompt business practices and social norms, and we also have to stabilization through the provision of our technologies pay heed to the surrounding natural environment as well as common to all nuclear plant facilities. to each region’s specific customs and culture. Despite our ongoing efforts of these kinds, last summer At the same time, however, there are also some things we discovered that inappropriate work had been performed we invariably must maintain in every region, in light of global in manufacturing some of our aircraft parts. I would like to standards. Since 2004 MHI has been a participant in the express our deepest apology, again, for the enormous United Nations Global Compact, and as such we work to adhere to the 10 principles set forth in the Compact’s four categories regarding human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Takeda: From your comments today I have gained a good understanding of MHI’s initiatives in CSR through manufacturing. I have high hopes that you will continue to contribute to resolution of issues of global scale in the future. Omiya: Thank you. In the years ahead, MHI will accelerate globalization of its business even further. In returning benefits to all our stakeholders — our customers, shareholders, investors, business partners, local communities and employees — and fulfilling our social responsibilities, we will do all we can to be a company that is representative of our CI statement, “Our Technologies, Your Tomorrow” Accident Exhibit and Materials Room (right: exhibit of actual broken turbine rotor) and provide an assured future for this planet. 6 MHI Environmental Vision 2030 MHI Formulates “Environmental Vision 2030” Objectives behind Formulation of Environmental Vision The MHI Group believes that simultaneous achievement of the 3E’s — energy security, environmental protection and economic growth — is invaluable in order to realize a sustainable future for the earth and all mankind. In June 2012 we formulated the “MHI Environmental Vision 2030” in order to contribute to the realization of the 3E’s — and open the way to a sustainable future — through total solutions incorporating our wide-ranging products and technologies applied on land, at sea, in the air and in space. M H I E n v i r o nmen ta l Vis i o n 2030 Our Technologies, Your Tomorrow The future of our planet rests in the sustained evolution of humankind while caring, with love and responsibility, for all life forms that inhabit it. MHI will continue to be a company indispensable to ensuring that future. S ustaina bility The MHI Group will pursue energy security while carrying forward environmental protection — not only of the earth but of space also — through its ability to develop new technologies and products, to achieve a secure future that is kind to the earth. 7 Achievement of the 3E’s Through Total Solutions Incorporating Company Products and Technologies Space Sea Air Land Promises to Nurture a Secure Future CO2 reduction Resource conservation Energy savings Energy security Easing of environmental load Efficient We will extract power from diverse energy sources with power generation optimal efficiency. Steady We will provide ways to store energy to achieve stable power storage power supplies. Continuous Through technology, we will promote waste-free use of circulation resources and energy. Wise Through energy-saving technology, we will reduce power utilization and fuel usage requirements. Exploration Using diverse measurement and research devices, we will for tomorrow probe ways for mankind and the earth to coexist in harmony. Promotion of environmentally conscious activities Throughout its Group wide production activities, MHI will pursue reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, waste generation, and emissions of chemical substances. Also, every effort will be made to use water resources efficiently. CCS : Carbon Capture and Storage APM : Automated People Mover LRT : Light Rail Transit MRJ : Mitsubishi Regional Jet Specific product and technology targets are described on the company’s website: http://www.mhi.co.jp/en/csr/vision2030/ 8 Dialogues with Stakeholders Dialogue with Norio Fukao (February 27, 2012) Dialogue with Setsu Mori (March 21, 2012) Dialogue with Mariko Kawaguchi (March 8, 2012) Approach to Environmental and Energy Technologies In Line with MHI’s “Environment Vision 2030” In February and March 2012 MHI invited three outside experts to its Head Office to partake in dialogues with members of the Corporate Social Responsibility Dept. and the Sustainability Energy & Environment Strategic Planning Dept. Here we introduce a summary of the valuable opinions expressed by these experts towards our “Environment Vision 2030,” along with MHI’s views on the points they brought up. MHI participants: Masaya Nakagawa, Chief Engineer, Sustainability Energy & Environment Strategic Planning Dept., Engineering Headquarters; Makoto Sanada, (then) General Manager of Corporate Social Responsibility Dept., Presidential Administration Office; Shogo Ishii, Deputy General Manager of Corporate Social Responsibility Dept., Presidential Administration Office; Ryoichi Asano, (then) Manager, Corporate Social Responsibility Dept., Presidential Administration Office and Manager, Environmental Management Section, General Affairs Dept. The Stakeholder’s View 1 I would like to see MHI make contributions possible in its position as a company that supports global infrastructures. What I would like to see is for MHI, a company that provides Norio Fukao infrastructures worldwide, to turn its attention also to environProfessor and Director of mental restoration business. I believe that if, along with providPublicity Strategy Headquarters, ing products, the company were able to advance the restoraNagasaki University tion of the natural environment damaged by development, it Profile: Joined Nikkei Business Publications, Inc. in April 1983, where could serve as a proposal for a new way of conducting he served as a reporter for “Nikkei infrastructure business without destroying the environment. Business,” Assistant Editor of “Nikkei Wellness,” Editor-in-Chief of “Nikkei I also hope MHI will instill a greater awareness of environPC21” and Editor-in-Chief of “Nikkei mental issues in the developing nations. Instead of seeing the Ecology” before taking his current position at Nagasaki University. countries where it operates merely as markets for its products, MHI should provide education in environmental matters to countries where it operates, rather than simply chasing profits those countries, to simultaneously cultivate human resources in the immediate term, trust in MHI should grow worldwide. who will protect the environment. This I believe is a contribution My impression of MHI is that of a company that seeks to that can be made precisely because MHI is a company that develop technologies at the very forefront. Going forward, exports infrastructures globally. If today’s children take the lead instead of only adding continual improvements to the technoloin the future, as adults, in using products with outstanding gies it now possesses, I would like to see MHI continuously environmental performance, this should also contribute to the pursuing breakthroughs leveraging various means: for company’s development. Also, in pursuing global business example, integration of the technologies of its various business expansion, by defining and implementing how to contribute to the segments as indicated in its “Environment Vision 2030.” MHI’s View 1 We will target breakthroughs toward resolving global environmental issues. “Environmental restoration” is extremely difficult, we think, from setting down roots in the countries we deal with is an extremely both the technological and business standpoints, but there is important issue, from both the environmental and social indeed an aspect of creating new infrastructure to it, so for aspects. We take a positive view toward the great expectations MHI, a company that provides infrastructures globally, this is held of us, and we will move ahead with a wide array of perhaps an area we should focus on in the future. initiatives targeting epoch-making breakthroughs aimed at We also believe that in carrying globalization forward, resolving global environmental issues. 9 The Stakeholder’s View 2 I would like to see MHI pursue manufacturing in harmony with natural cycles, true to the traditional Japanese way. Nowadays whenever mention is made of environmental issues, Mariko Kawaguchi we tend to think of energy, but inherently I think problems (then) Head of ESG Research relating to the environment come from human interference of Department, Daiwa Institute of Research the earth’s natural cycles. Humans developed their civilizations in order to protect themselves from natural threats and Profile: Joined Daiwa Securities in 1986. Subsequently belonged to live enriched lives. Energy is an indispensable factor in this, Corporate Research Dept. at Daiwa Institute of Research, then became and finding solutions to that end is very important. In MHI’s General Manager in charge of CSR at “Environment Vision 2030,” priority I believe is accorded to Daiwa Securities Group Inc. In April 2012, became Junior Manager of the creation and effective use of energy; but I would suggest Research Headquarters at Daiwa that inherently what should come first is how to recycle Institute of Research. materials. What I would like to see MHI do is to pursue manucontinuous changes as deemed appropriate. facturing that is true to the traditional Japanese way — manuAlso, going forward what will become even more imporfacturing in harmonious coexistence with the natural environtant than energy is the issue of water. Japan is blessed with ment, based on this nation’s long tradition of a sustainable, abundant water resources; but on global scale water cycle-conscious lifestyle and the wisdom of our forefathers, shortages resulting from such factors as population growth, tailored as necessary by enhancements to today’s already economic development and global warming are becoming good technologies. increasingly serious. A major topic to address in the future will As for the “Environment Vision 2030,” from the perspective be the establishment of cycle-based technologies and knowof making ongoing improvements in response to future trends how for treating water safely, using it effectively and ensuring in global issues and changes in people’s awareness, I would freedom from worries about water shortages, in order to like to see subsequent ver2 and ver3 of the vision, making maintain the richness in our lives. MHI’s View 2 We will strive to develop water-related and other technologies to enable coexistence between man and nature. To respond to diverse needs concerning energy and the Management Department was launched within the Engineering environment — such as creating a society that coexists with Headquarters to enable us to provide comprehensive water natural cycles, the issue of water shortages, etc. — MHI will treatment technologies possessed by MHI Group companies: burnish its individual products and technologies and also for example, technologies in desalination, waste water and combine them into total solutions to be provided in response to sludge treatment, recycled water, etc. What we hope to do is social needs. Particularly with reference to problems surroundcommence various new initiatives now that our “Environment ing water, in January 2012 a Water Solution Project Vision 2030” has been set in place. The Stakeholder’s View 3 I would like to see MHI state targets based on backcasting and its peak oil assessment. Ours is a time of great uncertainty, with an unknown future Setsu Mori awaiting us in terms of both the environment and energy. In Editor-in-Chief of “alterna,” a that respect I think society holds high expectations toward business information magazine about the environment and CSR MHI’s products and technologies introduced in its Profile: Starting in 1998, served as “Environment Vision 2030.” Against that backdrop I think the head of Nihon Keizai Shimbun’s Los company’s vision would be conveyed even more clearly if there Angeles bureau. In 2002 left that position and launched the NPO United were specific numerical targets extracted through a “backcastFeature Press (ufp). ing” approach, with MHI defining what kind of future it foresees in the areas of the global environment and energy and then forging a plan of action for arriving at that future. It’s extremely important, in terms of both communication Also, what is MHI’s understanding regarding peak oil, the and risk management, for MHI to make it widely known, both time when global oil production volume will peak out and begin internally and externally, how the company is taking initiatives in to decline? It’s only 200 years since the Industrial Revolution all energy areas, from renewable energies to nuclear power. got under way, yet already oil is on the verge of depletion. Furthermore, I think that if, as a manufacturer involved in That’s why I think it’s important not just to have a medium-term various power generation methods, the company indicated perspective but also a long-range view — 30, 50 or even 100 clearly how each of the different methods is superior or inferior, years forward. Only then will we be able to address the it would garner positive reviews internally and externally with question of what legacy we can leave to our children and respect to information disclosure. grandchildren who will inhabit the Earth at that time. MHI’s View 3 Our role is to make contributions leveraging our total solutions technologies. The world is moving in very complex ways, making it extremely 200 years after the Industrial Revolution. Fossil fuels also serve as raw difficult to envision with any degree of specificity what the materials for chemical products, and to ensure their sustained future holds, especially in terms of infrastructure and energy. production in the future it will become increasingly important to make It’s said that if energy consumption continues at the current appropriate use of non-fossil fuels for power generation. At MHI we pace, during the 21st century 5 to 8 times the amount of energy will hope to contribute through the provision of a broad range of be consumed compared with what was consumed during the first products, technologies and solutions, including renewable energies. 10 CSR of the MHI Group / CSR concepts and actions CSR of the MHI Group CSR Concepts and Actions MHI Group CSR Action Guidelines (formulated July 2007) Promoting CSR through manufacturing as an innovative partner to society In accordance with the spirit of our creed, the MHI Group—as a manufacturing corporation that contributes to societal progress through the business of the company—provides equipment related to energy conservation and environmental preservation as well as social infrastructure products and technologies to the world. In this way MHI contributes to resolving issues on a global scale. MHI believes the basis of corporate social responsibility (CSR) is to engage in business activities that take its diverse range of stakeholders into consideration and return the profit we have obtained to all stakeholders in an optimum fashion while at the same time providing excellent technologies and products to realize a certain future for people and the planet. 11 CSR of the MHI Group / CSR concepts and actions Undertaking ISO 26000-Focused Initiatives The MHI Group has broadened its CSR program from the domestic front to the global stage. From fiscal 2011, we began according priority to ISO 26000, which provides international guidelines on the social responsibilities of organizations. In fiscal 2011, we engaged in dialogue with experts who could be helpful with certain important initiatives while contributing to communities, providing ongoing assistance to disaster-hit areas, and otherwise involving ourselves with communities. We will continue to draw on ISO 26000 in soliciting stakeholder participation as we identify important initiatives for the entire value chain and pursue CSR management based on global standards. The seven core subjects of ISO 26000, and MHI’s main efforts 1. Organizational governance 5. Fair operating practices Organizational governance Anti-corruption / Responsible political involvement / Fair Strengthening corporate governance (pp. 36-38) competition / Promoting social responsibility in the value chain / Respect for property rights Thorough compliance (pp. 45-56) 2. Human rights Consistently fair transactions (p. 110 ) Due diligence / Human rights risk situations / Avoidance of complicity / Resolving grievances / Discrimination and 6. Consumer issues vulnerable groups / Civil and political rights / Economic, social and cultural rights / Fundamental principles and (responsibility towards customers) rights at work Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair Promoting increased awareness of human rights (p. 121) contractual practices / Protecting consumers’ health and Promoting CSR procurement (pp. 111-112) safety / Sustainable consumption / Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute resolution / Consumer data protection and privacy / Access to essential services 3. Labour practices / Education and awareness Employment and employment relationships / Conditions of Commitment to our customers (pp. 97-105) work and social protection / Social dialogue / Health and safety at work / Human development and training in the workplace 7. Community involvement and development Various employee-related initiatives (pp. 114-124) Community involvement / Education and culture / Employment creation and skills development / Technology development and access / Wealth and income creation / 4. The environment Health / Social investment Prevention of pollution / Sustainable resource use / Climate Activities by employees to contribute to local communichange mitigation and adaptation / Protection of the ties and society (pp. 16, 20, 24) environment, biodiversity and restoration of natural habitats Efforts to realize the Smart Community (pp. 21-23) MHI Environmental Vision 2030 (pp. 7-8) Continual support for the areas affected by the Great Provision of energy and environmental solutions (pp. 13-15) East Japan Earthquake (pp. 25-26) Environmental Report (pp. 58-89) Promoting social contribution activities in a wide range Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental elds (pp. 125-136) Impact (pp. 90-95) 12 Special Feature Providing energy and environmental 1 solutions responding to regional issues worldwide MHI responding to global energy and environmental issues through a broad Realization spectrum of products and technologies Thermal of the 3E’s Today, amid growing concerns about depletion of oil and other fossil fuels, coupled with issues raised by the disastrous events at TEPCO’s Nuclear Environment Fukushima No.1 nuclear power plant in March 2011, energy problems are Energy Economy again in the spotlight all around the world. In particular, swift measures are being called for to cope with dramatically expanding energy demand in Geothermal Explore China, India and other emerging economies that are now marking robust economic growth, and with accompanying increases in CO2 emissions. In response to these issues, today MHI is providing a wide array Wind Make Power of energy products and technologies: for example, for generating power not only from traditional fossil and nuclear fuels, but also from renewable energy sources such as geothermal and wind power and Use Solar biomass, and lithium-ion rechargeable batteries for storing generated Store electricity. Through provision of products and technologies matching Circulate the needs of each nation or region, each of which has its own energy Hydropower policies and resource procurement situations, we are contributing to the resolution of energy and environmental issues worldwide. Biomass Close ties with the Earth Safeguard an abundantly green Earth through environmental technologies and environmental awareness orders for total 28 gas turbines for natural-gas-fired gas China turbine combined cycle (GTCC) power plants. Deliveries are in progress. Contributing to China’s pursuit of energy shift Provision of high-efficiency gas turbines and technologies Proposal of a power generation In recent years China, a system meeting the Beijing area’s country marking economic energy situation growth at an astonishing In April 2010 DEC and DTC received an order from pace, has been aggresHuaneng Beijing Co-generation Power Co., Ltd., a group sively promoting the company of Huaneng Power International, Inc. (HPI), introduction of natural gas China’s largest power provider, for a GTCC plant to be energy to respond to its constructed near Beijing. The order resulted from a new rapidly expanding energy system proposal put forward by MHI for coping with demand and to the accomMitsubishi Heavy Industries Dongfang Beijing’s energy picture. panying problems involvGas Turbine (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. In winter months in Beijing, when temperatures ing global warming. At the same time China is also proaccan drop below -10°C, a district heating system is tively pursuing technology transfers from beyond its borders adopted. The system’s central heat supply network, in a quest to achieve domestic production of power the world’s largest, covers an area of 80 million square generation equipment and plants fired by natural gas. meters in which it supplies a heat source to homes To respond to these energy issues and policy initiatives and businesses. Extraction steam from a steam in China, in 2003 MHI concluded a Technology License turbine is utilized for this heat supply, but because Agreement on the transfer of the MHI’s large-scale gas the existing system has not provided steam heat in turbine manufacturing technology with Dongfang Electric sufficient volumes, boilers have been installed throughCorporation (DEC) and Dongfang Turbine Co., Ltd. (DTC), out the city to reheat the which is under DEC’s corporate umbrella, group of China’s steam before supplying “big three” heavy electrical machinery manufacturers. In it to users. However, 2004 MHI and DTC jointly established Mitsubishi Heavy since these boilers are Industries Dongfang Gas Turbine (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. fired primarily using coal, (MHI-DGT) and launched local production and after-sale environmental issues servicing of combustors and other core components of gas arising from CO2 turbines. As of April 2012, MHI and DEC/DTC have taken emissions and general air 13 pollution have become Approx. 2% higher increasingly serious. power generation efficiency Expectations of MHI with adoption of To alleviate this situation, the newest gas turbine We hope to forge a MHI proposed the city adopt win-win relationship with MHI, a combined-cycle power for greater rewards in the future. generation system adaptable to the seasons. In winter, Reduction in Zhang Fang CO2 emissions Project Manager steam generated from the by 35,000 t/yr Plan & Project Management Department high-temperature waste heat Dongfang Turbine Co., Ltd. from gas turbines can serve On the Huaneng Beijing Project, I was in charge of planning, as the primary heating source, and in other seasons the technology, quality, liaison with workers, and equipment deliveries. same steam can be utilized to generate electricity. This dual I consistently strove to make everything go smoothly in our dealings system has enabled a suitable supply of heat and electricity with MHI, end users and the engineering consulting in China. according to demand. We experienced some difficulties in building the control In addition, the adoption of the very latest gas turbine, system logic and adjusting all the equipment, but MHI is giving us MHI’s M701F4, raises generation efficiency by approxicomplete backup support. Going forward, through technology mately 2% relative to the previous system. Moreover, as the transfers we hope to forge a win-win relationship between our company and MHI, to enable us to someday realize in-house amount of required fuel is reduced, the new system can be capabilities in machinery production, installation and overall expected to reduce CO2 emissions by 35,000 tons, against coordination. an annual emissions volume of roughly 1.6 million tons. This figure corresponds to a yearly CO 2 absorption volume equivalent to some 7,600 hectares of natural forest (mostly beech trees). Through the provision of products and technologies enabling stable and efficient energy supplies, reductions in fuel costs, and trimming of CO 2 emissions, MHI is making tangible contributions to the realization in China of the 3E’s — energy security, environmental protection and economic growth — matching the country’s energy situation. 14 Special Feature Providing energy and environmental solutions responding to 1 regional issues worldwide India Contribution to India’s power supply Response to the nation’s growth-stifling energy problem In India today, power supply capability is unable to keep pace with expansion in the nation’s power demand, thus posing an obstacle to further economic growth. In 2009 the country labored under an average 10% shortfall in power, and near 13% insufficiency during peak usage. India is a nation blessed with abundant natural reduction in CO2 emissions by approximately 180,000 tons resources. It ranks fifth globally in terms of known coal per year per plant with the typical output of 660 MW. reserves, and roughly 70% of the country’s power generaTo support India’s quest for local engineering and tion relies on coal. Coal-fired power also forms the center of production of power generation equipment, MHI has India’s power plant plans through 2030, and for this reason formed two joint ventures with L&T: L&T-MHI Turbine securing required power while simultaneously curbing CO2 Generators Private Limited to produce supercritical emissions is a pressing issue. pressure steam turbines and generators, and L&T-MHI Until now the bulk of India’s power generation facilities Boilers Private Limited to produce supercritical pressure have been provided by a state-owned heavy electrical boilers. Starting from the factory construction stage, MHI machinery manufacturer and the nation’s expanding has provided the two JVs with technical guidance in power demand will exceed the production capacity of engineering design and manufacture, and guidance in the firm alone. Today, therequality control and safety management. fore, from the perspective of Both factories commenced operations in June 2010, building up its domestic indusand they have been acknowledged for their environmental try, India has mapped out compatibility by the Indian Green Building Council and plans to increase the number certified for quality by “ISO 9001” designation and for labor of Indian companies capable safety management by “OHSAS 18001” designation. The of producing power generation two factories are also now awaiting “ISO 14001” certificafacilities. tion for their environmental management systems. As these designations attest, today the two plants are undertaking manufacturing of high quality, with full attention paid to Expanding power supplies environmental and labor safety needs. through local production at The two factories have also created a total of more than high-performance plants 2,500 local jobs, thus contributing to development of the In response to this issue and India’s needs, MHI entered a regional economy. partnership with the country’s largest construction firm, Larsen & Toubro Limited (L&T), with the aim of providing supercritical pressure coal-fired thermal power plants. By using steam of higher temperature and pressure levels, supercritical pressure plants deliver enhanced power generation efficiency and emit less CO2 than the subcritical pressure coal-fired plants that now form the mainstream in India. Supercritical pressure coal-fired power plants can generate 4-5% more power than subcritical pressure plants from the identical amount of fuel. In India, this enables a Broad range of products and technologies responding to energy and environmental needs Through a wide array of products, technologies and total solutions, MHI contributes to the realization of a sustainable future for the Earth and all its inhabitants. Make Store Circulate Use Explore * Power generation by thermal, * Power storage by lithium-ion * Plants and equipment for CO2 * Eco-ships, energy-saving * H-IIA launch vehicles, marine nuclear and renewable energies rechargeable batteries, etc. recovery, waste to energy, aircraft, transport systems, resource research vessels, deep water treatment, etc. industrial tools, machine tools submergence research vehicle Wind turbine Lithium-ion rechargeable battery CO2 recovery plant MRJ (Mitsubishi Regional Jet) “Shinkai 6500” deep submergence research vehicle 15 Close ties with the Earth Safeguard an abundantly green Earth through environmental technologies and environmental awareness Employees Introduce Our CSR Activities It makes me proud, as an engineer, to be supporting the energy infrastructure of a nation. Shojiro Saito Deputy Chief Engineer, Power Systems Project Management Division, Engineering Headquarters Geothermal power is a renewable energy that has a modest impact on the environment and enables a stable power supply because it is unaffected by weather conditions. MHI is developing, in-house, the proprietary machinery necessary for geothermal power generation and we also provide the gamut of related services, from design and purchasing to construction. My very rst involvement in geothermal power generation was in 1987, when I designed a geothermal turbine installed on the island of Milos in Greece. In 1993 I became manager on a domestic project, and ever since then I have been involved in all of MHI’s geothermal power plant projects both in Japan and overseas. In Kenya for example, where 17% of the nation’s power demand is met using geothermal energy, 75% of that total is furnished by an MHI geothermal power plant. When undertaking a project in a developing country, one encounters issues that are unpredictable, but such problems have always been resolved working in tandem with local partners. One very happy memory for me is the message of appreciation I received from the president of KenGen (Kenya Electricity Generating Top: Olkaria II geothermal power plant, Kenya Company Ltd.). He said this was the rst time a project had been completed on Bottom: Hellisheidi geothermal power plant, Iceland schedule in a place like Kenya. It makes me proud, as an engineer, to think how a geothermal power plant we delivered is supporting Kenya’s energy infrastructure using the country’s own resources — and with a small environmental burden. In the future, my hope is to continue contributing to the resolution of energy issues everywhere through the provision of highly reliable products. Mangrove planting has strengthened bonds among employees and families. Pantipa Thanee General Affairs & Human Resources Unit (GA & HR Unit) Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (Thailand) Ltd. In August 2011, employees of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (Thailand) and their family members participated in mangrove planting at the Khlong Khon Mangrove Preservation Center, Samut Songkhram Province. Since obtaining ISO 14001 n in 2007, we have promoted a variety of activities within the company to reduce the environmental impact. In the future, we intend to expand such voluntary activities to areas outside the company. Mangrove planting is part of that approach. Our employees and their family members, 45 in total, participated in the event and planted about 150 mangrove trees. Although they had to struggle in mud, participants seemed to have felt a sense of social and environmental accomplishment. In addition, this event was a good opportunity to strengthen the bonds between families as well as among employees. Many said that they would participate in activities like this again in the future. We are now planning environmental preservation activities for FY 2012, Top: Planting in mud Bottom: Group photo taken after completion of the activity 16 Special Feature Helping resolve the world’s food problems 2 through construction of fertilizer plants Sharp population growth driving increased demand for fertilizers worldwide Today the global population continues to grow at an alarming pace. From Global consumption of roughly 6 billion in 2000, the total topped 7 billion in 2011 — and is projected to nitrogen fertilizers exceed 9 billion by 2050. (million t) * Figures are rounded off One of the most critical problems brought about by this dramatic population surge is food shortage. To cope with future increases in population, production 110 of grains and vegetables must be expanded. Moreover, as diets in the emerging and other countries improve, demand will increase for meat, resulting in the 106 105 104 need to boost production of feed crops, which are already in rapidly growing demand. In today’s world, however, given calls for responsiveness to the natural 102 environment, there is a limit to the amount to which farmlands can be expanded. 100 100 This situation is engendering increased importance of fertilizers. When properly 98 used, fertilizers can enable increased production from available farmlands. In the past several decades, for example, production of wheat and rice has been 95 expanded in Japan, the U.S. and Europe without increasing the area of cultivated land — a feat made possible not only through plant breeding and mechanization, but also by use of fertilizers that are enhancing productivity significantly. In recent 0 years agrarian reform of this kind has been making progress in the emerging econo2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 mies as well, causing expansion in fertilizer demand on global scale. Demand is thus rising all around the world for plants capable of producing fertilizers of good Source: “Current world fertilizer trends and outlook to 2011/12,” Food and quality at low cost, in order to avert serious food shortages in the future. Agriculture Organization of the Close ties United Nations, 2008 with Society Build a relationship of trust with society through proactive participation in society and trustworthy actions carbon dioxide is added to form ingredients of nitrogenIndonesia based fertilizers, e.g. urea. Various methods exist for acquiring the hydrogen needed in ammonia synthesis, and MHI has built more than 40 plants among these production employing natural gas is both the in natural-gas-producing regions most efficient and inexpensive. worldwide. MHI, harnessing the world’s foremost chemical For more than 40 years MHI, as part of its chemical plant process technologies, to date has constructed and business, has engaged in the construction of fertilizer delivered 41 nitrogen fertilizer plants to natural-gasplants worldwide, thereby contributing to increased food producing regions worldwide, including Asia, Russia and production on global scale. The plants the company the Middle East. handles are nitrogen-based, nitrogen being one of the three major constituent nutrients (along with phosphate and potash) of fertilizers. Contributing to food self-sufficiency Generally, production of nitrogen fertilizers is performed in Indonesia through construction by a process called ammonia synthesis. In this process of a large-scale fertilizer plant nitrogen gas, which comprises 80% of our air, is first made One example of the company’s initiatives in fertilizer plants to react with hydrogen; this yields ammonia, to which is a project undertaken in Indonesia. Indonesia, a country with roughly five times the land Nitrogen fertilizer production process area of Japan, is home to the world’s fourth-largest population, 238 million people. In recent years the country has been achieving remarkable economic development, its GDP Air (O2) Natural gas Air (N2) growing by a rate of 6%. But even as industrialization and urbanization a r e Carbon Hydrogen Nitrogen proceeding at a Oxygen (O2) monoxide (CO) (H2) (N2) swift pace, agriculture remains a Carbon Ammonia dioxide (CO2) (NH3) major industry. Indonesia’s principal crops are palm Urea CO(NH2)2 oil, natural rubber and coffee beans Chemical fertilizer — all of which contribute to the 17 nation’s acquisiKaltim), a public corporation, established in 1977, that tion of foreign today ranks as Indonesia’s largest manufacturer of fertilizcurrency — and ers. Pupuk Kaltim is based in Bontang on Borneo Island the country’s (“Kalimantan” in the Indonesian language), location of one staple food, rice. of the world’s foremost production areas of natural gas. In the 1970s The bulk of the fertilizer produced at the Kaltim-4 plant is the Indonesian supplied to twothirds of the country in terms of land area, government led including the riceproducing island of Java, where it an initiative to contributes to the improvement of the productivity of increase the local farmers. nation’s rice Besides nitrogen fertilizers, Kaltim-4 also manufactures output, and by the 1980s 100% self-sufficiency was compound fertilizers with phosphate and potash ingrediachieved. In subsequent years the population has continents, and organic fertilizers based on palm or coconut oil. ued to expand by more than 1% each year, but selfTo preserve the richness of local soil, various fertilizers are sufficiency in rice has largely been maintained. supplied in good balance, thereby contributing to sustainContributing to this development of Indonesia’s farm able agricultural development throughout the country. industry is Kaltim-4, a large-scale fertilizer plant in which MHI played a key role. The plant was delivered approximately 10 years ago to PT Pupuk Kalimantan Timur (Pupuk 18 Special Feature Helping resolve the world’s food problems through construction of fertilizer plants 2 personnel who Paying full heed to local would be in charge environmental and economic needs of the various proin collaboration with a local partner cesses, including As its name indicates, Kaltim-4 is Pupuk Kaltim’s fourth equipment operafertilizer plant. MHI received the order for this project in tors and mainte1999 after a competitive bidding process. The deciding nance staff. factors for the client were MHI’s outstanding track record in As the culmiprojects of this kind worldwide and its superlative technonation of these logical capabilities in freely coordinating state-of-the-art diligent procechemical processes. Moreover, MHI had already successdures, Kaltim-4 went fully completed two other projects in the Bontang region. into operation in The Kaltim-4 project was carried out in the form of a 2002, and since then it has performed stably and to the consortium with a local company. MHI was in charge of the client’s high acclaim. Today the plant continues to make a vital work from overall planning and supervision to basic design, contribution to the development of agriculture in Indonesia. supply of the plant’s high-efficiency compressors and other core equipment supply, commissioning, and operational training. Detailed engineering work, equipment procurement Pursuing construction projects and construction were performed by PT Rekayasa Industri worldwide to respond to (REKIND), an engineering and construction firm based in Jakarta. expanding demand for fertilizers Before commencing construction work, Pupuk Kaltim Since completing the Kaltim-4 project, MHI has continued first undertook an environmental impact assessment in to engineer and construct large-scale fertilizer plants all compliance with governmental environmental guidelines. around the world, including sites in Asia, the Middle East, Next, based on that assessment MHI proceeded with meticuRussia and Africa. lous planning of highly efficient manufacturing processes In November 2010 MHI received an order from Joint that would result in minimal waste of natural gas, the main Stock Company Ammoni of the Republic of Tatarstan, resource, electric power, etc. In addition, to cope with the Russian Federation, for the construction of a plant — one of plant’s water and gas discharges, MHI prepared a design that the largest of its kind in the world — to produce ammonia, cleared all regulatory environmental guidelines and minimized urea and methanol. The order for the plant, which is to concurimpact on the plant’s surrounding natural environment. rently produce methanol and nitrogen fertilizers from natural During construction work, every effort was made to gas, was taken in partnership with a Japanese general trading ensure safety by maintaining close liaison with both Pupuk firm and a Chinese construction company. Construction is Kaltim and REKIND. Attention was also paid to supporting the presently under way, with a target startup date of 2015. local economy by proactively relying on local labor power. Other related developments in fiscal 2011 include the Once all facilities were in place, MHI proceeded receipt of an order in October from a state-owned oil corpoto fully confirm deration in Malaysia for a large-scale fertilizer plant. Also, in sign performance November the company, together with three other Japanese through operafirms, concluded a front-end engineering design (FEED) tional test runs. agreement for a fertilizer plant to be built in the Republic of The company unAngola. The agreement covers basic design, preparation of dertook training engineering documents and contracts, site surveys, etc. not only of engiAs the global population continues to grow, demand neers who would for fertilizers is expected to expand further in the years be controlling the ahead. MHI will continue to diligently push forward with plant as a whole, fertilizer plant projects worldwide, as its way of contributing but also of all to solving the world’s food problems. Expectations of MHI I hope MHI continues to make superior proposals that contribute to the development of our country. I am very satisfied with the work MHI has done in regards to the know-how from across the globe, Kaltim-4 project. Specifically, communication was great and the such as giving Rekayasa Industri project was able to progress very smoothly from the design stage. pointers on safety management Schedule management was quite solid, allowing the project to be during the construction stage, and finished five months ahead of schedule, which is faster than any thoroughly educating our employNugraha Budi project we had done. ees when we took over. Eka Irianto In addition, we place emphasis on the environmental preserAs Indonesia’s population Production Director vation of the region, such as the forests and coastal mangroves continues to increase, domestic Pupuk Kalimantan Timur around the plant. MHI thoroughly understood our management farmers will continue pursuing improved productivity. Going policy and reflected it in the plant’s design. Aside from that, MHI forward, I hope MHI continues to make superior proposals that imparted much advice cultivated from their experience and contribute to the development of our country. 19 Close ties with Society Build a relationship of trust with society through proactive participation in society and trustworthy actions Employees Introduce Our CSR Activities We made an ad introducing our products and environmental technologies to the local community. Natsumi Yamashita Forklift Production Control Section, Forklift Business Department, Forklift Division, General Machinery & Special Vehicles At the Sagamihara Machinery Works where I work, we produced an advertisement, planned by our young employees, to introduce our forklift products and environmental technologies to the local community. I participated in the workshop held to discuss the ad’s production and I was personally in charge of collecting product information, coming up with the ad image, responding to interview requests and so on. The ad introduced the company’s engine/battery hybrid forklift truck, the of its kind developed anywhere in the world. With utilization of a lithium-ion rechargeable battery, the forklift can reduce fuel consumption by some 40% compared to forklifts driven by an engine alone. The ad was carried in local newspapers and inside local trains. My hope is that seeing the ad will make more people in the local community aware of our products and our environmental initiatives, and make them feel a warmer At the Sagamihara Machinery Works we undertake a variety of activities involving the local community. For example, we have held tag rugby classes for elementary school students in Sagamihara and “monozukuri” (manufacturing) Top: Ad production workshop classes for students at local vocational schools. Going forward we will continue Bottom: Ad placed inside local trains to focus on forging ties and engaging in dialogue with the local community. We are promoting activities to cultivate young talent through Ralph M. Sorrells Deputy General Manager Aircraft Product Support Division Mitsubishi Heavy Industries America, Inc. “In the United States, children often drop out of school before acquiring necessary knowledge, without recognizing the importance of having a professional career and without being aware of the many opportunities that are available to them. The sound development of Against this backdrop, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries America holds educational events designed to increase the motivation of children to learn and to pique their interest in the aviation industry. For one such event we invited Barrington Antonio Irving, Jr., who is the youngest and the African-American pilot to make a solo round-the-world ight and who is now involved in educational enlightenment activities by way of his “Dream & Soar” program. Through stories of his experience, we are encouraging children to understand the importance of their studies in math and science to help them achieve their dreams and give them hope where, in many cases, they had little. In FY 2011, we held sessions at ve locations, with more than 650 junior and senior high school students participating at each location. As the manager of this event, I feel very about what we have done when I hear that young people have rediscovered a passion for their studies after listening to Mr. Irving. This event, which has been very positive for all MHI group companies, has gained much attention in American society. The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) declared the “Mitsubishi Barrington Irving Dream & Soar” program a resounding Top: Barrington Antonio Irving, Jr. success, according to the U.S. government agencies involved. Participating government Bottom: Mr. Irving and students, in front of agencies congratulating MHIA and its Aircraft Product Support Division included MU-2 aircraft the Department of Transportation, the FAA, the District of Columbia Public Schools Department and the Federally Employed Women organization, among others. Members of the U.S. Congress and the Obama Administration were also aware of the event. We will keep providing this opportunity for children. 20 Special Feature Creating model “smart communities” 3 for the future of people everywhere Initiatives targeting realization of smart cities attuned to energy and environmental demands As the global population continues to swell and becomes increasingly concentrated in cities, problems of depletion of energy and water resources, traffic congestion and waste treatment are becoming ever more serious. To MHI’s vision of a smart community resolve these pressing issues, hopes are being focused on the realization of optimized “smart communities” in which everything is managed compreElectricity Heat Water Other hensively — from efficient utilization of electricity, gas, water, transportation * Reduced systems and other factors necessary for everyday living and industrial Supply demand activities, to management of wastes and emissions, including CO2. (Reduction in total supply volumes, * Power storage stable supplies) etc. MHI’s Sustainability Energy & Environment Strategic Planning Department and other business headquarters, working in tandem with governmental agencies and business partners both at home and abroad, today is * Recycling Cities * Reuse participating in numerous demonstration tests and business feasibility studies * Renewables (Industrial activities, daily living) not only in Japan (Keihanna Science City) but also overseas in locations in etc. Spain (Malaga), the UAE (Masdar City), India (Gujarat) and China (Tianjin). Leveraging the company’s comprehensive capabilities — with a proven track Emissions record in all areas from energy and resource utilization to emissions (Reduction/elimination of emissions) management — as well as its strengths in problem-solving and total supervision, MHI is also serving in a management role in various large-scale CO2 Waste Heat demonstration projects encompassing multiple corporate participants. A bridge to Total management from supply to emissions the next Generation Contribute to the cultivation of human resources who can shoulder responsibility in the next generation through technologies that can realize dreams. call for the creation Japan of a framework for pursuing proper — i.e. Demonstration testing launched “smart” — consumpat science research city in Japan, tion of energy and targeting system implementation resources and the In 2010 a large-scale demonstration project focused on curbing of CO2 next-generation energy and social systems got under way at emissions in the city Keihanna Science City, one of Japan’s leading urban centers as a whole, to enable dedicated to cultural and academic research. The city contributions of Charging network operating status management display straddles the borders of Kyoto, Osaka and Nara prefectures. social benefit to the The aim of the project is to demonstrate, by March 2015, region as a whole. Also planned are the configuration of a a comprehensive regional energy management agenda for business model based on verification of the project’s benefits multiple aspects of everyday life: not only electricity and gas and the development of related business opportunities both usage but also transportation by electric vehicles (EV) and to impel recovery of the nation’s disasteraffected regions other advanced modes, water and waste treatment, etc. Plans and to drive business expansion overseas. MHI has a robust track record, backed by superior technoloLithium-ion Solar panels Rechargeable Battery gies, in creating numerous social infrastructures worldwide. To make use of the company’s proven capabilities in problem solving and its management know-how resulting from this vast experience, MHI has been selected to serve as leader of the Charger various companies participating in the Keihanna project. It is also playing a central role as leader of the individual working groups studying EV battery charge management, transportation systems and modal shifts, the economic aspects of water, sewage and waste treatment facilities and other infrastructure supporting daily life, and optimization of CO2 emission and recycling rates. Relevant to EV battery charge management, a dedicated center has been set up and data is now being collected on EV charging infrastructure. A demonstration system has been i-MiEV created incorporating 60 EVs (eventually to be increased to 100) DSRC (electric vehicle) onboard unit and 20 battery chargers. Data is being acquired on the charging and driving trends of various users, and empirical analyses are Conceptual illustration of smart EV charging station 21 being conducted in order to project power demand in the coming to household makeup and lifestyle, level of energy conservaEV era and establish energy management methods. (Fig. 1) tion awareness, level of preference for a variable electricity A study is also in progress on transportation usage fee menu, etc. Based on a market survey covering adoption volumes by the 20,000 households living in the Keihanna of home storage batteries, estimated impact from users’ area. Proposals are being made to encourage a shift to energy-saving initiatives, and demand response, plans call transportation modes that save energy and generate for the launch, at some time after the summer of 2012, of the minimal amounts of carbon. (Fig. 2) nation’s first demonstration testing with general households. On An innovative research study has also been implethe basis of the results of these field studies, MHI will propose mented concerning aspects of daily living. First, survey the most appropriate infrastructure for promoting energy results were utilized to create a database on city type and savings and supporting the lifestyles of the region’s residents. the lifestyle patterns of residents, and an urban simulator In order to resolve the various issues faced by cities was completed for proposing appropriate infrastructure around the world, hopes are pinned on making effective use of matching the city’s growth. The feasibility was studied of limited resources and achieving tangible results. Going forward, introducing recycled water into the Keihanna region and of MHI, forging links with governmental and regional bodies and linking Keihanna’s sewage and waste treatment plants with partner enterprises, will continue to carry out demonstration regional energy management. (Fig. 3) tests of this kind, accumulate knowhow and clarify where An online survey was also conducted pertaining to electricbusiness risks exist, in order to create ever more appropriate ity usage by 60,000 households in the Kansai region, enabling models of “smart communities” to enable business opportuan understanding of power consumption patterns according nities to flourish in other regions of Japan and abroad. Keihanna Community Energy Management Household sector Community Energy (HEMS) Household sector Power and gas companies Management (power demand response) HEMS Smart meters with storage batteries: 10 households Community without storage batteries: 4 households Previous-day EMS time (CEMS) Business sector (BEMS) measurement data Daily living (energy management): Fig.3 BEMS Keihanna Management Transportation sector Transportation Plaza, etc. center (modal shift): Fig.2 sector (EV charging management): Fig.1 Sewage treatment, water recycling Management Electric buses, EV management Waste treatment, center car sharing, center carbonization Grid Local park and ride area EV charging stations, simulator storage batteries EV onboard units 22 Special Feature Creating model “smart communities” for the future of people everywhere 3 Spain MHI is involved in Conducting demonstration testing technological integratoward introducing EVs in Spain tion relating to the EV Today MHI, representing Japan, is participating in a joint infrastructure, serving demonstration project with Spain under the “Japan Spain as leader of the Innovation Program” (JSIP). The program is the outgrowth three participating of an agreement on collaboration in technological developJapanese companies. ment concluded in December 2008 between Japan’s New The Spanish Energy and Industrial Technology Development government has Organization (NEDO), an independent administrative announced a goal of agency, and Spain’s Centre for Industrial Technological putting 250,000 EVs Development (CDTI), a public business entity. on the country’s roads by 2014, and to achieve that goal it is The project has two aims: to create a next-generation undertaking various programs relating to the promotion of transportation infrastructure in Spain, a nation that has EV usage, development of EVs, and the establishment of an made significant strides in deregulation of its electric EV charging infrastructure. However, if EVs and their chargpower market and in ing infrastructure are adopted too precipitously, the nation’s introducing renewpower companies could potentially become unable to able energies, using maintain stable power supplies to their respective market technologies of regions. It is therefore highly important to accurately measure Japanese corporaand forecast EV charging demand and to design and build tions; and to demonsystems to enable dispersion of power demand. (Fig.4) strate the positive Going forward, MHI will apply the fruits of this demonmerits of this infrastration testing to the creation and packaging of a sustainstructure. Despite the able business model as a new infrastructure supporting advances Spain is local communities. Besides creating a new EV infrastrucmaking in introducing renewable energies, the country’s ture business model applying Japan’s outstanding transportation sector, which accounts for approximately technologies in energy conservation and low carbon 40% of all energy consumption, remains nearly 100% emissions, the company will promote global standardizadependent on oil as its energy source. For this reason, tion of a business model not only for EVs but for smart Spain is eager to shift its social focus to electric power cities. And in collaboration with local businesses and other through initiatives like the introduction of EVs, and great partners, the company will accelerate global expansion in benefits stand to be reaped. Demonstration testing is to be smart city business. conducted in four general areas: EV infrastructure, power management, information platforms, and total services. Overview of EV infrastructure creation (Fig.4) Expectations of MHI EV users Placing our hopes on Increased convenience MHI for the realization through energy shift of clean communities Optimization Mr. Jaime Briales Guerrero (total management) Director of the Municipal Energy Agency, Málaga City Council, Spain Power companies Charging stand operators I represent the city of Málaga in the role of coordinator Understanding of power demand, User inducement through provision of supply information provision of price information, etc. supporting a demonstration project for next-generation transport infrastructures. As a leading Japanese industrial company, MHI is deeply involved in promotion activities for this project. One of the primary targets of this project is to reduce CO2 emissions in Málaga by 20% by 2020. To achieve this, while building an energy-effective system that utilizes electric vehicles, MHI has proposed a comprehensive solution for clean transportation in the city. This project is a key way for our city to foster an eco-friendly society, and we hope MHI will direct the project and continue to provide support even after the project completion in 2015. MHI plans to extend the sophisticated system employed in this project throughout the world to contribute to the realization of clean local communities not only in Spain but also in many other countries. In the future, we hope that MHI will continue to cooperate with us as well as to play an active part as the leader in this new field to make expansive social contributions. 23 A bridge to the next Generation Contribute to the cultivation of human resources who can shoulder responsibility in the next generation through technologies that can realize dreams. Employees Introduce Our CSR Activities “By teaching science classes, I hope to convey how interesting science can be and how fun it is to make things.” Keigo Kawai Production Technology Team, Wind Turbine Section Yokohama Power Systems Manufacturing Department Power Systems In September 2011 and February 2012 I taught science classes at the Honmokuminami and Namikichuo elementary schools in Yokohama, for third and six graders, respectively. I had the students make pinwheels and taught them about wind and how it can be used to generate electricity; and through experiments using a motor, I taught them how electricity is made. In preparing for my classes I tried to make learning a fun experience for the students. In collaboration with an NPO — Kodomo Uchu Mirai Association (KU-MA) — I prepared teaching materials and a program incorporating basic knowledge about science. The regular teachers were very g in their comments about my classes, saying that their content was perfectly suited to what should be taught in the third and sixth grades. What made me even happier than the teachers’ words of praise, however, was seeing the look of joy on the children’s faces when the pinwheels they made began to spin. In my everyday work activities I rarely have the opportunity to come in direct contact with people from the local Top: Teaching how electricity is generated community, so being able to make a social contribution through my science Bottom: Pinwheels spinning in the breeze from an air conditioner classes gave me a sense of great satisfaction. Teaching science classes not only conveys how interesting science can be to children, but also provides those of us who teach with opportunities to deepen our ties with our communities. “We took children on a tour of an MHI plant, to get them to feel its overwhelming power.” Fumie Shakado Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum In March 2012 we invited 20 children of museum members and took them on a tour of the Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works. They were taken to see the ship repair yard, wind generation demonstration equipment and the diesel engine factory. Seeing the giant docks where ships are repaired and the demonstration wind turbine with rotor blades 100 meters in diameter — one of the largest in Japan — the children got extremely excited, letting out squeals of delight and amazement at how huge they are. As coordinator I a variety of roles: in addition to taking the children around during the tour itself, I was also in charge of calling for participants, Top: Visiting the dockyard at the Honmoku Plant preparing a pamphlet, and so on. What I focused on most, though, was the Bottom: The children eagerly taking notes during their visit day’s program. Before their visit I invited questions from the children about things they are interested in, and then we prepared to have staff members Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum involved in development or manufacturing answer those questions during the http://www.mhi.co.jp/en/museum/ tour. Seeing things with their own eyes and having staff reply to what they Open hours 10:00a.m.-5:00p.m.(Admission until 4:30p.m.) Closed days Every Monday (following day if Monday is a wanted to know was the best part of the tour, I think. It would make me happy national holiday), at the year-end and New Year, and on if this experience induces the children to become active in the realms of TEL 81-45-200-7351 technology or manufacturing in the future. 24 Continuing Support of Disaster Recovery Efforts Gas turbine required in power generating facilities Transport of medical supplies by MHI’s company aircraft Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works We continue to support the restoration of social infrastructure and revitalization of the disaster region. Since immediately after the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 11, 2011, the MHI Group has undertaken a broad range of recovery support activities. These include supporting the restoration of plants, machine tools, bridges and other products we had delivered to disasteraffected areas, implementing various emergency measures, providing donations and relief materials, and performance of volunteer tasks by our employees. We believe the mission of the MHI Group is to contribute to the recovery of the Tohoku region as swiftly as possible through rebuilding and improving its social and industrial infrastructure. We will continue to provide our unwavering support until the residents of the disaster region can rebuild their peaceful lives and learn to smile again. Continuing Support of Infrastructure Restoration Initiatives toward Achieving Stable Support to TEPCO’s Fukushima Power Supplies Daiichi Nuclear Power Station As a leading company in energy and environmental business TEPCO’s Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear operations, MHI continues to undertake an array of initiatives to its Power Station is equipped with boiling corporate mission to contribute to the nation’s energy security. water reactors (BWR), a reactor type In the area of thermal energy, from immediately after the earthquake different from the PWRs handled by and its related disasters the company dispatched employees to help MHI, but in order to bring a conclusion towards early restoration of thermal power plants operated by TEPCO and to the accident that occurred there the Tohoku Electric Power Co., Inc. The company also used its own helicopter MHI Group is implementing measures and airplane to provide support in the transport of emergency supplies. At utilizing its comprehensive technologithe disaster-impacted power plants, equipment that had been delivered cal capabilities on land, sea and air. “Mega-Float” by MHI was at a standstill following the earthquake, and through the In April-May 2011 the company converted the “Mega-Float,” a concerted efforts of all parties concerned, inspections were carried out, large g marine structure originally manufactured by MHI, that damages were swiftly assessed, and measures were implemented to Shizuoka City provided to TEPCO to serve as a temporary storage contribute to the power plants’ early restoration. As of March 23, 2012, facility for the large volume of accumulated water within the Fukushima some 15.74 MW of power generation capability — 98% of the pre-disaster plant that had become moderately radiated. The company also level — has been restored at the generating delivered specially customized forklift trucks equipped with cabins equipment delivered by MHI, and support shielded against radiation, to perform rubble handling around the site, initiatives continue today toward complete as well as facilities for temporarily storing radioactive waste (sludge) recovery. In addition, response at production generated during the treatment of radioactively contaminated water. bases was also strengthened in a quest to In addition, MHI was selected, along with Toshiba Corporation and achieve early delivery of gas turbines, Hitachi-GE Nuclear Energy, Ltd., to participate in a national R&D project industrial generating equipment, etc. aimed at bringing TEPCO’s Fukushima Daiichi accident under control In the area of nuclear energy, in the Employees inspecting for over the medium to long term. Going forward, the project will target the immediate aftermath of the accident at damages development of technology for removing fuel debris(note) from the reactors. TEPCO’s Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station, the company responded by structure in the reactor undertaking emergency safety countermeasures for pressurized water reactors (PWR) it had delivered to other power companies Other Support (see page 97-98). In August 2011 it established The company also took steps to achieve early restoration of social a new Advanced Plant Safety Department, infrastructure and plant facilities, including bridges, printing machinery, and today, in pursuit of restarting existing food factories, waste treatment facilities, etc. plants, every effort is being made to provide Additionally, measures were taken to save energy at all company support to the stress test being carried out workplaces during the summer months. Particularly at workplaces within by the power companies and to implement TEPCO’s power grid, the company cooperated in reducing peak power safety improvement measures. Shin-Sendai usage through expanded operation of in-house generators, etc. (see page 79). Thermal Power Station 25 Ongoing Support of Disaster Recovery Efforts Voices of External Stakeholders Regional Support through Donations and Relief Materials Smiles returned to the children’s faces. Immediately after the earthquake disaster, on March 14, 2011, the MHI On November 4, 2011 we were treated Group announced a donation equivalent to 500 million yen, consisting to a performance of “The Wizard of Oz” of a monetary sum as well as the provision of various emergency relief by the Poplar Theater Company. Seeing materials. Employees throughout the Group undertook fund-raising a real musical play was a thrilling and fun campaigns and donated a total of 100 million yen to the stricken area experience both for the students and for me. together with matching donations provided by the company. The children also enjoyed the Starting at the Shinagawa Head Office Building in June, several science classes involving “wakamaru” company works held “Tohoku Product Fairs” at summer festivals and and airplanes — something they don’t other events. Through the sale of Tohoku products, we supported experience in their regular classes. I Fumitaka Hyodo Tohoku’s economy. greatly hope that support activities of Principal, Minami-Sanriku Furthermore, MHI donated 20 MHI forklift trucks to fishery interest to children in the disaster region Isatomae Elementary School cooperatives in the affected region and 13 air-conditioning units to will be continued in the future. evacuation centers. These are precious activities that foster hope and dreams. All the children eagerly looked forward to the musical’s performance. They enjoyed it immensely, some saying how much fun it was, others expressing hope that the theater company would visit us again. For the children who had lost so much dear to them in the Tohoku Product Fair In-company fund-raising campaign earthquake disaster, the occasion (Ritto Machinery Works) (Shinagawa Head Office) provided them with time to forget Yoko Shibayama everything and be happy. Principal, Minami-Sanriku It is through a wealth of personal Natari Elementary School Support Initiatives by Employee experiences that children are able to Volunteers expand their horizons and grow. Now we are looking forward to MHI’s science classes coordinated to our school curriculum. Since April 2011 more than 300 employees have undertaken a broad range of volunteer activities in response to the disaster. These include We want to do all we can to support the adults delivery and sorting of relief materials in the affected region, rubble of tomorrow. removal and cleanup, conducting science classes, holding rugby Starting immediately after the disaster, clinics, and performance of a charity musical. many different groups, artists and so on Commencing in August 2011 employees of the Power Systems visited the affected region. The business headquarters organized the “Minato Mirai Memory organization we are a member of gave Restoration Brigade,” a group of volunteers who clean and return to the donations, and individual performers disaster region photographs that were swept away in the tsunami and were sent to perform. whose owners are unknown. As it was around that time that we In addition, MHI’s works and group companies provided support were contacted by MHI, we felt like we independently in various ways. For example, at the Nagoya Aerospace had all the luck in the world on our side. Satoru Ueki Systems Works a work experience program was initiated, and at the So as not to place a burden on the Production Manager, Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works a program of mosaic art locality where we would perform, which Poplar Theater Company production and donation was introduced. was suffering from power shortages, we Going forward, we will continue activities centered on supporting made meticulous arrangements with the conviction that we would do the next generation through science and sports classes, etc. what we could for the children who would open the way to the next generation. After our performance, we came away with lots of courage and memories of the bright smiles of the children. Voices of our Employees Ever since the disaster, we have been undertaking restoration work devotedly, to bring peace of Charity musical Cleaning of photographs mind and smiles to people everywhere. I was working overseas when I heard Major Future Social Contribution Activities the news about the disaster, and my (study assistance [psychological support], industry/community support) boss called and told me that as soon as 1. Science class programs I returned to Japan I would be assigned Planning and implementation of science class programs using MHI to TEPCO’s Kashima Power Plant. products, in collaboration with NPOs, etc. Kashima is one of TEPCO’s most 2. MHI sports classes important power plants, and MHI Holding classes in sports such as rugby and baseball. supplied the major equipment in five of the plant’s six generating facilities. As Kiyoshi Miyazaki 3. Charity musicals the disaster had resulted in the Engineering Manager, Plant Performing musicals at elementary schools, in joint sponsorship with theater companies. stoppage of facilities producing a total Construction Planning Department, of 3.4 megawatts, restoration was Plant Construction Division, 4. Self-help recovery support Engineering Headquarters Financial support of young entrepreneurs, etc. seeking to achieve needed as quickly as possible. self-sustaining recovery, as a way of driving regional recovery. On March 13 I started overseeing operations at the site, and within about one month power generation was resumed. Putting highest priority 5. Support in creating community centers Financial support to local NPOs, etc. seeking to create places where on responding to the disaster required the understanding of many residents of temporary housing can gather and communicate. customers both in Japan and abroad. We were encouraged hearing how our blue work clothes made people feel reassured. Later I was assigned to the Hirono Power Plant, and currently I am working to restore operations at Tohoku Electric’s Haramachi Power Plant. Electricity is indispensable to our lives. Our mission is to make electricity and to maintain the generating systems dependably. My Response of MHI and its Group Companies to the greatest hope is to make every effort every day to bring peace of mind Great East Japan Earthquake and smiles to 7 billion people around the world, to be a company that will http://www.mhi.co.jp/en/notice/notice_east_japan.html continue to be trusted worldwide. 26 Overview of the MHI Group Company Profile Trade Name: Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Head Office: 2-16-5 Konan, Minato-ku, Tokyo President and CEO: Hideaki Omiya Foundation: July 7, 1884 Establishment: January 11, 1950 Capital: 265.6 billion yen (as of March 31, 2012) Employees: 68,887 consolidated, 32,494 non-consolidated (as of March 31, 2012) CI Statement This CI statement represents our intention to continuously provide an assured future where people can live safe, secure and enriched lives through technologies that can excite people and passion as a manufacturer for the sustainability of the earth and humankind. CI (Note1) statement logo (Note1) CI: Corporate Identity Orders Received (Consolidated) FY 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Orders Received 3,715.2 3,268.7 2,476.2 2,995.4 3,188.8 (Consolidated) billions of billions of billions of billions of billions of yen yen yen yen yen 27 Net Sales (Consolidated) FY 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Net Sales 3,203.0 3,375.6 2,940.8 2,903.7 2,820.9 (Consolidated) billions of yen billions of yen billions of yen billions of yen billions of yen Operating Income (Consolidated) FY 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Operating Income 136.0 billions 105.8 billions 65.6 billions 101.2 billions 111.9 billions (Consolidated) of yen of yen of yen of yen of yen Net Income (Consolidated) FY 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Net Income 61.3 billions 24.2 billions 14.1 billions 30.1 billions 24.5 billion (Consolidated) of yen of yen of yen of yen yen 28 Research and Development Expenditures (Consolidated) Research and Development Expenditures (Consolidated) FY 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Research and 107.9 101.3 129.2 123.2 121.4 FY 2007 2008 2009 Development Expenditures (Consolidated) 2010 billions of yen 2011 billions of yen billions of yen billions of yen billions of yen Research and 107.9 101.3 129.2 123.2 121.4 Development Expenditures billions of billions of billions Net Sales ofby billions Industry billions of of (Consolidated) Segment (Consolidated) yen yen yen yen yen Net Sales by Industry Segment (Consolidated) Shipbuilding & Ocean Development 311.6 billion yen Power Systems 955.3 billion yen Machinery & Steel Infrastructure Systems 428.8 billion yen Aerospace Systems 495.9 billion yen General Machinery & Special Vehicles 381.7 billion yen Others 247.3 billion yen Net Sales by Region (Consolidated) Shipbuilding & Ocean Development 311.6 billion yen NetPower Sales by Region (Consolidated) 955.3 billion yen Systems Machinery & Steel Infrastructure Systems 428.8 billion yen Aerospace Systems 495.9 billion yen General Machinery & Special Vehicles 381.7 billion yen Japan 1,639.9 billion yen Others 247.3 billion yen Asia 381.8 billion yen North America 296.0 billion yen Europe 225.7 billion yen Central and South America 142.1 billion yen Africa 51.6 billion yen The Middle East 68.7 billion yen Oceania 14.8 billion yen Japan 1,639.9 billion yen Asia 381.8 billion yen North America 296.0 billion yen Europe 225.7 billion yen Central and South America 142.1 billion yen Africa 51.6 billion yen The Middle East 68.7 billion yen Oceania 14.8 billion yen 29 Operating Bases and Employees by Region (as of March 31, 2012) Europe Representative Offices 2 Group Companies 28 Employees 2,474 Middle East Representative Offices 3 Group Companies 5 Employees 71 Africa Representative Offices 1 Group Companies 4 Employees 57 Asia Overseas Offices and 4 Representative offices Group Companies 50 Employees 6,466 Oceania and others Group Companies 3 Employees 48 North America Group Companies 21 Employees 3,072 Central and South America Group Companies 8 Employees 848 Japan Head Office and Domestic Offices 9 Research & Development Centers 6 Business Segments 8 Works 14 Domestic Group Companies 117 Employees of Domestic Group Companies 23,357 30 Businesses and Products Shipbuilding & Ocean Development Shipbuilding Marine development . Cruise ships . Deep submergence research vehicle . Ferries . Oceanographic research ships . LNG carriers . LPG carriers . Tankers . Container carriers . RO/RO ships . Car carriers . Destroyer . Patrol vessels Engineering business . Ballast water treatment systems Power Systems Thermal power generation plants and other Renewable energy generation, etc. facilities . Wind turbine plants . Combined cycle power plants . Geothermal power plants . Steam turbines . Water turbine plants . Gas turbines . Solar thermal generation systems . Boilers . Lithium-ion secondary batteries . Diesel engines Nuclear power plants and other facilities . PWR nuclear power plants . Advanced reactor plants . Nuclear fuel cycle plants 31 Machinery & Steel Structures Environmental and chemical plants Environment preservation . Flue gas desulfurization systems . Wastes treatment plants . Flue gas CO recovery plants . Electrostatic precipitators . Fertilizer plants 2 . Biomass utilization systems . Methanol plants . Petrochemical plants . Oil & gas production plants Transportation systems and ITS State-of-the-art machines . Automated people mover . Medical systems / Radiotherapy systems . Rail transit . Power train equipment . Air brake equipment . Mechatronics system equipment . Toll collection systems (ETC, etc.) . Particle accelerator . Intelligent transport systems (ITS) . Robots Machineries Basic facilities & steel structures for . Iron & steel manufacturing machinery infrastructure . Compressors & mechanical turbines . Steel bridges & chimneys . Rubber & tire machinery . Hydraulic gate . Crane & material handling equipment . Mechanical parking systems . Manufacturing equipment for semiconductor & . Tunnel boring machine flat panel displays . Earthquake isolation / vibration control systems . Organic EL panels for lighting Industrial equipment . Printing machinery . Paper converting machinery . Plastic injection molding machine . Food and packaging machinery 32 Aerospace Systems Aircraft Space equipment . Commercial airplane . H-IIA launch vehicle . Aeroengines . H-IIB launch vehicle . Jet Fighters . Space transporter . Helicopters . Rocket engines General Machinery & Special Vehicles Engine generation equipment Engines & equipment . Gas engine generator sets . For agricultural use (Agricultural machinery . Diesel engine generator sets and Small-sized industrial machinery): . Co-generation systems Air-cooled gasoline engines/Water-cooled . Portable gas engine generator/Portable diesel engines gasoline engine generator . For industrial use (Construction machinery, Generators and power units): Water cooled diesel engines/water cooled gas engines . For marine use (Main propulsion and, Auxiliary generating set): Water cooled diesel engines Physical distribution equipment Turbochargers . Forklift trucks . Turbochargers . Heavy cargo carriers Construction machinery Defense . Earthmoving and grading machinery . Special vehicles 33 Others . Air-conditioners for commercial usage . Machine tools Air-conditioners Industrial machinery . Air-conditioners for residential usage . Air-conditioners for automobiles . Refrigeration applied products . Transport refrigeration units . Centrifugal chillers . Centrifugal heat pumps 34 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Management In the course of providing products that support social and economic infrastructures on a global scale, MHI makes every effort to fulfill its social responsibility as a corporation by strengthening and enhancing its corporate governance, internal controls and CSR efforts while acting in full compliance with prevailing laws, rules and social norms in addition to promoting fair and sound management. Corporate Governance ........................................................................ 36 In its quest to continuously develop its business operations and fulfill its social responsibilities, MHI is reforming its management structure while promoting fair and sound management rooted in complete legal compliance. • Current Status of Corporate Governance and Internal Controls • Risk Management • New Organizations and Measures Concerning Business and Management Promotion of CSR ..................................................................................... 39 MHI has established the CSR Committee and various other committees in an effort to continuously improve management that is anchored by CSR through the comprehension, assessment, and tracking of initiatives being taken throughout the corporation. • Promoting Comprehensive and Strategic CSR Activities • Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2011 Compliance ..................................................................................................... 45 The MHI Group is building a system to promote compliance that will encompass the entire Group, consistent with our mission to always conduct fair and honest business activities. In addition, the Group is also working to provide education and information to all employees so that each and every employee will act with an awareness of his or her compliance obligations. • Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group • Improving Compliance Principles/Guidelines • Compliance Training and Increasing Awareness • Secure Safeguarding of Proprietary Information 35 Management / Corporate Governance Current Status of Corporate Governance and Internal Controls Strengthening the oversight functions of the Board of Directors through such measures as appointing outside directors The Board of Directors makes important key management decisions and oversees the execution of business operations, while statutory auditors audit the execution of duties of directors and other matters. Currently, 3 of the company’s 19 directors and 3 of its 5 statutory auditors are from outside MHI. These outside directors and statutory auditors provide advice and oversight to the management of MHI based on their broad range of experience and considerable insight as managers, administrators and specialists. They operate from an unbiased position which is independent from the company’s management team. The company has also streamlined the Board of Directors, shortened the term of office, and introduced an Executive Officer System. MHI has sought through these measures to reinforce the oversight functions of the Board of Directors and to clarify the roles and responsibilities of the directors who make decisions on key management issues and oversee the overall management of the company as well as the roles and responsibilities of senior vice presidents who execute business. MHI has also established an Executive Committee to serve as a forum for discussing important matters related to business execution. This allows for a more cohesive approach in terms of discussions as part of the operational execution framework centered on the President, and consequently leads to more effective management decisions and business execution. In accordance with the auditing policy and auditing plan determined by the Board of Statutory Auditors, statutory auditors attend key meetings, such those held by the Board of Directors, the Executive Committee, and Business Plan Meetings, to study and monitor the management operation status. They also examine legal and regulatory compliance, and monitor the development and operation of internal control systems, including those related to financial reporting. These auditing operations enable them to ascertain whether the directors are executing their duties in compliance with laws and Articles of Incorporation, and whether company affairs are being appropriately executed. Statutory auditors also periodically exchange information and opinions with the Management Audit Department and accounting auditors, and collaborate closely with them in other ways, including receiving audit results and attending accounting audits. The Statutory Auditors’ Office has been set up with its own dedicated staff to support the implementation of auditing tasks and facilitate the work carried out by statutory auditors. Corporate Governance Structure (including internal control systems) (as of April 1, 2012) 36 Management / Corporate Governance Strengthening the internal control systems In compliance with legal requirements, the MHI Board of Directors has determined a basic policy for internal control systems. The company is promoting the strengthening of areas including the oversight function of the Board of Directors, management systems in response to risk types, increasing the effectiveness of compliance including a whistleblower system, management systems between MHI and Group companies and a system which permits effective auditing by statutory auditors. MHI is striving to strengthen these initiatives through internal audits and the PDCA management cycle. The designs and operations of internal controls are monitored annually through internal audits, in line with the internal audit policy which was formulated by the Management Audit Department. Under the internal control reporting system regarding financial reporting, which is stipulated by the Japanese Financial Instruments and Exchange Law (also known as J-SOX), the Management Audit Department and the internal audit divisions of our manufacturing works carried out assessments of the design and operation of the internal controls and concluded that as of the end of March 2012, the MHI Group’s internal controls over financial reporting were functioning effectively. The accounting auditors concurred with this assessment. Every year at the Board of Directors meeting, the current status of initiatives concerning the establishment of internal control systems is reported in order to confirm the effectiveness of our internal control systems. 37 Management / Corporate Governance Risk Management Precisely comprehend risks throughout the Group and steadily implement risk reduction measures MHI precisely comprehends risks throughout the Group and is carrying out measures to steadily reduce these risks. In fiscal 2011, we initiated the Risk Management Supervisors Meeting as a means to consider risk management throughout the Group. In May 2011, the meeting convened for the first time and in addition to reports regarding risk management activities carried out until the previous year, risk management policies for 2011 were also considered. Specifically, following the centralization of the business administration system by each business segment in fiscal 2011, each business segment regulated and reorganized all risk management to date and it was decided that the head of the Management Audit Department and the heads of each business segment would strive to discuss and share awareness regarding important risks in order to make the risk-management PDCA cycle function more effectively. This discussion took place in June 2011 and many of the commonly recognized risks at each business headquarters were made clear and the preparation and establishment of measures to regulate these risks throughout the Group was decided upon. The Management Audit Department also held discussions with each administration department head responsible for control activities as a process owner (Note 1) in February 2012 in order to further enhance awareness of risk management and improve the quality of control activities. Through these activities, MHI is striving to prepare and strengthen its risk management system across the entire Group. (Note1) Organizations and/or Persons responsible for planning and executing risk reduction measures for individual business functions. New Organizations and Measures Concerning Business and Management MHI establishes Engineering Headquarters to integrate company-wide EPC operations Against a background of rapid population growth and global environmental problems, and as numerous large-scale infrastructure projects are planned in developing nations, MHI has strengthened its Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) operations in order to be able to provide support for such projects. As one part of this initiative, in January 2012, MHI integrated all EPC-related operations to form a new organization, Engineering Headquarters. This organization, which commenced operations with approximately 5,000 staff members (consolidated), integrated the business headquarters of the Sustainability Energy & Environment Strategic Planning Department, Power Systems Plant Engineering & Construction Department, Machinery & Steel Infrastructure Systems and the Environment & Chemical Plant Division. Moreover, a new department will be established to handle EPC-related activities for overseas nuclear power plant projects in the Nuclear Energy Systems business and large-scale infrastructure projects in the Machinery & Steel Infrastructure Systems business. The establishment of this Headquarters at MHI is an opportunity to consolidate and strengthen our accumulated EPC technology and knowhow, expand our EPC operations and core products, and respond swiftly to project opportunities requiring high-level solutions such as smart community-related projects. 38 Management / Promotion of CSR Promoting Comprehensive and Strategic CSR Activities The CSR Committee was set up to strengthen CSR-oriented management In October 2006, the company set up the CSR Committee, chaired by the President, and the CSR Department, which reports directly to the President, in order to strengthen CSR-oriented management. Furthermore, during the organizational reforms made in April 2011, the CSR Department became the Presidential Administration Office/CSR Department, which is responsible for CSR activities with a focus on company-wide management. The CSR Committee, which holds sessions twice yearly, not only sets and follows up on the CSR Action Plan(see page 137-139), but also sets and focuses on six themes regarding important activity initiatives in areas such as the globalization of CSR activities and the fund for social contributions. Before and after committee meetings, the CSR Liaison Conferences, which are comprised of various committees and groups of managing members, are held. At CSR Liaison Conferences, the progress of various activities and the details of deliberations by the CSR Committee are shared by those engaged in the work, and future policies and new issues are discussed. CSR Promotion System (as of April 1, 2012) Sustained promotion of PDCA based on the CSR Action Plan The CSR Committee set the CSR Action Plan for fiscal 2008 to 2010 and strove to embed CSR management in the company. In fiscal 2011, we formulated a new CSR Action Plan (for fiscal 2011 to 2013) and supported the activities of relevant committees and groups of managing members in the six areas of CSR promotion, compliance, the environment, human rights/labor, product responsibility, and risk management. Additionally, we verify and evaluate results. In this way we steadily promote PDCA cycles. In the area of CSR promotion, the CSR Report was distributed to all MHI Group employees (82,000 copies) in fiscal 2011, and the following actions were carried out. 39 Management / Promotion of CSR CSR Sessions CSR sessions aimed at deepening employees’ awareness of CSR was held at 12 sites in fiscal 2011 and 786 people participated. CSR sessions have been taking place over a five period from fiscal 2007 and a total of 3,800 people (approximately 11.5% of all employees) have now received the sessions. The sessions in fiscal 2011 explained the basic nature of CSR and about the CSR activities undertaken by our company. Moreover, group discussions were held on the topic of concrete actions to meet society’s expectations for MHI. To make clear the issues of CSR activities, a survey based on the CSR Action Guidelines of employees who have received CSR sessions in the five years since it was commenced was conducted. Each year, the evaluation is improving as a result of improvements in areas of poor performance. CSR sessions for new employees were held at all works, including the Head Office, and 940 people participated in fiscal 2011. CSR sessions at Takasago Machinery Works Town Hall Meeting With the aim of creating an open environment for communication and improving employee motivation, the president or vice president spoke directly with employees at the Town Hall Meeting, which was held at five sites in fiscal 2011. Three events were held: meetings with general managers, round-table discussions with young employees in their mid-thirties who will play leading roles in the future and worksite visits where management visits worksites where employees are working. These events are designed to reinvigorate worksites through frank communication between top management and employees. Round-table Discussions with Young Employees at Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works 40 Management / Promotion of CSR Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2011 CSR Committee: Regular checking and follow up on CSR activities At the 10th session of the CSR Committee held in June 2011, the CSR Action Plan for fiscal 2011 to 2013 was formulated. In addition to the six areas of the action plan for individual committees and groups of managing members, and plans such as those for contributions to local communities based on the CSR Action Guidelines, a policy regarding six themes which are considered important action initiatives was decided upon. The six themes are: activities to support the education of the next generation through science classes, environmental vision, globalization of CSR activities, a fund for social contributions, feedback for management from society, restoration and reconstruction support for victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake. In December 2011, at the 11th session of the CSR Committee the half-yearly progress based on the CSR Action Plan was confirmed and followed up. The 11th Session of the CSR Committee, December 2011 Compliance Committee: Discussing corporate-wide compliance promotion plans The Compliance Committee was established in 2001 as an organization that discusses issues such as the state of compliance promotion throughout the Group. It handles the creation of corporate-wide compliance promotion plans and confirms the status of progress. The committee also endeavors to educate employees on compliance awareness, and since fiscal year 2003 has been continuously holding compliance promotion training. The outcomes of this training are confirmed through a compliance awareness survey, and analysis of the survey results has shown that each year the awareness toward compliance held by individuals at all worksites is increasing. 41 Management / Promotion of CSR Environment Committee: Discussing the Group’s promotion of yearly environmental measures The Environment Committee was established as an inter-departmental organization for the entire corporation in 1996. During its twice-yearly meetings, it plans and composes corporate-wide environmental measures for the year and sets the tone for initiatives, as well as promotes and follows up on the yearly environmental preservation plans of individual works. The 2011 Environmental Management Promotion Plan outlined the strengthening of measures to eliminate accidents which pollute the environment and reducing CO2 emissions resulting from business operations, and each works implemented measures to meet these targets. Discussions were also held on the implementation of environmental meetings, and the committee has held initiatives for Group-wide promotion of consolidated environmental management. Furthermore, it deliberated on implementing plans for environmental audits of works for the purpose of continually reducing environmental risks and thoroughly complying with environmental laws and regulations. The committee aims to improve the management level at each works by following up on the outcomes of those actions. Committee for Raising Awareness of Human Rights: Promoting a workplace in which every employee respects the human rights of others MHI set up the Committee for Raising Awareness of Human Rights in 1992 to promote the establishment of a sound workplace in which every employee correctly understands the issue and respects the human rights of others. Chaired by the director in charge of personnel and with the membership of general managers in charge of personnel of each works, the committee is working on raising awareness of human rights, sharing information and promoting human rights training. In fiscal 2011, the committee continued to implement a training program for raising awareness among new recruits, newly appointed managers and supervisors. In an effort to strengthen the company’s response to sexual harassment and “power harassment” (workplace bullying & harassment), the committee implemented such activities as educational efforts and the production and distribution of educational material aimed at preventing “power harassment.” This was in addition to fully implementing a consultation system including a newly established contact point for consultation external to the company. From fiscal 2012, this committee will merge with the Committee for Promoting the Employment of the Handicapped in order to broadly deal with various issues pertaining to human rights. “Committee for Promoting the Employment of the Handicapped:” Proactively promoting the expansion of job opportunities for the disabled Based on the Disabled People Employment Promotion Act, this committee was established in 1992 to expand employment opportunities for differently-abled people because MHI believes it is the corporation’s social responsibility to provide opportunities for them to utilize their abilities. The committee is chaired by the director in charge of personnel and has the membership of general managers in charge of personnel at each works. The committee convenes yearly to formulate basic policies related to employment of differently-abled people, draw up and implement relevant plans, raise awareness to promote employment, share information, and contact and work with relevant administrative agencies and organizations. In fiscal 2011, the committee continued their efforts to expand employment through proactively advancing recruitment by using its website “mano a mano” in Spanish or “hand to hand,” which was created to support the employment of differently-abled people while coordinating with local job-placement offices and skill-building schools for the differently-abled people, participating in job interviews and holding meetings with employment officers for differently-abled people. As a result, as of April 1, 2012, the employment rate for the differently-abled people at MHI is 2.08 percent, which exceeds the statutory employment rate of 1.8 percent. 42 consultation external to the company. From fiscal 2012, this committee will merge with the Committee for Promoting the Employment of the Handicapped in order to broadly deal with various issues pertaining to human rights. Management / Promotion of CSR “Committee for Promoting the Employment of the Handicapped:” Proactively promoting the expansion of job opportunities for the disabled Based on the Disabled People Employment Promotion Act, this committee was established in 1992 to expand employment opportunities for differently-abled people because MHI believes it is the corporation’s social responsibility to provide opportunities for them to utilize their abilities. The committee is chaired by the director in charge of personnel and has the membership of general managers in charge of personnel at each works. The committee convenes yearly to formulate basic policies related to employment of differently-abled people, draw up and implement relevant plans, raise awareness to promote employment, share information, and contact and work with relevant administrative agencies and organizations. In fiscal 2011, the committee continued their efforts to expand employment through proactively advancing recruitment by using its website “mano a mano” in Spanish or “hand to hand,” which was created to support the employment of differently-abled people while coordinating with local job-placement offices and skill-building schools for the differently-abled people, participating in job interviews and holding meetings with employment officers for differently-abled people. As a result, as of April 1, 2012, the employment rate for the differently-abled people at MHI is 2.08 percent, which exceeds the statutory employment rate of 1.8 percent. The mano a mano webpage for differently-abled people International Trade Control Committee: Promoting education on legal compliance and updating various rules and manuals MHI is aware that export controls complying with export-related laws and regulations, such as the Foreign Exchange & Foreign Trade Control Act, are taking on greater importance. Since its inception, the International Trade Control Committee has been meeting regularly on a monthly basis to stringently screen exports of controlled items and transfers of controlled technologies as well as exports of commodities to nations and regions that are subject to international sanctions, in order to prevent MHI technologies and commodities from being used for nefarious purposes, such as for weapons of mass destruction. The Committee also draws up and revises effective rules, promotes internal audits and conducts consultations and education activities. In fiscal 2011, as well as continuously promoting e-learning programs for all employees in our export business, the training sessions were regularly held for employees responsible for each division and in addition to sharing information about past examples of both successful and mistakable export control management, they discussed examples of mistakes that can easily be made to deepen their understanding. We are also promoting education and preparation of compliance systems for the individual laws of the country in which each overseas site is located, and through these activities we are making efforts to further strengthen our export control management. Construction Business Act Compliance Committee: Implementing monitoring of compliance throughout Group companies Since MHI is involved in new construction and repair of sites such as power plants, it is well aware of the great importance of complying with the Construction Business Act, and in 2003 established the Construction Business Act Compliance Committee. In order to abide by the Construction Business Act, the committee is continuing to work to promote revision of various in-house structures and systems to educate employees, to manage the qualifications and support the training of 43 engineers, and to conduct appropriate management of building construction and subcontracting. We are also promoting education and preparation of compliance systems for the individual laws of the country in which each overseas site is located, and through these activities we are making efforts to further strengthen our export control management. Management / Promotion of CSR Construction Business Act Compliance Committee: Implementing monitoring of compliance throughout Group companies Since MHI is involved in new construction and repair of sites such as power plants, it is well aware of the great importance of complying with the Construction Business Act, and in 2003 established the Construction Business Act Compliance Committee. In order to abide by the Construction Business Act, the committee is continuing to work to promote revision of various in-house structures and systems to educate employees, to manage the qualifications and support the training of engineers, and to conduct appropriate management of building construction and subcontracting. In fiscal 2011, to improve the adherence level at all Group companies, monitoring of compliance with the Construction Business Act was conducted at the 52 companies which obtained a contractor’s license. In continuation from 2010, workshops for business partners to explain the Construction Business Act were held at five main works (locations) to promote optimization of subcontracts. There were 223 participants from a total of 161 partner companies. Workshops on the Construction Business Act were also held on 11 occasions at major works, drawing 998 participants, including Group employees. The committee is working to improve the adherence level at Group companies through these activities. Order Compliance Committee: Implementing various measures to ensure legal compliance in sales activities MHI established the Order Compliance Committee in August 2005 to ensure legal compliance in sales activities with the intent of preventing a recurrence of past violations of the Anti-Monopoly Act. The committee has set up rules of conduct for the Public Sector Sales Department and has constructed systems that include implementing compliance checks for competitive construction bids to ensure transparency in sales actions. In addition, special monitoring has confirmed that these measures are being appropriately carried out. Managing Board for Innovation in the Nuclear Business: Planning measures for all departments to improve safety in nuclear energy The Managing Board for Innovation in the Nuclear Business was set up in December 2004 in response to an incident involving secondary piping in Unit 3 of the Mihama Power Station (supplied by MHI and operated by Kansai Electric) in August 2004. The Committee was given a brief to pursue internal reforms designed to prevent incidents and ensure safety in the nuclear industry. Fiscal 2011 Initiatives In fiscal 2011, the Managing Board for Innovation in the Nuclear Business examined safety improvement measures for the PWR nuclear power plant in the wake of the accident at TEPCO’s Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station. The Board also reported on initiatives for creating a culture of safety through lectures on safety by executives and dialog with business partners. The Board will continue to implement further improvements to raise the trustworthiness of nuclear power plants. 44 Management / Compliance Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group Establishing the Compliance Section to strengthen our ability to respond to crises At MHI, enhanced systems and increased numbers of personnel are required so that we can further focus our attention on activities to prevent compliance violations, and also to respond promptly to letters we receive. In addition, reliable responses to the risks that surround MHI—such as the growing risk of cyber attacks through unauthorized network access—are becoming an increasingly important management issue. To that end, the Compliance Section was established inside the General Affairs Department on April 1, 2012. Placing persons responsible for compliance in all departments and Group companies MHI’s Compliance Committee was established in May 2001 to strictly observe applicable laws and social norms, and to promote fair and honest business practices. This committee is chaired by the director in charge of compliance, and its members consist of senior general managers from relevant departments at the Head Office, senior general managers, deputy heads of all works, and general managers from all Planning & Administration Departments at business segments. The committee meets twice annually to draw up company-wide compliance promotion plans, confirm progress, and engage in other activities. In April 2006, Departmental Compliance Committees were established in all departments of the company in order to strengthen compliance measures for each respective department. These committees are chaired by the department's respective member of the Compliance Committee. At the same time, Compliance Liaison Conferences were set up for regularly exchanging compliance information with Group companies. Through these two types of organizations, each department works to consistently implement its own compliance and to act independently and responsibly in carrying out compliance activities. Based on the results of compliance awareness surveys and the participation rate for compliance promotion training sessions, in fiscal 2011 it was confirmed that compliance activities have become widespread and employee awareness of compliance has risen. It was also confirmed that appropriate measures are being taken, such as the inclusion of relevant themes in training sessions for issues that need improvement. Compliance Promotion System (as of April 1, 2012) 45 promotion training sessions, in fiscal 2011 it was confirmed that compliance activities have become widespread and employee awareness of compliance has risen. It was also confirmed that appropriate measures are being taken, such as the inclusion of relevant themes in training / Compliance Management sessions for issues that need improvement. Compliance Promotion System (as of April 1, 2012) Implementing a point of contact/hotline for all employees and clients A hotline has been established specifically for business clients and employees (including contract employees) of MHI and all Group companies that wish to report or discuss potentially unlawful or dishonest acts they have come upon. Contact can be made through email, phone, or fax. The Compliance Committee will promptly investigate the reported information and communicate with the director in charge. Information on what should be reported is contained in the Compliance Guidelines distributed to all employees and in bulletins published in-house monthly. Furthermore, in order to increase choices for informants on compliance, the MHI External Report Hotline was established in December 2011 in addition to the in-house hotline. This was followed by the sequential establishment of Harassment Contact Hotlines inside and outside of the company in January 2012 as a measure to respond to “power harassment” (workplace bullying & harassment), which is becoming an increasingly serious social issue. Setting clear regulations on the rights afforded to in-house informants With the operation of the hotline, the rights of protection afforded to informants were set out in the 2007 company regulations, entitled “Compliance Promotion Regulations.” These regulations state that the informant’s name will not be released without his/her consent, and that the informant will not be placed at any disadvantage because of the information s/he has reported. Employees have been advised of the rights to protection given to in-house informants and have been told of the existence of the hotline. Twice yearly an investigation is conducted to determine whether such individuals' rights have been violated. 46 Management / Compliance Establishing an external report hotline MHI created the MHI External Report Hotline in December 2011. Contact can be made through email, fax, or telephone. If the informant wishes, their name and other information will not be relayed to the company. The Compliance Committee will promptly investigate the reported information. Answers regarding the investigation results can also be received via the lawyers that have been entrusted with the operation of the External Report Hotline. The establishment of this External Report Hotline is based on a proposal from the Public Works Business Process Validation and Advisory Committee, which was created in July 2010. It is an effort to receive a broader range of information and strengthen internal checks and balances functions by increasing choices for in-house reports. Continually constructing a system that ensures transparency and legality in order-receiving activities From 2005 to 2006, MHI was the subject of an investigation by the Japan Fair Trade Commission and other offices when it fell under suspicion of violating the Anti-Monopoly Act in construction orders involving steel bridge construction projects and night-soil treatment plants. MHI took the investigation seriously, and established the Order Compliance Committee in an effort to prevent potentially suspect activities from occurring again. MHI has worked diligently to build a stringent system to uphold the Anti-Monopoly Act that ensures the transparency and legality of order-receiving activities. This system includes drawing up rules of conduct for the Public Sector Sales Department, carrying out compliance checks on each instance of competitive bidding for construction contracts, and conducting special monitoring for public-sector order compliance. A special monitoring project during fiscal 2011 confirmed that proper order receiving activities had continued in a reliable fashion from the prior fiscal year, and that awareness of the strict observance of the Anti-Monopoly Act had spread throughout the sales departments. Furthermore, based on an amicable settlement of a shareholder lawsuit related to allegations of steel bridge construction bid-rigging, MHI in July 2010 established Public Works Business Process Validation and Advisory Committee, which consisted of three outside experts. The committee examined the MHI's implementation of a complete compliance system for securing public construction orders. MHI initiatives were assessed to have sufficient countermeasures necessary to avoid collusion in the tendering process. It also proposed a code of conduct for a new era and drew up guidelines. Based on this proposal, in fiscal 2011 MHI created guidelines regarding topics such as interactions and exchanges of information with competing businesspeople, and made everybody in the company aware of these guidelines. In addition, the Antimonopoly Act Compliance Manual and other documents have been revised to make them easier to understand for sales staff. MHI will continue to take actions that instill a law-abiding mentality in order-receiving activities. In fiscal 2011, no warnings were issued against MHI by government offices such as the Fair Trade Commission, and operations and business were not suspended due to misconduct or other circumstances. 47 Management / Compliance Violations of regulations for the manufacture of aircraft parts A whistle-blowing incident occurred in the manufacturing process of titanium parts for various types of aircraft manufactured at the Oe Plant of Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works in June 2011. The results of an in-house investigation confirmed that a portion of preprocessing work for penetrant inspections (see note) was not performed correctly on some of the titanium parts manufactured from April 2006 to March 2010, although the processing process was implemented correctly. After examining similar cases in a strict and wide-ranging way, other cases came to light in which in-house regulations seemed to have been violated. The results of technical evaluations, including simulation tests, confirmed that flight safety was not affected. However, MHI regarded this as a grave problem that harms the credibility of its products. In addition to making prompt reports to customers, MHI also continued making successive reports regarding the developments of later investigations. Responsible persons in related departments were also subject to serious disciplinary action. Afterwards, MHI was ordered to make reports and given stern warnings by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry; Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism; and Ministry of Defense. MHI sends reports regularly to each ministry about the implementation of measures to prevent the recurrence of this problem. The main causes of this violation of regulations were inadequate facilities and structures to respond to increased production, an environment in which workers were not sufficiently supervised and educated, and a lack of awareness by relevant individuals regarding the importance of the strict observance of rules. Counter-measures to be implemented include the following reforms: facility investments required to improve the work environment and increase productivity, the appropriate allocation of personnel according to the quality and volume of work, improvements to the production management and quality assurance system, ample education, and the clarification of work instruction documents. Furthermore, in order to make these reforms both permanent and reliable, improvement activities are being implemented from November 1, 2011. These activities are centered on the Production Reform Committee in Aerospace Systems, with overall management by the Steering Committee led by the president. Respected individuals from outside the company also participate in the Advisory Committee that monitors these activities. (Note) Penetrant inspection: A type of nondestructive inspection to detect part surface defects. 48 Management / Compliance Improving Compliance Principles/Guidelines The Compliance Principles Clarify Behavior Standards The MHI Compliance Principles established in September 2001 explicitly set forth required behavior standards so that compliance with applicable laws and social norms can be comprehensively achieved in business activities, societal relationships, and employee relationships. This policy has been printed on cards so that it can be easily carried and has been distributed to all employees, including contract workers. In addition, all employees have been provided with MHI's Compliance Guidelines in the form of a booklet, which contains straightforward explanations on specific areas requiring caution during the execution of daily duties. Moreover, articles on compliance have regularly been included in company bulletins. From fiscal 2010, illustrated articles have been included to further deepen employee understanding. Compliance Guidelines MHI Compliance Principles I. Business activities We will conduct company activities in a sensible and appropriate manner and in compliance with applicable laws and social norms, and will contribute to society by providing safe, high-quality products and services. II. Relationship between the company and society We will try to preserve the environment and live in harmony with society as a good corporate citizen. III. Relationship between the company and employees The company will provide a safe, healthy work environment, and company members will make clear distinctions between official and private activities and obligations, comply with applicable laws and internal rules, and execute their duties faithfully. Establishing regulations and standards for the more thorough prevention of bribery MHI strives for fairness in its global commercial transactions by strictly observing the anti-bribery laws of all countries, including Japan’s Unfair Competition Prevention Act, which prohibits the giving of illicit benefits by Japanese citizens to overseas government officials. MHI established the Guidelines for the Prevention of Bribery Involving Foreign Civil Servants in 2005 to define rules of conduct based on the Unfair Competition Prevention Act. In addition, the Anti-Bribery Rules and Anti-Bribery Procedural Guidelines based on these guidelines were created in February 2012 in order to respond to strengthened regulations in various countries. In this way, MHI is working even harder to prevent bribery. 49 Management / Compliance Firm responses to antisocial forces MHI's Compliance Principles clearly set forth firm measures to deal with antisocial forces. All MHI facilities have established departments to take measures if unjust demands are made by antisocial forces. The departments will work together to comprehensively deal with the incident as an organization. In addition, MHI has taken actions, including compliance promotion training, to promote the ideal mindset and essential concepts for responding to undue claims. Moreover, MHI pro-actively strives to build close cooperative relationships with police, lawyers, and special institutions, to gain advice and support for dealing with unjust demands. Adding clauses to contracts with clients and business partners that exclude organized crime groups With the enactment of ordinances for the elimination of organized crime groups by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government and Okinawa Prefecture from October 2011, all prefectures in Japan have now enacted such ordinances. The MHI Group regards compliance as the core of its management, and has consistently responded in a firm way to organized crime groups and other antisocial forces. Based on the enactment of these ordinances, MHI adds clauses to its contracts with clients and business partners in order to exclude antisocial forces. Eliminating Camouflage Contracts Based on the Policies of the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare In 2007, the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare created the Guidelines for Measures that Should be Adopted by Outsourcers Striving to Improve and Optimize Employment Management of Contract Work for Manufacturing Businesses. Based on these guidelines, MHI is working towards making suitable applications such as by creating an independent inspection chart and using it in workplaces. In addition, MHI is voluntarily and actively working to prevent incidences of the so-called camouflage contract problem by implementing compliance training, thoroughly auditing worksite conditions, and holding consultations with the labor department. 50 Management / Compliance Compliance Training and Increasing Awareness Implementing discussion-based training adapted to daily duties Discussion-based compliance promotion training sessions for all employees have been carried out in all MHI worksites since fiscal 2003. Since fiscal 2005, training sessions have been held twice a year. The training is held with the goal of increasing awareness so that employees can execute proper judgment and actions in accordance with compliance, no matter what the situation. In the discussions, employees consider what they would do or what the proper action would be if, for example, they were to feel anxiety over compliance because they are faced with strict costor delivery-related demands, or if they are pressured by a supervisor. In fiscal 2011 discussions were added on three new themes: Britain’s anti-bribery law, Ordinance for the Elimination of Organized Crime and “power harassment” (abuse of authority), which is the subject of attention for measures taken by the entire company. Over 40,000 employees (more than 96 percent of all employees; including dispatched and re-employed workers) participated. The training sessions will continue with themes based on issues the employees come up against in their daily work. Yearly compliance awareness survey Since fiscal 2004, every year the Compliance Committee conducts a compliance awareness survey. In fiscal 2011, a questionnaire was sent to 9,729 employees (a random sample of approximately 30 percent of all employees) of whom 8,259 (84.9 percent) responded. About 98 percent of them indicated that they are aware of compliance. The indicators “level of compliance awareness,” “recognition of the MHI Compliance Principles,” and “workplace environment regarding compliance” have all risen for the fourth consecutive year, confirming that the outcomes of compliance actions are improving and that the awareness of compliance among employees is steadily growing. The company will continue to conduct survey-style research to confirm the level of compliance awareness among employees. Number of participants at compliance promotion training FY 2009 2009 2010 2010 2011 2011 (first Half) (second Half) (first Half) (second Half) (first Half) (second Half) 33,602 33,016 32,526 31,896 32,333 40,042 (Note) Number of participants over the past three years, including dispatched employees, 51 Management / Compliance re-employed employees, etc. from the second half of 2011. Participation rates for compliance promotion training FY 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 96.1% 96.8% 96.4% 96.5% 96.8% (Note) Training sessions have been held twice a year (first and second halves) since fiscal 2005. Figures represent the average participation rates for the first and second halves. Results of Compliance Awareness Survey How much are you aware of compliance? How much are you aware of compliance? Strongly aware A little aware Not much aware Not sure Fiscal 2011 68.7% 29.3% 0.9% 1.2% Fiscal 2010 65.8% 31.4% 1.1% 1.7% Fiscal 2009 66.0% 30.8% 1.1% 2.1% Does your workplace atmosphere allow you to point out cases of compliance violations? 52 Fiscal 2011 68.7% 29.3% 0.9% 1.2% Fiscal 2010 65.8% 31.4% 1.1% 1.7% Fiscal 2009 66.0% 30.8% 1.1% Management 2.1% / Compliance Does your workplace atmosphere allow you to point out cases of compliance violations? Does your workplace atmosphere allow you to point out cases of compliance violations? Yes Yes, but No Not sure nevertheless difficult Fiscal 2011 66.4% 22.1% 3.9% 7.6% Fiscal 2010 66.0% 21.5% 4.1% 8.3% Fiscal 2009 64.2% 23.1% 4.5% 8.2% A Word from an Employee Leading staff members with the aim of further improving compliance awareness Kunihito Michizaki Group Manager Maintenance Group MHI Oceanics Co., Ltd. As a manager in the Maintenance Group, whose primary task is the maintenance of defense machinery, I serve as an instructor for compliance training given to about 30 staff members. During the training, I introduce specific examples of and focus on themes with strong connections to each staff member—such as manufacturing defects, unfair transactions and management, labor time management, and power harassment—based on the content of MHI’s work, the relationship between the company and society, and the relationships between the company and its employees. Compliance is the basis of all corporate activities. In addition to personally taking actions while strictly observing compliance, I also intend to make efforts to raise staff awareness of compliance. 53 Management / Compliance Secure Safeguarding of Proprietary Information Preventing infection by computer viruses In mid-August 2011, a computer virus infection was confirmed at several of MHI’s works. The results of a survey indicated that this virus could leak files to websites outside of the company. Immediate steps, including removing the virus, were taken to prevent the damage from spreading, and further measures were taken to strengthen systems for both observation and defense. Taking the scale and malignance of this virus into account, MHI submitted a damage report to the police regarding the infection. A detailed survey was conducted jointly with external experts, which confirmed the following things. * It was confirmed that portion of data regarding products and technologies had been moved, in a way not intended by MHI, on the in-house servers. A further survey was conducted for this reason, which confirmed the possibility that a portion of some type of data on the servers had been leaked outside of the company. * No external leakage of defenseor nuclear power-related information that must be safeguarded was identified. MHI has always taken various measures to maintain a high level of information security. Based on this incident, MHI is taking efforts to reinforce the checks for viruses attempting to enter the system including strengthening the observation system for unauthorized access and enhancing education on information security (such as targeted attack email exercises, see below). The Information Technology Department and General Affairs Department take the lead in protecting confidential information MHI has built a corporate-wide system for confidential information management, information security management, and personal privacy through the Information Technology Department and General Affairs Department in order to thoroughly safeguard confidential information, such as company management information and technological information, and information related to customers and clients. MHI is working to carry out appropriate information management (including paper documents and electronic data) and improve information security. Using the manual and database to thoroughly protect personal information In conjunction with the enforcement of the Act on the Protection of Personal Information in April 2005, MHI announced its own Privacy Policy and formulated Personal Information Protection Rules and the Personal Information Management Manual. In addition, the company compiled key points related to our business into a digest and distributed it to all employees in an effort to ensure thorough protection of personal information. A personal information database registration system has been developed and used as a means for consolidating the handling of personal data by registering all data owned by respective divisions. 54 Management / Compliance Constantly reinforcing measures to protect confidential information MHI has always established rules governing the management of confidential information such as the Regulations for Managing Confidential Information and the Regulations for Managing Documentation. But as the amount of electronic data increased, MHI decided in 2001 to draw up the Information Security Management Standards. These standards have been sequentially revised to encompass new information technologies, dangers, and law revisions in order to more appropriately manage electronic information. Moreover, the Manual on the Rules for Protection of Confidential Information from Leakage were created and distributed to improve employee awareness of confidential information management. In the past, computers from employees at MHI and partner companies have been infected with computer viruses and product information has been leaked, causing trouble for clients. Therefore, MHI strictly enforces measures to prevent a recurrence of such incidents by forbidding the use of private personal computers for work and the introduction of software not required for work. Also, as measures against information leaks as a result of theft or loss of computers and external storage media, MHI has provided employees with comprehensive instructions on encrypting data on PCs, external storage media, and e-mail, and has clarified procedures for taking these devices outside the company. MHI instructs both domestic and overseas Group companies on improving information security management rules, information management education, and internal audits in an effort to carry out exhaustive information management throughout the Group. MHI also enters into nondisclosure agreements with subcontractors to ensure comprehensive management of confidential information. Implementing employee training to enhance awareness of confidential information management MHI has incorporated education on protection of personal information into compliance promotion training given to all employees and training by employee level, and also provides e-learning on the overall topic of confidential information and information security to thoroughly educate employees on specific procedures and rules. In fiscal 2011, due to the virus infection issue that was confirmed in August, targeted attack email exercises were carried out by sending targeted spoof e-mails to certain randomly chosen employees. Targeted spoofed e-mails were also used in a case-study during e-learning. Continuously assessing the status of security measures through internal audits To safeguard information, it is important to continuously evaluate and reassess the state of security measures being implemented. MHI has prepared a checklist to be used in all departments and holds an annual internal audit to determine the status of measures being implemented. As a result, when issues are discovered they are revised and the following year during the audit that revision is assessed, leading to steady improvements. In fiscal 2011, in addition to self-assessments, inspections were conducted by third parties such as internal audit departments. The content of self-assessments was verified, such as by on-site confirmations of especially important items. Items that required improvement were pointed out, leading to the improvement of work in each department. 55 Management / Compliance Operating PDCA cycles for information security management throughout the Group MHI has always been aware of the importance of its own products and technologies, and has worked to maintain a high level of information security. Because MHI views the recent virus infection as a serious issue, it is working to further reinforce security by taking measures such as running PDCA cycles for information security management throughout the Group, and by improving information management regulations and conducting internal audits of information management throughout MHI and domestic and overseas Group companies. 56 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Environmental Report MHI is working to alleviate the increasing environmental burdens across the globe by providing environmentally friendly products and technologies in diverse fields as well as by deploying environmental preservation activities throughout the product lifecycle, from development and design to procurement of raw materials, production, on-site installation and final disposal. Environmental Management ........................................................... 58 MHI has in place an environmental management system that covers the entire Group and promotes Group-wide, consolidated environmental management efforts. • Environmental Management Promotion System • Establishing and Operating the Environmental Management System • Preserving Biodiversity • Controlling and Improving Response to Potential Environmental Impact Risks • Status of Incidents and Legal Violations Relating to the Environment • Environmental Management Systems Adopted at MHI and Its Subsidiaries Targets and Progress ............................................................................ 66 Material Balance ........................................................................................ 69 Environmental Accounting ................................................................ 70 Countermeasures against Global Warming ...................... 72 The MHI is working to reduce CO2 emissions based on medium-term environmental targets set for the entire company. We are aiming for further emission cuts through the introduction of energy-saving devices and use of renewable energy. • Promotion of Energy-saving and CO2 Emission Control Measures • Measures to Curb CO2 Emissions in Transport • Energy-saving Activities in Ofﬁces • CO2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2011) Resource Conservation, Waste Management and Water Resources ...................... 81 In addition to further reducing waste and managing it appropriately, in order to protect water resources MHI established a target to decrease water consumption during production and is working for reduction from fiscal 2011. • Curbing Waste Generation, Release and Disposal • Using Electronic Manifests (e-manifests) • Protecting Water Resources Management of Chemical Substances ................................. 86 MHI works to consistently manage the chemical substances required for production, and makes efforts for their safe usage and storage. We are also switching to alternative substances and making efforts to curb the use and emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) such as xylene, toluene, and ethylbenzene. • Curbing the Use and Emissions of Chemical Substances through Proper Management and Use of Alternatives Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact .......................................... 90 • Main Products and Technologies in 2011 57 Environmental Report / Environmental Management Environmental Management Promotion System Promotion of environmental management by a company-wide committee and promotion entities at each works The Environmental Committee, chaired by the director in charge of the environment, sets out the company-wide annual environmental program. Decisions are conveyed to the entire company and all Group companies. Environmental Committees established at each works promote policies and conduct environmental management corresponding to the specific features of each works. In addition, Environmental Liaison Conferences for individuals in charge of the environment at the Head Office and each works and Energy Conservation Liaison Conferences, where energy and CO2 reduction measures are discussed, are held. Furthermore, an Energy Conservation Sectional Meeting and Waste Management Information Exchange Meeting, comprising section heads and subordinates from each works, are convened. Basic Policy on Environmental Matters (Established 1996) As clearly laid out in provision 1 of its creedWe strongly believe that the customer comes first and that we are obligated to be an innovative partner to society. -MHI believes its primary purpose is to contribute to society through its R&D, manufacturing and other business activities. Accordingly, in the performance of its business activities the company shall embrace the awareness that it is an integral member of society and, in all aspects of its business activities, it will strive to reduce burden on the environment and shall devote its comprehensive technological capabilities to the development of technologies and products that will protect the environment, as its way of contributing to the development of a sustainable society. Action Guidelines (Established 1996) 1. Accord high priority to environmental protection within company operations, and take steps company-wide to protect and enhance the environment. 2. Clarify roles and responsibilities regarding environmental protection by developing an organized structure to deal with environmental protection matters, defining environment-related procedures, etc. 3. Strive to alleviate burden on the environment in all aspects of company business activities-from product R&D and design to procurement of raw materials, manufacture, transport, usage, servicing and disposal-through pollution prevention, conservation of resources, energy saving, waste reduction, reuse and recycling. 4. Strive to develop and provide advanced, highly reliable, wholly proprietary technologies and products that will contribute to solving environmental and energy problems. 5. Strive continuously to improve and enhance environmental protection activities not only by fully complying with environmental laws and regulations but also, when necessary, by establishing, implementing and evaluating independent standards and setting environmental goals and targets. 6. In the performance of business activities overseas and exportation of products, pay full attention to impact on the local natural and social environments and strive to protect those environments; also, become actively involved in technological cooperation overseas in matters of environmental protection. 7. Take steps to raise environmental awareness among all employees through environmental education, etc., undertake activities to provide environment-related information to the public, and proactively make environment-enhancing contributions to society. Environmental Management Structure (as of April 1, 2012) 58 matters of environmental protection. 7. Take steps to raise environmental awareness among all employees through environmental education, etc., undertake activities to provide environment-related information to the public, Environmental and proactively make environment-enhancing contributions Report / Environmental Management to society. Environmental Management Structure (as of April 1, 2012) Adopting mediumand long-term environmental targets for the entire Group and promoting various activities to reduce environmental burden The MHI Group formulated the MHI Group midand long-term environmental targets, which set common targets for all Group companies in April 2008. Under this plan, special focus is on reducing CO2 emission by an average of 3 percent between 2008 and 2012 compared to fiscal 2007; promoting zero emissions; and acquiring, maintaining and renewing certifications such as ISO environmental management. The Environmental Meetings with group companies held in fiscal 2011 reaffirmed the commitment of the companies to incorporating and promoting the mediumand long-term targets of the environmental management program. The Group will continue to work together towards attaining the targets. Environmental Audits at All Works in Japan MHI has been conducting on-site environmental audits across all 13 works in Japan since fiscal 2007. The purpose of the audits is to ensure compliance with environmental laws and regulations and to conduct physical, on-site verification of operational conditions. Audit teams consisting of auditors from works other than those being audited perform their audit and then report results and improvements to the Environmental Committee, which are then shared across the company. Five works were audited in fiscal 2011: Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Mihara Machinery Works, Hiroshima Machinery Works, Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works and Sagamihara Machinery Works. They affirmed that items indicated during the previous audits were corrected appropriately and that steps were taken to improve the level of management. 59 Environmental Report / Environmental Management Initiating Environmental Meetings with Group Companies Environmental Meetings have been held since fiscal 2007 to unify environmental management across the entire MHI Group. The meetings identify problems and support the study of improvements and the exchange of information related to the environment, with the primary goal of ensuring the compliance of Group companies and preventing environmental pollution. From June to September 2011, Environmental Meetings were held at 16 Group companies in Japan, comprising 11 companies which have independently attained the ISO 14001 international standard certification for environmental management systems, and another five companies which acquired the same certification within MHI work's ISO 14001 accreditation scope. In addition, MHI gathered the 16 Group companies that held Environmental Meetings in fiscal 2011 together in February 2012 for the 4th Domestic Group Company Environmental Liaison Conference, where members shared the positive examples they learned from their respective Environmental Meetings. Hereafter, MHI will conduct environmental activities for the Group companies located in the MHI works in accordance with the policies of each works, and for the other Group companies promote the attainment of mediumand long-term environmental targets common through out the Group. In this way, MHI will strive to enhance the level of environmental activities Group-wide. 60 Environmental Report / Environmental Management Establishing and Operating an Environmental Management System Promoting the Establishment of an Environmental Management System at Group companies MHI is promoting the introduction of an Environmental Management System for both domestic and overseas Group companies. In addition to introduction of ISO 14001, EcoAction 21 and local government environmental management systems, MHI is in the process of introducing two of its own standards, M-EMS and M-EMS EcoAction. In fiscal 2011, ISO 14001 certification was attained by one domestic company, Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation, and two overseas companies, MHI Industrial Engineering & Services Private Ltd. and Mitsubishi Heavy Industries India Precision Tools, Ltd. This brings the number of ISO-certified companies to 83 of 116 domestic companies and 28 of 119 overseas companies. Fostering environmental awareness for each every employee through stratified environmental training At MHI, each works formulates its own environmental education curriculum based on e-learning and other methods to provide environmental education to employees. In addition to the internal environmental auditor training program organized by our Head Office, specialized training that deals with daily management procedures and handling emergencies also takes place for employees doing painting tasks and handling dangerous materials. Registered ISO 14001 Internal Auditors (as of April 1, 2012) FY 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Number 684 687 815 847 980 995 61 Environmental Report / Environmental Management Preserving Biodiversity Promoting the preservation of biodiversity in accordance with the Environmental Policy and CSR Action Guidelines The Basic Policy on Environmental Matters and Action Guidelines and the MHI Group CSR Action Guidelines includes the concepts of the Guidelines for Private Sector Engagement in Biodiversity released by the Ministry of the Environment and the Biodiversity Declaration from the Japan Federation of Economic Organizations. Each works pursues various biological diversity activities in accordance with these principles and guidelines. Breeding program for Japanese honeybees in danger of extinction An endangered Japanese honeybee breeding program was launched in fiscal 2010 at the Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works. Inspired by the honeycomb structure of airplanes, the breeding program provides beehives for honeybees at the Works. Honey taken from the beehives was presented to the Nagoya Port Wildflower Garden Bluebonnet (on the bank opposite the Works in Nagoya City) in November 2011. Meanwhile, Head Office and four works are also involved in ongoing local government forest care programs. Lead by employees and their families, there is a continuous effort involving planting, tree thinning and other forest care activities designed to preserve important habitats for many different creatures. Breeding Japanese honeybees Extracting honey from a hive 62 Environmental Report / Environmental Management Local government forest conservation programs In recent years, MHI has been an active supporter of corporate forestry programs together with local governments and other organizations. Head Office and four works are involved in ongoing local government forest care programs. Lead by employees and their families, there is a continuous effort involving planting, tree thinning and other forest care activities designed to preserve important habitats for many different creatures. Main programs undertaken in fiscal 2011 Works Date Description Yadoriki forest August 7 21 employees and family members took part in forest (Sagamihara thinning work Machinery Works) Onaza forest (Kobe May 14 Planting 60 trees including small chestnut and konara oak Shipyard & Machinery Works) Beaver forest October 29 New employees cleared the underbrush (Nagoya Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Machinery Works) Umi-no-Mori (Sea November 13 Planting seedlings raised by various divisions of the Forest) (Head Office) Shinagawa and Yokohama head office buildings at the Umi-no-Mori (Sea Forest), situated on landfill in Tokyo Bay Forum made with the November 13 27 employees and family members assisted the Hiroshima forest of Hiroshima Tree Planting Center in thinning, pruning and cleaning up (Mihara Machinery activities Works) Employees and their families from the Kobe Head Office employees and their families at Shipyard & Machinery Works at Onaza forest Umi-no-Mori (Sea Forest) in Tokyo 63 Environmental Report / Environmental Management Controlling and Improving Response to Potential Environmental Impact Risks Clarifying the risks at each works and addressing them through daily management The company has prepared and uses an ISO-based manual for each works, encompassing such issues as risk identification methods, daily management procedures and contingency plans. At each works, emergency response drills are carried out at least once yearly to confirm the effectiveness of response procedures for emergencies such as oil spills and earthquakes. In the event of any crisis in any plant, the company's in-house crisis management information system is prepared to quickly convey information to the President. Achieving green purchasing targets MHI formulated its internal green purchasing policy in March 2002 to systematically promote the purchasing of raw materials, components and products that contribute to the reduction of the environmental burden with the aim of building a circular-flow economy and society. Based on this, we urge the purchasing of office goods, etc. that place the lowest burden possible on the environment. The annual green purchasing targets of 90% by volume and 95% by value were achieved for the first time in fiscal 2011, at 92.3% by volume and 95.5% by value. MHI remains committed to sustaining these targets through ongoing green purchasing strategies. Status of Incidents and Legal Violations Relating to the Environment Promoting activities to strengthen measures designed to eliminate environmental incidents As part of ongoing efforts to strengthen measures designed to eliminate environmental incidents and accidents, an extensive analysis of past environmental incidents was conducted during fiscal 2011. The findings of this analysis were used to compile a list of representative environmental incidents as a reference for preventing similar incidents in future. The findings were also used to formulate the”Guidelines for Promoting Measures to Prevent Environmental Incidents”, which includes rules for setting up an Incident Investigation Committee to thoroughly investigate the causes of environmental incidents if and when they occur. 64 Environmental Report / Environmental Management Environmental Management Systems Adopted at MHI and Its Subsidiaries as of April 4, 2012 ISO 14001 certification at MHI works, plants and research & development centers Kamakura EcoAction 21 certification at MHI Group companies Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Yokohama Machinery Works Oct. 31, 1997 Domestic Shonan Monorail Co., Ltd. Apr. 4, 2007 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works May 22, 1998 Takasago Machinery Works Jun. 26, 1998 Nagoya Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Machinery Works Nov. 20, 1998 MHI Group companies adopting M-EMS (based on ISO 14001) Sagamihara Machinery Works May 21, 1999 Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) MHI sites and plants Mihara Machinery Works Sep. 3, 1999 MHI Power Systems Inspection Technologies, Ltd., Yokohama Division Apr. 25, 2005 Domestic Hiroshima Machinery Works Sep. 30, 1999 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Shinagawa Branch and Information & Communication Systems Business Department Apr. 26, 2005 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works Nov. 24, 1999 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Corporation May 13, 2005 Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works Dec. 18, 1999 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Engine Systems Co., Ltd. Jul. 12, 2005 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Feb. 18, 2000 Over Mitsubishi Engine North America, Inc. Jan. 19, 2007 Iwatsuka Plant Mar. 17, 2000 seas Ritto Machinery Works Dec. 28, 2000 Yokohama Engineering Center, Engineering Headquarters (Environmental & Chemical Plant Project Management Division) Jun. 29, 2001 MHI Group companies M-EMS EcoAction (based on EcoAction 21) Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works Oct. 1, 2003 Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Head Office Apr. 6, 2006 Tokyo Office and Kobe Branch Office,Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Apr. 20, 2005 Transportation Equipment Engineering & Service Co., Ltd. Nagasaki Research & Development Center Aug. 21, 2006 MHI Research & Advanced Technology Research Center Nov. 9, 2006 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Sagamihara Branch Apr. 25, 2005 Yokohama Research & Development Center Nov. 9, 2006 Shunjusha Ltd. Apr. 26, 2005 MHI Sagami High-tech, Ltd. May 9, 2005 Domestic Hiroshima Research & Development Center (Mihara) Dec. 5, 2006 development centers Nagoya Research & Development Center Dec. 26, 2006 Hiroshima Dia System Co., Ltd. May 11, 2005 Takasago Research & Development Center Mar. 9, 2007 MHI Marine Engineering, Ltd. May 16, 2005 Hiroshima Research & Development Center (Hiroshima) Aug. 2, 2007 Churyo Engineering Co., Ltd. May 16, 2005 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Yokohama Branch, Minatomirai area May 16, 2005 MHI Aerospace Systems Corp. Jul. 12, 2005 Group companies that acquired ISO 14001 certifications independently Yokohama Division, MHI Control Systems Co., Ltd. Jul. 22, 2005 Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Ryosei Service Co., Ltd. Jun. 10, 2009 MHI Solution Technologies Co., Ltd. Aug. 28, 1998 Mitsubishi Agricultural Machinery Co., Ltd. Jul. 24, 2001 Nagoya Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Mar. 14, 2002 Group companies within the scope of ISO 14001 accreditation of MHI works and plants Nishinihon Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Jul. 12, 2002 Location or company name Date of issue Names of works andplants Chubu Jukan Operation Co., Ltd., Head Office Jan. 13, 2004 (or registration) which acquired ISO14001 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Environmental & Chemical Engineering Co., Ltd. (Head Office and Branch Office) Apr. 12, 2004 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Plastic Technology Co., Ltd. Apr. 1, 2000 Iwatsuka Plant Ryoin Co., Ltd., Printing Division, Tokyo Plant (including Head Office and Chubu Plant) Apr. 23, 2004 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Nagoya Branch Oct. 22, 2004 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Work Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Environmental & Chemical Engineering Co., Ltd. (Engineering Division) Feb. 17, 2005 MHI Aerospace Production Technologies, Ltd. Oct. 22, 2004 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Work Shimonoseki Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Mar. 14, 2005 Diamond Air Service Incorporation Oct. 22, 2004 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Work Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Mar. 17, 2005 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Shimonoseki Branch Nov. 22, 2004 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works Domestic Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Food & Packaging Machinery Co., Ltd. Mar. 17, 2005 Kanmon Dock Service, Ltd. Nov. 22, 2004 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works Seibu Jukan Operation Co., Ltd. , Head Office Mar. 22, 2005 Shimonoseki Ryo-Jyu Engineering Co., Ltd. Nov. 22, 2004 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works Kusakabe Co., Ltd. Mar. 24, 2005 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Nagoya Nishi Branch Jan. 6, 2005 Iwatsuka Plant Tamachi Building Co., Ltd. Mar. 25, 2005 MHI Machine Tool Engineering Co., Ltd. Feb. 25, 2005 Ritto Machinery Works Hiroshima Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Apr. 9, 2005 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Ritto Branch Feb. 25, 2005 Ritto Machinery Works Ryoju Cold Chain Co., Ltd. Apr. 22, 2005 MHI Aero Engine Service Co., Ltd. Apr. 11, 2005 Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Precision Casting Co., Ltd. May 11, 2005 MHI Logitec Company Limited Apr. 11, 2005 Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works Tokiwa Machinery Works Ltd. May 18, 2005 MHI Diesel Service Engineering Co., Ltd. May 12, 2005 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Jukan Operation Co., Ltd., Head Office Aug. 1, 2005 Nuclear Plant Service Engineering Co., Ltd. May 12, 2005 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works MHI Aerospace Logitem Co., Ltd. Jan. 5, 2007 Sanshin-Tec. Ltd. May 12, 2005 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Air-Conditioning & Thermal Systems Corporation, System Production Department Sep. 14, 2007 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Parking Co., Ltd. May 14, 2005 Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Bridge & Steel Structures Engineering Co., Ltd., Chiba Plant Mar. 25, 2010 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Yokohama Branch, Yokosei area May 14, 2005 Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works Kaminoshima Factory and Branch Offices, MHI Oceanics Co., Ltd. Oct. 28, 2011 Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd., Yokohama Branch May 14, 2005 Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries-Haier (Qingdao) Air-Conditioners Co., Ltd. Dec. 14, 1998 MHI Energy & Service Co., Ltd. May 14, 2005 Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works MHI Equipment Europe B.V. Nov. 9, 2001 MHI Power Systems Inspection Technologies, Ltd., Takasago Division May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Mitsubishi Caterpillar Forklift Europe B.V. Jul. 25, 2002 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Plant Construction Co., Ltd., Power Systems Service Headquarters May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Climate Control Inc. Jun. 12, 2003 Takasago Division, MHI Plant Engineering Co., Ltd. May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Thai Compressor Manufacturing Co., Ltd. Jun. 27, 2003 Takasago Division, MHI Control Systems Co., Ltd. May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works Mitsubishi Power Systems Americas, Inc. Orlando Service Center Feb. 18, 2004 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Takasago Branch May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works MHI Automotive Climate Control (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Jul. 11, 2005 Nuclear Plant Service Engineering Co., Ltd., Takasago Division May 14, 2005 Takasago Machinery Works CBC Industrias Pesadas S.A. Dec. 1, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Machinery Technology Corp. Jun 23, 2005 Hiroshima Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Korea Ltd. Dec. 17, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Plant Construction Co., Ltd. Jun. 23, 2005 Hiroshima Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries-Mahajak Air Conditioners Co., Ltd. Dec. 21, 2005 Mitsubishi-Hitachi Metals Machinery, Inc. Jun. 23, 2005 Hiroshima Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries-Jinling Air-Conditioners Co., Ltd. Jan. 24, 2006 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Hiroshima Branch Jun. 23, 2005 Hiroshima Machinery Works Domestic MHI Machine Tool (Hong Kong) Ltd. Mar. 30, 2006 Sagami Logistics & Service Co., Ltd. Sep. 13, 2005 Sagamihara Machinery Works Overseas Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (Hong Kong) Ltd. Apr. 5, 2006 Choryo Senpaku Kouji Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Jul. 5, 2006 Ryoin Co., Ltd., Nagasaki Branch Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works MHI-Pornchai Machinery Co., Ltd. Jul. 17, 2006 MHI Power Systems Inspection Technologies, Ltd., Nagasaki Division Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries India Private Ltd. Dec. 7, 2006 Space Machinery Factory, MHI Oceanics Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Singapore Private Ltd. Jan. 21, 2007 Kowa Kogyo Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Tire Machinery Division, Headquarters, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries America, Inc. Oct. 15, 2007 Nagasaki Division, MHI Control Systems Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Caterpillar Forklift America Inc. Dec. 6, 2007 Nagasaki Division, MHI Plant Engineering Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (Thailand) Ltd. Dec. 31, 2007 MHI Maritech, Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Dongfang Gas Turbine (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. May 14, 2008 Choryo Software Co., Ltd. Sep. 22, 2005 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works MHI Equipment Alsace S.A.S Mar. 17, 2009 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Machine Tool Sales Co., Ltd. Jan. 13, 2006 Ritto Machinery Works Mitsubishi-Hitachi Metals Machinery South Asia Private Ltd. Jul. 14, 2010 Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd., Department of Facilities Management Service Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Mitsubishi Power System Europe Ltd. Oct. 1, 2010 Tamachi Bldg. Co., Ltd., Shinagawa Building Management Center Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Mitsubishi Turbocharger Asia Co., Ltd. Dec. 22, 2010 MHI Personnel, Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Mitsubishi Heavy Industries India Precision Tools, Ltd. Mar. 27, 2012 MHI Accounting Service, Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office MHI Finance Co., Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Daiya PR Co., Ltd. Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office EcoAction 21 certification at MHI Group companies Diamond Air Service Incorporation, Tokyo Office Apr. 6, 2006 Head Office Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) E-Techno, Ltd. May 12, 2006 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Daiya Building Service Co., Ltd. Apr. 21, 2005 Choryo Engineering Co., Ltd. Aug. 21, 2006 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Nuclear Development Co., Ltd. May 30, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Bridge & Steel Structures Domestic Yokohama Division, MHI Plant Engineering Co., Ltd. Oct. 31, 2005 Engineering Co., Ltd. Aug. 2, 2007 Hiroshima Machinery Works Kyuusyuu Jyukan Operation Co., Ltd. Head office Jun. 11, 2008 MHI Solution Technologies Co., Ltd. Takasago Branch Apr. 9, 2008 Takasago Machinery Works Higashi Chugoku Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Oct. 15, 2009 Shinryo System Corp. May 1, 2008 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works Hiroji Center Co., Ltd. Jan. 29, 2010 Nagasaki Diamond Staff Co., Ltd. Jun. 16, 2009 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Nagasaki Ryoko Service Co., Ltd. Jun. 16, 2009 Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Ryoin Co., Ltd., Mihara Branch Oct. 15, 2009 Mihara Machinery Works K-EMS certification at MHI Group companies Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd., Yokohama Building Service Department Oct. 19, 2009 Head Office Location or company name Date of issue (or registration) Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Compressor Corporation Oct. 14, 2010 Hiroshima Machinery Works Seiryo Engineering Co., Ltd. Dec. 24, 2004 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Printing & Packaging Machinery, Ltd. Nov. 19, 2010 Mihara Machinery Works Kinki Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. Feb. 23, 2005 Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Transportation Equipment Engineering & Service Co., Ltd. Nov. 19, 2010 Mihara Machinery Works Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Mechatronics Systems, Ltd. Feb. 23, 2005 Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation Oct. 14, 2011 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Work Domestic MHI Nuclear Engineering Co., Ltd. Mar. 24, 2005 Tokyo Office, Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation Oct. 14, 2011 Head Office Nuclear Power Training Center, Ltd. Mar. 24, 2005 Yokohama Engineering Center, MHI General Services Co., Ltd. Mar. 24, 2005 Over Engineering Headquarters Ryoin Co., Ltd., Kobe Branch Mar. 24, 2005 MHI Industrial Engineering & Services Private Ltd. Dec. 29, 2011 seas (Environmental & Chemical Plant Techno Data Engineering Co., Ltd. Feb. 27, 2006 Project Management Division) Energis Co., Ltd. Mar. 23, 2006 65 Environmental Report / Targets and Progress Targets and Progress Results of Promotional Efforts of Mediumto Long-Term Environmental Targets (FY2011 Results) In fiscal 2010, MHI took the decision to extend the Mediumto Long-Term Environmental Targets, originally set down in fiscal 2002, through to fiscal 2012. Targets that had been achieved in fiscal 2010 would be revised upwards, while targets that had not been achieved by fiscal 2010 would be retained. The company as a whole is committed to working towards the new environmental targets for fiscal 2012. Outcomes in fiscal 2011 are listed below. Environmental targets and progress in fiscal 2011 =target achieved =requires further efforts Item Goals Progress (as of the Evaluation end of FY2011) Realization of a Reduced CO2 6% reduction of the CO2 emissions: low-carbon emissions from average CO2 emission 437,000 tons society business amount for the five 7.4% reduction from activities years from FY2008 to FY1990 level Energy savings 2012 (from FY1990 (global warming level): to be achieved measures) through reduction efforts at all production plants More than 13% CO2 emissions from reduction of the head office average CO2 emission (Shinagawa and amount for the five Yokohama combined) years from FY2008 to in FY2011 were 2012 (from FY2005 23.7% * down on level): to be achieved FY2005 levels. through reduction * According to data efforts at offices and reported to the operations divisions Tokyo Metropolitan (Head Office, domestic Government and the offices and research & Bureau of Economy, development centers) Trade and Industry Reduced energy More than 5% FY2011 unit energy usage and CO2 reduction of unit consumption of emissions from energy consumption in transport energy is product transportation in 46.4 transportation FY2012 (from FY2008 level) by promoting efforts to reduce transportation energy (unit energy consumption of FY2008: 45.7 to 43.4 by FY2012) 66 Environmental Report / Targets and Progress Form a Reduced waste By FY2012, reduce Total emissions: recycling-based generation and total generated waste 129,000 tons society emissions by 40% of FY1992 40.4% reduction level : to be achieved from FY1992 level (waste and water by conserving resource resources and countermeasures) reducing the purchase of materials Reducing By FY2012, cut landfill landfill waste reliance on waste disposal volume disposal volume cut landfill by 98% relative to by 97% FY2000 The landfill waste landfill waste disposal ratio in disposal ratio 0.6% FY2012 will be below 1% More efficient Water consumption in Water consumption water usage FY2012 will be cut to reduced to 7.22 9.35 million tons, a million tons reduction of 2% 24.3% reduction relative to average consumption of 9.54 million tons in the period FY2005 to FY2007 Management of Elimination of Detoxification of high Ongoing chemical equipment using concentration PCB consignment of (To be substances PCBs and waste in storage processing of high evaluated detoxification (transformers, concentrations PCB in FY2015) (control of treatment condensers, oils) to be waste to JESCO chemical completed by FY2015 (Japan substances) (including ballasts and Environmental smaller equipment) Safety Corporation) Analysis and Testing and analysis confirmation of low of machines and PCB devices (low devices containing concentration) to be low or trace finished by FY2012, concentrations of complete detoxification PCBs is underway at by FY2015 all works Reduced VOCs More than 30% Total VOCs emissions reduction of emissions 1,939 tons atmospheric emission 14.5% reduction of VOCs with focus on from FY2000 level xylene, toluene and ethylbenzene (reduced by 704 tons from 2,268 tons in FY2000 to 1,564 tons in FY2012) Aim for zero Total combined atmospheric emissions emissions of by FY2012 of VOC dichloromethane, organochlorinated trichloroethylene and hazardous air tetrachloroethylene = pollutants: 11.4 tons dichloromethane, trichloroethylene and tetrachloroethylene 67 Environmental Report / Targets and Progress Group Consolidated Ongoing ISO 14001 ISO 14001 environmental environmental renewal by domestic certification renewed management management works, Head Office, at head office and system branch offices and domestic branches, research & Works and all development centers research & development centers Collecting and Collecting Collecting disclosing of environmental environmental environmental information information management (environmental data (environmental data information and environmental and environmental accounting) from accounting) through environmental the database system management and disclosing information systems information through and disclosing this CSR Report information through CSR Reports and other releases Promotion of Promoting the 92.3% by quantity green purchase of 95.5% by value purchasing environmentally friendly products based on the company's own green purchasing guidelines (Purchasing ratios: 90% by volume and 95% by value) Development Development and MHI supplied and provision of provision of new environmental environmentally products and products designed to friendly technology based on combat global technologies our Basic Guideline on warming, such as and products Production of high-efficiency Environmentally generators (wind Friendly Products power generators, (formulated in 2005) to etc.) and CO2 help reduce society's recovery systems environmental burden In particular, we will work to develop technology and provide products that are revolutionary and contribute to solving global warming and building a low-carbon society Form a society Promote We will continue Revegetation that coexists with activities for the revegetation, alien fish activities coordinated nature protection of removal, building with various local (Preserving biodiversity and biotopes and breeding municipal authorities biodiversity) nature Japanese honeybees, across Japan, as among other activities well as biotope and relating to biodiversity Japanese honeybee and examine the breeding programs possibilities for were continued. The evaluating the effect of need for impact our business activities assessment studies on the preservation of will be discussed biodiversity as necessary in light of global trends 68 Environmental Report / Material Balance Material Balance Input/Output Status (FY2011) To carry out its business operations, MHI uses various types of energy and resources. We consistently strive to reduce environmental load throughout the lifecycle of a product, from development, design, procurement and manufacture to distribution, on-site installation, usage, servicing and disposal. 69 Environmental Report / Environmental Accounting Environmental Accounting Adoption of Environmental accounting guidelines MHI quantitatively monitors investments and costs for environment preservation as part of the performance reviews of the company's business activities and also calculates the relative benefits of these efforts. The company refers to the Environmental Accounting Guidelines published by the Ministry of the Environment. 6.2 billion yen in investments and 14.5 billion yen in costs Total investments amounted to6.2 billion yen while total costs were 14.5 billion yen for fiscal 2011. Both figures decreased in comparison with fiscal 2010. Economic advantages valued at 1.7 billion yen were gained during the fiscal year, consisting mainly of revenues from recycling and reduced costs for purchasing electricity due to energy savings. Environmental preservation: costs and economic benefit (non-consolidated)(Million yen) Cost Category Activities Investment Cost Economic benefit Environmental in FY2012 preservation: 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 Description benefit 1. 6,011 5,292 6,104 6,002 2,435 1,694 Production (1) Pollution Maintenance 2,980 3,750 3,097 3,168 10 Reduced activities control and operation emissions of air of wastewater and water and flue gas pollutants treatment facility (2) Global Energy savings 2,435 1,495 432 336 155 149 Cost Reduced environmental reduction energy input preservation from energy savings (3) Recycling Reduced waste 596 47 2,575 2,498 2,270 1,545 Income generation, derived recycling from recycling, cost reduction from reduced waste generation 2. Upstream and Recycling of 0 6 9 39 downstream costs household electrical appliances and container packaging 3. Management activities Development of 224 8 957 1,093 environmental management systems, ISO Office, publication of MHI Social & Environmental Report 4. R&D Development of 475 417 10,399 6,890 Development of environmentally diverse friendly environmentally products friendly products 70 Environmental Report / Environmental Accounting 5. Public and social Support of 3 0 444 326 activities environmental preservation: initiatives, greening activities 6. Environmental Soil 274 447 190 131 Prevention of remediation remediation oil and measures chemicals spills Total 6,987 6,164 18,100 14,451 2,474 1,694 1 Total capital investments in FY2011: 86.7 billion yen. Portion related to the environment: 6.2 billion yen (7.2 percent). 2 Total R&D outlays in FY2011: 107.6 billion yen. Portion related to the environment: 7.3 billion yen (6.8 percent). 71 Environmental Report / Countermeasures against Global Warming Promotion of Energy-saving and CO 2 Emission Control Measures Promoting CO 2 Emissions Reduction at Production Plants In fiscal 2011, MHI's CO2 emissions resulting from energy use were 437,000 tons—nearly the same amount as the previous year. Factors, in addition to the CO2 reduction measures used up till that time, included energy-conservation measures undertaken by the entire company after the Great East Japan Earthquake. Compared to our benchmark year of fiscal 1990, this represents a 7.4 percent reduction, thus achieving our single-year target decrease of six percent for the second year in a row. In fiscal 2012, to attain our company-wide target reduction of a six percent average against the benchmark year of 1990 over the five-year period from fiscal 2008 to 2012, the entire company will work to achieve its targets through the expanded introduction of energy monitoring systems. Additionally, the company will steadily make further reductions through such efforts as upgrading to energy-saving lighting and air-conditioning as outlined in the CO2 emissions reduction acceleration and enforcement action plan formulated in March 2009, as well as the plan for updating in-house air-conditioners formulated in November 2010. Furthermore, MHI will work for reductions by responding to energy-conservation requests from the government. CO2 emissions FY 1990 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Average from 2008 to2012 (target) 472,000t 549,000t 513,000t 449,000t 435,000t 437,000t 443,000t Gross energy input FY 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 11,659TJ 11,145TJ 10,065TJ 10,022TJ 9,950TJ (Note) 1 TJ (terajoule) = 1 trillion joules (1,000,000,000,000 J) Electricity purchases 72 11,659TJ 11,145TJ 10,065TJ 10,022TJ 9,950TJ (Note) 1 TJ (terajoule) = 1 trillion joules (1,000,000,000,000 J) Environmental Report / Countermeasures against Global Warming Electricity purchases FY 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 864,840MWh 857,030MWh 757,335MWh 766,802MWh 731,045MWh Examples of energy conservation and CO 2 emissions reduction at works and Group companies Switching to Alternative Types of Fuel MHI is making efforts to switch to LNG or city gas, which when burned produce small amounts of CO2 emissions compared to heavy oil or kerosene, as fuel for its boilers and other equipment. For example, at the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works the switch to alternative types of fuel was carried out systematically from fiscal 2007 to 2010. At the Hiroshima Machinery Works’ Foundry & Forging Shop, fuel switching was implemented for tempering and heating furnaces in fiscal 2011 in order to reduce CO2 emissions. FY Works Achievements 2005 Takasago Machinery The fuel for the forging heating furnace was switched from Works propane to city gas. CO2 emissions were reduced by 55 percent, including waste heat recovery. 2007 Nagasaki Shipyard & The boiler plant’s three heat treatment furnaces were switched Machinery Works from Heavy Fuel Oil A to city gas. CO2 emissions were reduced by 40 percent. 2009 Nagasaki Shipyard & The boiler plant’s annealing furnace was switched from Machinery Works kerosene to LPG. CO2 emissions were reduced by nine percent. 2010 Nagasaki Shipyard & •Together with facility renewal for the foundry plant’s air Machinery Works compressor, a switch was made from the engine-driven type that used Heavy Fuel Oil A to the electric motor type. CO2 emissions were reduced by 54 percent. •The private generation facilities were switched from Heavy Fuel Oil A to city gas. CO2 emissions were reduced by 31 percent. Nagoya Aerospace Together with the renewal of the boiler for air conditioning, the Systems Works fuel was switched from kerosene to city gas. CO2 emissions (Tobishima Plant) were reduced by approximately 45 percent. 2011 Hiroshima Machinery •The tempering furnace was switched from Heavy Fuel Oil A Works (Foundry & to city gas. CO2 emissions were reduced by 26 percent. Forging Shop) •The heating furnace was switched from Heavy Fuel Oil A to city gas. CO2 emissions were reduced by 30 percent. •The gas tempering furnace was switched from butane to city gas. CO2 emissions were reduced by 17 percent. 73 Environmental Report / Countermeasures against Global Warming Introduction of Solar Cell Panels at Nagoya Ryoju Estate Nagoya Ryoju Estate Co., Ltd. set a goal of reducing CO2 emissions by three percent on average against the benchmark year of 2007 over the five-year period from fiscal 2008 to 2012. As one facet of activities to reduce the amount of energy to achieve this goal, Nagoya Ryoju Estate has installed a total of 288 photovoltaic generation panels with a power output of 130 W per panel on the roof of the Ryoju Estate Head Office Building and at other locations. These solar panels have been in operation since April 2011. In addition, the panels installed on the wall of the Ryokoh Building’s South Wing have been placed at an angle in order to create shadows on the windows, functioning like eaves to prevent room temperatures from rising. The installed photovoltaic panels have a total capacity of 37 kW, and the amount of energy generated in one year (over fiscal 2011) was 37,500 kWh. This was approximately 13 percent of the annual energy usage of the Ryoju Estate Head Office in fiscal 2011, and contributed greatly to reducing the amount of energy used. Photovoltaic generation panels installed on the wall of the Ryokoh Building’s South Wing One million kWh of green power used annually thanks to wind power generation MHI has contracted with Japan Natural Energy Co., Ltd. (JNE) to purchase 1 M kWh of wind-generated power from JNE each year for a period of 15 years starting April 2002. Of the power purchased in fiscal 2011, 500,000 kWh were used at the Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Head Office Building, and 504,000 kWh were used at the Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum. The Certificate of Green Power 74 Environmental Report / Countermeasures against Global Warming Greenhouse gas emissions excluding CO 2 emissions from energy use MHI has been compiling data on greenhouse gas emissions (excluding CO2 emissions from energy use) since fiscal 2006 under the system enforced in fiscal 2006 for calculating, reporting and publishing greenhouse gas emission amounts. The actual emission amount for fiscal 2011 was 3,000 tons. Greenhouse gas emissions (excluding CO2 emissions from energy use) Dinitrogen monoxide(N2O) 16.5% 525t Hydrofluorocarbon(HFC) 28.7% 913t Sulfur hexafluoride(SF6) 48.5% 1,544t CO2 emissions not resulting from energy use 2.0% 63t Methane(CH4) 4.3% 136t Acquisition of approx. 120,000 tons of CO 2 emission credits from a CDM project MHI plans to utilize emission rights to ensure that its CO2 emission reduction targets are reliably met. MHI has concluded emission rights purchasing agreements with four projects undertaken by Kyoto Mechanisms JI (Joint Implementation) (Note 1) and Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) (Note 2). Among these four projects, in April 2011 MHI acquired approximately 120,000 tons of emission credits through a CDM hydroelectric power generation project at the Xiadongxia in Fujian Province, China, the agreement for which was signed in 2007. Although these emission credits are currently being administered in an MHI holding account, they will be transferred to a government retirement account with no penalty provided that the credits are used to achieve targets. Once transferred, the credits will be added to Japan's greenhouse gas reduction volume. (Note 1) JI: System in which a company invests in greenhouse gas reduction projects in advanced countries and applies the reduced emissions to achieve its own goals. (Note 2) CDM: System in which a company invests in greenhouse gas reduction projects in developing countries and applies the reduced emissions to achieve its own goals. 75 Environmental Report / Countermeasures against Global Warming A Word from an Employee Proactively adopting energy-conservation machinery at a new plant in India Akihiro Nishimura, Deputy Manager Safety, Environment, and Facilities Team General Affairs Section General Affairs Department Ritto Machinery Works The Machine Tool Headquarters is currently aiming for the world’s top market share for gear cutting machines. To begin local production in India, which is experiencing remarkable economic development, we are building a plant in Bengaluru. I am involved with this initiative as a person in charge of infrastructure equipment. I am making use of the experience of domestic departments related to energy and environment preservation when considering the introduction of infrastructure equipment. We are also proactively attempting to adopt machinery that conserves energy, such as the introduction of invertertype compressors. We are aiming to create a plant that is environmentally-friendly and is in strict observance of compliance while confirming with legal requirements in the region and in India regarding the environment. 76 Environmental Report / Countermeasures against Global Warming Measures to Curb CO 2 Emissions in Transport Promotion of energy-conservation in transport through modal shift and load ratio improvement MHI, which handles cargo transport of over 30 million ton-km per year, is a “specified consigner” according to the revised Act Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. For that reason, MHI is implementing an action plan towards energy conservation during transport, such as by promoting modal shifts at works and improving load ratios. MHI is also working to streamline this plan, energy consumption, and consumption measured in basic units for energy. Energy consumption (measured in basic units for energy) in fiscal 2011 was 46.4 units, a 3.5 percent decrease from the amount of 48.1 units in the benchmark year of fiscal 2007. Total Volume of Transportation Total Volume of Transportation FY 2009 2010 2011 119,064,000tk 109,327,000tk 120,899,000tk 77 Environmental Report / Countermeasures against Global Warming Energy consumption and CO 2 emissions (Note) 1 GJ (gigajoule) = 1,000 MJ (megajoules) Energy consumption and CO2 emissions FY 2009 2010 2011 Total energy consumption 207,823GJ 193,641GJ 211,102GJ Total CO2 emissions 14,268t-CO2 12,845t-CO2 14,562t-CO2 78 Environmental Report / Countermeasures against Global Warming Energy-saving Activities in Offices Promoting Cool Biz and Warm Biz MHI promotes an energy-saving dress code known as “Cool Biz” during the summer (office air-conditioning systems are set to 28°C and employees do not need to wear neckties) and “Warm Biz” during the winter (office air-conditioning systems are set to 20°C and employees are encouraged to bring an extra layer of clothing). Topics Implementing Energy-saving Measures at All Works MHI worked to conserve energy at its works throughout Japan in order to respond to the power shortages caused by the effects of the Great East Japan Earthquake, as well as requests from the government for the area covered by Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO). In particular, as an energy-saving measure during the summer in TEPCO’s jurisdiction, at the Head Office Buildings (the Shinagawa Head Office Building and Yokohama Building) the dates of public holidays from autumn were switched to create consecutive summer holidays over the 10-day period from July 16 to 25, and over the 12-day period from August 11 to 22. In addition, private power generators (3,000 kW) made by MHI were operated at the Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works, while additional generators (2,200 kW) were operated at the Sagamihara Machinery Works. As a result, peak energy usage was reduced by 31 percent in July, 29.1 percent in August, and 33.1 percent in September compared to the previous fiscal year. Conversely, energy-saving measures were taken during the winter as well in the jurisdictions of the Kansai Electric Power Company and Kyushu Electric Power Company, where there is a tight supply-demand relationship for energy. Various measures were implemented just like during the summer in order to respond to reduction requests. In particular, at the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works, MHI utilized its originally developed lithium-ion secondary battery system to store energy in order to cooperate with energy reductions at times of peak usage. In fiscal 2012 as well, the entire company will work towards energy-saving activities in order to meet requests from the government and society. 79 Environmental Report / Countermeasures against Global Warming CO 2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2011) CO 2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage(FY2011) Sector CO2 Basis of calculation Remarks reduction (thousand tons) Power plant 63,008 Estimates based on MHI's Thermal plants (combined, actual delivery record in conventional), nuclear plants, FY2011, compared with photovoltaic, wind turbine and FY1990. geothermal power generation, The estimate for nuclear etc. and wind power is based on actual output generated in FY2011 by plants provided by MHI. Transportation 2,196 Estimates based on MHI's Ships, transportation systems, actual delivery record in etc. FY2011, compared with FY1990. Mass and 1,370 Estimates based on MHI's Air-conditioners, centrifugal medium-lot actual delivery record in chillers, gas engines, forklift manufactured FY2011, compared with trucks, etc. products FY1990. Data for fiscal 1990 is calculated based on the IEA’s (International Energy Agency’s) “World Energy Outlook 2011” MHI is working to create a low-carbon society across a broad spectrum of fields, including large-scale power generation technologies such as highly efficient thermal power generation plants and nuclear power plants; power generation systems that utilize wind, geothermal, and other renewable energies; ships and transportation systems for improving the efficiency of the transportation sector; and high energy-saving hybrid forklift trucks and air-conditioning systems that use heat pump technology. CO2 reductions from the fiscal 1990 level through the use of MHI’s products in fiscal 2011 came to about 70 million tons. The amount was down by 80 million tons compared to fiscal 2010. The main reasons for this included the nuclear power plants that were stopped after regular inspections due to the effects of the Great East Japan Earthquake. The power generation sector, which accounts for nearly 40 percent of CO2 emissions, has the potential for reducing emissions by about 4,200 million tons, assuming Japan's latest technologies at the top international level would be deployed across the world. Going forward, MHI will continue to conduct business by maximizing its comprehensive strengths to further reduce the global environmental load. CO2 reduction potential assuming MHI products are introduced globally As an example, we estimated the potential CO2 reduction if MHI products were introduced globally. We will continue working so that MHI's activities may serve to realize further contributions in the area of global warming. 80 Environmental Report / Resource Conservation,Waste Management and Water Resources Curbing Waste Generation, Release and Disposal Promoting the reduction of landfill disposal volumes at all works MHI met its target by achieving zero emissions at all 13 works in fiscal 2010. In addition to our target of conserving resources and promoting restraint in purchasing materials to reduce the total amount of waste produced by 40 percent in fiscal 2012 compared to fiscal 1992, we have set two new targets: reducing the landfill disposal volume in fiscal 2012 by 98 percent compared to fiscal 2000, and achieving the landfill disposal ratio of one percent or less in fiscal 2012. MHI is taking actions to achieve these targets. The landfill disposal volume was reduced by 97 percent in fiscal 2011 compared to fiscal 2000. In contrast, the average landfill disposal ratio for the entire company was 0.6 percent. MHI achieved the value of one percent or less, but some works did not meet this target. In fiscal 2012, efforts will be made so that all works can meet this target. Achievement of landfill disposal ratios of one percent or less Works Landfill disposal ratio (percent) Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works 0.9 Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works 0.6 Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works 0.1 Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works 0.1 Takasago Machinery Works 0.1 Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works 0.5 Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works 0.5 Hiroshima Machinery Works 0.1 Mihara Machinery Works 1.2 Sagamihara Machinery Works 0.2 Nagoya Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Machinery Works 0.1 Ritto Machinery Works 0.6 Iwatsuka Plant 0.1 Landfill disposal volume/ratio 2000 2010 2011 2012 Target FY FY 2000 2010 2011 2012 Target Landfill disposal volume 23,884t 1,030t 714t 478t Landfill disposal ratio 12.6% 0.8% 0.6% 1.0% 81 Environmental Report / Resource Conservation,Waste Management and Water Resources Waste generation volumes and recycling rate FY 1992 2008 2009 2010 Generation volume 216,000t 151,000t 131,000t 133,000t 1 Recycling rate 83.3% 89.0% 90.0% FY 1992 2008 2009 2010 2011 Waste generation by material Generation volume 216,000t 151,000t 131,000t 133,000t 129,000t Recycling rate 83.3% 89.0% 90.0% 97.0% Waste generation by material FY 1992 2008 2009 2010 2011 Generation volume 216,000t 151,000t 131,000t 133,000t 129,000t Recycling rate 83.3% 89.0% 90.0% 97.0% Waste generation by material Scrap metal 63.0% Acid and alkali wastes 6.0% Slag 5.9% Waste wood 5.8% Scrap metal 63.0% Waste oil 5.2% Acid and alkali wastes 6.0% Waste plastic 4.7% Slag 5.9% Waste paper 4.5% Waste wood 5.8% Sludge 3.2% Waste oil 5.2% Other 1.7% Waste plastic 4.7% Waste paper 4.5% Paper usage Sludge 3.2% Scrap metal 63.0% Other 1.7% Acid and alkali wastes 6.0% Slag usage Paper 5.9% Waste wood 5.8% Waste oil 5.2% Waste plastic 4.7% Waste paper 4.5% Sludge 3.2% Other 1.7% Paper usage FY 2008 2009 2010 2011 Paper usage 3,536t 2,950t 2,718t 2,719t 82 Environmental Report / Resource Conservation,Waste Management and Water Resources Using Electronic Manifests (e-manifests) Completing the introduction of e-manifests throughout the entire company MHI made efforts based on its policy of introducing e-manifests at all works including the Head Office over the three-year period between fiscal 2009 and 2011. In fiscal 2011, the introduction of e-manifests was completed throughout the entire company. E-manifests are a means to fulfill our responsibility as waste producers to prevent illegal dumping. By digitalizing waste disposal manifests, a better understanding of the flow of outsourced waste disposal can be achieved. MHI introduced a waste management system at all its sites in 2008 that includes management of data such as permissions for waste management operators and their expiry dates. In 2009, all MHI sites registered with the Electronic Manifest System (JWNET), which is stipulated by the Waste Management Act and managed by the Japan Industrial Waste Information Center. Our Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works began operations using e-manifests in November of that year. In fiscal 2010 JWNET was introduced at seven works, followed by activities to introduce JWNET at the remaining works in fiscal 2011. JWNET was introduced at all works by March 31, 2012. Conceptual scheme of e-manifest A Word from an Employee Introducing the Electronic Manifest System throughout the entire company Shinya Suzuki Environmental Management Section General Affairs Department Head Office To introduce the JWNET, it was necessary to link this system via a network with the waste management system that had already been introduced and was being operated throughout the entire company. If the data entered in the existing system is incorrect, transmission errors occur and manifests cannot be registered or issued. For that reason, I visited all works at the time of introduction. Together with works staff members, I confirmed each method for entering and operating the required items to digitize information, such as that related to waste contractors. In this way the introduction of JWNET was completed smoothly and according to plan throughout the whole company. 83 Environmental Report / Resource Conservation,Waste Management and Water Resources Protecting Water Resources Reducing water usage during production In fiscal 2010, MHI set a target to reduce its water usage (Note) to 9.35 million tons by fiscal 2012—a two percent reduction compared to the average annual usage (9.54 million tons) from fiscal 2005 to 2007. After making reduction efforts at each works, the target was met in fiscal 2011 when the usage amount was cut by 24.3 percent to 7.22 million tons. As an example of measures to reduce water usage, underground industrial water pipes were brought above ground at Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works. This improvement stopped leakage caused by pipe deterioration, and also made it possible to constantly confirm the status of the pipes. (Note) Water usage: Total volume of water supply, industrial water, and groundwater. Water usage and reduction ratio FY 2005-2007 2010 2011 2012 target average average average usage amount 9,520,000t 7,660,000t 7,220,000t 9,350,000t Water usage and discharge 84 Environmental Report / Resource Conservation,Waste Management and Water Resources FY 2009 2010 2011 Water supply 2,762,000t 2,656,000t 2,495,000t Industrial water 3,871,000t 3,058,000t 2,732,000t Groundwater 1,858,000t 1,947,000t 1,996,000t Other 2,268,000t 2,410,000t 2,043,000t Total usage amount 10,759,000t 10,071,000t 9,266,000t Discharged into public waters 8,554,000t 8,291,000t 8,133,000t Discharged into sewer system 573,000t 620,000t 527,000t Total discharge amount 9,127,000t 8,911,000t 8,661,000t 85 Environmental Report / Management of Chemical Substances Curbing the Use and Emissions of Chemical Substances through Proper Management and Use of Alternatives Promoting the reduction of substances subject to the PRTR system In fiscal 2011, MHI released a total of 1,987 tons of substances subject to the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) system (Note). Roughly 97 percent of these emissions consisted of xylene, toluene, and ethylbenzene, which are primarily used in painting and cleaning applications. Xylene is used for painting ships, and its usage is typically specified by ship owners. It is therefore difficult to use an alternative substance, making reducing the amount of xylene a challenge. In the future MHI will continue promoting the adoption of alternative products (such as water-based paint) and steadily carry out activities to reduce the usage of substances subject to the PRTR system. (Note) PRTR (Pollutant Release and Transfer Register): The PRTR system requires publication of the sources and emission volume of toxic chemical substances and the amounts of such substances removed from manufacturing plants. The system is provided for under the Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) Law. PRTR emission and transfer amount Details of “PRTR emission and transfer amount ” are included under “CSR” on the MHI website. http://www.mhi.co.jp/en/csr/csrreport/globalenvironment/chemical-substances02.html 86 Environmental Report / Management of Chemical Substances Promotion of organochlorides reduction and replacement activities Dichloromethane, trichloroethylene, and tetrachloroethylene are used as paint removal agents and oil cleaning agents. MHI established a goal of achieving zero atmospheric emissions by fiscal 2012, and has been making efforts to reduce usage of these substances and switch to alternative substances. In fiscal 2011, the introduction of replacement equipment for cleaning equipment that used trichloroethylene was completed. It is expected that the entire company’s atmospheric emissions of trichloroethylene will be nearly zero starting from fiscal 2012. MHI completed an evaluation of replacing dichloromethane with non-dichloromethane removal agents in fiscal 2008. The company implemented facility improvements for this replacement in fiscal 2009, and the replacement of this substance has been carried out sequentially from fiscal 2010. In fiscal 2012, atmospheric emissions of dichloromethane should be almost zero. Furthermore, we will also continue selecting and evaluating alternatives for tetrachloroethylene and examining possible changes in specifications. Due to these initiatives, the total atmospheric emissions for these three substances in fiscal 2011 were 11.4 tons—an approximately 39 percent reduction compared to the previous year. In the future as well, MHI will continue making efforts to achieve its target. Atmospheric emissions of organochlorides FY 1996 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Dichloromethane 55.0t 20.3t 23.7t 18.6t 8.9t 0.6t Trichloroethylene 54.2t 0.6t 0.6t 2.1t 0.7t 0.9t Tetrachloroethylene 153.0t 2.5t 11.5t 6.6t 9.1t 9.9t Total 262.2t 23.4t 35.8t 27.3t 18.7t 11.4t 87 Environmental Report / Management of Chemical Substances Voluntary targets for the reduction of VOCs atmospheric emissions Emissions of VOCs, which are causal agents of photochemical smog, are regulated for facilities that release a given volume of these substances under the Air Pollution Control Law. In addition to legal and regulatory compliance, MHI has set a voluntary target for decreasing atmospheric emissions of VOCs in fiscal 2012 by 30 percent from the fiscal 2000 level—focusing on xylene, toluene, and ethylbenzene, which are emitted in large volumes—and is working to accomplish reductions. The emissions volume in fiscal 2011 was 1,939 tons, a 14.5 percent decrease from the fiscal 2000 level. Steady activities are being undertaken in fiscal 2012 as well for reductions with the goal of meeting the target. Atmospheric emissions of VOCs FY 2000 2011 2012 target Toluene 581t 638t Xylene 1,504t 949t Ethylbenzene 150t 341t Organochlorides* 32.9t 11.4t Total 2,268t 1,939t 1,564t * Dichloromethane, Trichloroethylene, Tetrachloroethylene 88 Environmental Report / Management of Chemical Substances Promotion of outsourced disposal of equipment using PCBs As of March 2006, MHI had already registered the disposal of equipment using PCBs (Polychlorinated biphenyls) either currently in use or stored at its works, with the Japan Environmental Safety Corporation (JESCO), a special entity wholly funded by the Japanese government. The company also signed a consigning contract for disposal in 2007. By fiscal 2011, consigned disposal was undertaken at 11 sites (Note). However, according to the Law Concerning Special Measures for Promotion of Proper Treatment of PCB Waste, even equipment which uses trace amounts of PCBs not disposed of by JESCO must be detoxified by July 2016. Therefore, a survey was conducted of such equipment stored by the entire company in order to begin disposal in fiscal 2012. (Note) MHI Head Office, Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Hiroshima Machinery Works, Mihara Machinery Works, Ritto Machinery Works, Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, Takasago Machinery Works, Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works, Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works, Nagoya Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Machinery Works, Iwatsuka Plant PCBs storage facilities at the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works 89 Environmental Report / Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact Main Products and Technologies in 2011 Developing a new-generation LNG carrier with drastically improved fuel consumption and greater environmental friendliness In July 2011, MHI completed the development of SAYAENDO, a new-generation liquefied natural gas (LNG) carrier. “SAYAENDO” means “peapod” in Japanese; this boat was named for its four spherical tanks (“peas”) that are located inside a continuous cover (the “pod”). The tanks are inside the continuous cover that is integrated with the hull, which results in greater structural efficiency for the entire ship and also reduces its size and weight. The ship’s main power plant is a new turbine plant that achieves higher energy efficiency through the effective use of thermal energy by reheating steam. In this way fuel consumption is reduced by over 20 percent compared to traditional ships, economy is increased, and both terminal compatibility and maintainability are improved. SAYAENDO is also more environmentally friendly; decreased fuel consumption helps curb CO2 emissions, while the installed ballast water treatment equipment reduces impacts on marine ecosystems. Orders have been accepted for two ships from Osaka Gas Co., Ltd. and Mitsui O.S.K. Lines, which are scheduled to be delivered in 2014 and 2015. SAYAENDO 90 Environmental Report / Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact Developing and delivering highly efficient gas turbines for thermal power generation, which contribute to decreasing environmental load Gas turbines become more efficient as their inlet temperature is increased. MHI’s state-of-the-art M501J gas turbine boasts the world's highest turbine inlet temperature of 1,600°C, resulting in a rated power output near 320 MW. For gas turbine combined cycle (GTCC) power generation applications, where heat recovery steam generators and steam turbines are also used, the output is approximately 460 MW. This gross thermal efficiency exceeds 60 percent—the world's highest level in GTCC applications. This turbine is also unique in that it greatly contributes to reducing environmental load, making it possible to achieve CO2 emissions approximately 50 percent lower than with conventional coal-fired thermal power generation. In general, nitrogen oxide (NOx) is produced in increasing amounts as the combustion temperature grows, but with the M501J gas turbine it is possible to reduce the production of NOx to the same level as conventional turbines. Orders have been received for six M501J gas turbines for the Kansai Electric Power Company’s Himeji No.2 Power Station, and the first turbine was shipped in December 2011. In addition, up until March 2012 orders have been received for a total of 10 turbines for four power plants in South Korea. M501J gas turbine Selling “VRF inverter multi-system air-conditioners,” highly efficient multi-system air-conditioners for buildings with excellent energy-conservation capabilities MHI’s “GHP XAIR,” a highly efficient gas heat pump (GHP) with energy-conservation capabilities of the top class in the world, went on sale in October 2011. The GHP XAIR was jointly developed with three gas companies (Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd.; Osaka Gas Co., Ltd.; and Toho Gas Co., Ltd.), Aisin Seiki Co.,Ltd.; Sanyo Electric Co., Ltd; and Yanmar Energy System Co., Ltd. The GHP XAIR is already sold by these six companies and Daikin Industries, Ltd. The GHP XAIR has a maximum annual performance factor (*APF) of up to 5.7 (equivalent) due to its smaller engine size and larger number of fins for heat exchanger, resulting in the highest efficiency for “VRF inverter multi-system air-conditioners,” multi-system air-conditioners for buildings. This GHP’s cooling ability is between 45 and 85 kW. Compared to conventional 45kW models with the same cooling ability, primary energy consumption is reduced by up to 19 percent per year, while CO2 emissions are cut by up to 20 percent. (Note) The formula (1 kW = 9,760 kJ) determined by the Act Concerning the Rational Use of Energy is used to convert to the APF, a JIS standard for evaluating electric heat pump air-conditioners, resulting in a total of 5.7. GHP XAIR 91 Environmental Report / Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact Selling the Smart Lift Park, which conserves energy and is convenient for people, and the Plug-in Presto Park, which makes it possible to charge environmentally-friendly vehicles Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Parking Co., Ltd has developed the Smart Lift Park, an elevator-type mechanical parking system, which went on sale in October 2011. The introduction of the industry’s first optimum speed control system, as well as an original system, using electric power regeneration, makes it possible to shorten waiting time by up to 30 percent and reduce energy consumption by approximately 30 percent. This system is also unique for its incorporation of universal design, and it has been made easy to operate through the installation of an interactive control panel. Optional barrier-free palettes can also be installed. Also in October, orders were accepted from the Tokai Kanden Building and Nagoya Tokyo Marine and Nichido Building—which were both under construction in Nagoya at the time— for the Plug-in Presto Park, an underground mechanical parking system which is the first in Japan that makes it possible to charge electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles. In addition, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Parking also offers the elevator-type Plug-in Lift Park; the vertical, circular Plug-in Tower Park; and the horizontal, circular Plug-in Cell Park. The Plug-in Presto Park, an underground mechanical parking system 92 Environmental Report / Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact Delivering centrifugal chillers for a district cooling system to serve the TOKYO SKYTREE® area, and safeguarding antennas at over 600 meters above ground from wind via vibration control systems MHI delivered centrifugal chillers (two 1,350 refrigeration ton chillers) as a part of the heat supply system (primary contractor: Tobu Energy Management Co., Ltd.) for heating and cooling the approximately 10.2-hectare Tokyo Sky Tree area that is centered on TOKYO SKYTREE TOWN®. MHI’s centrifugal chillers have been praised for having the world's highest level of environmental capabilities, including efficiency and energy-saving capabilities. By accomplishing a balance between environmental friendliness and comfort, these products contribute to curbing CO2 emissions and creating a town that is pleasant to live in. In addition, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Bridge & Steel Structures Engineering Co., Ltd. (MBE) delivered Tuned Mass Damper (TMD) vibration control systems for the portion known as the gain tower, which supports the antennas. The digital broadcasting antennas on the tip of the Tokyo Sky Tree must be able to withstand vibrations caused by strong winds at over 600 meters above ground. MBE has inherited its technological expertise in vibration control and earthquake isolation systems from MHI, where such expertise was accumulated over many long years. MBE has delivered many TMDs to date for various applications, including skyscrapers and long and large steel bridges. The trustworthiness of these technologies and experiences has been highly evaluated, and the delivered TMDs are displaying great abilities to absorb vibrations at the high altitude of over 600 meters above ground. AART-120, a variable speed drive centrifugal Tuned Mass Damper (TMD) vibration control chiller system 93 Environmental Report / Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact Successfully establishing technologies to produce domestic biofuel at low costs MHI has implemented the Project to Make Efficient Use of Soft Cellulose for manufacturing domestic biofuel at low costs from rice straw and other materials, together with organizations including Hyogo Prefecture Government and the Hyogo Environmental Advancement Association, since fiscal 2008 with support from the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries. Together with Hakutsuru Sake Brewing Co., Ltd. and Kansai Chemical Engineering Co., Ltd., MHI was responsible for the verification of the bioethanol production processes. After each company conducted tests on the component technologies at their own research facilities, efforts were made to verify these technologies at MHI’s Futami Plant starting in December 2009. The results showed that integrated technologies for manufacturing ethanol, which satisfied the standards of the Japanese Automotive Standards Organization (JASO), had been successfully developed. Forecasts also indicated that it would be possible to achieve the target manufacturing cost of less than 90 yen per liter. Since April 2012, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Mechatronics Systems, Ltd., one of MHI’s Group companies, has inherited this project. Going forward efforts will be made to develop the results of the project into the early commercialization of bio-refinery technologies (Note) in cooperation with companies and organizations concerned. (Note) Plants and technologies for manufacturing chemicals such as resins and fuels, including ethanol, from plant materials. Biofuel manufacturing verification facility Commencing operation of the Dubai Green Line, the world’s longest driverless rail transit system The Green Line, which is the second phase of the Dubai Metro construction project, has been completed. This fully automated, driverless metro system was constructed in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates, by MHI and the four companies of Mitsubishi Corporation (MC), Obayashi Corporation, Kajima Corporation, and Yapi Merkezi Insaat ve Sanayi A.S. of Turkey. Operation of this line commenced in September 2011. Together with the interconnecting Red Line that went into operation in September 2009 at two stations, the Dubai Metro is the world's longest driverless rail transit system, with a total length of 75 kilometers for the two lines. It fulfills an important role for easing Dubai’s traffic congestion stemming from rapid population growth. Many other transportation infrastructure projects are currently being planned in Middle Eastern countries. Based on its recent achievements, MHI intends to proactively seek involvement in these other projects in the region. Dubai Metro 94 Environmental Report / Products and Technologies that Reduce Environmental Impact Starting operations at a coal-fired flue gas CO 2 recovery demonstration plant to help resolve the issue of global warming In collaboration with Southern Company, one of the largest electric utilities in the United States, since May 2009 MHI has been engineering and building a coal-fired flue gas CO2 recovery demonstration plant with a scale of 500 tons per day (equivalent to a generation amount of 25 MW) at Southern Company’s Plant Barry, which is located in the state of Alabama. This plant has been in operation since June, 2011. The goal of this project is to capture and sequestrate CO2 in a deep saline geologic formation. While a capture technology has already been commercialized for CO2 from natural gas-fired facilities, coal-fired CO2 capture presents unique technological challenges because the flue gas contains a great deal of impurities. This facility represents the world’s first for implementing a demonstration of coal-fired CO2 capture. Based on the results of this project, MHI will aim to commercialize CO2 capture technologies for coal-fired flue gas in order to help resolve the issue of global warming. 95 Responsibilities and Actions of MHI Social Contributions Report MHI maintains relationships with diverse populations in various regions and communities in the course of developing and manufacturing products and technologies that are essential for social infrastructures and industry as well as the day-to-day lives of people across the world. To fulfill its corporate responsibility as a social and public entity, MHI has been pursuing its business operations with due consideration for its diverse stakeholders. Commitment to Our Customers ................................................... 97 MHI’s creed: “We strongly believe that the customer comes first and that we are obligated to contribute to the advancement of society.” To establish enduring manufacturing capability and to serve as a truly global corporation, MHI promotes the supply of products and services that place priority on safety and quality. • Enhancing Product Safety • Enhancing Customer Satisfaction (CS) • Maintaining and Strengthening Defense Production and Technological Bases Commitment to Our Shareholders and Investors ...... 106 MHI strives to forge relationships of trust with shareholders and investors by accurately and promptly disclosing information, and expanding opportunities and settings for communication. • Disclosure Principles and IR Activities • Share and Dividend Report Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers) ... 110 As a corporation that strives to be a leading company of manufacturing, MHI views its suppliers as key partners who provide the company with materials and services for producing products and who share the same desire for mutual prosperity. To remain competitive in a rapidly changing business environment, the company will work together to improve Monodzukuri capability throughout the entire value chain. • Fair Dealing • Promoting CSR Procurement • Procurement Education and Training Commitment to Our Employees ................................................ 114 Believing that human resources are the company's most important asset and that their growth leads to the development of the entire company, MHI is actively working to utilize and cultivate diverse human resources and build a better working environment in which employees can fully demonstrate their abilities. • Utilizing and Cultivating Diverse Human Resources • Building a Better Working Environment • Forum 35 Social Contribution Activities ...................................................... 125 MHI is involved in a wide range of local community programs and youth programs, in line with the company’s policy on social contribution activities at the community level. In a bid to build closer relationships with local communities, MHI will soon be launching a new initiative that involves working with NPOs and other organizations to address social issues at the local level. • Fulﬁlling our Policy on Social Contribution Activities • Achievements Made through Social Contribution Activities (FY2011) • Examples of Social Contribution Activities (FY2011) • Examples of Social Contribution Activities by MHI Group Companies (FY2011) 96 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Customers Enhancing Product Safety Establishing the Quality Management & Product Safety Planning Center to strengthen safety and quality management systems MHI is continuing to promote product safety activities throughout the company. One example of our efforts started in fiscal 2005, is the Product Safety Project between the Legal Department and the Production System Innovation Planning Department. The Product Safety Project involves risk assessments to ascertain and reduce areas of risk related to product safety in three product groups—mass and medium-lot manufactured products, built-to-order components and built-to-order plants—along with strategies in other areas such as completion of instruction manuals. In the future it will be expanded to included product business support and thorough training and human resources development. The Quality Management & Product Safety Planning Center was established in April 2011 as part of the Production System Innovation Planning Department at the Technology & Innovation Headquarters. The new Center is dedicated to consolidating the progress achieved to date and enhancing management systems in the areas of safety and quality. Continuously strengthening QMS created for products MHI has created a quality management system (QMS) to offer products that are safe and of assured high quality. As of March 2012, all production facilities in Japan and nearly 90 percent of all facilities worldwide have completed the ISO 9001 certification process. The QMS is optimized to the product categories at each facility and is subject to ongoing improvement. Recognizing the reality that there will be complaints from customers about products, MHI gathers technology and expertise from all Group companies to review and improve upon QMS process issues and reinforcement measures for each product. Key Product Quality and Safety Programs Nuclear power generation: ongoing safety program administered by the Managing Board for Innovation in the Nuclear Business The Managing Board for Innovation in the Nuclear Business was set up in December 2004 in response to an incident involving secondary piping in Unit 3 of the Mihama Power Station (supplied by MHI and operated by Kansai Electric) in August 2004. The Committee was given a brief to pursue internal reforms designed to prevent incidents and ensure safety in the nuclear industry. In fiscal 2011, the Managing Board for Innovation in the Nuclear Business examined safety improvement measures for the PWR nuclear power plant in the wake of the accident at TEPCO’s Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station. The Board also reported on initiatives for creating a culture of safety through lectures on safety by executives and dialog with business partners. The Board will continue to implement further improvements to raise the safety of nuclear power plants. 97 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Customers Measures to enhance PWR power plant safety Nuclear Energy Systems set up an emergency task force immediately after the earthquake and deployed countermeasures, such as to respond to the loss of all AC power sources at the TEPCO’s Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station to the PWR nuclear power plant. The Advanced Plant Safety Department, a dedicated body set up in August 2011, is working hard, with a workforce numbering around 600, to promote emergency safety countermeasures. In April 2012, the government issued three safety criteria for restarting nuclear power plants. The first criterion on emergency safety procedures has already been attained at all 24 PWR plants. The second criterion on the stress test is being addressed in conjunction with the power companies. The third criterion, which sets out an implementation plan for further safety and reliability improvement measures, has been presented to PWR utilities in the form of a program of mediumto long-term safety measures. MHI remains committed to addressing these areas promptly in order to contribute to ongoing improvements in the safety and reliability of nuclear power generation plants and ensure consistency of power supplies. Shipbuilding: preventing nonconformities through better finish The Classification Society is a certification agency for vessel design and construction, involved in approving design drawings, inspecting equipment and structures, and also confirming ship performance on sea trials. Only ships that pass all tests and inspections are eligible for classification. In addition to obtaining ship classifications for new vessels, MHI analyzes the causes of accidents and nonconformities on past vessels. The quality assurance department of Shipbuilding and Ocean Development is responsible for developing preventative strategies and providing feedback to the design and construction departments. Process-oriented enhancements are also used to improve customer satisfaction levels. MHI is committed to improving reliability in marine vessels through ISO 9001 based programs such as Better Finish that are designed to prevent production of nonconforming products. Aircraft: endeavoring to ensure aircraft safety through education and training, and promotion of safety measures Based on the Aircraft Safety Policy established in 1991, Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works has given its highest priority to assurance of aircraft safety. Unfortunately, in 2000 there was an emergency landing accident involving an MH2000 helicopter, and in 2007 an F-2 jet fighter crashed and burst into flames. MHI understands the gravity of these incidents, and to prevent such incidents from occurring again, MHI pilots provide presentations to MHI employees and employees from partner companies in order to ensure safety awareness. In fiscal 2011, 86 presentations were provided to a total of around 5,000 employees. In order to prevent incorrect connection of equipment, which was the cause of the F-2 jet fighter accident, MHI has implemented a number of strategies including more detailed and precise work instructions, better self checking by workers and better skills management. Safety and quality assurance reform meetings attended by the general manager of the manufacturing site have been held since 2007. These are used to pursue education activities and improvement activities for increasing the efficacy of measures to prevent the recurrence of incorrect connection. MHI will continue to carry out these actions as it strives to improve safety of aircraft manufacturing and maintenance. 98 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Customers Transportation systems: ensuring the safety of transportation systems based on quality management systems MHI is working on the development of various transportation systems with a high potential for use in public settings, such as an Electronic Toll Collection (ETC) system and Automated People Mover (APM)for use in airports and other facilities in cities. To ensure that such transportation systems are safe, MHI has developed designs, equipment procurement, manufacturing, and local construction methods based on ISO 9001 and MHI's own quality policies. Every year, quality policies are reevaluated and the effectiveness of quality management systems is closely scrutinized. In addition, MHI is constructing a framework for sharing information among relevant parties on issues such as revisions made to laws and regulations pertaining to railways, and holds presentations on legal issues. Also, in overseas projects MHI closely examines local safety standards from the initial design stage. In fiscal 2011, MHI also continued working to facilitate sharing of knowledge within the organization. To this end, a framework was set up that enables sharing of both positive and negative experiences from past projects so that these can be incorporated into product safety on future projects. Air-conditioners: implementing safety verifications in every stage-development, usage, and disposal, based on design management standards Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Systems Headquarters established design management standards in 1994 to ensure the safety of air-conditioners. To that end, when developing a product, quality check sheets and other measures are used to verify that products, when properly used, will not cause harm to people or property due to reasons such as harmful materials or possible fire or explosion at any point from development through to usage and disposal. In fiscal 2010, the department participated in the company-wide Product Safety Taskforce, and received instruction from key MHI experts on product safety risk assessment procedures for centrifugal chillers and ground transportation refrigeration units. This information was used to set up risk assessment templates in fiscal 2011. MHI will promote standardization of regulations based on the more advanced European regulatory system. Establishing an Accident Exhibit and Materials Room to educate people on the prevention of product accidents The Accident Exhibit and Materials Room, opened in April 2010 at the Applied Knowledge Business Training Center, displays information on incidents and accidents involving MHI products. The MHI Group is a manufacturing-oriented group of enterprises. Ensuring the safety and quality of our products is our ultimate priority and we must boost awareness of this importance among all employees concerned with the development, manufacturing and after-service operations of MHI products. Already around 11,000 visitors have passed through the doors of the facility. The facility was given an extensive overhaul in April 2012, including the addition of new video presentations and artifacts designed to convey a greater sense of realism in regards to the terrible nature of the accidents and the tension experienced at the accident site. The exhibition includes a life-size replica of a nine-ton fragment of turbine rotor that broke off in an explosion. Some 2,800 employees (comprising new recruits, young engineers and administrative staff and newly appointed deputy managers) have attended training sessions describing past safety incidents. In fiscal 2012, a training program was introduced specifically for newly appointed managers and new recruits in engineering sections. MHI is also considering introducing training courses for chief managers and assistant managers and middle-ranking engineering staff. In this way, MHI is striving to boost awareness of the importance of safety and quality throughout the company. 99 risk assessment templates in fiscal 2011. MHI will promote standardization of regulations based on the more advanced European regulatory system. Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Customers Establishing an Accident Exhibit and Materials Room to educate people on the prevention of product accidents The Accident Exhibit and Materials Room, opened in April 2010 at the Applied Knowledge Business Training Center, displays information on incidents and accidents involving MHI products. The MHI Group is a manufacturing-oriented group of enterprises. Ensuring the safety and quality of our products is our ultimate priority and we must boost awareness of this importance among all employees concerned with the development, manufacturing and after-service operations of MHI products. Already around 11,000 visitors have passed through the doors of the facility. The facility was given an extensive overhaul in April 2012, including the addition of new video presentations and artifacts designed to convey a greater sense of realism in regards to the terrible nature of the accidents and the tension experienced at the accident site. The exhibition includes a life-size replica of a nine-ton fragment of turbine rotor that broke off in an explosion. Some 2,800 employees (comprising new recruits, young engineers and administrative staff and newly appointed deputy managers) have attended training sessions describing past safety incidents. In fiscal 2012, a training program was introduced specifically for newly appointed managers and new recruits in engineering sections. MHI is also considering introducing training courses for chief managers and assistant managers and middle-ranking engineering staff. In this way, MHI is striving to boost awareness of the importance of safety and quality throughout the company. The refurbished Accident Exhibit and Materials Room 100 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Customers Enhancing Customer Satisfaction (CS) Pursuing products and services that can be trusted from the prioritized customer point of view One statement of the MHI creed is: We strongly believe that the customer comes first and that we are obligated to be an innovative partner to society. Therefore, the company's top priority is to always place itself in the customer's shoes and meet their expectations by providing products and services with high added value. Each headquarters and division of MHI works to boost customer satisfaction (CS) levels by conducting CS surveys and soliciting feedback and suggestions from the market and from customers. Basic CS Training, introduced in 2002, is used to improve employee awareness and foster the development of a customer-oriented corporate culture at MHI. Through these activities, MHI will continuously work to provide products and services that satisfy customers. Basic CS training (Hiroshima) Promoting advertising activities that comply with relevant laws and regulations MHI established the Corporate Communication Department to promote advertising activities based on MHI business plans that target stakeholders in all global regions. As MHI moves ahead with its activities, the department confirms facts in close conjunction with the Global Strategic Planning & Operations Headquarters, the Corporate Department, and other business segments and overseas sites and Group companies, so that customers do not receive the wrong impression, and endeavors to abide by provisions in related laws and industries. After running advertisements, the Department assesses the improvement in recognition level in each form of media and the spreading of the corporate image. Domestic advertising in fiscal 2011 included television, newspapers and magazines. Overseas advertising included print advertisements in the Financial Times (U.K.) and use of the company’s Group logo at overseas exhibitions where multiple MHI Group companies were involved, in order to convey a unified image of the Group as a whole. The department also placed advertisements on public transport in Japan and overseas. 101 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Customers Implementing technical support as an aspect of preventative maintenance Since 1999, MHI has maintained high operating rates for thermal power plants (gas turbine) delivered both in and outside of Japan and provided technical support to prevent problems. This is a paid service for observing and supporting the operations of gas turbine plants in real time, around the clock, 365 days a year, from remote monitoring centers established in two locations, one in Japan and one outside of Japan. We are working to prevent the occurrence of problems by applying monitoring diagnostic capabilities that draw upon over ten years of accumulated operational data. Also, by automatization of abnormality diagnosis that utilize Taguchi method, any suspension of operations is kept as short as possible by quickly detecting plant anomalies and immediately implementing troubleshooting procedures. As of April 2011, the service is used on 77 generators at 33 plants around the world with a combined total output of over 18 million kW, thereby safeguarding the consistency of power generation operations of our customers. Remote monitoring center Promoting nuclear power PA activities MHI has been hosting tours of the nuclear power plant production facility at the Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works since 1988. MHI has also been involved in nuclear PA activities since 1989, including publication of the nuclear magazine Atom Power, which helps to promote awareness of the need for and safety of nuclear power generation. Around 2,000 visitors attended tours of the Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works during fiscal 2011. The total number of visitors over the last decade is more than 46,000. TEPCO’s Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station has a BWR, which differs from the PWR supplied by MHI. Nevertheless, MHI provided technical assistance with stabilization of TEPCO’s Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station after the accident. MHI has also been deploying emergency safety countermeasures at PWR nuclear power plants MHI delivered in a bid to increase safety. MHI will continue to pursue Public Acceptance (PA) activities such as providing information and conducting tours in order to restore public confidence in nuclear power generation. (Note) Nuclear Power PA (Public Acceptance) activities: Activities conducted to encourage a clearer understanding of nuclear energy 102 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Customers A Word from a Stakeholder MHI P&PM‘s Technical Expertise and Rapid Response Key in Working Toward an Early Recovery from a Devastating Flood Karan Tejasen Director and General Manager Thai Containers Group Co., Ltd. Our Navanakorn Plant, which was damaged by flooding, relies on the outstanding quality of the latest corrugating and box-making machines by Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Printing & Packaging Machinery Ltd. After our temporary relocation to Pattaya, when we were conducting inspections and considering what recovery would entail, Mitsubishi began wholeheartedly supporting our efforts, going as far as hand-delivering parts. They came through when we really needed them and helped us restart our box-making machinery two weeks earlier than we had planned. We are extremely grateful for Mitsubishi’s technical expertise and speedy response. They continue to spare no effort in helping us get our corrugating machine back on line, and we are confident that we will have achieved an early recovery and be back on our feet in no time. 103 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Customers A Word from an Employee Building on the successful development of the marine resource research vessel Hakurei to explore the future of the planet Toru Togita Senior Project Manager Shimonoseki Ship & Ocean Engineering Department Ship & Ocean Engineering Division Shipbuilding and Ocean Development Business Segment I have been involved in ship design since starting at MHI about 30 years ago. As part of the Marine Energy and Mineral Resources Development Project launched by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in March 2009, MHI was selected via a public tender process to build the marine resource research vessel Hakurei on behalf of the Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corporation (JOGMEC). With only 2 years from contract signing until delivery in January 2012, the timeframe for this project was unusually tight for the manufacture of a special purpose vessel. The project was completed on time thanks to close liaison with the client throughout. The unique design features powerful actuators and an opening so called “moon pool” in the middle of the hull, yet keeps noise levels to a minimum while providing a platform for highprecision hydro-acoustic survey equipment. The successful completion of this world-leading advanced vessel was heralded by the client as “ushering in a new age in marine exploration and research for Japan.” Marine research is increasingly important in the exploitation of resources such as sea-floor hydrothermal deposits and methane hydrates as well as research into earthquakes. Through the design and construction of survey vessels, MHI is making an important contribution to surveying and exploitation of marine resources and in turn to the reliable supply of energy and mineral resources as well as to the advancement of oceanographic research. 104 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Customers Maintaining and Strengthening Defense Production and Technological Bases Contributing to the peace and safety of Japan through technology MHI is dedicated to the core vision of supplying cutting-edge technology for national safety and security. As a leading supplier in the Japanese defense industry, MHI endeavours to maintain and strengthen defense production and technological bases. MHI develops and manufactures a vast array of defense equipment based on the requirement of government of Japan, including ﬁghter planes, helicopters, missiles, defense vessels and tanks, and also provides operational support. The environment surrounding the defense of Japan has been changing dramatically over the last few years. In light of the current financial difficulty of Japan and the speed of technological progress, it is increasingly important to maintain and strengthen defense production and technological bases, in order to satisfy the requirements of the government. MHI is focusing on the future security environment and is developing various technologies that meet the needs of the country. This includes research on the Advanced Technology Demonstrator for the purpose of achieving technologies, such as stealth and high maneuver flight control technology to be applied to future jet fighters. Cutting-edge technologies in the defense sector have a broad reach, and ripple effects to the civilian sector are expected, in the fields of materials, components, and processing technology. So we believe defense technologies can also contribute to long-term technological advances in Japan and the defense sector is expected to develop as a national strategic industry. UH-60JA utility helicopter (for use by the Japan Ground Self-Defense Forces). Ratio of defense-related businesses sales to total sales FY Ratio Amount 2009 11.8% 348.3 billion yen 2010 12.4% 361.0 billion yen 2011 12.8% 359.7 billion yen 105 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Shareholders and Investors Disclosure Principles and IR Activities Promoting IR activities to facilitate a detailed understanding of our business Through Investor Relations (IR), MHI strives to keep institutional and individual investors in Japan and around the world fully informed of the activities of the company. The Corporate Communication Department, set up for the sole purpose of managing investor relations, provides useful and up-to-date information as well as briefings and meetings designed to provide opportunities for direct communication. Comments and suggestions from these meetings are incorporated into future IR programs. Providing accurate information online that is easy to understand MHI releases information in accordance with laws and regulations as mandated by the exchanges on which the company is listed. In addition, information is constantly being updated on the Investor Relations section of the website. In an effort to communicate information that is accurate and easy-to-understand, the website also features a range of useful information and data that is not required by laws and regulations, along with charts and explanations of securities terminology. There are also videos of the General Meeting of Shareholders and other meetings such as financial results briefings and meetings on business operations for the benefit of institutional investors and analysts. Fiscal 2011 saw the addition of new content for individual investors, such as the “MHI, from the viewpoints of Energy and the Environment” (Japanese only) on the Investor Relations website, which describes our strategies and competencies in energy and environmental fields, as well as videos and other briefing materials for individual investors and more information on key financial indicators. Implementing various briefings on business operation and strategy In response to demand from investors and analysts for more information on business performance and future planning of individual operations, MHI holds quarterly financial briefings as well as other types of briefings related to business performance and planning. The fiscal 2010 Financial Results Briefing and Status of 2010 Medium-Term Business Plan Briefing was held in April 2011, with 219 attendees. This was followed by a business briefing on the Energy & Environment Business and eight business segments . Total attendance was 371. MHI maintained its commitment to good communication with individual investors. Briefings were held in 14 cities across Japan (mostly in locations close to MHI facilities) and drew a combined attendance of around 1,600. The briefings at Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum, History Museum (Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works) and M’s Square (in Shinagawa, Tokyo) also included tours of the adjacent facilities. Holding plant tours for shareholders MHI has been conducting twice-yearly plant tours for shareholders since 2005 to provide opportunities to deepen understanding of its business activities. Plant tours in fiscal 2011 were held at Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works (in September 2011) and Ritto Machinery Works (in March 2012). Visitors commented on the wonderful sense of pride and workmanship in evidence, and were thrilled with the rare opportunity to witness first-hand how massive machines such as turbines are made in the factory. MHI will continue striving to incorporate feedback and suggestions on IR programs. 106 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Shareholders and Investors Plant Tours (FY2011) Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works (September 2011) •Dock area •Manufacturing processes for turbines and LPG carriers •History Museum at Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works Ritto Machinery Works (March 2012) •Production of machine tools •Training Center •Manufacturing Technology Center An introduction to the process for At the Training Center manufacturing machine tools Topics External award for information disclosure on the website MHI provides a range of useful information on the website as part of the company’s commitment to investor relations. In December 2011 MHI took first prize for the first time in the 2011 Best Internet IR Company awards run by Daiwa Investor Relations Co.Ltd. MHI was also declared best website in the Corporate websites ranking in all listed companies in Japan conducted by Nikko Investor Relations Co., Ltd. in November 2011, as well as first in the ranking by sector (machinery). 107 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Shareholders and Investors A Word from a Stakeholder Continuous on-site disclosure Yoshinao Ibara Managing Director Equity Research, Japan Research Division Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., Ltd. An important feature of IR activities at MHI is the commitment to ongoing on-site disclosure by all business operations. Most ordinary enterprises hold regular financial performance briefings, but MHI has so many different operations that briefings focused purely on financial updates are insufficient for providing important information on mediumto long-term investment decisions, such as demandprojections and industry competition. At MHI, representatives of every business segments hold an annual presentation. In addition, MHI provides plant tours of key facilities—such as the Takasago Machinery Works in Japan—and holds meetings at Mitsubishi Power Systems Americas (MPSA)—one of its overseas subsidiaries— in order to reveal the true face of MHI to the stock market. In light of the accelerating globalization of business domains at MHI, the meetings at MPSA represent an advanced initiative. The Group’s commitment to ongoing information discl sure provides the stock market with valuable information about company operations. 108 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Shareholders and Investors Share and Dividend Report Fiscal 2011 dividend distributions For fiscal 2011, a 3 yen per share year-end dividend was distributed. An interim dividend of 3 yen per share was distributed, which brings the total dividend for the year to 6 yen per share. Dividend disbursements over the past five years FY Dividend per share 2007 6 yen 2008 6 yen 2009 4 yen 2010 4 yen 2011 6 yen 109 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers) Fair Dealing Opening a door to new suppliers and ensuring fair evaluation and selection MHI procures a variety of materials and services both domestically and abroad that include materials such as steel, machinery, equipment, and components. MHI is open to all motivated and competitive suppliers. Suppliers are fairly and equitably selected and evaluated in accordance with the applicable laws and industry practices, in order to build relationships of trust predicated on mutual prosperity. This approach is stipulated in the MHI Procurement Policy (released in 2002), which can be viewed on the Procurement page of the company website. The Procurement page also includes application guidelines for prospective suppliers and contact information for material procurement for the benefit of companies that are interested in doing business with MHI. MHI Procurement Policy 1. Openness We strive to provide business opportunities openly to suppliers throughout the world, and welcome creative and competitive suppliers. 2. Fairness We provide chances for competition to qualified suppliers, and evaluate and select suppliers fairly based on criteria such as the suppliers' product quality, price, delivery schedule, technology and financial conditions. 3. Partnership We regard our suppliers as partners based on the mutual understanding that both partners should benefit from the relationship. 4. Compliance We comply with rules, regulations and social norm based on our compliance management policy, and all information submitted to MHI will be kept and used properly. Thoroughly preventing illegal and unfair dealings The Compliance Principles, which set out compliance requirements under applicable laws and regulations, are used by the Procurement Department to ensure compliance with the Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors, which forbids unfair dealings by large companies towards smaller companies, as well as the Construction Industry Law. MHI is striving to prevent improper practices such as fraudulent ordering through a system of separating the departments responsible for ordering, receiving and utilizing procured goods and having them provide mutual restraints. Compliance is carefully monitored at every stage of ordering and inspection, with the results checked via internal audits in accordance with the PDCA cycle for legal compliance. 110 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers) Promoting CSR Procurement Guidelines and CSR Activities in the Entire Supply Chain In June 2010, MHI drew up the MHI Group Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines, and provided MHI’s business partners with information about CSR activities and programs that are designed to promote a consistent approach to CSR throughout the supply chain. The Guidelines are divided into five points that include comprehensive compliance and promotion of corporate ethics, and assurance of product safety and quality, cost, delivery schedule (QCD), enhanced technological development capabilities, and considerations regarding human rights and workplace safety. Business partners are expected to embrace the MHI Guidelines, which are discussed at dedicated presentations and are also available on the company website. Some 300 partner companies took part in a self-assessment survey of CSR programs conducted in fiscal 2011. MHI has incorporated the CSR efforts of partner companies as one item for evaluation and is preparing a system which appropriately evaluates these efforts. MHI is a participant in the supply chain sectional meeting of the Global Compact Japan Network of domestic signatories to the United Nations Global Compact, which meets to discuss ideals and methodologies of procurement predicated on CSR principles. MHI Group Supply Chain CSR Promotion Guidelines 1. Compliance and Corporate Ethics We ask all Partners to persist in compliance related to all business activities, to foster corporate ethics, and also, to work on building and operating an organization to facilitate this. 2. Safety, Quality, Cost, Delivery and Innovation In order to maintain and improve the value of MHI's products, we ask all of our Partners to provide materials and services with assured safety and quality, cost and delivery ( QCD ). Moreover, in order to create end products with high added value, we ask for your continuous improvement in developing new technology. 3. Human Rights, Health and Safety In the business activities of all of our Partners (including their respective supply chains), the human rights of all employees must be respected and safe, comfortable working environments be assured. 4. Respect for the Environment In order to achieve a more sustainable society, we ask all of our Partners to continuously monitor and seek to reduce environmental impact of their activities. 5. Contribution to the Region and Society We ask all of our Partners to work positively on the activities to contribute to the development of international society as well as regional society and to foster the next generation etc. Our Partners are free to determine the most effective way to fulfill their social responsibilities, which may include contributions through normal course of their business, charitable donations or contributions of facilities and/or resources. Mitsubishi Heavy Industries (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (MHISH) Procurement Center consolidates and expands domestic procurement in China To date, individual works have been responsible for their own procurement from China. With the opening of the MHISH Procurement Center at Shanghai in April 2012, these disparate procurement arrangements have been replaced with a consolidated and centralized approach that makes it easier to cultivate relationships with new suppliers. MHI will boost procurement of functional materials, electrical components, castings and pipe materials from China in line with the company’s globalization strategy. 111 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers) Building closer ties with business partners through management reforms and other improvement programs At the first Business Partners Conference in 2008, MHI pledged to incorporate requests, suggestions and feedback from business partners into management reforms and other improvement programs at MHI. The company remains committed to this process. During fiscal 2011, MHI continued to solicit VE proposals* from business partners via the company website. 3,800 proposals have been adopted. The fourth Business Partners Conference in November attracted 294 participants. The meeting included presentations on the implications of globalization and MHI’s response focusing on the company’s core strengths; company-wide procurement strategies; and the importance of maintaining a shared collaborative vision with business partners. Certificates of gratitude were presented to 12 business partners in recognition of significant contributions in the form of VE proposals. In addition, individual works and business segments have been holding similar business partner conferences designed to foster stronger ties with business partners. (Note) VE: A method for both improving product value and reducing costs Business Partners Conference A Word from a Stakeholder Providing steel plates for rebuilding power stations Jun Kadota Exective Assistant & General Manager, Sales Coordination & Operation Planning Dept. (then) General Manager, Plate Sales Dept. (in the aftermath of the Great East Japan Earthquake) JFE Steel Corporation JFE supplied steel plates for construction of power plants to provide emergency power in the aftermath of the Great East Japan Earthquake. The high-performance steel plate material was required to withstand extreme environmental conditions, and the job involved extensive discussions of materials specifications and careful quality control monitoring during the manufacturing process. JFE maintained constant contact with MHI through daily technical briefings and factory inspections. Though the request was received immediately after the earthquake, JFE was able to deliver the materials with a very short turnaround. JFE is keen to cultivate a reputation in the industry as a reliable business partners operating in a broad range of fields. 112 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Business Partners (Suppliers) Procurement Education and Training Training for employees engaged in procurement activities Procurement departments at MHI provide a range of training programs designed to ensure compliance with the applicable laws and regulations. In fiscal 2011, 36 young employees (some from Group companies) attended a training session on compliance issues and domestic legislation governing procurement, which included a discussion session for participants based on specific examples. Additionally, in June and October two training sessions were held to give new recruits an introductory course on basic information concerning procurement practices. Thus, a total of 84 employees, including Group employees, received procurement training during fiscal 2011. Also, 223 MHI employees and a further 164 employees from 34 Group companies took an e-Learning course on the Act Against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors. MHI remains committed to providing procurement training programs tailored to the company’s operational plans and ongoing amendments to legislation. Compliance training 113 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Utilizing and Cultivating Diverse Human Resources Active recruitment and utilization of mid-career, overseas and female workers MHI's basic policy for recruiting and developing human resources had been to hire new graduates and provide ample in-house training. However, MHI also hires mid-career professionals when necessary according to in-house needs because a diverse range of human resources is required to be victorious in a fiercely competitive industry (in fiscal 2011, approximately 630 new graduates [who started in April 2012] and approximately 110 mid-career professionals were hired). When hiring both new graduates and mid-career workers, MHI carries out fair screening with an emphasis on human rights and without discrimination due to gender or other reasons. Equal treatment is also given to both types of employees. Mid-career workers play an active role in their respective fields, where they make full use of the skills they have cultivated. MHI is also actively working within and without Japan to hire personnel to deploy overseas for the global development of its business. The company is hiring overseas university students and international students studying in Japan through proactive recruitment efforts. In fiscal 2011, in addition to the same hiring activities in the U.S., the U.K., and Singapore we carried out during the previous year, MHI also implemented recruitment PR activities for the first time in Australia and Korea. This resulted in the hiring of about 40 new graduates. (Mid-career employment included one overseas university student and six people with non-Japanese citizenship.) MHI is also promoting the employment and utilization of female workers, and the number of female managers has been increasing each year. In fiscal 2011, approximately 26 percent of new graduate and clerical recruits were women. Rehiring all who wish to continue to work and promoting senior employee skill utilization To provide a place that allows employees to demonstrate their abilities after retirement, MHI implements a rehiring system throughout the Group that, in principle, embraces all employees who wish to be re-employed. Both fulland part-time positions are available, and contracts may be renewed up until the age of 65. As of April 1, 2012, MHI alone (excluding Group companies) has rehired approximately 2,200 employees. These re-employed workers are active as experienced professionals, and serve to transfer their skills and expertise to others. Expansion of hiring to actualize skills of the differently-abled people MHI works to expand job opportunities for differently-abled people and to create a suitable working environment for all employees. The Work Supporting Center was established at the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works in July 2005 to provide a workplace for carrying out the digitization of in-company materials, data entry, shipping work, and other tasks. In this way, an environment has been created where as many differently-abled people as possible can work with peace of mind. In fiscal 2011, MHI’s efforts to promote the expansion of hiring for differently-abled people included strengthening its hiring activities by raising in-house target values for the employment of differently-abled people, utilizing an employment website for differently-abled people, collaborating with regional “Hello Work” (Employment Security Bureau) offices, and proactively utilizing various types of recruitment information such as job interview events. As a result, MHI's employment rate for differently-abled people reached 2.08 percent as of April 1, 2012, exceeding the statutory minimum of 1.8 percent. We will further increase such hiring in the future with the help of information and close cooperation with each of our main hubs. 114 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Improving education to strengthen global responsiveness MHI is working to improve employee capabilities and enhance education with the aim of being a global corporation that is capable of responding to changes in the rapidly transforming market. Based on on-the-job training (OJT) in workplaces, we are implementing various educational programs starting immediately after hiring according to job level and function. The main themes of education according to job level include communication skills, career design, and management. With the aim of strengthening our ability to respond to globalization, in fiscal 2011 we newly established systems including MHI Global Training (MGT), in which young employees are dispatched overseas. Strengthening the development of junior technicians on the forefront of manufacturing At MHI, the number of junior technicians is increasing as more baby boomers retire. For that reason there is an urgent need to train technicians who can maintain the front line of manufacturing. To that end, we prepared textbooks that are standardized for the entire company to ensure the commonality and uniformity of education. We have also made DVDs to create digital versions of Skills of the Master manuals developed by veteran technicians. These and other efforts are to ensure the steady succession of techniques and the rapid development of junior technicians. In addition, with the aim of improving levels of expertise and energizing our junior technicians, we hold company-wide skills contests in machine assembly, lathing, welding, and other fields. MHI is also working to improve the leadership skills of employees who serve as instructors. 115 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Bolstering training activities for Group company employees To reinforce the management and overall constitution of MHI Group business operations, employee education initiatives throughout the entire Group are being implemented. In fiscal 2007, we opened an e-Learning website exclusively for Group companies, and began group training from fiscal 2009. In fiscal 2011, management and communication training was newly established for managers, deputy managers, and mid-level employees at Group companies throughout Japan. Approximately 600 people have participated in this training. Group training for MHI Group companies Encouraging mutual understanding through dialogue and the enhancement of personal capabilities MHI is taking action to develop the abilities of each person, and to create working environments in which employees can perform invigorating work that is free from anxiety, by encouraging mutual understanding and trust through dialogues between supervisors and subordinates. A common awareness of issues is created by having supervisors provide regular opportunities for dialogues based on self-reports by subordinates. Supervisors communicate with subordinates about the roles they are expected to fulfill while also paying attention to their requests and business improvement suggestions. For example, for those working in technical and clerical divisions, MHI operates a Management by Objectives (MBO) system in which work targets are set and progress evaluations are made twice a year. In addition, in manufacturing divisions subordinates and their supervisors hold discussions once a year for the purpose of two-way communication. 360° research: a program for middle managers MHI implements the 360° research program, in which research is conducted on evaluations of the daily speech and behavior of managers by their supervisors, colleagues, and subordinates. The results are then provided as feedback to the managers. This research program is intended to encourage the further growth and self-improvement of managers by informing them of the various opinions and evaluations of other people, and by enabling them to identify their strengths and areas for improvement. 116 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Basic Data Breakdown of employees by age(FY2011) Under 30 30~39 40~49 50~59 60 and over Male 8,101 9,475 6,305 5,328 429 Female 773 863 759 444 17 Total 8,874 10,338 7,064 5,772 446 Number of new graduates hired University Vocational school and junior Total college, high school, other (females in brackets) Joined the 480 506 986(80) company in April 2011 Joined the 348 286 634(60) company in April 2012 Number of female managers (section manager and above; excluding medical staff) April 2008 April 2009 April 2010 April 2011 April 2012 182 219 248 266 288 Number of rehired employees (excluding those from Group companies) April 2010 October 2010 April 2011 October 2011 April 2012 1,720 1,893 2,172 2,229 2,259 117 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Building a Better Working Environment Supporting the balance between childcare, family care and work in various ways In order to create an environment in which it is easy for employees to work and also have a family, MHI is making efforts to expand its various support systems that give consideration to childcare and family care. In November of fiscal 2011, MHI newly established the child planning leave system, which can be used for infertility treatment, and the annual holiday by hour system, in which employees can use their leave in increments of one to two hours according to their circumstances for purposes such as childcare and family care, and to make it easier to commute during pregnancy by avoiding rush hour. Furthermore, the periods for family-care leave and family-care work have been expanded; and each can be used for a total of up to one year. In addition, the systems for childcare leave, childcare and work, family-care leave, and family-care work all now exceed statutory minimums. Information about the systems and procedures regarding childcare and family care are available on our intranet so that employees can access it easily. Other initiatives not related to the operation of systems include holding discussion panels between individuals on childcare leave and those who have taken such leave in the past in hopes of enabling a smooth transition back to work. In the future as well, we will go beyond merely operating these systems. We will work to promote employee awareness and understanding, as well as to create comfortable workplaces with consideration given to work-life balance. 118 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Programs that focus on work-life balance Childcare and childbirth Child planning leave Childcare leave system Using accumulated paid holidays for childcare purposes (Note 1) Childcare work shift system (shortened work hour system) Work leave to care for a sick child Special grants for employees who balance work and childcare (Note 2) Next generation nurturing support grants (Note 3) Career Return Program (Note 4) Family care Family-care leave system Using accumulated paid holidays for family-care purposes (Note 1) Family-care work shift system (shortened work hours system) Work leave to care for a family member Career Return Program (Note 4) Other Flex-time system Paid holiday system by half day Annual holiday by the hour system Trips and time off for longtime employees (Note 1) Accumulated paid holidays is a system in which up to 60days paid holidays can be accumulated to use for illness, injury, childcare, family care, and other purposes. (Note 2) Special grants for working employees who place their children in daycare provide ¥5,000 per month to working employees who place children in daycare until the end of the fiscal year in which the child reaches three years of age (approximately 830 grants paid in fiscal 2011). (Note 3) Next generation nurturing support grants provide ¥100,000 per employee with three or more children (approximately 240 grants paid in fiscal 2011). (Note 4) The Career Return Plan is a system that opens the door to individuals who want to reenter the company after having left due to marriage, childbirth, childcare, family care and transfer of spouse (three individuals reentered the company in fiscal 2011). 119 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Nursery operated on the grounds of our Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works In April 2010, the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works opened the first MHI in-house nursery, MHI Kira Kids Nursery. All MHI Group employees working in the Nagasaki area can leave their preschool-aged children at any time between 7am and 8pm. Since opening its doors, the nursery has held various events such as parent & child picnics and Christmas parties as well as Respect-for-the-Aged events for elderly residents of the community that were well received by participants. In addition to our goal of continuing to be a nursery well loved by employees and local residents, we look to establish nurseries at other MHI locations as well based on the performance of this nursery. Respect-for-the-Aged party held for local Cooking class as part of kids' food education residents A Word from an Employee Communication in workplaces is important for carrying out both work and childcare Mina Tsuchiya (left) Manager Intellectual Property Strategy Group Intellectual Property Department Technology & Innovation Headquarters When I gave birth to my first and second daughters, I took approximately one year off through a combination of maternity and childcare leave for each child. After I returned to work, I ended up doing different types of work than before my leave, and my range of duties was expanded. This was possible exactly because MHI is a company that deals with a diverse range of products and businesses, and also helped me continually improve my career. Therefore, I am very grateful to the company and my working environment. When raising children, one has to take many days off due to sudden illness or other reasons, so it is impossible to be employed without the understanding of people in one’s workplace. I think it is important to make efforts to communicate with one’s superiors, colleagues, and subordinates, such as by making reports on work-related and other circumstances in order to gain understanding. In the future I intend to place importance on such communication while making efforts to carry out both daily work and childcare. 120 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Efforts for raising awareness of human rights in individual workplaces Since the establishment of the Committee for Raising Awareness of Human Rights in 1992, MHI has been improving awareness of human rights throughout the company. Human rights awareness training is held each year for new employees and newly appointed managerial staff, such as managers and deputy managers. This training handles themes related to human rights issues and harassment, including fundamental knowledge and points to be aware of. In fiscal 2011, approximately 1,000 new recruits and 1,500 newly appointed managers and supervisors participated in human rights awareness training. In order to prevent power harassment (workplace bullying & harassment), MHI is continuing the e-Learning course that was introduced during the previous fiscal year. In addition, efforts are being made to strengthen awareness regarding the prevention of power harassment. For example, lectures were held for executives and upper management, and a new booklet was created in order to increase awareness among all employees. Moreover, new related themes in compliance promotion training were added as a continuation of the previous fiscal year. MHI will continue working to strengthen its activities to increase awareness of human rights. Creating safe and healthy workplaces centered on a basic policy for employee safety and health MHI embraces a basic policy for employee safety and health founded on the following three commitments: (1) Always hold fast to the conviction that life is precious, and carry out measures that prioritize safety and are appropriate to each position and location; (2) Devote every effort to safety in creating outstanding products that contribute to the development of society; (3) Maintain awareness that sound health is the basis upon which all else depends, and ensure that all employees have comfortable workplaces that enable them to be sound in body. Based on these principles, we operate an occupational health and safety management system throughout the company to create safe, pleasant workplaces. We will continue to further enhance our efforts aimed at reducing occupational accidents and leave due to injury or sickness. Industrial accident frequency rate FY 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 MHI 0.36 0.31 0.23 0.29 0.27 Manufacturing industry 1.09 1.12 0.99 0.98 1.05 * Industrial accident frequency rate: number of deaths or injuries sustained through industrial mishaps per million hours on the job. It is calculated as follows: number of deaths or injuries sustained on the job that require one or more days of leave / aggregate number of hours worked × 1,000,000. 121 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Risk management and training to prevent work-related accidents and injuries In order to reduce the risk of occupational accidents, MHI makes improvements based on the results of risk assessments implemented at each works. These assessments are related to tasks and equipment, and are mainly focused on the safety and manufacturing sectors. We are also implementing safety education for entry-level employees and other people. This education utilizes visual learning materials and hands-on equipment that makes it possible to actually experience accident simulations. This hands-on equipment has been installed at seven works including the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works and Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works. Furthermore, in the future MHI will continue to make systematic efforts to improve equipment and update outmoded facilities in order to create safe, comfortable workplaces. Maintaining and improving physical and mental health At MHI, we create healthcare divisions at each works in order to proactively support employees in maintaining their physical and mental wellbeing. We carry out the maintenance of systems, as well as the drafting and unified development of measures, as part of a project to strengthen health management throughout the entire company. Specifically, MHI is implementing health promotion measures that include health-related guidance and the setting of company-wide targets based on the Body Mass Index (BMI; a body mass index that serves as a standard for obesity, etc.). Various mental health measures are also implemented. Health promotion and mental health measures Health promotion measures (implemented at each office) •Measures to prevent lifestyle diseases (implementing health-related guidance targeted at reducing the ratio of employees with a BMI of 25 or greater) •Health lectures, health consultations •Activities to increase health (walking rallies, athletic meets, long-distance relay races, etc.) Mental health measures •Primary prevention (employee education) -Education, training -Anti-stress measures in workplaces (stress checks) -Interviews regarding long periods of overtime work (more than 45 hours per month) •Secondary prevention (early detection and treatment) -Encouraging the usage of consultation hotlines -Strengthening cooperation with medical specialists, consultants, industrial physicians, etc. •Tertiary prevention (screening when returning to work, the rehabilitation working program) -Implementing work screening and the rehabilitation working program (Note) as support for returning to work (Note) The system is set according to person’s plan for returning to work, within the range of four to eight hours of designated working time, or for half-day work in either the morning or afternoon, for a period of up to three months -Detailed follow-up after returning to work as a measure to prevent reoccurrence 122 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Promoting communication between management and employees MHI believes that communication between management and employees is crucial for carrying out smooth business operations. In line with this thinking, the company's intranet, corporate newsletter and other resources are fully utilized to disseminate management information and messages from top management to all employees as quickly as possible. In addition, various labor-management consultations provide forums for management to both convey management policies and strategies as well as to hear the views of the employees to be integrated into management practices. A Word from an Employee r Our mission is ensuring that no accidents occur at any construction site Yoshio Ito Engineering Manager Health&Safety Management Department Engineering Headquarters I am in charge of overall safety management for construction that is carried out overseas by the Engineering Headquarters. Our mission is to ensure that no accidents occur at any of our construction sites. Our efforts to that end include the creation of a safety management system that can be used in response to various customers, the establishment of analysis methods and structures based on numeric indices, and the provision of support for estimation projects during the planning and proposal stages. In fiscal 2011, I spent several months visiting overseas sites where accidents had occurred that resulted in employee leave. There, we achieved a total of one million work hours without a Lost Time Accident (three million hours as of May 28, 2012). We also received words of praise from customers. In the future as well, I will work to increase awareness of safety among construction managers and advisors in order to achieve no accidents for all projects. Giving safety-related guidance at an overseas site 123 Social Contributions Report / Commitment to Our Employees Forum 35 Forum 35 inspires people to work through employee exchange Individuals who are in their mid-thirties take great responsibility for their work as mid-level employees and play central roles at their workplaces. Forum 35 activities promote exchange between employees of this generation—around the age of 35—which surpasses the boundaries of job title and location. Through discussions about a wide range of themes related to the company and society, these activities help invigorate the organization. Beginning in MHI’s Head Office in July 2009, these activities have spread to the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works, Takasago Machinery Works, Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works, Hiroshima Machinery Works, and Ritto Machinery Works. Participating employees hold periodic meetings at their locations, exchange between works and with other companies, and discussions with the president and vice presidents. The feedback received about this activities includes, “I gained a renewed understanding of the importance of the role that a manufacturer must fulfill towards society,” and “I realized the broad scope of MHI’s products and great technological strengths.” Forum 35 has been established as an initiative that energizes the organization. A discussion with the President & CEO and representatives from eight works 124 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Fulfilling our Policy on Social Contribution Activities Conducting activities that suit the characteristics of each region based on the MHI policy on Social Contribution Activities MHI used the opportunity of the publication of the Social and Environmental Report in 2004 to formulate the basic concepts for social contribution, stated as We are obligated to be an innovative partner to society and We place importance on relationships with local communities based on mutual trust. The MHI policy for social contribution activities was released in 2007 based on extensive discussion and debate regarding the nature of public expectations as well as feedback from external sources. Various programs are being carried out in each region of Japan in accordance with the policy. Local contribution Live together with communities and contribute to their development Our basic policy is to live together with local communities of branch offices, overseas offices, and Group companies in foreign countries, building strong relationships based on mutual trust. With this in mind, we undertake various activities suitable for local cultures and contribute to the local development and activation both in Japan and overseas. Upbringing of the next generation Transfer the heart of Japanese manufacturing as well as the arts of science and technology to the next generation MHI has developed and produced more than 700 kinds of products in its long history, cultivating the heart of Japanese manufacturing and the arts of science and technology. To pass its knowledge and skills onto succeeding generations, MHI has a tradition of organizing educational activities such as science classes with experiments for children. 125 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Achievements Made through Social Contribution Activities (FY2011) Expenditure of Approx.1.61B yen on Social Contribution Activities MHI endorses the One Percent Club, a program initiated by Nippon Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) in which participating members commit at least 1 percent of ordinary profit to social contribution activities. As a member of the One Percent Club, MHI is actively involved in a range of social contribution activities. The company reports expenditure on social contribution activities each year. In fiscal 2010, MHI spent approximately 1.61 billion yen on social contribution activities, equivalent to 2.36 percent of ordinary profit. Change in expenditures on social contribution activities FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 Academic research 128 million yen 339 million yen 247 million yen Education 766 million yen 537 million yen 633 million yen Community activities 131 million yen 158 million yen 141 million yen Sports 112 million yen 114 million yen 149 million yen Other 463 million yen 507 million yen 440 million yen Total 1,600 million yen 1,655 million yen 1,610 million yen Percentage of ordinary profit 2.12% 6.89% 2.36% (Note 1) Figures include cash donations, payments in kind, activities by employees, free use of company facilities, etc., converted into monetary equivalents; activities privately performed by employees are not included. (Note 2) Includes group companies under consolidated accounting. (Note 3) Figures for FY2011 are now being prepared. Selection Criteria for Donation Recipients In addition to groups with a close business relationship with MHI, groups that perform the following activities, either in isolation or in conjunction with MHI, were chosen as the main beneficiaries of donations, in accordance with the MHI Group CSR Action Guidelines. ● Close ties with the Earth: environment preservation ● Close ties with Society: disaster relief, community work, welfare, promoting culture and the arts, international exchange and international cooperation ● A bridge to the next Generation: nurturing the next generation, academic research, boosting technical capabilities 126 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Robust Recovery Assistance to Areas Hit by Natural Disasters The MHI Group has long embraced a humanitarian perspective and offered assistance and support across the world in the aftermath of large-scale natural disasters. Following the Great East Japan Earthquake on March 11, 2011, MHI donated materials and supplies as well as funds for reconstruction in order to help with the rebuilding effort. MHI employees have contributed their time to volunteer activities in disaster regions such as food preparation and distribution, cleaning work and debris removal, as well as providing science classes and charity musicals at elementary schools to support the children. Major support activities in recent years Year Disaster Scale of support Type of support 2011 Thailand floods 45 million yen Cash donation and supplies Great East Japan Earthquake 680 million yen Solar power systems, forklift trucks and cash donation 2010 China Qinghai Earthquake 10 million yen Cash donation Chile Earthquake 5 million yen Cash donation Haiti Earthquake 10 million yen Cash donation and donation of lighting towers with generators 2009 Indian Ocean Earthquake and Tsunami 3 million yen Cash donation Damage from Typhoon Morakot 2.54 million yen Cash donation L'Aquila Earthquake in Italy 2.54 million yen Cash donation 2008 China Sichuan Earthquake 210 million yen Cash donation Cyclone in Southern Burma 3 million yen Cash donation Extraordinarily heavy snow in Southern 1.5 million yen Cash donation China Iwate-Miyagi Nairiku Earthquake 2 million yen Cash donation 127 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Support for Culture Facilities Associated with the Mitsubishi Group As a member of The Mitsubishi Group, MHI provides economic assistance to foundations involved in the operation of cultural and other facilities . For example, MHI funds Toyo Bunko (The Oriental Library), the oldest and largest research library on Oriental studies in Japan (founded in 1924 by Hisaya Iwasaki, the third president of Mitsubishi). Toyo Bunko houses around one million publications including five designated national treasures and seven important cultural properties, along with valuable documents in Asian languages. Toyo Bunko is one of the five great Oriental research libraries in the world. The Seikado Bunko Library, founded by Yanosuke Iwasaki , the second president of Mitsubishi, and his son, Koyata Iwasaki, the forth president of Mitsubishi. The Seikado Bunko Library and the Seikado Bunko Art Museum are both administered by the Seikado Foundation. The Seikado Bunko is home to some 6,500 Oriental antique pieces including seven national treasures and 83 important cultural assets, along with some 200,000 Japanese and Chinese classics. As a member of the Mitsubishi Group, MHI has sponsored the Mitsubishi Foundation. It was founded in 1969, disburses research funding totaling 14.7 billion yen to around 3,000 selected projects, including two previous Nobel prize recipients. The Foundation has supported the work of many recipients of the Order of Cultural Merit and other culture awards. In this way, MHI contributes to improvement of Japanese scholarship, culture and social welfare. The new Toyo Bunko building The Morrison Collection in The Toyo Bunko Seikado Bunko Art Museum (left) and Library Tea bowl, Yohen Temmoku, a national treasure (right) from the collection of the Seikado 128 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities New In-house System to Promote Social Contribution Activities MHI introduced a new in-house system in fiscal 2012 to promote active involvement in social contribution activities designed to address needs and issues of the local communities around company facilities. Under this system, time donated by company employees to volunteer work is converted to a monetary value, which is then converted to a corresponding budget allocation, which is then used to support NPOs and other local groups working to address social issues and social business, in the form of funding or employee volunteer dispatch. In fiscal 2011, ahead of the 2012 launch of the system, MHI consulted with various bodies including municipal offices responsible for local development and social welfare committees, received introductions to NPOs active in the local community and was able to meet with them. Fifteen organizations were chosen through this process. From fiscal 2012, MHI has been working with these organizations to develop and implement social contribution activities designed to encourage employees from all works and facilities to get involved in volunteer programs. Meeting with the local chamber of commerce and industry and forestry cooperatives (Ritto Machinery Works) 129 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Examples of Regional Social Contribution Activities (FY2011) Donation of Tableware to Nursing Care Services Under the Matching Gift Program Under the Matching Gift program operated in conjunction with trade unions, MHI commits to match employee donations by value. In fiscal 2011, the combined donations were used to purchase 1,300 items of adaptive tableware for caregiving made using MHI’s shape memory polymer technology for distribution among 63 nursing care facilities in Tokyo, Kanagawa and Osaka. ‘Shape-memory’ tableware for caregiving Presentation ceremony at a Tokyo nursing care facility Digging for Potatoes with Nursery school Children At Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works, employees prepared a sweet potato patch on idle land and planned a hands-on event for local children to dig up potatoes in order to give the children the opportunity to experience nature first-hand. In October 2011, some 70 Nursery school children from the local area helped employee volunteers dig up sweet potatoes. Nursery school children digging up sweet potatoes 130 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Diamond Cup Baseball Tournament for Children from a Children’s Home Every year, the baseball club and their support group at the Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works together with employee volunteers stage a baseball tournament called the Diamond Cup for the benefit of children from a children’s home. In November 2011, the Diamond Cup was held at the Nagasaki Prefecture Big N Stadium and was attended by about 50 children who enjoyed the great match. Children playing at Big N Stadium Internships for High School Students In August 2011, the Takasago Machinery Works ran an internship program for eight high school students from Hyogo prefecture. The students enjoyed the experience, with many commenting on the “inherent pleasures of manufacturing” and the importance of safety awareness. High school students acquiring new skills in the factory 131 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Introduction to Manufacturing Workshop for Elementary School Students In conjunction with the in-house Industrial Machinery Festival in July 2011, the Ritto Machinery Works put on an Introduction to Manufacturing workshop for 30 elementary school children and their parents. The children learnt about the links between wind and energy by assembling a mini-bicycle that uses wind power to light an LED and making their own wind turbines out of plastic bottles. Children at the Introduction to Manufacturing workshop Clean-up Campaign in conjunction with the Mt. Fuji Club In October 2011, volunteers from the Nagoya Guidance and Propulsion System Works took part in a national cleanup campaign organized by a local NPO called the Fujisan Club (Mt. Fuji Club), which involved cleaning and tidying in the vicinity of the Works facility. Under a clear blue autumn sky, around 120 volunteers collected 60 bags worth of rubbish. Volunteers who took part in the national cleanup campaign 132 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Promotion of Fair Trade products The Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works supports the work of the Fair Trade movement, which pledges to pay fair prices for agricultural products and handicrafts from developing countries in order to help producers make a living. MHI distribute pamphlets for Nepali Bazaro products sourced from Nepal, and encourage employees to become involved. Fair Trade pamphlet Nepali Bazaro website A Word from a Stakeholder We count on MHI’s initiatives for local community development and improvement of social welfare. Junko Kanamori Secretary General Tokyo Council of Social Welfare MHI has been supporting our work since 2004 in many ways, such as by donating food receptacles (featuring MHI shape-memory technology) and providing invitations to stage musicals. In fiscal 2011, MHI donated 1,000 items of “shape-memory” tableware to 51 facilities for differently-abled adults and children. The tableware can be molded using hot water into a shape which is convenient for the individual user. The tableware makes mealtimes much easier for people with disabilities and has proven very popular. Recently, MHI has kindly agreed to provide additional donations of tableware designed for children in response to our requests. The future of social welfare in Japan is a pressing issue given the declining birthrate and aging population. At a time when the bonds between people and between individuals and their communities are becoming increasingly fragile, we are especially grateful to MHI for their promotion of social contribution activities and their ongoing commitment to the Tokyo Council of Social Welfare, based on CSR principles of management, despite the difficulties posed by the 2011 earthquake and the ongoing economic recession. I look forward to the continued support of MHI for local community development and improvement of social welfare in the future. 133 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Examples of Social Contribution Activities by MHI Group Companies (FY2011) Environmental Slogan Competition Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Parking Co., Ltd. is a member of the Eco-First Promotion Council and as an activity of this council, participating companies held the Forest Environmental Slogan Campaign from June to September 2011. Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Parking Co., Ltd. sponsored the MHI Parking Award for the best slogan on the importance of forests, which coincided with the United Nations International Year of the Forests. The Award attracted 558 submissions from primary and junior high school students all over Japan. The Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Parking Award was presented to an elementary school student from Yokohama for the slogan Our future is linked to protection of forests. Awards ceremony (Formerly Koryo Engineering Co., Ltd.) Summer CAD Workshop for Kids In August 2011, Koryo Engineering Co., Ltd. ran a summer CAD workshop for kids in conjunction with the summer festival at MHI Takasago Machinery Works. Children were taught how to produce CAD drawings and how to use the drawings to assemble a cardboard car. They also learned about design processes and the work of Koryo Engineering. It was an enjoyable experience for all, and there are plans to run a similar event in fiscal 2012. Summer CAD workshop for kids 134 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Work Experience for Junior High School Students Ryoin has hosted work experience students from local junior high schools every year since 1989, when the company name was changed from Ryoju Printing. In fiscal 2011, which was the 24th time the work experience program was held, around 100 students from Arakawa No. 5 Junior High School attended a plant tour covering all production processes from printing and binding through to distribution. Students asked a variety of questions during the Q&A session after the tour and were presented with a commemorative calendar featuring a group photo taken on the day of the tour. Plant tour Proud Sponsors of the Aberdeen Festival U.K.-based Mitsubishi Power Systems Europe Ltd. (MPSE) was the main sponsor of the Scottish Samurai Festival, held in August and September 2011 to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the death of Thomas Glover, a leading entrepreneur in Aberdeen who contributed significantly to the modernization of Japan. In addition to MPSE employees assisting with the management of the festival, the president of MPSE was personally involved in requesting cooperation from the Scottish government and soliciting sponsors. The festival was acclaimed as the largest ever held in Aberdeen. Parade by local elementary and junior high school students 135 Social Contributions Report / Social Contribution Activities Plant tours and lecture programs CBC Industrias Pesadas SA of Brazil conducts plant tours at the request of local universities, and also sends employees to various educational institutions to give lectures on sustainability and the environment. The company has conducted plant tours every year since 2006. During fiscal 2011, CBC Industrias Pesadas SA ran a plant tour for 40 students from the Federal University of Viçosa and provided two lectures. The company intends to keep working on similar events in the future . Plant tour for university students 136 CSR Medium-Term Action Plan for FY2011 to FY2013 CSR targets for the period between FY2011 to FY2013 were established as follows based on the results of activities effected between FY2008 and FY2010 Area Priority item (responsibility) Medium-term targets (FY2011–2013) Broadened CSR awareness 1.Penetration of global awareness towards CSR including overseas locations and Group companies (CSR Committee / CSR 2.Global information dissemination of status of CSR activities Department) 1.Proactive development of social contribution activities with the cooperation of various stakeholders Socially beneficial activities 2.Examining possibilities for the globalization of social contribution activities and development of social (CSR Department) business Strengthening information dissemination (Corporate Communication 1.Acquiring broad recognition as a global company and increasing the number of MHI fans Department) 2.Improve timely and accurate information dissemination capabilities as per the needs of investors and CSR Promotion 1.Enhancement of brand value strengthening in-house feedback on information to be used as reference material by management concerning the environment 3.Establish its role as a facility that provides opportunities for children to develop an interest in science by 2.Promotion of IR activities showing them the pleasure of manufacturing 3.Improvement of the Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum CSR procurement 1.Sharing values regarding the promotion of CSR activities with business partners and avoiding (Procurement Planning & procurement risks with key partners Administration Department, 2.Effect extensive compliance and adherence to laws and regulations with regard to procurement tasks Procurement & Sourcing 3.Continuous compliance to environmental regulations Department) Thorough compliance 1.Decrease matters in need of improvement even at Group companies (Compliance Committee) 2.Early comprehension and improvement of matters in need of improvement 1.Continuation of zero policy for violations to the Anti-Monopoly Act Order compliance (Order 2.Penetration of order compliance activities Compliance Committee) 3.Establishment of order compliance consciousness through awareness and educational activities Compliance with the Compliance 1.Establishment of a self-compliance system (compliance activities incorporated in daily tasks) Construction Business Act 2.Enhancing compliance at Group companies (Construction Business Act 3.Enhancing contract compliance with business partners Compliance Committee) Compliance with export-related 1.Strengthening the export control management systems and fostering experts in export control laws and regulations management (International Trade Control 2.Further continuous supports for Group companies to strengthen their export control management Committee) systems 1.Average CO2 emission between FY2008 and FY2012 to be reduced by 6% compared to 1990 level Reduced CO2 emissions 2.Establish CO2 emission reduction target until FY2020 (including Group companies) and promote (Environment Committee) reduction activities Environment Group environmental 1.Increase the Group's environmental performance data collection rate both in Japan and overseas management 2.Encourage the acquisition of certifications of environmental ISO standards and others to Group (Environment Committee) companies in Japan and overseas that are consolidated Raising awareness of human 1.Embedding understanding and consciousness about human rights issues company-wide rights 2.Development of sexual harassment and power harassment (workplace bullying & harassment) (Committee for Raising prevention efforts Awareness of Human Rights) 3.Establish a workplace and corporate culture where human rights issues do not arise Promote employment of 1.Attainment of company-wide hiring rate of 2.2% by end of FY2013 the differently-abled people 2.Company-wide penetration of understanding and consciousness regarding the expansion of employment (Committee for the Promotion of the differently-abled people Human rights of Employment of the 3.Systematic employment in each in-house department and labor Handicapped) Creating a better workplace 1.Strengthening global human resource development based on the road map for cultivation of global (Personnel Department) human resources (G-MAP) 1.Enriched education 2.Conduct effective measures to combat mental health problems from prevention to return to work 2.Strengthening mental health 3.Providing a place for seamless rehiring in accordance with the raising of the minimum age to receive 3.Utilization of retired public pension fund payments employees 4.Continue to maintain the next-generation accreditation mark 4.Nurturing the next generation Ensuring quality and safety of 1.Sophistication and continuous improvement of QMS (Quality Management System) with an eye on global nuclear business (Managing business development Board for Innovation in the 2.Exhibit our comprehensive technological strengths and enhance customer satisfaction Product Nuclear Business) 3.Increase the importance of compliance and create a culture of safety responsibility Product safety (Production 1.Developing product safety activities within quality management System Innovation Planning 2.Steady development of product safety activities Department) 3.Maintaining the infrastructure for product safety activities Risk Risk management 1.Communizing a consciousness for important risks among all departments and sections and establishing management (Management Audit Department) a risk management PDCA cycle through efficient and effective audits 137 Area Priority item (responsibility) Results from CSR activities in FY2011 CSR Action Plans for FY2012 1.(1) Group-wide survey to understand 1.(1) Continue to hold briefings for overseas awareness and current status of CSR in Group companies overseas Group companies (2) Consider and implement global measures (2) Briefings on group CSR policy for for penetration of corporate culture reforms Broadened CSR awareness companies at locations in the Americas and and CSR (CSR Committee / CSR China 2.(1) Publish CSR report in Japanese and Department) 2.(1) Distribution of CSR reports in Japanese English and English to domestic and overseas Group (2) Consider creating a CSR website employees (83,000 copies) in Chinese, and updating it alongside (2) Creation of a CSR website in Chinese publication of the CSR report considered 1.(1) Establishment of a “the fund for social contributions” system (2) Holding of practical discussions with local 1.Evaluate activities with affiliated NGO/ administration and social welfare councils, NPOs and formulate plans for the nextfiscal NPOs, etc. in each business location area year. Begin collaboration with an NGO/NPO Socially beneficial activities to determine how we could increase for the management of the fund for social (CSR Department) collaboration from FY2012 using the same contributions system 2.Improve/expand the system for the following 2.Consideration of applicable countries/areas year, based on the performance of the fund and activities, and NGO/NPOs we collaborate with, to implement socially beneficial activities globally using the same system. 1.(1) Formulation of a new corporate design and Group logo CSR Promotion (2) Establishment of the content of the “Discover MHI” website. Content tied to MHI Graph, etc. Strengthening information (3) Advertising in a mixture of media (TV, dissemination newspapers, magazines, online) 1.Promoting a global advertisement strategy (Corporate Communication 2.(1) Implementation of IR by managers at by building an integrated corporate image Department) major foreign investors 2.Hold more investor events at sites both in 1.Enhancement of brand value (2) Holding of 14 briefings for individual Japan and overseas concerning the environment investors 3.Responding systematically to both the 2.Promotion of IR activities (3) Opening of website for individual intangible (staff training) and tangible (exhibit 3.Improvement of the Mitsubishi investors, “MHI, from the viewpoints of refurbishment) aspects Minatomirai Industrial Energy and the Environment” (Japanese Museum only) 3.(1) Revamped “Daily Life Discovery Zone” and “Transportation Zone” into consolidated concept (2) Establishment of “MHI Square” (3) Increased varieties of craft workshops 1.Implementation of successive surveys to 1.Reexamine scope and implementation gauge business partner involvement with CSR procurement method of surveys conducted at business CSR (Procurement Planning & partners 2.Results and examples of improvement from Administration Department, 2.Monitoring of procurement-related laws procurement-related monitoring at each Procurement & Sourcing and regulations and effecting improvement office to be applied to similar processes Department) follow-ups 3.Reduction of transportation energy (FY2007 3.Reducing transportation energy basic units: 96 attained out of 100) 1.Establishment of an “MHI external contact point” 1.Strengthen support for overseas Group Thorough compliance 2.Formulation of company policies and companies (Compliance Committee) measures against power harassment 2.Strengthen collaboration for crisis and risk (workplace bullying & harassment) management 3.Strengthening of Group company efforts 1.Confirmation of status of implementation of rules of conduct and compliance checks, 1.Confirm the implementation status of rules and use of special monitoring to ensure that of conduct and compliance checks problematic cases do not occur Order compliance (Order 2.Implement efficient and effective special 2.Promotion of compliance awareness and Compliance Committee) monitoring information-sharing among related parties 3.Promote instructional/educational activities by establishing the Order Compliance for order compliance Committee and implementing special monitoring 1.Verifying thoroughly the Installa tion 1.Implement drafting of measures for detecting Compliance Organizational Chart Register at the works problems in maintenance of Installation prior to construction Compliance with the Organizational Chart Registers 2.Creation of a Group company compliance Construction Business Act 2.Monitor current status of Group company system, implementation of monitoring visits (Construction Business Act compliance for basic compliance aims Compliance Committee) 3 . Fo r m u l a t i n g m e a s u r e s t o d e a l w i t h 3.Implementing continuous monitoring to compliance problems in contracts with ensure contracts with business partners are business partners concluded in a timely manner 1. (1) Implementing common e-Learning programs in the whole company (2) Attending external training sessions 1.Continuously implement internal training at Compliance with export-related (3) Promoting acquisition of export control all levels laws and regulations expert qualifications 2.Promote further acquisition of export control (International Trade Control 2.(1) Implementing auditing for Group expert qualifications Committee) companies 3.Continuously audit Group companies, (2) Confirming management status. implement regular training Implementing regular training for Group companies 138 Area Priority item (responsibility) Results from CSR activities in FY2011 CSR Action Plans for FY2012 1.Promoting CO2 reduction measures 1.7.4% reduction of CO2 emission (FY 2011) (introduction of or upgrade to energy-saving compared with FY1990 level equipment), implement upgrades based on 2.Upgrading of more than 823 air conditioning In-house Air-Conditioner Upgrade Plan Reduced CO2 emissions u n i t s b a s e d o n t h e I n h o u s e A i r2.Expand the monitoring system to the whole (Environment Committee) Conditioner Upgrade Plan. Verification of company the effectiveness of the monitoring system 3.Implement regular follow-ups for reduction introduced in FY2010 was done, and ensured plans of individual works and their actual adequate results. reduction performances Environment 1.Consideration of an introduction of tool for 1.Promote acquisition of environmental ISO collecting domestic and overseas Group standards, etc. for domestic and overseas company environmental performance data Group companies Group environmental 2.Introduction of ISO environmental 2.Promote the setting of environmental targets management standards by a total of 83 domestic and for overseas Group companies (Environment Committee) 28 overseas Group companies; holding 3.Hold the domestic Group company of the Environmental Meetings and the environmental meetings, and hold the Environment Liaison Conferences for Group Environment Liaison Conferences at each companies (16 participating companies) overseas regional supervising office. 1.Incorporation of human rights education into 1.Hold meetings of the Committee for Raising training at all levels, and implementation Awareness of Human Rights without omission 2.Introducing human rights issues in Raising awareness of human 2.Implementing a variety of initiatives to each training program and continuing rights prevent power harassment (workplace implementation (Committee for Raising bullying & harassment), including e-learning, 3.Strengthening awareness of sexual Awareness of Human Rights) distribution of brochures, lectures for senior harassment and power harassment executives, and provision of an external (workplace bullying & harassment) advice center prevention 1.Implementing positive employment activities Continuously implementing positive suchas adoption of the job-hunting website Promote employment of employment actions so as to achieve the target use and participation in job fairs, and the differently-abled people of a hiring rate of 2.1% for differently-abled achieving a hiring rate of 2.0% (Committee for the Promotion people(Unify the “Committee for the Promotion 2.Company-wide meetings of staff in charge of of Employment of the of Employment of the Handicapped” and the recruiting differently-abled persons held Handicapped) “Committee for Raising Awareness of Human 3.Implementing follow-up for individual Rights” from FY2012) departments Human rights 1.Implementing trials for new training, and and labor 1.Fully implement global educa tion in sending 51 young employees on assignment accordance with G-MAP overseas in accordance with G-MAP 2.Strengthening mental health promotion 2.(1) e-Learning program for managers systems and initiatives in the whole formulated reflecting results of mental health company to reduce absence due to mental case analyses health disorders Creating a better workplace (2) Establishing an industrial medicine (1) Promoting increased awareness of (Personnel Department) conference, and crea ting a common mental health initiatives among employees, 1.Enriched education checklist, etc. for the company and promoting effective mental health care 2.Strengthening mental health 3.Considering possibilities for employment of (2) Providing a mental health advice system 3.Utilization of retired retired employees, as part of system reform that is easy for employees to use employees 4.(1) Formulating a 3rd action plan based on 3.Continually examining possibilities for 4.Nurturing the next generation the Law to Promote Measures to Support employment of retired employees, as part of Fostering Next-Generation Youths system reform (2) Expanding systems such as establishing 4.Accelerate penetration of knowledge and leave for fertility treatments understanding among employees about (3) Implementing meetings for those taking next-generation development and work-life childcare leave as a resumption of work balance support measure 1.Decreasing US-APWR design audit suggestions through design process improvement actions, improving customer 1.Continue with the “Managing Board for understanding etc. Innovation in the Nuclear Business”, strive 2.Demonstrating our comprehensive for better safety and quality assurance technology for works in conformity with Ensuring quality and safety of 2.Reflect on countermeasures against the guidelines applying to preventative nuclear business (Managing cause of and restoration from the accident at maintenance works (Alloy 600 PWSCC Board for Innovation in the TEPCO's Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power mitigation, etc.), recheck (back-check) of the Nuclear Business) Station, and strive safety improvement in seismic design, etc., and becoming highlyProduct nuclear power plant rated by our customers responsibility 3.Continually strive to increase the importance 3.Increasing awareness of nuclear safety and of compliance and create a culture of safety ensuring there is no unethical behavior through town hall meetings or on-site lectures on safety by senior managers, etc. 1.Implementing model product development 1.Integrate product safety activities and for product safety activities (improvement of Product safety (Production development work into quality management risk assessments and manuals) System Innovation Planning 2.Continually develop foundation for product 2.Developing basic product safety activities Department) safety activities (developing human (developing human resources, maintenance resources, maintenance of standards) of standards) 1.Creating a shared awareness of risks and issues through discussion between 1.Proactive response through auditing for General Managers/Corporate Managers and “Processes to strengthen business” Risk Risk management General Managers of the Management Audit 2.Implement auditing including at corporate management (Management Audit Department) Department regulatory departments for “Compliance 2.Implementing auditing for standardized consolidation” processes, creating a process for controls on problems recognized by several departments 139 Recognition from Society Year Month Award Name Organization / Item Awarded by Awarded Awarded Certificate of Appreciation (for contributions to Mitsubishi Heavy Hitachi Power Systems April the restoration of production facilities affected by Industries, Ltd. Company, Hitachi, Ltd. the Great East Japan Earthquake) Gomez Investor Relations Site Ranking for Website, Mitsubishi Gomez Consulting Co., April Excellent Companies 2011: 2nd Place in ranking Heavy Industries, Ltd. by Sector (Machinery) Ltd. C e r t i f i c a t e o f A p p r e c i a t i o n (f o r o f f e r i n g Mitsubishi Heavy Minister of Economy, dormitories and company housing to victims of Industries, Ltd. Trade and Industry May the Great East Japan Earthquake and providing support in various forms) Certificate of Appreciation (for contributions to Mitsubishi Heavy Japan Medical May the transport of medical supplies for victims of Industries, Ltd. Association the Great East Japan Earthquake) Certificate of Appreciation (for donations to the Mitsubishi Heavy ASHINAGA June construction fund for the “Rainbow House” for Industries, Ltd. child victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake) Technology Prize, City Gas Symposium 2011 Mitsubishi Heavy The Japan Gas June Industries, Ltd. Association Certificate of Appreciation (for the Shuqaiq-II IWPP Mitsubishi Heavy Shuqaiq Water and June Project) Industries, Ltd. Electicity Co., Saudi Arabia Certificate of Appreciation (for contributions to the Mitsubishi Heavy Japan Medical June transport of medical supplies for victims of the Great Industries, Ltd. Association East Japan Earthquake) Atomic Energy Historic Award Nuclear Energy Atomic Energy Society Systems, Mitsubishi of Japan June Heavy Industries, Ltd. Certificate of Appreciation (for rapid and accurate Machineries Kashima Kita Kyodo response to reconstruction work after the Great Division, Mitsubishi Power Co., Ltd. 2011 June East Japan Earthquake, accomplished with no Heavy Industries accidents or casualties) Mechatronics Systems, Ltd. 40th Japan Industrial Technology Awards, Tohoku Electric Prime Minister of Prime Minister's Prize (for greater environmental Power Co., Inc. Japan July preservation through the project to replace the Sendai thermal power generation plant) Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. 40th Japan Industrial Technology Awards, Nikkan Tohoku Electric Nikkan Kogyo Kogyo Shimbun Award (for greater environmental Power Co., Inc. Shimbun, Ltd. July preservation through the project to replace the Sendai thermal power generation plant) Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Certificate of Appreciation (for response to the Tokyo Office, Mr. Akihiro Izumi, Great East Japan Earthquake) Mitsubishi Heavy Director of the Industries Bridge Yokohama National & Steel Structures Road Office, Kanto July Engineering Co., Regional Development Ltd Bureau, Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Certificate of Appreciation (for emergency repair Mitsubishi Heavy Mr.Tatsuo Suzuki, work [phase 1] installing a bridge fall prevention Industries Bridge Director General of the device on the eastern Sendai-Tobu Road viaduct) & Steel Structures Tohoku Regional Head July Engineering Co., Office, East Nippon Ltd. Expressway Company Limited Certificate of Appreciation (for services performed Tohoku Business Ministry of Land, in restoration work for hydraulic gates and Office, Mitsubishi Infrastructure, associated equipment damaged in the Great East Heavy Industries Transport and Tourism July Japan Earthquake) Bridge & Steel Tohoku Regional Structures Development Office Engineering Co., Ltd 140 Year Month Award Name Organization / Item Awarded by Awarded Awarded Certificate of Appreciation (for contributions to Mitsubishi Heavy KimitsuWorks, Nippon repair works for gas holder damaged in the Great Industries Bridge Steel Corporation July East Japan Earthquake) & Steel Structures Engineering Co., Ltd. Good Construction Award (Yodo-gawa weir No.5 Mitsubishi Heavy Kinki Regional gate repair works) Industries Bridge Development July & Steel Structures Bureau, Ministry of Engineering Co., Land, Infrastructure, Ltd. Transport and Tourism Good Construction Award (Yokoyama Dam Mitsubishi Heavy Kisogawa Joryu conduit gate repair works) Industries Bridge Office , Chubu & Steel Structures Regional Development July Engineering Co., Bureau, Ministry of Ltd Chubu Business Land, Infrastructure, Office Transport and Tourism Good Construction Award (Oda drainage gate Mitsubishi Heavy Kizugawa Joryu construction works) Industries Bridge Office, Kinki Regional & Steel Structures Development July Engineering Co., Bureau, Ministry of Ltd. Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Safety Award (Tone-estuary weir No.8 gate repair Mitsubishi Heavy Japan Water Agency works) Industries Bridge July & Steel Structures Engineering Co., Ltd. Certificate of Appreciation (for early completion of Mitsubishi Heavy J-POWER EnTech, Inc. a control assembly update for the Electric Power Industries, Ltd. August Development Co., Ltd. Matsuura Number 1 Power Station) Distinguished Service Commendation Nishinihon Ryoju Japan Road August Estate Co., Ltd. Association Certificate of Appreciation (for active contributions Tamachi Building Minato Ward mayor to disaster relief inMinato Ward, including offering Co. August part of their offices as a refuge for those who 2011 were unable to return home at the time of the Great East Japan Earthquake) City of Nagasaki Certificate of Commendation for Nishinihon Ryoju City of Nagasaki Excellence in Construction Estate Co., Ltd. EarthquakeSeptember proofing works for Nishi-Urakami Junior High School buildings (1) City of Nagasaki Certificate of Commendation for Nishinihon Ryoju City of Nagasaki Excellence in Construction Estate Co., Ltd. 200 diameter September waste water pipe propulsion works in Tadewara (2) Certificate of Appreciation (for contributions to Mitsubishi Heavy Tohoku Regional Head the rapid restoration of the Sendai Port North Industries, Ltd. Office, East Nippon October toll gates and early road opening of the Sanriku Expressway Company Expressway damaged in the Great East Japan Limited Earthquake) Good Eco-commuting Office Yokohama Conference on Dockyard & Promotion of Public Machinery Works, Transportation, October Mitsubishi Heavy Foundation for Industries, Ltd. Promoting Personal Mobility and Ecological Transportation Encouragement Award (for successful completion Mitsubishi Heavy Chiba Labour Bureau, without accidents or casualties of a 150,000 m3 Industries Bridge Ministry of Health, October BFG holder construction works at Nippon Steel & Steel Structures Labour and Welfare Corporation Kimitsu Works) Engineering Co., Ltd. Certificate of Appreciation (for cooperation in the Mitsubishi Heavy City of Nagoya outdoor exhibition of the H-IIB rocket strength Industries, Ltd. testing model and Kibo pressurized module November structural testing model on the occasion of the opening of the new hall at the Nagoya City Science Museum) 141 Year Month Award Name Organization / Item Awarded by Awarded Awarded Kyushu District Transport Bureau Commendation Mitsubishi Heavy Kyushu District for Environmental Preservation (energy saving) Industries, Ltd. Transport Bureau, November (Air Lubrication System (MALS)) Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism BEST OEM Award, First Prize (for training Mitsubishi Heavy Tenaga Nasional November o f te c h n i c a l a d v i s o rs a n d c o o p e r a t i o n i n Industries, Ltd. Berhad (electrical utility maintenance) company),Malaysia 1st Place in Corporate websites ranking in all Website, Mitsubishi Nikko Investor November listed companies in Japan by Sector (Machinery) Heavy Industries, Relations Co., Inc. Ltd. Letter of Commendation (for contributions Nagasaki Shipyard Kyushu District to environmental preser vation through & Machinery Works, Transport Bureau, November the constr uction of a ship equipped with Mitsubishi Heavy Ministry of Land, e n v i r o n m e n t a l l y f r i e n d l y e n e r g ys a v i n g Industries, Ltd. Infrastructure, technology) Transport and Tourism Certificate of Appreciation for Participation in Kids Yokohama Dockyard Japan Office, World Energy Quest & Machinery Works, Food Programme, November Mitsubishi Heavy United Nations Industries, Ltd. Good Office for 3R Dream 3R Activity, Yokohama Kanazawa Plant, Resources & Waste Environmental Action Award (7th consecutive Yokohama Recycling Bureau, City year) Dockyard & of Yokohama November Machinery Works, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Good Office for 3R Dream 3R Activity, Yokohama Honmoku Plant, Resources & Waste Environmental Action Award (6th consecutive Yokohama Recycling Bureau, City year) Dockyard & of Yokohama November Machinery Works, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Designated “2011 Model Office for Promotion of Shimonoseki Yamaguchi Prefecture Corporate Volunteer Activity” Shipyard & Council on Social November Machinery Works, Welfare Mitsubishi Heavy 2011 Industries, Ltd. Certificate of Appreciation (for contributions to Hiroshima Kobe Customs Office, the smooth operation of customs administration Machinery Works, Ministry of Finance November by the Japan Tariff Association Kobe Branch Mitsubishi Heavy Hiroshimacouncil) Industries, Ltd. 3rd Enviromental Economics Award “Grand Prize” Wind Turbine EC Study Group (NPO) (development of large offshore wind turbines for Business Division, November UK offshore wind power generation) Power Systems , Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. 3rd Enviromental Economics Award “Grand Prize” Wind Turbine EC Study Group (NPO) Business Division, November Power Systems , Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Certificate of Appreciation (for completion of General Machinery Director General, South delivery of Type 90 tanks) & Special Vehicles, Kanto Defense Bureau, November Mitsubishi Heavy Ministry of Defense Industries, Ltd. Certificate of Appreciation (for contributions to Mitsubishi Heavy Sendai Brewery, Kirin reconstruction work at the Kirin Beer Sendai Industries Bridge Brewery Company, November Brewery damaged in the Great East Japan & Steel Structures Limited Earthquake) Engineering Co., Ltd. Japan Construction Engineers’ Association Award Mitsubishi Heavy Japan Construction (Mogamigawa Nagai Dam construction works) Industries Bridge Engineers' Association November & Steel Structures Engineering Co., Ltd. Certificate of Appreciation (for ensuring quality Mitsubishi Chiba Works, assurance during major maintenance of boiler Heavy Industries Sumitomo Chemical November 3 in a short works period, accomplished with no Mechatronics Co., Ltd accidents or casualties) Systems, Ltd. Sa ga m i h a r a C h a m b e r o f Co m m e rc e a n d Sagamihara Office, Sagamihara Chamber November Industry Commendation for Office with Good Ryoju Estate Co., of Commerce and Environmental Measures Ltd. Industry 142 Year Month Award Name Organization / Item Awarded by Awarded Awarded Certificate of Appreciation (for contributions to 8 Companies of the Minato Ward Shiba the development of community safety and the Mitsubishi Heavy Area Council for creation of a more beautiful environment in Shiba Industries Group the Promotion of November area, Minato Ward, Tokyo) Community Safety and Beautification of the Environment Certificate of Appreciation (for contributions Mitsubishi Heavy Tokyo Electric Power to resolution and restoration after TEPCO's Industries, Ltd. Company, Incorporated December Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station Acccident) Certificate of Appreciation (for contributions to Mitsubishi Heavy Shin-Sendai thermal reconstruction work at the Tohoku Electric Power Industries, Ltd. power generation plant, December Co., Inc.Shin-Sendai thermal power generation Tohoku Electric Power p l a n t d a m a g e d i n t h e G re a t E a s t Ja p a n Co., Inc. Earthquake) 2011 Best Internet IR Company Award Website, Mitsubishi Daiwa Investor December Heavy Industries, Relations Co.Ltd. Ltd. Excellent site, 5th Japan Web Grandprix, Concept Discover MHI front Japan Web Grandprix 2011 and Architecture Section page, Website, Office December Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Excellent site, 5th Japan Web Grandprix, Content Discover MHI Japan Web Grandprix Planning and Writing (BtoB) Section “The Pilot’s Story”, Office December Website, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Special award, 5th Web Grandprix, Asakawa Discover MHI front Japan Web Grandprix Award (Accessibility Award) page, MHI Graph , Office “The Pilot’s Story”, December Website, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Certificate of Commendation From the Chairman Mitsubishi Heavy Chairman of the Tokyo of the Tokyo Council of Social Welfare (for Industries, Ltd.; Council of Social contributions to social welfare projects) Head Office Branch Welfare December of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Workers' Union Certificate of Appreciation (for contributions to the Mitsubishi Heavy Iwate Prefecture restoration and revival of both the lives of disaster Industries, Ltd. January victims and of disaster areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake through the donation of air conditioning equipment) Certificate of Appreciation (for contributions to the Nagoya Guidance & Aichi Police promotion of police activities ) Propulsion Systems Headquarters, Komaki January Works, Mitsubishi Police Station Heavy Industries, Ltd. Certificate of Appreciation (for contributions Diamond Space Applications to support for flood disaster measures in the Air Service Mission Directorate, January Bangkok area by the Thai government) Incorporation Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency Certificate of Appreciation (for completion of East Japan Shin-Sendai thermal 2012 reconstruction work at the Shin-Sendai thermal Office, Mitsubishi power generation plant, January power generation plant) Heavy Industries Tohoku Electric Power Mechatronics Co., Inc. Systems, Ltd. Certificate of Appreciation (for contributions to Mitsubishi Heavy Sendai thermal power reconstruction work at the Tohoku Electric Power Industries, Ltd. and generation plant, February Co., Inc. Sendai thermal power generation plant other companies Tohoku Electric Power damaged by the Great East Japan Earthquake) Co., Inc. Certificate of Appreciation (for contributions to the Nagoya Aerospace City of Nagoya realization of the Great East Japan Earthquake Systems Works, February relief “Invite the Children of Rikuzentakata to Mitsubishi Heavy Nagoya Project”) Industries, Ltd. Cer tificate of Appreciation (for deliver y of Mitsubishi Heavy RIKEN, Japan equipment including 128 accelerating tubes and Industries, Ltd. Synchrotron Radiation February 64 pulse compression devices for the installation Research Institute of the SACLA X-ray free electron laser facility) 143 Year Month Award Name Organization / Item Awarded by Awarded Awarded Competition of Urban View Plans of Nagasaki Archives, Nagasaki City of Nagasaki City, Historic Section Shipyard & February Machinery Works, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Certificate of Appreciation (for contributions to Nagasaki Shipyard Soma Kyodo Power reconstruction work on the Soma Kyodo Power & Machinery Works, Company, Ltd. Company thermal power generation Shinchi Mitsubishi Heavy March Power Station damaged in the Great East Japan Industries, Ltd. Earthquake, leading to resumptionbefore the end of 2011) Commendation from the Governor of Yamaguchi Shimonoseki Governor of Yamaguchi Prefecture (Fire Volunteer Office) Shipyard & Prefecture March Machinery Works, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Yokohama Industrial Development Corporation Yokohama Yokohama Industrial Re c o n fi r m a t i o n o f H i g h e s t Po s i t i o n ( 2 n d Dockyard & Development March consecutiveaward) Machinery Works, Corporation Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. 2012 Certificate of Appreciation (for contributions to Machinery & Steel Soma Kyodo Power reconstruction work on the Soma Kyodo Power Infrastructure Company, Ltd. Company thermal power generation Shinchi Sytems, Mitsubishi March Power Station damaged in the Great East Japan Heavy Industries, Earthquake, leading to resumption before the end Ltd. of 2011) Certificate of Appreciation (for contributions to the East Japan Office, Tokyo Civil Aviation early restoration of airport equipment damaged in Mitsubishi Heavy Bureau, Ministry of March the Great East Japan Earthquake) Industries Engine Land, Infrastructure, Systems Co., Ltd Transport and Tourism Certificate of Appreciation (for third consecutive Mitsubishi Heavy Minato Ward Shiba year of participation and cooperation with the Industries Group, Area Council for “Stop! Smoking as You Walk Campaign”) TamachiArea the Promotion of March Community Safety and Beautification of the Environment 2011 Kanagawa Global Environment Award Ryonichi Kanagawa Council “Kanagawa Global Environment Award” Engineering Co., for the Promotion March Ltd. of Environmental reservation,Kanagawa Prefecture 144 Progress toward a Sustainable Society MHI's Activities Major Events in Japan and Abroad (●Society / : Year (●Society / : ■Environment) ■Environment) Japan World 1948 ●Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 1967 ■Institution of Basic Law for Environmental Pollution Control. 1970 ■Completion of Japan's 1970 first PWR power plant. 1971 ■Establishment of Environment Agency. 1972 ■United Nations Conference on the Human Environment convenes in Stockholm. ■Adoption of Statement for Human Environmental Quality. ■Establishment of United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP). 1973 ■Inauguration of Environment Management Department. 1976 ●OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises issued. 1977 ●Development of Basic Guidelines for Safety & Health Management. 1978 ■Creation of Environmental Manager Conferences. 1980 ●Establishment of 1980 Committee on Promotion of Training in the Dowa Issue. 1981 ●Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women went into effect. ●International Year of Disabled Persons. 1985 ●Enactment of Equal Employment Opportunity Law. 1987 ●Establishment 1987 ■Enactment of Ozone Layer Protection of Export-related Law. Regulations Monitoring Committee. 1988 ■Launch of In-house Conference on CO2 Measures and In-house Conference on CFC Measures. 1989 ■Launch of Inhouse Conference on CO2 Measures and In-house Conference on CFC Measures. 145 MHI's Activities Major Events in Japan and Abroad (●Society / : Year (●Society / : ■Environment) ■Environment) Japan World 1990 1990 ●Institution of Americans with Disabilities Act. 1991 ■「Establishment of Keidanren Global Environmental Charter. ●Establishment of Keidanren Charter of ●Enactment of Child Care Leave Law. 1992 ●Committee on 1992 ■Ministry of International 1992 ■United Nations Conference on Promotion of Training in Tr a d e a n d I n d u s t r y Environment and Development (Earth the Dowa Issue renamed requests Voluntary Plan Summit) convenes in Rio de Janeiro; Committee for Raising on the Environment. adoption of Rio Declaration on Environment Awareness of Human and Development and Agenda 21. Rights. ●Establishment of Committee for the Promotion of Employment of the Handicapped. 1993 ■Formulation of 1993 ■Enactment of Basic voluntary plan entitled, Environmental Law. Our Approach to Environmental Problems. 1994 ●Caux Round Table draws up Principles for Business. 1995 ●Child Care Leave Law 1995 ■1st Conference of the Parties to the United revamped into Child Care Nations Convention on Climate Change and Family Care Leave (COP1) convened in Berlin. Law. 1996 ■Formulation of 1996 ●Revision of Keidanren 1996 ■ISO 14001 is instituted. Environmental Policies Charter of Corporate ■2nd Conference of the Parties to the and establishment of Behavior. United Nations Framework Convention Environment Committee. on Climate Change (COP2) convened in Geneva. 1997 ■Acquisition of ISO 1997 ■Formulation of 1997 ■3rd Conference of the Parties to the 14001 certification by Keidanren Voluntary United Nations Framework Convention on Yokohama Machinery Action Plan on the Climate Change (COP3) convened in Kyoto. Works, a first for Environment. Japan's heavy industry manufacturers. ■Launch of R410Acompatible airconditioners. (R410A: new type of environmentfriendly refrigerant) 1998 ■Development of 1998 ■Enactment of 1998 ■4th Conference of the Parties to the United system that thermally Law Concerning the Nations Framework Convention on Climate decomposes PCBs Promotion of Measures Change (COP4) convened in Buenos Aires. contained in industrial to Cope with Global effluents. Warming. ●Enactment of Law to Promote Specified Nonprofit Activities. 1999 ■Delivery of combined1999 ■Enactment of Pollutant 1999 ■5th Conference of the Parties to the cycle power plant Release and Transfer United Nations Framework Convention on incorporating the M701G Register (PRTR) Law. Climate Change (COP5) convened in Bonn. gas turbine, featuring the world's highest efficiency rating. 146 MHI's Activities Major Events in Japan and Abroad (●Society / : Year (●Society / : ■Environment) ■Environment) Japan World 2000 ■ISO 14001 certification 2000 2000 ■2000 Enactment 2000 ■6th Conference of the Parties to the acquired by all production of The Basic Law for United Nations Framework Convention on bases (13 works). Establishing a RecyclingClimate Change (COP6) convened in The based Society. Hague. ■Revision of Law for the ●United Nations Global Compact is Promotion of Recycled instituted. Resources Utilization. ●Issuance of GRI Sustainability Reporting ■Enactment of Guidelines Version 1. Construction Material Recycling Law, Food Recycling Law and Law on Promoting 2001 ■Acquisition of ISO 2001 ■Establishment 2001 ■7th Conference of the Parties to the United 14001 certification by of Ministry of the Nations Framework Convention on Climate Engineering Department. Environment. Change (COP7) convened in Marrakech. ●Establishment of ■Enactment of Law ●ISO Council launches feasibility study on Compliance Committee. Concerning Special establishing international CSR standards. Measures against PCB Waste. ■Enactment of Fluorocarbons Recovery and Destruction Law. 2002 ■Establishment of 2002 ■Ratification of Kyoto 2002 ■World Summit for Sustainable mediumto longterm Protocol. Development convened in Johannesburg. environmental activity ■Enactment of ■8th Conference of the Parties to the goals. Soil Contamination United Nations Framework Convention on Countermeasures Law. Climate Change (COP8) convened in New ●Nippon Keidanren Delhi. revamps Keidanren ●GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Charter of Corporate Version 2 released. Behavior into Corporate Behavior Charter. ●First meeting of CSR Standardization Committee held by Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. 2003 ●Establishment of 2003 ■2003 Trial project for 2003 ■First study meeting held to discuss treaty Construction Business trading of greenhouse on safety of radioactive waste management. Act Compliance gas emissions ■9th Conference of the Parties to the Committee. implemented by Ministry United Nations Framework Convention on of the Environment. Climate Change (COP9) convened in Milan. ■Emissions standards for diesel vehicles tightened. ■Revision of Waste Management and Public Cleansing Law. ●Japan Committee for Economic Development releases 15th Corporate White Paper, entitled, Evolution of Market and Social ResponsibilityMinded Business Management. 2004 ●Joined United Nations 2004 ■Tenth item (on corruption prevention) Global Compact initiative. added to United Nations Global Compact. ●Establishment of 10th Conference of the Parties to the United Managing Board for Nations Framework Convention on Climate Innovation in the Nuclear Change (COP10) convened in Buenos Aires. Business. 2005 ●Introduction of 2005 ●Enactment of Act on 2005 ■Kyoto Protocol goes into force. Executive Officer system. the Protection of Personal ■11th Conference of the Parties to the ●Establishment Information. United Nations Framework Convention of Internal Audit on Climate Change (COP11) and the 1st Department. Meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol ●Establishment of CSR (COP/MOP1) convened in Montreal. Center. ●Establishment of Order Compliance Committee. 147 MHI's Activities Major Events in Japan and Abroad (●Society / : Year (●Society / : ■Environment) ■Environment) Japan World 2006 ■Acquisition of ISO 2000 2006 ●Enactment of New 2006 ●GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 14001 certification by Company Law. Version 3 released. Head Office (including ●New National Energy ■12th Conference of the Parties to the branch offices). Strategy formulated. United Nations Framework Convention ●Establishment of CSR on Climate Change (COP12) convened in Committee. Nairobi. ●Establishment of CSR ■EU announced target of reducing CO2 Department. emissions by 20% compared to 1990 levels by 2020. 2007 ●Establishment of CSR 2007 ■21st Century 2007 ■Fourth Assessment Report released by Action Guidelines. Environmental Nation the United Nations Intergovernmental Panel Strategy formulated. on Climate Change (IPCC). ●Enactment of the revised Consumer Products Safety Law. 2008 ●Development of CSR 2008 ●Application of internal Action Plan. control report system based on the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act (J-SOX) started. ●Holding of the G8 Hokkaido Toyako Summit. ■Revision of Act Concerning the Rational Use of Energy. 2009 ■Revision of Soil 2009 ●The Green New Deal advocated by the Contamination U.S. is embraced by countries across the Countermeasures Law. globe. 2010 ■Achievement of zero 2010 2010 ■Cabinet determines 2010 ■15th Conference of the Parties to the emission at all locations Basic Law for Prevention United Nations Framework Convention on ●Establishment of the of Global Warming Climate Change (COP 15) convened in Accident Exhibit and ■Cabinet determines Copenhagen. Materials Room 2010 National Strategy ■COP10 10th Conference of the Parties to ●Establishment of the for the Conservation the Convention on Biological Diversity held CSR Promotion Section and Sustainable Use of in Nagoya Adoption of the Nagoya Protocol of the Presidential Biological Diversity and Aichi Target Administration Office ■Revision of the Waste ●■CSR Standards (ISO 26000) issued Disposal Act ■Revision of the Air Pollution Control Law ■Revision of the Water Pollution Prevention Act 2011 ■Implementing Energy2011 ■Decision to introduce 2011 ■International energy management saving Measures at All an environmental tax for standard (ISO 5001) issued Works measures against global ■UN International Year of Forests warming ■Corporate Value Chain (Scope 3) ■Feed-in Tariffs for Accounting and Reporting Standard renewable energy ■17th Conference of the Parties to the ●Establishment of United Nations Framework Convention Principles for Financial on Climate Change (COP17) convened in Action towards a Durban Sustainable Society ■GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines version 3.1 released 148 Main Third-party Opinions on Past CSR Reports and Our Responses Main opinions on the 2011 report and our responses 1. CSR is now recognized as representative of values shared worldwide in this era of globalization, particularly with the publication of ISO 26000. We have high expectations for a CSR report from one of Japan’s leading companies. In the 2012 Report We discuss CSR activities that are the target of great interest from society and that are also highly important to MHI. We have included more examples of CSR activities at overseas locations, combined with real-life stories that allow our outside stakeholders and employees to be heard. We place great importance on the ISO 26000 standard as part of the global development of CSR. In this report, we show how we have engaged in dialogue with outside experts who could be helpful with certain important initiatives while contributing to communities, providing ongoing assistance to disaster-hit areas, and otherwise involving ourselves with communities. 2. We’d like to see more regarding the social significance (efforts to achieve sustainability) that can be found in your wide-ranging core business itself. In the 2012 Report To realize a future that is sustainable for the Earth and all its inhabitants we have introduced the “MHI Environmental Vision 2030” and opened discussions with outside experts. In Close Ties with the Earth, a special feature in the 2012 CSR Report, we look at thermal power plants in China and India and how they are contributing to the solution of energy issues. In Close Ties with Society, we highlight the ways in which fertilizer plant projects are contributing to solving food problems. And in A bridge to the next Generation we demonstrate testing in Japan and Spain of emerging ‘smart communities’ and smart cities attuned to energy and environmental demands. 3. We want to see greater collaboration with the NPOs and NGOs whose activities were spotlighted during the aftermath of the Great East Japan Earthquake. In the 2012 Report The report features the charity musical hosted in collaboration with the Poplar Theater Company and our employees’ volunteer activities, as part of Continuing Disaster Recovery Support. Also, in Social Contribution Activities we reveal a new system aimed at supporting NPOs and other local groups who are addressing social issues and social business. Every office will plan and implement activities using this system from fiscal 2012 onwards. 149 Main opinions on the 2010 report and our responses 1. In order to improve your report, please include opinions and comments from society and bring in stakeholders to participate. The 2011 report has contributions from various stakeholders, including customers and school teachers both in Japan and overseas. These can be found in the Feature Article, the social responsibility reports Commitment to our Customers, Commitment to our Shareholders & Investors and Contributions to Society. In A bridge to the next Generation, we feature dialogues with NPOs and elementary school head teachers as well as other material created with the cooperation of stakeholders. 2. I would like to see the same report issued and appreciated worldwide. The 2011 report contains details on CSR activities at overseas locations in the Feature Article entitled Close ties with Society such as MHI's involvement with the community in Thailand, the volunteer work done by its locally hired employees there and donations for the construction of a new elementary school. 3. I would like your report to show us what kind of attitude your employees have toward their own job at MHI and whether they feel any social significance in what they do. The Feature Article and Employees Introduce Our CSR Activities in the 2011 report include stories about the achievements of employees who take every opportunity to engage in CSR activities to lift morale at work and details about those CSR activities themselves. Main opinions on the 2009 report and our responses 1. Please make it easier to understand for lay people, more interesting and improve readability. The 2010 report includes a section entitled Dialogue by renowned journalist Akira Ikegami, who is committed to describing difficult subjects simply, written in a way so that management's concepts and stance towards CSR are conveyed clearly. We also made efforts to improve general readability such as increasing the size of the print and photos. 2. You should have more reactions from people where CSR activities were conducted. The 2010 report includes a new page entitled, Employees Introduce Our CSR Activities featuring contributions from employees involved in CSR activities on-site. 3. I would like the report to include independent midto long-term CO2 reduction targets as well as the formulation and announcement of a road map for the attainment of targets based on MHI technology. In the 2010 report, the section entitled Dialogue describes in detail our CO2 reduction targets and the annual amount of CO2 eliminated through the use of our products. Main opinions on the 2008 report and our responses 1. I would like to see your report include MHI's vision for a long-term energy mix. In the 2009 report's feature article entitled Close ties with the Earth lays out MHI's vision regarding a long-term energy mix through the realization of the 3E's, namely energy security, environmental protection and economic sustainable growth. 2. The report should include MHI's efforts to support labor, human rights and coexistence with the community on-site. The 2009 report's feature article, Close ties with Society, describes on-site occupational accident prevention measures and safety training as well as efforts to maintain good relations with locally hired staff. 3. Please include information on the defense industry. The 2009 report's article Commitment to our Customers provides insight on MHI's concept and stance regarding the defense industry as well as some of the equipment we provide the military. 150 Third-Party Opinions, Acting on Third-Party Opinions Third-Party Opinions Masayasu Kitagawa Professor, Graduate School of Public Management, Waseda University Matsuo Basho, the famed master of haiku poetry, is said to have described the foremost principle of his art as seeking fluid transitions within the context of underlying immutability. MHI has a praiseworthy business creed conceived on the basis of the three principles of its founders (= the immutable aspect) defining what the company’s fundamental stance should be, the disposition its employees should adopt, and the direction the company should aspire to in the future. In this CSR Report, I sense a true reflection of the management positions taken by the company (= fluid transitions), including its mistakes, taken over time in order to maintain and cultivate this creed. I also recognize MHI’s sincere desire to have the report’s content evaluated not only internally within the organization but also externally by society as a whole. All conditions of a CSR report conceivable today have been met, and the report is of a very high level. Like MHI’s corporate culture, the company’s CSR Report is scientific, technical and solid. Although I was able to read it without any gnawing doubts or questions, I felt that its overall tone was restrained and perhaps could benefit from a bit more content of great interest or excitement.I would suggest including more about progress being made in amazing technologies, the breadth of the company’s areas of activity, its severe stance toward itself and its social contributions, writing more aggressively and in an easy-to-understand format so that third parties who read the report for the first time might find it enjoyable and a breakthrough in the CSR report genre. Today science and technology are marking phenomenal progress, and massive changes are frequently occurring on global scale that demand reworking from the very core how governments, economies and societies operate. Japan too today faces strong calls for radical structural changes on all fronts. MHI is being called on, more than ever before, to take the global lead in technological innovations – both software and hardware; and along with those demands, expectations vis-à-vis social responsibility exceed the parameters of any one company. I hope that MHI will forge a new axis transcending the traditional concepts of CSR reports based on all-new ideas, and that it will create a CSR report to show the way how such reports should be done in Japan, and thus open the way for Japanese CSR reports in turn to lead the world. 151 Kumi Fujisawa Vice President, Think Tank SophiaBank Today, a year after Japan’s earthquake disaster, recovery is still under way in the affected region. High hopes are held toward MHI and the contributions the company can make as an exporter of infrastructures, a segment that forms one of Japan’s core strategies for achieving national growth. The company’s preparation of its “Environment Vision 2030” at this critical juncture is thus perfectly timed. The emerging economies to which Japan exports infrastructures in particular are not interested in creating cities identical to the existing cities in the developed countries. What many rising nations today seek are smart communities: environment-conscious cities with an eye on the future. MHI’s “Environment Vision 2030” enables visualization of all elements vital to the creation of such cities, and also allows us to imagine the achievement of smart communities of a kind withoutprecedence. Visually identifiable technologies aren’t the only thing demanded of Japanese companies, however. They are also called on to export the social norms and lifestyles nurtured over time by Japan: the world’s cleanest, safest, most convenient and attractive cities, where all citizens can receive a high level of education and have the opportunity to perform high-level jobs. How to bring added values to the creation of infrastructures and cities – “invisible” values as to how people live and work in ways supportive of society, for example through educational systems, mutual aid systems, systems implemented at the workplace and so on – is an area in which Japanese firms can predominate over other global companies. The way every MHI employee carries out his job with the company’s export partner nations is itself a significant export product and contribution. In that respect I think the essence of how they do so has been amply incorporated into this year’s CSR Report. The report included many remarks by MHI employees working around the world and by its business partners, giving voice to “the meaning” behind why they work. Today, in our globalized world, the time has come when, through its business operations, MHI can convey and implement its business creed – based on Mitsubishi’s “Three Corporate Principles” – to achieve a sustainable society not only in Japan but worldwide. This more than anything else will serve as MHI’s contribution to the world in the truest sense. I greatly hope MHI will make those results visible in next year’s report. 152 Acting on Valuable Opinions Shunichi Miyanaga Senior Executive Vice President Executive Officer in Charge of CSR In keeping with the spirit expressed in its corporate creed, MHI believes that providing products and technologies indispensable to social infrastructure, industry and everyday lives, and contributing to a secure future for mankind and the Earth, are the fundamental principles of the company’s CSR. In this report serving as a communication tool to convey to all our stakeholders our pride and responsibility in manufacturing, we report on activities that are of great interest from society and are also highly important to the company. We have incorporated, more than ever before, examples of our overseas activities and specific anecdotes by external stakeholders and employees. This year Mr. Kitagawa and Ms. Fujisawa gave high marks to our disclosure of the information society is seeking and the numerous messages incorporated by external stakeholders and employees. They also suggested the need for more straightforward reporting and expressed their hopes that through our core business operations we will continue to convey the spirit of our business creed to society at large, and that we will aspire to be a global leader. On the back of such encouragement all employees will strive to cultivate the spirit of the company’s creed in order to maintain MHI’s superlative technological capabilities and perform global business activities in these times of rapid change. In a quest to respond to the expectations of society and become a global company that is trusted even more by all its stakeholders, we will continue to place CSR at the heart of our business operations and make ongoing contributions toward the sustainable development of the global community. 153 GRI Guideline Comparison List Corresponding Relevant page(s) in the Comparison Chart of GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Global Compact Detailed version (PDF) of (G3.1) and United Nations Global Compact Principles Principle the CSR Report 2012 1.Strategy and Analysis 1.1 S t ate m e nt f ro m the m o s t s e nio r de c i s io n m a ke r of the 3-6 (Dialogue) organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 3-6 (Dialogue) 7-8 (MHI Environmental Vision 2030) 11-12 (CSR of the MHI Group) 66-68 (Targets and Progress) 137-139 (CSR Action Plans) 2.Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization. 27-34 (Overview of the MHI Group) 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 27-34 (Overview of the MHI Group) 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main 38 (New Organizations divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. and Measures Concerning Business and Management) 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. 27-34 (Overview of the MHI Group) 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and 27-34 (Overview of the MHI Group) names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 27-34 (Overview of the MHI Group) 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors 27-34 (Overview of the MHI Group) served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 27-34 (Overview of the MHI Group) 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, 38 (New Organizations structure, or ownership. and Measures Concerning Business and Management) 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 140-144 (Recognition from Society) 3. Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information 1 (Editorial Policy) provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 1 (Editorial Policy) 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 1 (Editorial Policy) 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. (Back Cover) Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content 1 (Editorial Policy) 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, 1 (Editorial Policy) leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the 1 (Editorial Policy) report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, 1 (Editorial Policy) including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations 70-71 (Environmental applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information Accounting) in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier repor ts, and the reasons for such restatement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/ periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 154 Corresponding Relevant page(s) in the Comparison Chart of GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Global Compact Detailed version (PDF) of (G3.1) and United Nations Global Compact Principles Principle the CSR Report 2012 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the (GRI Guideline Comparison report. List) Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 151-153 (Third-Party assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report Opinions, Acting on Thirdaccompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope Party Opinions) and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees 36-37 (Current Status of under the highest governance body responsible for specific Corporate Governance and tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Internal Controls) 39-40 (Promoting Comprehensive and Strategic CSR Activities) 41-44 (Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2011) 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body 36-37 (Current Status of is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within Corporate Governance and the organization's management and the reasons for this Internal Controls) arrangement). 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the 36-37 (Current Status of number of members of the highest governance body that are Corporate Governance and independent and/or non-executive members. Internal Controls) 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 36-37 (Current Status of recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Corporate Governance and Internal Controls) 118-123 (Building a Better Working Environment) 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest 36-37 (Current Status of governance body, senior managers, and executives (including Corporate Governance and departure arrangements), and the organization's performance Internal Controls) (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of 1 (Creed) conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, 7-8 (MHI Environmental Vision and social performance and the status of their implementation. 2030) 11-12 (CSR of the MHI Group) 49-50 (Improving Compliance Principles/Guidelines) 58-60 (Environmental Management Promotion System) 66-68 (Targets and Progress) 110 (Fair Dealing) 111-112 (Promoting CSR Procurement) 125 (Fulfilling our Policy on Social Contribution Activities) 137-139 (CSR Action Plans) 155 Corresponding Relevant page(s) in the Comparison Chart of GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Global Compact Detailed version (PDF) of (G3.1) and United Nations Global Compact Principles Principle the CSR Report 2012 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the 3-6 (Dialogue) organization's identification and management of economic, 11-12 (CSR of the MHI Group) environmental, and social performance, including relevant 36-37 (Current Status of risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with Corporate Governance and internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and Internal Controls) principles. Include frequency with which the highest governance 39-40 (Promoting body assesses sustainability performance. Comprehensive and Strategic CSR Activities) 41-44 (Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2011) 45-48 (Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group) 58-60 (Environmental Management Promotion System) 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own per formance, par ticularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or 3-6 (Dialogue) principle is addressed by the organization. 38 (Risk Management) 39-40 (Promoting Comprehensive and Strategic CSR Activities) 41-44 (Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2011) 45-48 (Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group) 49-50 (Improving Compliance Principles/Guidelines) 64 (Controlling and Improving Response to Potential Environmental Impact Risks) 97-100 (Enhancing Product Safety) 110 (Fair Dealing) 111-112 (Promoting CSR Procurement) 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social 1 (Editorial Policy) charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization 3-6 (Dialogue) subscribes or endorses. 11-12 (CSR of the MHI Group) 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations. Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 11-12 (CSR of the MHI Group) 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom 11-12 (CSR of the MHI Group) to engage. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 3-6 (Dialogue) engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 9-10 (Dialogues with Stakeholders) 39-40 (Promoting Comprehensive and Strategic CSR Activities) 97-100 (Enhancing Product Safety) 101-104 (Enhancing Customer Satisfaction (CS)) 106-108 (Disclosure Principles and IR Activities) 111-112 (Promoting CSR Procurement) 118-123 (Building a Better Working Environment) 124 (Forum 35) 126-129 (Achievements Made through Social Contribution Activities (FY2011)) 156 Corresponding Relevant page(s) in the Comparison Chart of GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Global Compact Detailed version (PDF) of (G3.1) and United Nations Global Compact Principles Principle the CSR Report 2012 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 11-12 (CSR of the MHI Group) stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 137-139 (CSR Action Plans) responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 5.Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including 27-34 (Overview of the MHI Group) revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations 126-129 (Achievements Made and other community investments, retained earnings, and through Social Contribution payments to capital providers and governments. Activities (FY2011)) 163-166 (CSR-Related Data) EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the 3-6 (Dialogue) organization’s activities due to climate change. 7-8 (MHI Environmental Vision 2030) 13-15 (Close ties with the Earth) 16 (Close ties with the Earth: Employees Introduce Our CSR Activities) 21-23 (A bridge to the next Generation) 66-68 (Targets and Progress) 70-71 (Environmental Accounting) 80 (CO 2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2011)) 90-95 (Main Products and Technologies in 2011) 137-139 (CSR Action Plans) EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entr y level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 D eve lo p m e nt a n d impac t of inf r a s tr u c tu re inve s tm e nt s 3-6 (Dialogue) and services provided primarily for public benefit through 13-15 (Close ties with the commercial, in kind, or pro bono engagement. Earth) 16 (Close ties with the Earth: Employees Introduce Our CSR Activities) 17-19 (Close ties with Society) 21-23 (A bridge to the next Generation) 80 (CO 2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2011)) 90-95 (Main Products and Technologies in 2011) 126-129 (Achievements Made through Social Contribution Activities (FY2011)) EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic 111-112 (Promoting CSR impacts, including the extent of impacts. Procurement) 118-123 (Building a Better Working Environment) Environmental Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Principle 8 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. Principle 8, Principle 9 157 Corresponding Relevant page(s) in the Comparison Chart of GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Global Compact Detailed version (PDF) of (G3.1) and United Nations Global Compact Principles Principle the CSR Report 2012 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Principle 8 69 (Material Balance) EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Principle 8 69 (Material Balance) 72-76 (Promotion of Energysaving and CO 2 Emission Control Measures) EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Principle 8, 72-76 (Promotion of EnergyPrinciple 9 saving and CO 2 Emission Control Measures) 77-78 (Measures to Curb CO 2 Emissions in Transport) EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based Principle 8, 3-6 (Dialogue) products and services, and reductions in energy requirements Principle 9 13-15 (Close ties with the as a result of these initiatives. Earth) 17-19 (Close ties with Society) 21-23 (A bridge to the next Generation) 66-68 (Targets and Progress) 80 (CO2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2011)) 90-95 (Main Products and Technologies in 2011) EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions Principle 8, achieved. Principle 9 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Principle 8 69 (Material Balance) 84-85 (Protecting Water Resources) EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Principle 8 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Principle 8, Principle 9 Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or Principle 8 adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and Principle 8 services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Principle 8 62-63 (Preserving Biodiversity) EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing Principle 8 62-63 (Preserving impacts on biodiversity. Biodiversity) EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list Principle 8 species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Principle 8 66-68 (Targets and Progress) 69 (Material Balance) 72-76 (Promotion of Energysaving and CO 2 Emission Control Measures) 77-78 (Measures to Curb CO 2 Emissions in Transport) EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Principle 8 69 (Material Balance) 72-76 (Promotion of Energysaving and CO 2 Emission Control Measures) EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions Principle 7, 66-68 (Targets and Progress) achieved. Principle 8, 72-76 (Promotion of EnergyPrinciple 9 saving and CO 2 Emission Control Measures) 77-78 (Measures to Curb CO 2 Emissions in Transport) 158 Corresponding Relevant page(s) in the Comparison Chart of GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Global Compact Detailed version (PDF) of (G3.1) and United Nations Global Compact Principles Principle the CSR Report 2012 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Principle 8 66-68 (Targets and Progress) 69 (Material Balance) 72-76 (Promotion of Energysaving and CO 2 Emission Control Measures) EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Principle 8 69 (Material Balance) 86-89 (Curbing the Use and Emissions of Chemical Substances through Proper Management and Use of Alternatives) EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Principle 8 69 (Material Balance) 84-85 (Protecting Water Resources) EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Principle 8 69 (Material Balance) 81-82 (Curbing Waste Generation, Release and Disposal) 83 (Using Electronic Manifests (e-manifests)) EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Principle 8 EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste Principle 8 deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of Principle 8 water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and Principle 7, 3-6 (Dialogue) services, and extent of impact mitigation. Principle 8, 7-8 (MHI Environmental Vision Principle 9 2030) 13-15 (Close ties with the Earth) 16 (Close ties with the Earth: Employees Introduce Our CSR Activities) 17-19 (Close ties with Society) 66-68 (Targets and Progress) 80 (CO 2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2011)) 90-95 (Main Products and Technologies in 2011) EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that Principle 8, are reclaimed by category. Principle 9 Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-Principle 8 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products Principle 8 66-68 (Targets and Progress) and other goods and materials used for the organization's 77-78 (Measures to Curb CO 2 operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Emissions in Transport) Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by Principle 7, 70-71 (Environmental type. Principle 8, Accounting) Principle 9 Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and 27-34 (Overview of the MHI Group) region, broken down by gender. 114-117 (Utilizing and Cultivating Diverse Human Resources) 163-166 (CSR-Related Data) LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee Principle 6 163-166 (CSR-Related Data) turnover by age group, gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. 159 Corresponding Relevant page(s) in the Comparison Chart of GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Global Compact Detailed version (PDF) of (G3.1) and United Nations Global Compact Principles Principle the CSR Report 2012 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Principle 1, 118-123 (Building a Better agreements. Principle 3 Working Environment) 163-166 (CSR-Related Data) LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, Principle 3 including whether it is specified in collective agreements. Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Principle 1 163-166 (CSR-Related Data) management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 R a te s of i n j u r y, o c c u p a ti o n a l d i s e a s e s , l o s t d ay s , a n d Principle 1 118-123 (Building a Better absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. Working Environment) 163-166 (CSR-Related Data) LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control Principle 1 118-123 (Building a Better programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, Working Environment) or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with Principle 1 trade unions. Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that 114-117 (Utilizing and support the continued employability of employees and assist Cultivating Diverse Human them in managing career endings. Resources) LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and 114-117 (Utilizing and career development reviews. Cultivating Diverse Human Resources) Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 C o m p o s i t i o n o f g ove r n a n c e b o d i e s a n d b r e a kd ow n o f Principle 1, 114-117 (Utilizing and employees per categor y according to gender, age group, Principle 6 Cultivating Diverse Human minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Resources) 163-166 (CSR-Related Data) LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. Principle 1, 163-166 (CSR-Related Data) Principle 6 Human Rights Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Pe rc e nt ag e a n d tot a l numb e r of s ignif ic a nt inve s tme nt Principle 1, agreements and contracts that include clauses incorporating Principle 2, human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights Principle 3, screening. Principle 4, Principle 5, Principle 6 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have Principle 1, 111-112 (Promoting CSR undergone screening on human rights and actions taken. Principle 2, Procurement) Principle 3, Principle 4, Principle 5, Principle 6 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures Principle 1, concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to Principle 2, operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Principle 3, 118-123 (Building a Better Principle 4, Working Environment) Principle 5, Principle 6 Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken. Principle 1, 41-44 (Activities of Major Principle 2, Related Committees in Fiscal Principle 6 2011) 45-48 (Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group) Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of Principle 1, association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, Principle 2, and actions taken to support these rights. Principle 3 160 Corresponding Relevant page(s) in the Comparison Chart of GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Global Compact Detailed version (PDF) of (G3.1) and United Nations Global Compact Principles Principle the CSR Report 2012 Child Labor HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having Principle 1, 41-44 (Activities of Major significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken Principle 2, Related Committees in Fiscal to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 5 2011) 45-48 (Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group) 111-112 (Promoting CSR Procurement) Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having Principle 1, 41-44 (Activities of Major significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and Principle 2, Related Committees in Fiscal measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced Principle 4 2011) or compulsory labor. 45-48 (Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group) 111-112 (Promoting CSR Procurement) Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's Principle 1, policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that Principle 2 are relevant to operations. Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Principle 1, indigenous people and actions taken. Principle 2 Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been Principle 1, subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. Principle 2, Principle 4, Principle 5, Principle 6 Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed,addressed Principle 1, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Principle 2, Principle 4, Principle 5, Principle 6 Social Community SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks Principle 10 38 (Risk Management) related to corruption. 41-44 (Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2011) 45-48 (Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group) 51-53 (Compliance Training and Increasing Awareness) SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's antiPrinciple 10 38 (Risk Management) corruption policies and procedures. 41-44 (Activities of Major Related Committees in Fiscal 2011) 45-48 (Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group) 49-50 (Improving Compliance Principles/Guidelines) 51-53 (Compliance Training and Increasing Awareness) SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Principle 10 45-48 (Creating a Structure to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group) 161 Corresponding Relevant page(s) in the Comparison Chart of GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Global Compact Detailed version (PDF) of (G3.1) and United Nations Global Compact Principles Principle the CSR Report 2012 Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and par ticipation in public policy Principle 1, development and lobbying. Principle 2, Principle 3, Principle 4, Principle 5, Principle 6, Principle 7, Principle 8, Principle 9, Principle 10 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political Principle 10 parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti45-48 (Creating a Structure trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. to Promote Compliance that Encompasses the Entire Group) Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non45-48 (Creating a Structure m o n e t a r y s a n c ti o n s fo r n o n c o m p li a n c e wi th l aws a n d to Promote Compliance that regulations. Encompasses the Entire Group) Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products Principle 1 97-100 (Enhancing Product and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage Safety) of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations Principle 1 45-48 (Creating a Structure and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts to Promote Compliance that of products and services during their life cycle, by type of Encompasses the Entire outcomes. Group) 97-100 (Enhancing Product Safety) Product and Service Labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, Principle 8 and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations Principle 8 101-104 (Enhancing Customer and voluntary codes concerning product and service information Satisfaction (CS)) and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of 101-104 (Enhancing Customer surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Satisfaction (CS)) Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes 101-104 (Enhancing Customer related to marketing communications, including advertising, Satisfaction (CS)) promotion, and sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of Principle 1 customer privacy and losses of customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 162 CSR-Related Data Group Data Summary (Unit) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Capital (non-consolidated) Billion yen 265.6 265.6 265.6 265.6 265.6 Orders received (consolidated) Billion yen 3,715.2 3,268.7 2,476.2 2,995.4 3,188.8 Net sales (consolidated) Billion yen 3,203.0 3,375.6 2,940.8 2,903.7 2,820.9 Breakdown by industry segment: (Note 1) Shipbuilding & ocean development Billion yen ― ― 230.6 302.4 311.6 Europe Billion yen ― ― 1,066.1 996.9 955.3 Machinery & steel structures Billion yen ― ― 625.7 557.5 428.8 Aerospace systems Billion yen ― ― 500.2 472.2 495.9 General machinery & special vehicles Billion yen ― ― 286.8 343.0 381.7 Others Billion yen ― ― 231.1 231.5 247.3 Breakdown by region: (Note 2) Japan Billion yen ― ― ― 1,480.5 1,639.9 Asia Billion yen ― ― ― 373.7 381.8 North America Billion yen ― ― ― 347.4 296.0 Europe Billion yen ― ― ― 217.0 225.7 Central & South America Billion yen ― ― ― 200.8 142.1 Africa Billion yen ― ― ― 169.2 51.6 The Middle East Billion yen ― ― ― 102.6 68.7 Oceania Billion yen ― ― ― 12.1 14.8 Operating income (consolidated) Billion yen 136.0 105.8 65.6 101.2 111.9 Net income (consolidated) Billion yen 61.3 24.2 14.1 30.1 24.5 Research and development expenditures (consolidated) Billion yen 107.9 101.3 129.2 123.2 121.4 (Note 1) Segments changed from fiscal 2009. Segment breakdown data for fiscal years 2007 and 2008 not indicated. (Note 2) Geographical breakdown changed from fiscal 2010. Geographical breakdown data for fiscal years 2007, 2008 and 2009 not indicated. Management-Related Data (Unit) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 No. of participants in CSR Sessions (consolidated) roughly 800 1,037 751 614 786 No. of participants in compliance promotion 64,395／ 65,542／ 66,618／ 64,422／ 72,375／ (Note) training/participation rate (non-consolidated) 96.1% 96.8% 96.4% 96.5% 96.8% (Note) Includes dispatched employees, re-hired employees, etc. from the second half of 2011. Environmental Report-Related Data (Unit) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Environmental Management Systems Adopted (non-consolidated) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Registered ISO 14001 Internal Auditors (non-consolidated) 684 687 815 847 980 Green purchasing rate for office goods (non-consolidated) 94.6% 94.0% 92.6% 92.8% 95.5% (Note 1) Environmental Accounting (non-consolidated) Items: Investment in environmental preservation Million yen 3,435 6,242 6,643 6,987 6,164 Environmental preservation costs Million yen 12,570 15,350 15,589 18,100 14,451 Economic benefits associated with Million yen 3,858 4,005 1,566 2,474 1,694 environmental preservation activities Energy consumption at production plants (nonMJ 11,659,076,846 11,145,018,541 10,065,623,261 10,022,441,101 9,950,202,198 consolidated; only production sites) Breakdown by category: Purchased electricity MWh 864,840 857,030 757,335 766,802 731,045 Heavy fuel oil A kL 22,078 20,680 15,271 13,508 16,098 City gas km3 24,828 24,409 21,964 29,094 32,541 Light oil kL 8,019 4,723 3,799 4,270 6,478 Heavy fuel oil C kL 8,000 3,671 5,173 2,601 2,677 Kerosene kL 7,391 5,968 6,232 6,008 4,529 Steam MJ 336,782,678 294,622,069 226,721,295 ― ― LPG t 5,506 5,101 4,488 4,060 4,157 LNG t 253 231 218 196 193 Jet fuel kL 1,369 1,790 1,392 1,055 909 Gasoline kL 638 620 477 443 559 Total volume of transportation (non-consolidated) Thousand tk 191,578 159,810 119,064 109,327 120,899 Energy consumption in transport (non-consolidated) GJ 357,181 283,303 207,823 193,641 211,102 163 (Unit) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 W a t e r u s a g e i n p r o d u c t i o n p l a n t s (n o n 10,000 tons 1,243.2 1,120.9 1,075.9 1,007.1 926.6 consolidated; only production sites) Breakdown by category: Water supply 10,000 tons 276.9 289.8 276.2 265.6 249.5 Industrial water 10,000 tons 456.9 359.0 387.1 305.8 273.2 Groundwater 10,000 tons 232.4 213.3 185.8 194.7 199.6 Others 10,000 tons 277.0 258.8 226.8 241.0 204.3 Volume of chemical substances (PRTR) handled Tons 3,791 3,666 3,327 2,715 2,873 (non-consolidated; only production sites) Paper consumption (non-consolidated) Tons 3,863 3,536 2,950 2,718 2,719 CO 2 emissions resulting from energy use at produc tion plant s (non-consolidated; only 10,000 tons 54.9 51.3 44.9 43.5 43.7 production sites) Greenhouse gas emissions at production plants excluding CO 2 emissions from energy use (nonTons 9,517 13,122 8,062 2,339 3,181 consolidated; only production sites) Breakdown by category: Hydrofluorocarbons (HFC) Tons 2,183 3,318 726 950 913 Dinitrogen monoxide (N2O) Tons 872 1,341 1,006 870 525 Sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) Tons 662 1,346 549 320 1,544 Methane (CH4) Tons 724 1,876 1,132 138 136 CO 2 emissions not resulting from energy use Tons 5,076 5,241 4,649 61 63 CO 2 emissions in transport (non-consolidated) t-CO 2 24,500 19,460 14,268 12,845 14,562 Waste water volumes at production plants (non10,000 tons 1,001.9 940.4 912.7 891.1 866.1 consolidated; only production sites) Breakdown by category: Discharged into public waters 10,000 tons 945.4 886.0 855.4 829.1 813.3 Discharged into sewer system 10,000 tons 56.5 54.4 57.3 62.0 52.7 Water pollutant discharge volumes at production Tons 77 81 69 71 66 (Note 2) plants (non-consolidated; only production sites) Breakdown by category: COD Tons 35 32 28 35 33 Nitrogen Tons 40 47 40 34 31 Phosphate Tons 2 2 1 2 2 Volume of waste generated at production plants Thousand tons 159 151 131 133 129 (non-consolidated; only production sites) Breakdown by category: Scrap metal Thousand 89.8 84.7 81.7 85.5 81.1 tons Slag Thousand 14.2 14.3 8.4 8.5 7.5 tons Waste plastic Thousand 8.4 9.0 7.4 6.1 6.1 tons Waste wood Thousand 8.1 10.1 7.2 7.1 7.5 tons Waste paper Thousand 8.5 7.3 7.2 6.0 5.8 tons Waste Oil Thousand 12.0 9.3 6.9 6.7 6.7 tons Sludge Thousand 6.0 9.1 6.1 5.4 4.2 tons Acid and alkali wastes Thousand 6.6 4.8 3.9 5.7 7.6 tons Other Thousand 5.6 2.7 2.9 2.2 2.2 tons Waste recycling rates at production plants (non78% 83% 89% 90% 90% consolidated; only production sites) Final disposal waste volumes at production Tons 13,882 9,457 2,386 1,030 714 plants (non-consolidated; only production sites) 164 (Unit) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Air pollutants emissions volumes at production Tons 316 289 251 190 257 plants (non-consolidated; only production sites) Breakdown by category: NOx Tons 164 185 169 139 196 SOx Tons 146 93 70 43 42 Soot Tons 6 11 12 8 19 Volume of chemical substances handled (PRTR) Tons 2,370 2,361 2,040 1,948 1,987 (non-consolidated; only production sites) Atmospheric emissions of organochlorides Tons 23.4 35.8 27.3 18.7 11.4 (non-consolidated; only production sites) Breakdown by category: Dichloromethane Tons 20.3 23.7 18.6 8.9 0.6 Trichloroethylene Tons 0.6 0.6 2.1 0.7 0.9 Tetrachloroethylene Tons 2.5 11.5 6.6 9.1 9.9 Atmospheric VOC emissions (xylene, toluene, ethylbenzene, dichloromethane, trichloroethylene Tons ― 2,289 1,985 1,899 1,939 and tetrachloroethylene) (non-consolidated; only production sites) CO 2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (nonThousand tons 105,850 106,500 101,300 149,105 66,574 (Note 3) consolidated) (Note 1) Monetary terms (Note 2) Total for items subject to quantity restrictions (Note 3) Estimated based on actual deliveries for fiscal year and actual power output generated. Comparisons to fiscal 1990. For details of bases for calculation, please refer to CO2 Reductions with MHI Product Usage (FY2011) (p.80 of Detailed Version PDF) Social Contributions Report-Related Data (Unit/ Comments) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Dividend distribution (non-consolidated) Yen 6 6 4 4 6 Number of employees (consolidated) 64,103 67,416 67,669 68,816 68,887 Breakdown by region: Japan 55,651 56,785 56,696 56,815 55,851 Asia 3,991 4,999 5,228 5,747 6,466 North America 2,467 2,641 2,497 2,853 3,072 Central & South America 746 824 900 895 848 Europe 1,213 2,134 2,286 2,353 2,474 The Middle East 2 2 24 57 71 Africa ― ― 1 50 57 Oceania and others 33 31 37 46 48 Number of employees (non-consolidated) 33,089 33,614 34,139 33,031 32,494 Breakdown of employees by age/gender Under 30 Male/Female ― ― 8,141／737 8,226／781 8,101／773 30-39 Male/Female ― ― 9,592／972 9,469／927 9,475／863 40-49 Male/Female ― ― 5,605／661 5,827／687 6,305／759 50-59 Male/Female ― ― 7,478／439 6,182／416 5,328／444 60 and over Male/Female ― ― 497／17 502／14 429／17 Number of new gr adua te s hir ed (non― ― 1,805 1,472 986 (Note 1) consolidated) Breakdown by gender Male ― ― 1,659 1,336 906 Female ― ― 146 136 80 Breakdown by educational qualification University ― ― 820 672 480 Vocational school ― ― 135 108 83 High school and junior college, other ― ― 850 692 423 Number of mid-career profes sionals (non― 905 452 135 114 consolidated) Breakdown by gender Male ― 820 429 127 99 Female ― 85 23 8 15 Number o f r e employed wor ker s (non 461 934 1,365 1,720 2,172 (Note 1) consolidated) Number of female managers (non-consolidated) 158 182 219 248 266 (Note 1) 165 (Unit/ Comments) 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Average age (non-consolidated) ― ― 39.4 37.8 38.5 Av er age n umber o f y ear s wor ked (non ― ― 17.4 15.7 16.2 consolidated) Average annual salary (non-consolidated) Yen 7,588,310 7,568,830 7,267,210 7,201,076 7,365,904 Number of employees who resigned of own ― ― 289 355 309 volition (non-consolidated) Use of annual paid holidays (non-consolidated) 70.9% 71.8% 71.8% 72.3% 72.8% Number of employees who took maternity leave ― ― 1,049 1,130 1,200 (non-consolidated) Number of employees who took childcare leave 112 123 165 170 181 for the first time (non-consolidated) Breakdown by gender Male 6 4 8 14 12 Female 106 119 157 156 169 Percentage of employees who returned to work ― ― 99% 99% 98% after childcare leave (non-consolidated) Breakdown by gender Male ― ― 100% 100% 100% Female ― ― 99% 99% 98% Number of employees who took family-care ― 14 13 13 15 leave for the first time (non-consolidated) Breakdown by gender Male ― 5 5 10 11 Female ― 9 8 3 4 D i s a b l e d p e o p l e e m p l o y m e n t r a t e (n o n 1.66% 1.94% 1.96% 2.01% 1.97% (Note 1) consolidated) Average employee overtime (non-consolidated) Hours ― ― ― ― 27.4 I n d u s t r i a l a c c i d e n t f r e q u e n c y r a t e (n o n 0.36 0.31 0.23 0.29 0.27 consolidated) Unionization (non-consolidated; Japan only) ― ― ― 100% 100% Social contribution expenses (MHI and group Million yen 1,352 1,600 1,655 1,610 2,096 (Note 2) companies under consolidated accounting) Breakdown by area: Academic research Million yen 138 128 339 247 164 Education Million yen 665 766 537 633 596 Community activities Million yen 155 131 158 141 180 Sports Million yen 118 112 114 149 133 Other Million yen 276 463 507 440 1,023 Percentage of ordinary profit 1.98% 2.12% 6.89% 2.36% 2.39% (Note 1) Fiscal 2012 figures indicated in Utilizing and Cultivating Diverse Human Resources (pp.114-117 of Detailed Version PDF) (Note 2) The social contribution outlay for fiscal 2010 does not include contributions (including charitable contributions) relating to the Great East Japan Earthquake (March 11-31, 2011), which have been allocated to the fiscal 2011 figures. 166 Locations (as of April 1, 2012) Head Office Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Head Office Building 2-16-5 Konan, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8215, Japan Phone: 81-3-6716-3111 (main number) Fax: 81-3-6716-5800 Yokohama Building 3-3-1 Minatomirai, Nishi-ku, Yokohama-shi, Kanagawa 220-8401, Japan Business Segments SHIPBUILDING & OCEAN DEVELOPMENT Phone: 81-3-6716-3111 (Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Head Office Building, Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works) POWER SYSTEMS Phone: 81-3-6716-3111 (Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Head Office Building, Yokohama Building, Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Yokohama Dockyard & Machinery Works, Takasago Machinery Works) NUCLEAR ENERGY SYSTEMS Phone: 81-3-6716-3111 (Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Head Office Building, Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works) MACHINERY & STEEL INFRASTRUCTURE SYSTEMS Phone: 81-3-6716-3111 (Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Head Office Building, Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, Hiroshima Machinery Works, Mihara Machinery Works, Iwatsuka Plant) AEROSPACE SYSTEMS Phone: 81-3-6716-3111 (Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Head Office Building, Nagasaki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Kobe Shipyard & Machinery Works, Shimonoseki Shipyard & Machinery Works, Nagoya Aerospace Systems Works, Nagoya Guidance & Propulsion Systems Works, Hiroshima Machinery Works) GENERAL MACHINERY & SPECIAL VEHICLES Phone: 81-42-761-1101 (Sagamihara Machinery Works, Iwatsuka Plant) Address all inquiries about this report to: AIR-CONDITIONING & REFRIGERATION SYSTEMS Phone: 81-52-503-9200 (Takasago Machinery Works, Nagoya Air-Conditioning & Refrigeration Machinery Works) Corporate Social Responsibility Department MACHINE TOOL 2-16-5 Konan, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan Phone: 81-77-553-3300 (Ritto Machinery Works, Iwatsuka Plant) Postal Code: 108-8215 Phone: 81-3-6716-3884 Fax: 81-3-6716-5860 URL: http://www.mhi.co.jp/en/ Mitsubishi Minatomirai Industrial Museum Phone: 81-45-200-7351 Fax: 81-45-200-9902 Mitsubishijuko Yokohama Building, 3-3-1, Minatomirai, Nishi-ku, Yokohama-shi, Kanagawa 220-8401, Japan URL: http://www.mhi.co.jp/en/museum/ This report has been printed on environmentally considerate FSC certified paper, using VOC (volatile organic compound) free ink. A waterless printing process was employed, which eliminates the use of alkaline developing solutions and elements such as isopropyl alcohol in the damping water. K380-CSR12AE1-A-0,
