Advancing the CONVERSATION 2012 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT FROM OUR CEO REPORT CONTEXT FROM OUR CEO 1 Ethics and Diversity 26 Training and Education 27 MESSAGE FROM OUR PRESIDENT 3 Safety 28 At Fairmount Minerals, we have been and new courses to our training curriculum. We also added several new members to the Fairmount family, an exciting ABOUT OUR REPORT 5 Health and Wellness 30 practicing sustainable development for development that expands the expertise and experience Social Responsibility 31 our world-class team. Though we grow and advance our ORGANIZATION PROFILE 7 Mission and Principles 8 PLANET 33 nearly a decade, integrating it into our capabilities, our core values have remained the same. We will Governance 8 Environmental Management 34 continue to Do Good and Do Well and maintain that People, Energy and Climate Change 34 core business operations and culture. Planet and Prosperity stay at the forefront of all our business WHO WE ARE 9 Clean Water 36 decisions. Furthermore, we will continue to empower Awards and Recognition 10 Recover, Recycle, Reuse 37 The structure we have in place to support our family members to lead and facilitate change for our organization and for the communities in which we operate Land Restoration 37 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY 11 sustainable development empowers our and society as a whole. The Fairmount Family is the key to Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities 12 PROSPERITY 39 Fairmount’s sustainability, which is the reason why I often Stakeholder Engagement 13 Economic Impacts 40 teams to deliver results year after year. say that a leader’s role is to equip the team with tools and Partners and Collaborations 16 Sustainable Value Chain 41 resources and then get out of the way! There is so much good being done by the Fairmount 2012 PERFORMANCE 17 Innovation 42 Minerals family and we are excited to share it with you Sincerely, 2013 BOLD GOALS 21 CONCLUSION 43 in the pages to follow. As we celebrate our successes, we also recognize that our business is evolving and we need PEOPLE 23 GRI CONTENT INDEX 45 to evolve with it. In 2012, we added new platforms to our Chuck Fowler communications strategy, new facilities to our footprint Exceptional Workplace 24 Chief Executive Officer 2 FROM OUR PRESIDENT all around us. We rely upon others to help advance the Zero Waste”. Seven years ago, we saw this as an aspirational conversation and in 2012, together, we did just that. dream. This year, the vision of zero waste to landfill is now realized at six of our facilities – the headline is becoming a In 2012, we Advanced the Conversation by broadening reality! Today, countless other aspirations ignited during Dear Fairmount family members and friends, the range of stakeholder groups who are able to listen conversations at the 2005 Summit are coming to life and respond to our story. Through live presentations and throughout the company. We collectively achieved 107.2% of Welcome to Fairmount Minerals’ seventh online webinars, we are building awareness of sustainable development (SD) and acting as a resource to our valued our SD goals and saw record involvement from our family members in SD initiatives. 2012 was a remarkable year of annual sustainability report, Advancing stakeholders. In turn, they are asking us how they can get involved and what they can do within their own growing and learning as a family. the Conversation. organizations, and they are sharing their own best practices with us. We Advanced the Conversation with our customers, Looking ahead, the goals that we have set to accomplish in 2013 and beyond are inspiring. With the amount of talent As a company that lives by the principles of Appreciative suppliers and vendors through focus groups designed to within Fairmount Minerals and with our commitment Inquiry, conversation plays a crucial role in the development discuss the shared challenges we face and the solutions to ongoing conversation with our stakeholders, we have of our sustainability strategy. Our that Fairmount Minerals can help to deliver. We redesigned limitless potential for growth and innovation. Every day values, our goals and our successes our website, refreshed our logo and brand, established a I am thankful for the opportunity to be a member of this are all made possible through presence in social media and enhanced our communications dedicated Fairmount Family, and we look forward to further ongoing conversation with our globally. Our SD teams set goals around family member advancing the conversation with you—the many valued DRAWINGS ARE FROM OUR participation and initiated one-on-one conversations at each stakeholders of Fairmount Minerals. valued stakeholders. In 2012, our 2005 AI SUMMIT WHERE WE facility so that unique needs could be met with customized conversations reached new heights. FIRST ANTICIPATED OUR DREAM solutions. Our outreach in 2012 has been vast and rewarding. Sincerely, In addition to educating stakeholders OF ONE DAY ACCOMPLISHING and reporting our progress, we ZERO WASTE TO LANDFILL. While we Advanced the Conversation in 2012, it began as a discovered new opportunities conversation in 2005. That year we held our first Sustainable to invite stakeholder feedback, Development Summit, where we began a dialogue with Jenniffer Deckard questions and reflections. The our stakeholders to dream about our vision for a shared President conversation about sustainable development is a two-way future. We articulated our dreams by forecasting newspaper dialogue. While we are proud of our progress to date, we headlines in the year 2015 announcing our accomplishments. understand that there are opportunities for advancement One group’s headline read, “Fairmount Minerals Achieves 3 “Advancing the Conversation” 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 4 ABOUT OUR REPORT This report, published in May 2013, covers Fairmount Our annual Corporate Social Minerals’ global operations and impacts for the 2012 fiscal year. This report is available in hard copy and online at Responsibility (CSR) Report provides our www.fairmountminerals.com/2012csr. stakeholders with robust and accurate We apply the GRI principles for defining report content and defining report quality to ensure a balanced and reasonable information about Fairmount Minerals. presentation of our sustainability performance. This report marks our seventh Materiality and Stakeholder Inclusiveness We define report content by integrating stakeholder feedback into our own consecutive year of sustainability sustainability assessment process. Through our Sustainable Development (SD) teams, we set annual sustainability reporting. We report against the GRI goals that ensure we address the material issues identified by our stakeholders. G3.1 Guidelines and the 10 Principles of Sustainability Context and Completeness Our report addresses Fairmount Minerals’ environmental, social and the United Nations Global Compact. GRI economic performance and progress related to sustainability goals across our global footprint. has verified that the report is prepared Balance We present favorable and unfavorable results according to the GRI Guidelines, at equally in our report, offering updates on progress against stated sustainability goals and efforts to enhance our Application Level A. sustainability impacts. Comparability We report metrics over a minimum of four years (less when the information is not available) and include a GRI Content Index to aid in report readability. Timeliness We publish our Corporate Social Responsibility report on an annual basis, following the evaluation of the previous year’s data, performance metrics and highlight stories. Accuracy and Reliability This report was reviewed by the Fairmount Minerals’ senior management team and is published with their support and approval. Ken Husby of our Menomonie, WI facility takes 8th graders from Menomonie Middle School on a tour of our mine. 6 ORGANIZATION PROFILE Fairmount Minerals has upheld the mission ETHICS TOTAL QUALITY PERSONAL EXCELLENCE of “Do Good. Do Well.” since our first Appreciative Inquiry (AI) Summit in 2005. SAFETY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY EMPOWERMENT MISSION AND PRINCIPLES AI is an organizational management method that builds on HEALTH AND CONTINUOUS WELLNESS CELEBRATE/FUN IMPROVEMENT WISCONSIN MICHIGAN strengths, emphasizing what an organization does well. In 2011, our Communications team became the Communications & AI team to better educate family members on the method ENVIRONMENTAL TEAMWORK/ OHIO and importance of AI and continue integrating AI into SD LEADERSHIP STEWARDSHIP SHARED OWNERSHIP ILLINOIS WEST communications across the organization. Our FML YOU VIRGINIA team (which stands for “Your Opportunity University”) develops and manages a corporate university learning and GOVERNANCE development program that allows for on-going education and Fairmount Minerals is governed by a seven-person Board growth opportunities for all Fairmount family members. This OKLAHOMA of Directors, with one executive, two independent and year the team worked closely with our Human Resources four shareholders (three of whom are representatives from department to embed AI into the onboarding and orientation American Securities). Board members are selected based process for new family members, and in 2013 we plan to upon an internal review process as well as feedback from develop more training courses on the topic of AI. TEXAS independent business partners. The Board’s three standing Fairmount has 12 Principles it lives by every day which guide committees — Compensation, Audit and Executive — our business decisions and our overall company culture. provide strategic counsel and oversight to the company. These Principles shape our SD culture and truly define who Our Board members act in accordance with our conflict we are as a family. of interest policy, which has been in existence since the formation of our Board. CHINA OFFICES MINING OPERATIONS RESIN-COATED SAND OPERATIONS SPECIALTY PRODUCTS Nanjing FAIRMOUNT MINERALS HEADQUARTERS—CHESTERLAND* BEST SAND CORPORATION SANTROL DE MEXICO MINERAL VISIONS SANTROL YIXING FAIRMOUNT MINERALS—BENTON HARBOR BEST SOUTHERN SANTROL EUROPE FAIRMOUNT WATER SOLUTIONS PROPPANT CO. LTD FAIRMOUNT MINERALS—CHARDON TECH CENTER LAKESHORE SAND SANTROL YIXING PROPPANT COMPANY DDENMARK MEXICO FAIRMOUNT MINERALS—WEDRON WEDRON SILICA COMPANY TECHNISAND—BRIDGMAN CUSTOM BLENDING SANTROL—SUGAR LAND WEXFORD SAND TECHNISAND—ROFF COMPLEX BLACK LAB LLC—CHARDON China WISCONSIN INDUSTRIAL SAND—HAGER CITY/BAY CITY TECHNISAND—TROY GROVE BLACK LAB LLC—FRESNO Shanghai RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT WISCONSIN INDUSTRIAL SAND—MAIDEN ROCK TECHNISAND—WEDRON BLACK LAB LLC—SERENA OTTAWA INNOVATION CENTER WISCONSIN INDUSTRIAL SAND—MENOMONIE SANTROL TECHNOLOGY CENTER RESIN MANUFACTURING Santrol Yixing *Until 2012 Fairmount Minerals was headquartered in Chardon, OH. Beginning in February 2013, Fairmount Minerals relocated its headquarters to Chesterland, OH (as stated on page 10 of this report). ALPHA RESINS, LLC Denmark Proppant Co. LTD xico 8 WHO WE ARE Headquartered in Chesterland, Ohio, AWARDS AND RECOGNITION Sustainable Development is a core element of our business, Fairmount Minerals is a market-driven and we are proud to be honored and recognized by our peers for the following awards: company with strategically located »» Michigan Aggregate Association’s Five Year Safety Award (Michigan Region) facilities in North America, Europe and »» Pierce County Economic Development Corporation’s “Business of the Year” (Wisconsin Region) Asia, supported by a global distribution »» Green Masters Program/Wisconsin Sustainable Business Council’s “Green Master” designation (Wisconsin Region) and customer support network. »» Wildlife Habitat Council’s Bat Conservation Action Award While Fairmount Minerals is one of the largest producers of »» NEO Success Award industrial sand in North America, our story and our mission »» Ottawa Area Character Counts! Coalition® 2012 are no longer simply about sand. Instead, Fairmount has Business of Character Award (Illinois Region) become a world-leading expert in the science and art »» IAAP (Illinois Association of Aggregate Producers) of transforming sand into value-added products whose Community Relations Award (Illinois Region) performance far exceeds ordinary expectations. »» American Water Works Association 2012 Green Ribbon Award (Ohio Region) Our Fairmount Family comprises 753 talented and »» Leading EDGE Award hardworking individuals that strive to deliver the highest »» American Red Cross Hero Award (Ohio Region) quality products and customer service possible. Our family members are committed to our organization, their peers »» Diversity Center’s 2012 Humanitarian Award (Bill Conway and Chuck Fowler) and the communities in which we operate, and continue to exceed expectations year after year. »» AFS Keating Founders’ Freedom Award »» Conservation Partner of the Year by Saving Birds Thru Habitat EMPLOYEES BY CATEGORY EMPLOYEES BY REGION LOCATION # OF EMPLOYEES 412 ILLINOIS 234 CANADA 6 HOURLY EMPLOYEES WISCONSIN 123 DENMARK 11 341 OHIO 104 CHINA 20 SALARY EMPLOYEES MICHIGAN 97 MEXICO 54 TEXAS 50 TOTAL 753 753 TOTAL EMPLOYEES OKLAHOMA 54 Ken Husby takes Cub Scout Pack 103 from Durand, WI on a tour of one of our mine in Menomonie, WI. 10 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Being aware of our impacts, risks and opportunities is what ensures the sustainability and growth of Fairmount Minerals well into the future. KEY IMPACTS, RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES People At Fairmount Minerals, our single greatest Prosperity As a significant employer in our local responsibility is the safety of our employees. We foster communities with investments in long-term assets, our direct a culture of safety that is backed by an unwavering impact on local economies is delivered through local wages, commitment to provide the resources needed for safe benefits, taxes and ongoing community investment. At operations. Managing relationships with our local Fairmount Minerals, our most significant indirect economic communities remains a high priority for Fairmount. impacts are the result of the kinds of products we provide. Advancing our Conversations with community stakeholders Fairmount products support the industries that drive global helps us ensure quiet and clean communities with ease of economic growth by delivering sand products needed in accessibility and a high quality of life. We see opportunities building materials, water filtration, glass-making, sports for growth in our use of emerging communications and recreation materials, foundry applications and energy platforms, family member performance management and production. Increasing global energy demand presents the continued assimilation of global family members into significant economic opportunity. our culture of sustainable development. Fairmount’s sustainability strategy is based upon the triple bottom line—people, planet, prosperity. Planet As a mining and mineral processing company, Fairmount Minerals has a responsibility to manage our environmental impacts related to land management and restoration, water and energy use, water discharge, waste reduction, natural resource conservation, carbon emissions and biodiversity. Our comprehensive environmental management systems and environmental SD teams are positioned to address global challenges associated with water, responsible land restoration and opportunities related to climate change. We see strategic value in managing the energy use and carbon emissions associated with operating our facilities, the transport of our products and monitoring environmental regulations. Local school children being creative with our colored sand products. 12 based discussion and create our local communities. WISA WISCONSIN INDUSTRIAL a positive dialogue among members commit to perform SAND ASSOCIATION the industry, citizens and regular occupational health Wisconsin government evaluations as well as land In 2012, Fairmount Minerals officials.” Organizations restoration and preservation signed on as a founding STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT joining WISA demonstrate activities. We look forward to member of the Wisconsin a commitment to exceeding advancing the conversation Industrial Sand Association Stakeholder engagement is a core element of our business all federal, state and local with local communities and (WISA). The purpose rules for environmental within our industry together operations that helps inform and shape our sustainability of WISA is to “promote operations, and focus on with WISA’s other member strategy. We seek and have the opportunity to engage safe and environmentally advancing conversation with organizations. responsible sand mining with a diverse group of stakeholders on material issues the people of Wisconsin to standards, promote a factsupport the well-being of throughout the year. From our Fairmount family members to local communities to suppliers, we appreciatively take all thoughts and ideas into consideration during our strategic planning process. This is just one of the many ways we are Advancing the Conversation. Fairmount Minerals has conducted three AI Summits The Environmentally Responsible Products and Processes sustainable development in our day-to-day business. Beyond since 2005, bringing together more than 1,000 internal and (ERPP) SD team’s 2012 stated goal was to “design and the valuable insights and innovative ideas generated, the external stakeholders to engage in dialogue about our implement a process for engaging stakeholders in the conversations developed a shared understanding of what Our health and wellness program is an important element of engaging Fairmount family members. Here Mark Waters, Plant Manager of Wisconsin Hager City, is donating blood future vision. These AI Summits include a Day of Caring development of environmentally responsible products and successful, long-term partnerships entail. They talked and we at a local blood drive. listened. We Advanced the Conversation. in which stakeholders participate in a volunteer project in processes by conducting two focus groups in two different the local community. Beyond the Summits, we engage with markets.” The team exceeded this goal by conducting three The team has revised its mission for 2013 to focus on stakeholders in several other ways, including: focus groups in three markets — Oil & Gas, Foundry and identifying and implementing environmentally responsible Sports & Recreation. Prior to each focus group, the team sent products and processes to help reduce Fairmount’s surveys to each stakeholder group to identify environmental STAKEHOLDER GROUP TYPE OF ENGAGEMENT FREQUENCY opportunities for their industry and within their companies. environmental footprint by continuing to engage internal and external stakeholders in fostering sustainable development. Appreciative Inquiry Every three years Appreciative Inquiry Every three years The survey also assessed the current level of satisfaction with FAIRMOUNT FAMILY COMMUNITY Summit Fairmount’s products and customer service. MEMBERS Summit MEMBERS Idea generation and Ongoing Open Houses Biannually The focus groups provided a venue for Fairmount’s value chain feedback to discuss our common opportunities and the role each of us can play in developing a way to leverage these opportunities. Surveys Ongoing Stakeholders were given the opportunity to provide feedback Appreciative Inquiry Every three years on our performance and explore ways to enhance our CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS Appreciative Inquiry Every three years Summit partnerships. The focus groups also helped to build awareness Summit about who we are, what we do and the importance of Satisfaction Survey Annually Sustainable Supplier Ongoing Volunteering projects provide opportunities for ongoing conversation Focus Groups Ongoing Survey with our stakeholders. 13 “Advancing the Conversation” 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 14 Many of our volunteering projects are done in partnership with local non-profits and organizations that our family Many of our volunteering projects are done in partnership with local members are passionate about. non-profits and organizations that our family members are passionate about. PARTNERS AND COLLABORATIONS Our partners and collaborating organizations provide unique »» National Plasterers Council perspectives on our company, industry and the marketplace »» National Safety Council as a whole. Our valued partners play a critical role in helping »» North American Rail Shippers us discover new ways to manage our sustainability impacts. We look forward to advancing the conversation as members »» Northwest and Southwest Michigan of these industry and professional organizations: Sustainable Business Forums »» Ohio Parks & Recreation Association »» American Chemistry Council Crystalline Silica Panel »» Pennsylvania Parks & Recreation Association »» American Foundry Society »» Saving Birds Thru Habitat »» American Institute of Chemical Engineers »» Society for Human Resource Management »» American Petroleum Institute »» Society for Mining, Metallurgy and Exploration »» American Red Cross »» Society for Petroleum Engineers »» American Society for Quality »» Society of Chemical Manufacturers and Affiliates »» American Society of Safety Engineers »» Synthetic Turf Council »» American Water Works Association »» United Nations Global Compact »» Baldwin Wallace Institute for Sustainable Business Practice »» U.S. Business Council for Sustainable Development »» Casting Industry Supplier Association »» Water Environment Federation »» Foundry Educational Foundation »» Western Wisconsin Land Conservancy »» Fowler Center for Sustainable Value »» Wildlife Habitat Council »» Geauga Growth Partnership »» Wisconsin Industrial Sand Association »» Golf Course Builders Association of America »» Golf Course Superintendents Association of America »» Greater Cleveland Partnership »» Industrial Energy Consumers Association »» Industrial Minerals Association of North America »» International Society of Mine Safety Professionals »» Marcellus Shale Coalition »» National Association of Manufacturers »» National Freight Transportation Association »» National Industrial Sand Association 15 “Advancing the Conversation” 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 16 2012 PERFORMANCE We achieved zero waste to landfill at six of our facilities, 2012 was an exciting year for Fairmount developed a new stakeholder safety guide and launched six new training and education courses. Each SD team Minerals, as it marked the first year that worked tirelessly to continue to make sustainable development an integral part of their job and their life, we exceeded 100% average achievement and more family members participated in SD initiatives in 2012 than ever before. of our SD goals. In years past, each SD team established two to three goals to achieve per year. In 2012, we decided to be more strategic and stretch our process by asking each team to establish one BOLD goal for the year, with various tactics necessary to achieve this goal. 2012 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PERFORMANCE ALL FACILITIES SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY SUSTAINABLE VALUE CHAIN SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SAFETY RECOVER, RECYCLE, REUSE HEALTH AND WELLNESS FML YOU ERPP QUEST FOR ECO-EFFICIENCY COMMUNICATIONS AND AI CLEAN WATER BUSINESS INNOVATION BEST PRACTICE 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 Family members at our Santrol de Mexico facility congratulate each other on exceeding safety performance standards. 18 COMPLETE IN PROGRESS In years past, each SD team established two to three goals SD TEAM 2012 GOAL STATUS COMMENT Six zero waste to landfill facilities, including all of RECOVER, RECYCLE, REUSE Reduce waste by 20% over 2011. to achieve per year. In 2012, we decided to be more strategic Wisconsin region. Seven projects complete, including reduced downtime in Complete five best practice productivity projects and stretch our process by asking each team to establish one BEST PRACTICE resulting in $50,000 in savings. manufacturing process and new employee training at mining sites. BOLD goal for the year, with various tactics necessary BUSINESS INNOVATION Design and implement an organizational process for advancing concepts of innovation at each location. Developed stage gate process for gathering, vetting and implementing ideas; the Fairmount Family contributed 51 Capture and track at least five projects. amazing ideas! to achieve this goal. Complete water footprint evaluations at all current Visited every site to conduct interviews with plant managers, CLEAN WATER Fairmount facilities. gather/track/measure water consumption. Developed SD Communications Plan, library of SD materials, Design SD communications plan and implement established social media presence, and process for COMMUNICATIONS AND AI four communications tactics to enhance collecting SD stories and communicating to international organizational effectiveness. family members. Design and implement a process to engage all stakeholders Conducted three focus groups and three surveys in three ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE in development of environmentally responsible products by different markets — oil and gas, foundry, sports The use of unit trains provides faster delivery with fewer trips and reduces the emissions associated with transporting our products. PRODUCTS AND PROCESSES connecting with two focus groups in two distinct markets. and recreation. Developed three new course offerings: Identify and implement four learning and development 1. People Development Training FML YOU offerings for all FML employees. 2. Frac 101 3. Orientation HEALTH AND WELLNESS Improve the health and wellness of our people by Increased participation by 68% and exceeded 40% increasing program participation to 65%. participation in health and wellness challenges. QUEST FOR ECO-EFFICIENCY Improve FML’s carbon footprint by completing projects Planted more than 70,000 trees across our footprint. that eliminate 3% of 2011 GHG emissions. SAFETY Developed Stakeholder Safety Guide that was distributed to Reach 1.5 million consecutive safe working hours. all stakeholders, and achieved 828,000 Safe Working Days. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Launch FML CORES program where 400 or more Fairmount More than 500 family members volunteered in more than ten family members will participate in one of 10 local CORES events. CORES programs. Shipped more than 9,000 carloads in excess of 104 tons in Increase our usage of non-conventional shipment SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY large capacity “286 type” cars and 72 barges, for a savings of methods by 10%. $6.2million and 146,000 gallons of diesel. SUSTAINABLE VALUE CHAIN Deliver 36 SD presentations to customers, vendors Delivered 38 SD presentations to more than 750 individuals. and communities and track impact. 19 “Advancing the Conversation” 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 20 2013 BOLD GOALS As our 13 teams each identified one BOLD goal for 2013, The Fairmount family members who some found opportunity in longer term goals —designed for delivery in 2014 and beyond, some revisited goals make up our SD teams are empowered from previous years and some changed direction altogether. The variance among this year’s goals to set the strategic direction and annual demonstrates the empowerment teams have to develop new and innovative ways to achieve BOLD goals and performance goals for their teams. manage organizational impacts. SD TEAM 2013 BOLD GOAL RECOVER, RECYCLE, REUSE All facilities to reduce year end average solid waste volume by 50% from 2012 baseline. Implement four Best Practices Productivity Projects highlighting organization, standardization or technology. Embrace the Sharing of Best BEST PRACTICE Practices through three face-to-face benchmarking meetings, communicating the opportunity to at least 50% of the impacted Fairmount family members while achieving $75,000 in SD Pays. We will advance innovative strategies, culture, and processes within Fairmount Minerals that ensures 67% of facilities achieve the goal to BUSINESS INNOVATION generate one innovative idea in each area of SD—People, Planet, and Prosperity—of which one produces SD Pays. CLEAN WATER Develop five-year water reduction/development plans at facilities in North America. COMMUNICATIONS & AI Develop and execute an Employee Engagement Process and reach at minimum 75% of the Fairmount Family. ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE PRODUCTS Develop four new environmentally responsible products and/or processes. AND PROCESSES Identify and implement one new course offering in the following topic areas: development for YOU, electronic enhancement, FML business, FML YOU trade techniques. Create, support and sustain a healthy work environment by establishing a baseline wellness enrichment evaluation score and improve by 10% HEALTH AND WELLNESS at each location. QUEST FOR ECO-EFFICIENCY Improve FML’s carbon footprint by completing projects that eliminate 3% of 2012 GHG emissions. We must first be better than the industry’s Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) of 0.9 ultimately improving upon the 2012 FML LTIR of 0.2 to SAFETY achieve 100%. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Achieve a Day of Caring at each facility or region with 60% participation. Establish historical baseline of carbon emissions through traditional shipments and determine opportunity for improvement through barging, SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY unit trains, and other alternate modes of transportation. Research all Supplier packaging/containers delivered to Fairmount manufacturing sites and labs; reduce disposal, handling, and/or landfill SUSTAINABLE VALUE CHAIN costs by 10% vs. 2012. Deliver Sustainability 101 presentation to 72 organizations. Family members help paint the football stadium at West Geauga High School during one of the CORES events in 2012. 22 PEOPLE We believe a job well done should be recognized. Every year We are successful today because we present the Fairmount Minerals Sustainable Development Employee of the Year Award to one family member at each of our outstanding family members. facility. Anyone can nominate family members for this award on a rolling basis, and an external committee identifies one Equally important to our success is the winner at each facility. The Bill Conway Founder’s Award goes to the one family member who rises to the top strong relationships we have with our of this list and is selected by our founder himself— a prestigious honor. Our 2012 winners are: stakeholders. 2012 WINNERS EXCEPTIONAL WORKPLACE ALPHA RESINS, LLC Cheryl Sizemore BEST SAND CORPORATION Kevin Gaggiani We take extensive measures to make sure we provide our TECHNISAND – BRIDGMAN Wilma Crowder people with the best working conditions possible. This includes competitive compensation, medical benefits, a FAIRMOUNT WATER SOLUTIONS Josh Holbrook 401(k) plan and a wellness program. We make recruiting, FAIRMOUNT MINERALS – BENTON HARBOR Ryan Schwark developing and retaining top talent a priority in order to FAIRMOUNT MINERALS HEADQUARTERS – CHESTERLAND Jessi O'Reilly ensure a happy, healthy and productive workforce now and SANTROL TECHNOLOGY CENTER Mary Labinsky well into the future. TECHNISAND – ROFF COMPLEX Michael Bradley WEXFORD SAND Roger Evens FAIRMOUNT MINERALS – WEDRON Sandy Shreve BLACK LAB LLC – SERENA Becky Glaser AGE OVER/UNDER 40 WISCONSIN INDUSTRIAL SAND – HAGER CITY Jeff Himes (DOMESTIC ONLY) WISCONSIN INDUSTRIAL SAND – BAY CITY Stephen Murphy 662 TOTAL EMPLOYEES WISCONSIN INDUSTRIAL SAND – MAIDEN ROCK Julie Mallon WISCONSIN INDUSTRIAL SAND – MENOMONIE Michele Maxson TECHNISAND – WEDRON 612JanMALE Bradford* 42% 58% UNDER 40 OVER 40 MINERAL VISIONS Mark Smith WEDRON SILICA COMPANY Pat Gende TECHNISAND – TROY GROVE Rob Kiefel *Jan Bradford is the winner of the Bill Conway Founder’s Award Family members at our Santrol de Mexico facility plant trees during a Day of Caring. 24 several community events. a great team player and an BILL CONWAY FOUNDER’S He plays harmonica with asset to the facility, and he ETHICS AND DIVERSITY AWARD WINNER local bands at events in humbly recognized his peers Fairmount Minerals complies with the rules and regulations Our Code of Ethics, which includes our expectations for fair JAN BRADFORD support of an animal shelter, upon winning: “Winning diabetes research and cancer the Bill Conway Founder’s of the global communities in which it operates and strives labor practices and human rights, is translated into the native How many family members research. In addition, he Award is a tremendous to exceed expectations as a good neighbor and model languages of the countries where we operate. As a member nominated Jan Bradford helped sell raffle tickets and honor. We have a great team for SD Employee of the t-shirts, worked registration here at TechniSand Wedron. organization. We recognize and include the diverse cultures of the UN Global Compact, we adhere to the 10 Principles Year? Not one, not two, tables and helped set up Having the support of a great that make up our family and do not discriminate based on for international human rights, labor, environment and but a whole facility. Jan’s and clean up after all the team makes it a pleasure physical, religious, social or financial characteristics. We ethical business practices. Further, our SD Communications fellow family members events. Jan encourages to come to work every day. at Technisand Wedron other family members to Fairmount Minerals gives us make hiring decisions based on skills and experience that & AI team is committed to engaging in more robust collectively nominated him share his enthusiasm for all the opportunity to donate meet our current and future needs, and we respect our communication with our international family members. for the enormous amount giving back by helping them our time and talents to make of time, talent and treasure family members’ right to join and participate in collective schedule their volunteer a difference in people’s lives. he volunteered in 2012. At time throughout the year. I am very honored to be part bargaining organizations. By following these values and the time of nomination, Jan He helped Technisand of a company that gives principles, we are able to attract and retain top talent, and Jan Bradford receives the Bill Conway had volunteered more than Wedron achieve ISO18000 so much back to our Founder’s Award from CEO Chuck Fowler. 80 hours to local charities, certification and is a member communities, and I’m proud foster an innovative working environment. combining his passion for of the Best Practice SD team. to be a part of the Fairmount music with volunteering at Jan’s peers describe him as Family”. GENDER TOTAL EMPLOYEES PER CATEGORY UNION VS. NON-UNION RACE (DOMESTIC AND (DOMESTIC ONLY) (DOMESTIC ONLY) (DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL) INTERNATIONAL) 662 TOTAL FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES 21.6% UNION 753 TOTAL EMPLOYEES 753 TOTAL EMPLOYEES 24 SALES AMERICAN INDIAN/ALAKSAN NATIVE 17 519 (1.23%) 600 593 600 9 500 29 500 TECHNICAL ASIAN (3.68%) 390 400 400 OPERATIONS 625 300 WHITE (82.81%) 300 BLACK/AFRICAN AMERICAN 200 143 (1.23%) 200 9 160 111 100 81 100 120 ADMINISTRATIVE HISPANIC/LATINO 0 MANAGEMENT (11.05%) 0 NON-UNION UNION MALE FEMALE EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES 25 “Advancing the Conversation” 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 26 ➜  TRAINING AND EDUCATION SAFETY TOTAL CASE INCIDENCE RATE TCIR 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 We know that continued training and education is In our industry, health and safety is of the utmost FML 3.9 3.5 3.1 2.9 2.1 imperative for our family members to thrive. We create an importance. Fairmount is committed to providing the safest Your Opportunity University FAIRMOUNT INDUSTRY 3.3 3.1 3.3 3.0 3.1 Enrich the overall Fairmount experience through personal environment where our people can share their thoughts and working conditions for our family members so they can d MINERALS growth opportunities ideas and actively participate in the conversation. Several of perform their jobs at the highest level possible and come to Welcome and fully LOST TIME INCIDENCE RATE engage new talent in a our SD teams were focused on education and innovation in work and return home safely to their families every day. In ✍ UNIVERSITY LTIR 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 positive and effective 2012 and made great progress in developing more efficient first step in their Fairmount journey 2012, our Safety team developed a Stakeholder Safety Guide FML 1.2 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.2 Foster personal development and a Fairmount Minerals University processes for idea generation and implementation. that was distributed to our family members, suppliers, culture of innovative strives to strengthen the INDUSTRY 1.7 1.7 1.1 1.1 1.1 thinking in order to organization by identifying vendors and contractors domestically and internationally. ensure a viable and This year the FML YOU team surveyed family members The Safety Guide is pocket sized so it can be carried at competitive future core competencies, developing for the organization Another way we advance the safety conversation is through talent, and by offering lifelong to better understand how they wanted to learn and, in learning experiences to our Fairmount Family Members.  turn, developed curriculum to meet these needs. Through all times, and it provides stakeholders with our company an annual safety calendar with pictures and safety messages policies, procedures, general safe work instructions, and ➜  conversation, we developed six new learning opportunities created by the children of our family members. All facilities, contractor safety guidelines. The Safety Guide was a domestic and international, are encouraged to participate, INITIAL COURSE OFFERINGS last year, including Frac 101, Sustainable Development 101 ➜ People Development Training collaborative effort among the Safety team and family and all the submissions are included in the annual calendar ➜ On-Boarding and New-Hire Training and Personal Development (DiSC Assessment). Overall, ➜ Tuition Reimbursement members across the organization. This is a great resource that that is available to all family members. The calendar is Life Safety Incentive 66% of family members participated in these additional advances the conversation about safety between our internal ➜ Individual Development Planning translated into the native languages of our international learning opportunities. One of our most popular courses ➜ ➭Visit us on SharePoint ➜ Workplace Behavior and Sensitivity Training was the DiSC Assessment, a personality profile where family and external stakeholders. operations and is always a huge success. ? Contact FMLYOU@fmsand.com members wrote narratives about themselves which helped in determining their personality type — dominance, influencer, Our comprehensive safety management program follows the criteria outlined in the internationally recognized The Safety team will continue its mission in 2013, adding new safety tactics, programs and communications The FML YOU Team used positive feedback from the new course offering steadiness, or consciousness. The DiSC Assessment aids Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series vehicles to the fold. The team will continue the new safety evaluations to develop a poster that hangs in all facilities. the Appreciative Inquiry process and facilitates better (OHSAS) 18001 standard. Currently, nine of our facilities performance incentive program that all family members will conversation through greater awareness of one’s own are OHSAS 18001 certified, with plans to certify three be encouraged to participate in to help maintain our high personality type and the personality types of your peers. more facilities in 2013. standard of safe working conditions. We also will produce a safety training video specific to each site and we offer All course participants were asked to provide feedback on With zero incidences as our ultimate goal, we continue First Aid/CPR/AED training courses. We include health the course, including quality of content and effectiveness. to achieve an incidence rate much lower than our and safety at all open houses at our plants and encourage Overall, we received very positive feedback which helped us industry peers. families and local community members to attend. As create a poster that hangs in all facilities as a communications always, we encourage our family members to embrace the tool for our FML YOU team. Next year our team will be Bringing Safety Home culture and practice safety outside of expanding its course offerings to include financial planning, the workplace. computer software and an advanced course in hydraulic fracturing called Frac 201. Medi-flight training at our Technisand Roff Complex. 27 “Advancing the Conversation” 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 28 family members and has set frustrations that sometimes BIKE TO WORK PROGRAM a goal of having at least 5% come along with it, which Tuan Tran, Laboratory of his Santrol peers join him makes you happier and more Manager at our new Santrol in biking to and from work. productive at work. Biking Technology Center in Sugar Tuan points out that, to work also saves about one Land, Texas, began a bike “although you may have pound of CO₂ for every mile to work program this year. to spend a little money on biked. If you are not fully Tuan bikes to and from maintaining your bike, it’s convinced to participate in the Technology Center far less costly than filling up the bike to work program, three to four times a week, your car with gas or needing Tuan has this to say: “Albert sometimes biking nearly to make repairs”. In addition Einstein thought up the 25 miles a day between to the health benefits of the Theory of Relativity while commuting and recreation. fresh air and mobility, he riding his bike!” Tuan hopes he is setting a points out that you avoid good example for his fellow rush hour traffic—and the HEALTH AND WELLNESS Just as safety is a top priority at Fairmount, so is the health We also conducted a Hibernate for Health challenge in the and wellness of our family members. In 2012, our Health fall that had even greater participation. Family members & Wellness team increased program participation to 68% were asked to keep track of the number of hours they slept by year end. More of our family members took advantage a night and record the corresponding points. Each week of free health screenings and several facilities held followthe team sent out a flyer with tips for better sleeping habits Kevin Gaggiani and other Fairmount family members playing kickball for our Kick It event to benefit children’s cancer research.. up screenings to check progress. We conducted two health and facts about sleep and how with enough sleep it can challenges that saw double the participation from 2011. benefit your health. Family members that participated in During the Summer Olympics, we conducted a program the challenge learned that good sleeping habits positively called Gear up for Gold through which participants pledged affect health, and many took proactive steps to change their to exercise for 30 minutes a day, five days per week. Each sleeping habits striving for a healthier lifestyle. There were week the team sent out a flyer with exercise tips and fun three winning facilities for this challenge: program to naturally bring needs. Kathy remarks that “The result was more than DIET AND EXERCISE her cholesterol back to a the Health and Wellness I could have hoped for facts about the Summer Olympics to keep family members »» Black Lab LLC – Fresno HELP FAMILY MEMBERS healthy level rather than site allowed her to plan or believed. I still plan on engaged and excited to participate in the challenge. STAY HEALTHY taking medication. Kathy meals ahead of time and keeping up with the diet »» Wexford Sand was already participating taught her about portion and exercise program. I am There were three individual winners and three During a routine physical »» Technisand – Wedron in the Gear up for Gold control and how to order so thankful we have this last July, Fairmount challenge so she was when eating out. Less than available to us. I don’t think I winning facilities: family member Kathy exercising regularly by a month after her original could have made this type of Hite was diagnosed biking, walking, doing physical, she managed to progress without it.” Individual Facility with high cholesterol. kickboxing and playing on lower her cholesterol by 89 With an understanding the Wii Fit. To help with points and lose 15 pounds! »» Kerri Anderson »» Black Lab LLC – Serena of the Fairmount Health her diet, she visited the Kathy says she feels much and Wellness resources »» John Daleiden »» Black Lab LLC – Chardon Fairmount Minerals Health healthier and credits available, Kathy decided and Wellness site to find a the Health and Wellness »» Ryan Stafford »» Fairmount Water Solutions to begin a diet and exercise diet plan that would fit her program with her success. 29 “Advancing the Conversation” 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 30 The program encourages just one row, family AVERAGE VOLUNTEER HOURS PLANT A ROW FOR gardeners to plant an members donated all of the project is a testament to the type of community-oriented TOTAL DONATIONS BY CATEGORY PER EMPLOYEE TOTAL VOLUNTEER HOURS THE HUNGRY extra row of produce and produce to the shelter and people we have.” The extra donate surplus to local food plan to do so every year 2010 14.1 HOURS 2010 8,688 HOURS Family members at our care paid off, as Mineral $3,400,000 TOTAL pantries, soup kitchens going forward. Visions was able to make 2011 15.7 HOURS 2011 12,417 HOURS Mineral Visions facility in and service organizations a significant donation to Ottawa, Illinois were in “It’s always great to see 2012 16.8 HOURS 2012 10,176 HOURS every year. The facility The Food Pantry of Ottawa. search of a new community our employees use their 4.1% experienced drought and “We’re always looking for 54.4% program to support when passions to help better our above-average temperatures ways to give back to the they came across Plant over the summer and family communities,” said Becky community,” plant manager HEALTH AND WELLNESS a Row for the Hungry, a DISCRETIONARY members were extra diligent Andrews, Illinois Regional Kurt Jeppson said. “This nonprofit, public-service Sustainable Development in regular watering and project was a good fit for us.” program of the Garden Coordinator for Fairmount weeding of the garden to Writers Association (GWA) Minerals. “The amount of enhance produce yield. At and the GWA Foundation. time and care spent on this 22.2% harvest, instead of donating 19.3% EDUCATION ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY At Fairmount Minerals, our commitment to support our local organization called Special Spaces to completely redesign communities is put into action every day. In 2012, our Social and construct a healthy bedroom for a teenage girl living Responsibility team had a goal to conduct 10 local CORES with Cystic Fibrosis. Overall, we donated $100,000 to local (Community Out Reach and Engagement in Sustainability) charities and organizations through CORES events – and events that called for 400 or more family members to that’s not including time and talent! Because our Day of participate in one of 10 events throughout the year. By Caring is an essential element of our history and culture of families directly impacted United Way Services of and talents. We cannot begin the end of 2012, we held 23 events during which family sustainable development, we are going back to our roots CARE THROUGH THE by the event. Additionally, Geauga County Executive to thank the members of the members volunteered in our local communities, including and encouraging 100% of our family members to volunteer CHARDON HEALING FUND the funds are being used to Director Kimm Leininger Fairmount family enough for building a playground at Ottawa Elementary School, a river at least one hour of time and each facility or region will be Advance Conversations of had this to say about our all that you have done In 2012, we experienced a cleanup in which 70 tires were removed, historical railcars holding a Day of Caring in 2013. healing through individual family members: “While this to help us heal!” tragedy in our own backyard clinical counseling services, tragedy happened in our cleaned, repaired and painted, and we worked with an when a school shooting educational resources for community, we refuse to let occurred in our headquarter 612 MALE parents and teachers and a it define us. Rather, we will town of Chardon, Ohio. community-wide AI summit be defined as the community The day after the shooting, Fairmount volunteers build new playgrounds. to begin discussions about that rose above this adversity Fairmount Minerals the future. More than a year to become more caring and requested that United Way later, the Chardon Healing compassionate because of Services of Geauga County Fund is still providing it. Much of this is due to start the Chardon Healing assistance to those in need. the generosity we received Fund to facilitate the long Our Fairmount family from companies such as term recovery and healing members have stepped up Fairmount…companies that of the Chardon community. in a huge way to provide stood up to meet the needs The first priority was to support for our community, of the people of Chardon effectively address the and we could not be more with not only their financial immediate needs of the proud of their efforts. resources, but also their time 31 “Advancing the Conversation” 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 32 PLANET help restore it to its natural state. Eventually this park will Every day, we strive to exceed be a public park in the community, but it’s currently being used for research by Kent State University. Overall, we have expectations for exceptional planted nearly 285,000 trees since 2007 and will continue this effort annually. environmental stewardship Our Quest for Eco-Efficiency (QEE) team helped facilitate in the communities where we live and several energy efficiency projects across the footprint in 2012. At a high-level, we replaced old, inefficient lighting operate, and to the earth. with LED lighting at many facilities, as well as installed motion sensors on lighting to automatically turn off when no one is in the room. We continue to evaluate transportation ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT routes to make them more efficient in order to reduce fuel Our environmental management practices are aligned with consumption and carbon emissions. We’ve replaced flights, the universal ISO Standards, and we ensure that we comply or specially designed fins, in dryers to reduce natural gas with (and where feasible, exceed) all necessary regulations. consumption and increase efficiency, and installed auto Currently, we have 10 facilities ISO 14001 certified, and we shut-off mechanisms on pumps and motors to reduce energy. are working toward making this industry standard our standard for facilities across the board. We are also in the Our QEE team is excited about new opportunities to process of streamlining our environmental management mitigate carbon emissions in 2013. One opportunity the policies and contractor procedures so all family members team uncovered is called Miscanthus. Miscanthus is a have one set to follow. non-invasive biomass crop that also has a high energy yield per acre. It is a perennial that, once planted, has a 20-year productive life. It grows on marginal soil but replaces nutrients as it grows. It can be used to make ethanol and ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE pellet fuel, which are carbon neutral. If the project is viable In 2013, we will begin to understand our Scope 3 Greenhouse for Fairmount Minerals, it would have a five-year payback Gas (GHG) Emissions and how to mitigate them going on initial investment and be self-funding and profitable forward. This is exciting for us as this is the first year we after eight years. Using Miscanthus as another means for were able to track this information. It is our hope to find GHG emissions mitigation moves us closer to our goal of ways to offset these emissions in the near future. We reduced becoming a carbon neutral organization. While we have not normalized Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 1.1% from 2011, and officially taken up this new endeavor, we are continuing to 8.1% from our baseline. look into its feasibility in 2013. We have been offsetting our carbon emissions through sequestration since 2006. In 2012, we planted almost 70,000 trees and planted 5,000 at a park in Portage County, Ohio to Diane Valen, Naturalist with the Geauga Park District, takes 5th graders from Cork Elementary School on a nature walk around the Walter Best Lake (surrounding our Best Sand site). 34 ABSOLUTE ENERGY USE (GIGAJOULES) CLEAN WATER 2008-2009 2009-2010 2010-2011 2011-2012 In 2012, our Clean Water team focused on tracking and DIRECT ENERGY 1,148,762 1,427,347 1,709,263 1,902,936 measuring water use and disposal across the organization. INDIRECT ENERGY 269,339 338,707 377,315 403,565 The team successfully completed a water footprint at every domestic facility, measuring everything from well water, TOTAL ENERGY 1,418,101 1,766,054 2,086,578 2,306,501 production water, surface water, groundwater and city water use. The team interviewed all the plant managers, toured FUEL USE BY TYPE the plants and documented all known water use to help set 1% BIODIESEL 5% BIODIESEL 10% BIODIESEL 20% BIODIESEL DIESEL #2 1 ELECTRICITY FUEL #400 GASOLINE LIQUID PROPANE NATURAL GAS a baseline to reduce water consumption in the future. At 88,724 104,129 123,292 0 715,933 112,079,135 503,092 32,173 825,143 1,513,705 facilities where we are just beginning to measure our water 1 In previous years Fairmount used 5% Biodiesel and 20% Biodiesel interchangeably. In 2012, we ceased the use of 20% Biodiesel in favor of using 5% Biodiesel. This change has been a significant cost savings for Fairmount. footprint, the Clean Water team facilitated conversations In our 2011 report we reported the use of 45,000 gallons of 20% Biodiesel, and in this report we are reporting zero gallons, for the previously stated reason. about the amount of water the facility uses, where the NORMALIZED GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS wastewater goes and the importance of conserving and (LBS. OF CO2/TON SHIPPED) reusing water whenever feasible. Understanding water ecosystems is an important element of responsible water use. 2008-2009 2009-2010 2010-2011 2011-2012 2.62% Fairmount Minerals provides ongoing support to Aqua Clara support Aqua Clara. We’re pleased to report that our partner 52.03 51.61 49.04 47.79 REDUCTION IN GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS International, an organization that develops, installs and schools raised $30,000 and Fairmount Minerals matched the OVER ONE YEAR monitors water filtration systems in third world countries, money raised, for a total of $60,000. In further support of or places where clean water is scarce. In 2012, Katie Spotz, Aqua Clara, members of the Clean Water team traveled to Family members at the Technisand Roff Complex hard at work on one of their many volunteer projects. an advocate for clean water and a supporter of Aqua Clara, Nicaragua to install water filtration systems at a ranch and held an event at the Lake County Captains stadium for school, and verified that systems previously installed were hundreds of elementary school students to educate them still working properly and effectively. We are proud to have on the importance and necessity of clean water. Fairmount the opportunity to Advance the Conversation on a global Minerals served as a title sponsor of the event and many scale, helping enhance the quality of life for people around of our family members volunteered at the event. There the world. were a variety of activities available for the students such as African drumming, tic-tac-toe and a water balloon dash. During the event, the students and volunteers broke the record for the most people carrying water on their head at the same time. In our 2011 CSR Report, we noted that we would be working with Katie throughout 2012 to raise at least $60,000 with local middle schools and high schools to 35 “Advancing the Conversation” 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 36 LAND RESTORATION CHART RECOVER, RECYCLE, REUSE (DOMESTIC ONLY) Our Recover, Recycle, Reuse (3R) team had a goal of TOTAL TOTAL TOTAL PERMANENTLY PERCENT reducing waste to landfill by 20% over 2011 and by 60% from 6 FML FACILITY ACREAGE UNDISTURBED DISTURBED RESTORED DISTURBED our 2009 baseline. We greatly exceeded these goals, reducing ZERO WASTE TO ALPHA RESINS, LLC 10.5 0.1 10.4 0 0% waste by almost 80% from the previous year and nearly 87% LANDFILL FACILITIES $500,000 BEST SAND CORPORATION 491 74.7 335.1 81.2 68% from our baseline. One of our proudest accomplishments is RECYCLING SAVINGS BEST SOUTHERN 307 263 44 0 14% that we have six zero waste to landfill facilities, including our Best Sand operation and headquarter building in Chardon, BLACK LAB LLC – CHARDON 17.02 14.02 3 0 18% Ohio and all of our Wisconsin region operations. Our BLACK LAB LLC – FRESNO 5 0 5 0 100% Wisconsin facilities began implementing waste to energy REDUCED WASTE BY 80% BLACK LAB LLC – SERENA 85.3 0 5 80.3 6% methods, such as recycling plastics to generate energy as a FROM 2011 FAIRMOUNT WATER SOLUTIONS 0.716 0 0.716 0 100% by-product. An incinerator captures the heat and emissions LAKESHORE SAND 8.19 0 8.19 0 100% from the recycled plastics and turns it into energy. MINERAL VISIONS 4.1 0 3.3 0.8 80% In May 2012, 3R team Lead George Hubbard traveled to TECHNISAND BRIDGMAN/BRIDGMAN LAKE 25.5 0 25.5 0 100% each of our domestic facilities to meet with plant managers LAND RESTORATION TECHNISAND – ROFF COMPLEX 39 32 7 0 18% and 3R champions to discuss their waste and recycling TECHNISAND – ROFF COMPLEX II 166 118 48 0 29% opportunities. The aim was to Advance the Conversation We understand that the nature of our business requires about Fairmount’s recycling initiatives and help facilities innovative environmental practices with regard to preserving TECHNISAND – TROY GROVE 3 0 3 0 100% assess and implement recycling, composting and sand and restoring land. We are committed to maintaining a TECHNISAND – WEDRON 5.1 0 5.1 0 100% recycling programs. In 2012, we realized more than $500,000 high quality of life for our family members, the community WEDRON SILICA COMPANY 1,407 825 417 165 28% in savings from sand recycling alone. The team also helped members and the biodiversity around us. WEXFORD SAND 346 48.3 172.2 125.5 50% Technisand Roff perform a waste audit that identified new WISCONSIN INDUSTRIAL SAND – BAY CITY 10.2 9.2 1 0 10% In 2012, Fairmount Minerals was recognized as Conservation ways to integrate facility recycling methods. The new process Partner of the Year by Saving Birds Thru Habitat, an WISCONSIN INDUSTRIAL SAND – HAGER CITY 12.29 2.62 9.67 0 79% significantly reduced Roff’s waste to landfill and Advanced organization that we have worked with for several years WISCONSIN INDUSTRIAL SAND – MAIDEN ROCK 687 674.9 6.5 15.6 1% our internal Conversation about efficiency and innovation. on preserving the lives and natural habitats of birds. The WISCONSIN INDUSTRIAL SAND – MENOMONIE 365 258.7 96.2 10.1 26% TOTAL WASTE TO LANDFILL QEE team sponsored a habitat restoration project at Grand TOTAL 3995 2320.6 1206.1 478.3 51% (CUBIC YARDS) Mere State Park, and we helped clean up part of the Lake 2009 2010 2011 2012 Michigan shoreline by removing invasive species and 28,482 21,593 18,483 3,339 working to restore the shoreline to its natural state. 37 “Advancing the Conversation” 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 38 PROSPERITY At Fairmount Minerals, we believe that an investment in sustainable development— our people, our environment and the LET’S TALK ABOUT THE RESULTS EBITDA communities where we operate—is an investment in our organization. ECONOMIC IMPACTS Sustainable development is the foundation for our company’s value, and we aim to advance the global conversation on sustainable value by measuring and reporting the financial return on our investment annually. 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 SALES EBITA CALCULATING SD PAYS Our economic impacts are also reflected in our revenues and donations, in regional job growth, taxes and business 2012 SD INVESTMENT partnerships, in supporting the industries that drive global 2012 EXPENSES -$5,100,000 economic growth and in the security of a viable and positive working environment for our family members. 2012 SD SAVINGS To ensure we are delivering the highest quality products FACILITY SAVINGS $560,000 while complying with all necessary regulations, we label TEAM SAVINGS $11,100,000 and market our products honestly and with transparency. 2012 SAVINGS $11,600,000 Further, our significant products are subject to life cycle NET SD PAYS $6,500,000 analysis for health and safety, and we take necessary steps to improve upon these products if they do not meet our high standards. Not only do we hold ourselves accountable for our products and processes, but so do our stakeholders. This transparency maintains our relationships and allows us our social license to operate. Third graders from Prairie View Elementary School planting some native grasses and shrubs at our Hager City facility in May 2012. 40 A child from the local community poses for the camera at an open house for one of our WISC region facilities. Bill made our presentation his own, educating his audiences INNOVATION on what Prairie does to be sustainable for themselves as well as for the communities in which they operate. They strive Another way we Advanced the Conversation internally An idea management sub-team assigns roles and to be good neighbors, giving back to the local communities was through the efforts of our Business Innovation team. responsibilities for managing this process and facilitates and hiring from the local workforce. Most importantly, Bill Their 2012 goal was to design and implement a process for the conversations needed to keep an idea moving appreciated the opportunity to work with Fairmount in this advancing concepts of innovation at each Fairmount location. through the process. Ideas are eventually presented to the capacity, and also provided him lessons learned that he could This team is Advancing the Conversation of innovation we appropriate internal group for implementation. A great implement at his own company. He is looking forward to began at last year’s Summit. To help achieve this goal the example of an idea that successfully moved through the continuing his involvement on the SVC team in 2013, helping team developed several communications portals for family stage gate process is an alternative mixing paddle that is to spread the word about sustainable development. members to submit ideas for consideration, and a process made of better quality materials, costs less and reduces for managing incoming ideas for implementation. An idea the downtime needed for paddle repair. A team at our In 2012, we continued to build on our successful bulk bag moves through seven steps before being implemented: Troy Grove facility identified a vendor for the new mixing recycling program, diverting nearly 160,000 pounds of waste paddle and the paddle is actively being used and paying 1. Concept to landfill and generating more than $900,000 in savings. This dividends at several Fairmount facilities. program gives us the opportunity to work more closely with 2. Feasibility our suppliers enhancing our environmental stewardship, 3. Business Case We are excited to report that we have established the SUSTAINABLE VALUE CHAIN Santrol Technology Center in Sugar Land, Texas, which while making our operations even more efficient. 4. Development One important way that we Advanced the Conversation was opened in October 2012. When fully staffed, it will be This year our Sustainable Mobility team worked to find 5. Testing and Validation in 2012 was through the efforts of our Sustainable Value home to 11 scientists and technical experts. The Technology Chain (SVC) team. The team had a goal to deliver 36 more efficient ways to transport our products to customers 6. Implementation Center houses state-of-the-art analytical capability for presentations on sustainable development and the across our footprint. We used more than 9,000 carloads 7. Launch resin and polymer structure elucidation as well as surface Fairmount Minerals story. We finished the year with 38 in excess of 104 tons in large capacity “286 type” cars , analysis. The Technology Center is confident in its ability presentations worldwide, delivered both in-person and 12 unit trains and 72 barges to transport our products, to synthesize newer and unique chemistries not only via monthly webinars. Several of our external stakeholders saving nearly $6.2 million and 146,000 gallons of diesel for superior performance and quality, but for increased participated on the SVC team and contributed to the number fuel! In 2013, the team will establish a baseline for our customer health and safety. of presentations given. One stakeholder in particular, Bill carbon footprint within the supply chain, an important Casey of Prairie Transportation, gave step toward understanding the full scope of our carbon four presentations himself to groups large and small. footprint. The team also plans to ship at least 26 unit trains The presentation emphasized the importance of sustainable in the coming year. A unit train transports 100 rail cars at development, how Fairmount Minerals has integrated one time and runs non-stop through the entire length of a SD into business practices successfully and how other trip. The use of unit trains will provide faster delivery with companies can integrate SD into their operations. During fewer trips and will reduce the emissions associated with this year’s presentations, the audience was particularly transporting our products. interested in the last point — wanting to know how they could get involved in sustainability and how they could bring it to their companies. 41 “Advancing the Conversation” 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report CONCLUSION In 2012, we expanded our outreach by engaging a broader set of stakeholder groups and exploring a new set of tools for communication. Though the tools may change, the principle remains the same —conversation with our stakeholders is important for sustainable development. Looking ahead, the goals set for 2013 and beyond continue to be inspiring. We renew our everyday commitment to make every business decision with all three pillars of Sustainability in mind. We take time to celebrate our past successes, and we look forward to Advancing the Conversation in 2013 and the many new discoveries it will bring. The beginning stages of the Trimbelle River restoration near our Hager/Bay site. Our Menomonie, Wisconsin facility. Fairmount family member Bob Ledyard walking down a trail during a clean up at Grand Mere State Park, near our Bridgman site. 44 GRI CONTENT INDEX FULLY PARTIALLY NOT PROFILE DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE LEVEL OF REPORTING LOCATION OF DISCLOSURE STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART I: PROFILE DISCLOSURES 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). About Our Report 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can About Our Report significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the From Our CEO organization. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations About Our Report applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Sustainability Strategy substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 2. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such reAbout Our Report 2.1 Name of the organization. Organization Profile statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Who We Are 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. About Our Report 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main Who We Are 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. GRI Content Index divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. We choose to review our report content internally as 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. Who We Are opposed to engaging an external auditor. 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names Who We Are 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENT of countries with either major operations or that are specifically 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific Governance relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Organization Profile 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. Matt LeBaron, managing director at American Securities, 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, Who We Are serves as Fairmount Minerals' Board Chairman. and types of customers/beneficiaries). 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance Governance 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Who We Are; Organization Profile; Prosperity body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, We do not have any significant changes to report. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. Stakeholder Engagement structure, or ownership. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including All Fairmount Minerals non-union employees, including 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Awards and Recognition departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance). senior managers and executives, may be eligible for bonus compensation based on business metrics and 3. REPORT PARAMETERS the completion of our annual Bold Goals for sustainable 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information About Our Report development. provided. 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Governance 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). May 1, 2012 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and Governance 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Annual its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. sustainability@fmsand.com 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, Governance and social performance and the status of their implementation. 3.5 Process for defining report content. The following topics have been deemed material by our stakeholders for this reporting period: Employment; 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, Message from our President; Sustainability Strategy Training and Education; Occupational Health and environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with Safety; Community; Materials Stewardship; Economic internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Performance; Energy; Water; Biodiversity; Emissions, 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 2012 Performance Effluents and Waste; and Transport. These topics are environmental, and social performance. discussed at length throughout the report, and carry equal weight of importance. Our process for identifying 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. Sustainability Strategy and engaging with stakeholders can be found in the 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement section of the report. subscribes or endorses. 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, This report covers Fairmount Minerals’ global operations 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which Stakeholder Engagement leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary and all its subsidiaries in the United States, Mexico, the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive Protocol for further guidance. Denmark and China. funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 45 “Advancing the Conversation” 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 46 PROFILE LEVEL OF LEVEL OF DISCLOSURE DISCLOSURE REPORTING LOCATION OF DISCLOSURE G3.1 MMSS DMAS DISCLOSURE REPORTING LOCATION OF DISCLOSURE 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Stakeholder Engagement ASPECTS Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Ethics and Diversity 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Stakeholder Engagement ASPECTS Security practices — 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. Stakeholder Engagement ASPECTS Indigenous rightsCOMM — 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to Stakeholder Engagement ASPECTS Assessment Ethics and Diversity those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. ASPECTS Remediation Ethics and Diversity DMA SO DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH SO LEVEL OF ASPECTS Local communities Sustainability Strategy; Social Responsibility G3.1 MMSS DMAS DISCLOSURE REPORTING LOCATION OF DISCLOSURE ASPECTS Artisanal and small-scale mining Economic Impacts STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH (DMAS) ASPECTS Resettlement Stakeholder Engagement; Economic Impacts DMA EC DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH EC ASPECTS Closure planningCOMM Sustainability Strategy; Economic Impacts ASPECTS Economic performance Economic Impacts ASPECTS Grievance mechanisms and procedures Stakeholder Engagement ASPECTS Market presence Economic Impacts ASPECTS Emergency PreparednessCOMM Sustainability Strategy; Social Responsibility ASPECTS Indirect economic impacts Economic Impacts ASPECTS Corruption Ethics and Diversity DMA EN DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH EN ASPECTS Public policy Stakeholder Engagement ASPECTS Materials Land Restoration ASPECTS Anti-competitive behavior Ethics and Diversity ASPECTS Energy Energy and Climate Change ASPECTS Compliance Ethics and Diversity ASPECTS Water Clean Water DMA PR DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH PR ASPECTS Biodiversity Land Restoration ASPECTS Materials stewardship Recover, Recycle, Reuse; Sustainable Value Chain ASPECTS Emissions, effluents and wasteCOMM Energy and Climate Change ASPECTS Customer health and safety Innovation ASPECTS Products and services Sustainability Strategy ASPECTS Product and service labelling Innovation ASPECTS Compliance Environmental Management ASPECTS Marketing communications Innovation ASPECTS Transport Sustainable Value Chain ASPECTS Customer privacy ASPECTS Overall Environmental Management ASPECTS Compliance Innovation DMA LA DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH LA ASPECTS EmploymentCOMM Exceptional Workplace LEVEL OF ASPECTS Labor/management relationsCOMM Exceptional Workplace INDICATOR DISCLOSURE REPORTING LOCATION OF DISCLOSURE ASPECTS Occupational health and safetyCOMM Safety STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ASPECTS Training and education Training and Education ECONOMIC ASPECTS Diversity and equal opportunity Ethics and Diversity ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ASPECTS Equal remuneration for women and men Exceptional Workplace; Ethics and Diversity EC1COMM Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee Economic Impacts; Social Responsibility DMA HR DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH HR compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. ASPECTS Investment and procurement practices Sustainable Value Chain EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate Sustainability Strategy ASPECTS Non-discrimination Ethics and Diversity change. ASPECTS Freedom of association and collective bargaining Ethics and Diversity EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. Exceptional Workplace ASPECTS Child labor Ethics and Diversity EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. We do not receive significant financial assistance from local or federal governments. 47 “Advancing the Conversation” 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 48 LEVEL OF LEVEL OF INDICATOR DISCLOSURE REPORTING LOCATION OF DISCLOSURE INDICATOR DISCLOSURE REPORTING LOCATION OF DISCLOSURE MARKET PRESENCE MM2 The number and percentage of total sites identified as requiring biodiversity management plans All Fairmount mining operations have a complete (or are in the process according to stated criteria, and the number (percentage) of those sites with plans in place. of completing) site restoration plan, which include invasive species EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant Our standard entry level wage meets, or exceeds, local minimum wage inventories and biodiversity impact assessments. Currently, 13 of our locations of operation. requirements at all Fairmount Minerals locations. facilities are certified Wildlife at Work or Corporate Lands for Learning by EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of Economic Impacts the Wildlife Habitat Council. operation. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected Land Restoration EC7COMM Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management and workforce hired from the local Economic Impacts by operations, by level of extinction risk. community at significant locations of operation. EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS AND WASTE INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Energy and Climate Change EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public Social Responsibility EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Energy and Climate Change benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. Energy and Climate Change EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Economic Impacts EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. We had no releases in 2012. ENVIRONMENAL EN20COMM NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. We do not have any HAPs emissions to report. MATERIALS EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Land Restoration EN22COMM Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Recover, Recycle, Reuse EN2COMM Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges and their associated risks. ENERGY EN23COMM Total number and volume of significant spills. We do not have any spills to report. EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Energy and Climate Change EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the We do not produce any hazardous waste. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Energy and Climate Change Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. Energy and Climate Change EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats Clean Water; Land Restoration EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in Energy and Climate Change significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff. energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. Energy and Climate Change EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Sustainability Strategy WATER EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Sustainable Value Chain EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Clean Water COMPLIANCE EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Clean Water EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance We comply with all environmental laws and regulations. BIODIVERSITY with environmental laws and regulations. EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high Land Restoration TRANSPORT biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact Sustainability Strategy EN12COMM Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected Sustainability Strategy; Land Restoration mitigation. areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Sustainable Value Chain MM1 Amount of land (owned or leased, and managed for production activities or extractive use) disturbed Land Restoration OVERALL or rehabilitated. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. $627,512 EN13COMM Habitats protected or restored. Land Restoration SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK EN14COMM Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. Sustainability Strategy; Land Restoration EMPLOYMENT LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. Organization Profile, Exceptional Workplace LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. Exceptional Workplace LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, Exceptional Workplace by major operations. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 49 “Advancing the Conversation” 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 50 LEVEL OF LEVEL OF INDICATOR DISCLOSURE REPORTING LOCATION OF DISCLOSURE INDICATOR DISCLOSURE REPORTING LOCATION OF DISCLOSURE LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Exceptional Workplace HR5COMM Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association We do not have any operations in which the right to exercise freedom of and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these association and collective bargaining are at significant risk. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified We follow the minimum notice periods specified by the WARN Act rights. in collective agreements. whenever applicable. CHILD LABOR MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week's duration, by country. We do not have any strikes or lockouts to report. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, We do not have any operations in which child labor presents a significant OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. risk. LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety Safety PREVENTION OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or We do not have any operations in which forced or compulsory labor LA7COMM Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related Safety compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory presents a significant risk. fatalities by region and by gender. labor. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce Health and Wellness SECURITY PRACTICES members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of We do not employ any security personnel. LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Safety human rights that are relevant to operations. TRAINING AND EDUCATION INDIGENOUS RIGHTS LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. Training and Education MM5 Total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to Indigenous Peoples' territories, and number and We do not operate on or adjacent to indigenous peoples' territories. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees Training and Education percentage of operations or sites where there are formal agreements with Indigenous Peoples' communities. and assist them in managing career endings. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. We do not have any incidents to report. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. Training and Education ASSESSMENT DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or We do not currently conduct human rights reviews or impact LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to Governance; Exceptional Workplace impact assessments. assessments at our facilities. gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. REMEDIATION EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal We do not currently conduct human rights reviews or impact LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant Our Equal Employment Opportunities policy ensures that we provide assessments at our facilities. locations of operation. equitable pay regardless of gender or other indicators of diversity. SOCIAL: SOCIETY SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS LOCAL COMMUNITIES INVESTMENT AND PROCUREMENT PRACTICES SO1COMM Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts Sustainability Strategy HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses While we do not conduct a specific human rights screening of (MMSS) of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening. significant investment agreements, we do factor social risks into our due SO1 (G3.1) Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and Sustainability Strategy diligence process. Further, we review our suppliers based on a voluntary development programs. sustainable supplier checklist, which includes criteria pertaining to human rights issues. MM6 Number and description of significant disputes relating to land use, customary rights of local We do not have any disputes related to land use to report. communities and Indigenous Peoples. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have undergone One hundred percent of our suppliers are invited to complete a voluntary human rights screening, and actions taken. sustainable supplier checklist, which includes criteria pertaining to MM7 The extent to which grievance mechanisms were used to resolve disputes relating to land use, We do not have any disputes related to land use to report. human rights issues. customary rights of local communities and Indigenous Peoples, and the outcomes. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that We do not provide specific training on policies and procedures ARTISANAL AND SMALL-SCALE MINING are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. concerning aspects of human rights. MM8 Number (and percentage) or company operating sites where artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) We do not operate any artisanal or small-scale mines. NON-DISCRIMINATION takes place on, or adjacent to, the site; the associated risks and the actions taken to manage and mitigate these risks. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. We do not have any incidents of discrimination to report. 51 “Advancing the Conversation” 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 52 LEVEL OF LEVEL OF INDICATOR DISCLOSURE REPORTING LOCATION OF DISCLOSURE INDICATOR DISCLOSURE REPORTING LOCATION OF DISCLOSURE RESETTLEMENT SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY MM9 Sites where resettlements took place, the number of households resettled in each, and how their We do not have any resettlements to report. MATERIALS STEWARDSHIP livelihoods were affected in the process. MM11 Programs and progress relating to materials stewardship. Our sustainable development product charter, which defines criteria CLOSURE PLANNING for assessing environmental and social impacts of our products and processes, includes analysis of raw material inputs. MM10 Number and percentage of operations with closure plans. Sustainability Strategy CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Each Fairmount facility has a unique set of environmental, social and economic impacts on the community that we strive to proactively PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for Innovation address through stakeholder engagement, safety and environmental improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such management plans and sustainable development programs. Based on procedures. our understanding and assessment of site-specific impacts, we do PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health We comply with all product regulations and voluntary codes. not identify any significant negative issues. Should local stakeholders and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. raise an issue related to our operations, we welcome the opportunity to co-create solutions that meet our stakeholders' needs and support our PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING broad organizational objectives. PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant We require and provide Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) to ensure SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual While we have not identified any operations with significant negative products and services subject to such information requirements. employees, customers and emergency personnel have the information negative impacts on local communities. impacts on local communities, we frequently engage with local and procedures necessary for handling or working with substances in a stakeholders through community meetings, open houses and individual safe manner. conversations to understand emerging issues and design relevant PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product We comply with all regulations and voluntary codes concerning product prevention and mitigation plans. and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. and service information and labeling. CORRUPTION PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer We surveyed and held focus groups with customers in 2012, a practice SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. While we do not conduct business unit analysis related specifically to satisfaction. we regularly employ to gauge ongoing satisfaction. Overall feedback was corruption risks, we do incorporate compliance risk assessment as part positive and we are further pursuing issues identified by customers to of our broad risk management processes. find agreeable solutions. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. We do not currently conduct anti-corruption training, but we do provide MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS all Fairmount Minerals family members with a copy of our Code of Ethics, PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, While we do not have a specific program, we ensure that our marketing which outlines our expectations relative to ethical behavior. including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. communications meet all laws, standards and voluntary codes, especially SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. We do not have any incidents to report. as it pertains to sustainability claims. PUBLIC POLICY PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning We comply with all regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. marketing communications. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying. Our participation in public policy development occurs through our involvement with trade associations, including the Industrial Minerals CUSTOMER PRIVACY Association of North America (IMA-NA). PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of We do not have any breaches of customer privacy or data to report. SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related We do not have any political contributions to report. customer data. institutions by country. COMPLIANCE ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the We comply with all laws and regulations concerning the provision and SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and We do not have any legal issues to report. provision and use of products and services. use of products and services. their outcomes. COMPLIANCE SO8COMM Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance We comply with all relevant laws and regulations. with laws and regulations. 53 “Advancing the Conversation” 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 54 FAIRMOUNT MINERALS, LTD. 8834 MAYFIELD ROAD CHESTERLAND, OHIO 44026 THIS REPORT IS PRINTED ON MOHAWK OPTIONS PC 100 TRUE WHITE 80C AND 80T, WHICH CONTAINS 100% POST-CONSUMER WASTE FIBER. THESE PAPERS ARE CERTIFIED BY GREEN SEAL AND SMARTWOOD IN ACCORDANCE WITH FSC STANDARDS, AND MANUFACTURED WITH WINDPOWER. REPORT IS PRINTED WITH SUPERIOR SUPER INK, 25-30% VEGETABLE BASE. FSC LOGO
