UNGC 2013 Statement of Support Arrow Electronics is a changing company in a changing world. In an environment of enormous transformative We joined the UNGC in 2012. Our Corporate power and remarkable speed, Arrow partners with Social Responsibility (CSR) Director works the greatest innovators of our time, and guides across the company to articulate and pursue them to a better tomorrow. To do this, we work in a social responsibility, sustainability and external world that doesn’t quite exist yet – the world of Five relations strategies across the company. The Years Out. CSR director also establishes partnerships with the non-profit sector and communities where Five Years Out is a community of builders, Arrow operates to drive innovation forward. designers, engineers and imaginers who navigate the path between what’s possible …and what’s But it’s not the job of just one person. We are practical. addressing the 10 Principles across our company – in Human Resources, Business Continuity, At Arrow, we focus on how electronics can improve Compliance, Facilities, Operations and more. lives and make the world a better place – safer, cleaner, smarter, and more productive. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual But our commitment to innovation is not limited to submission of a Communication on Progress electronics. Devices alone won’t make a difference (COP) report that describes our company’s if we don’t pay attention to the contexts in which efforts to promote the ten principles. In this they are created, sold and used. That’s why Arrow report – Arrow’s second Communication on is a member of the UN Global Compact. Progress – we recount the annual goals we established for ourselves and the progress we We are committed to upholding the 10 principles of have achieved, as well as provide vignettes sustainability and social responsibility that make up describing how we are reaching our goals. the UNGC’s strategic framework. We incorporate them in our daily operations around the globe and By doing so, Arrow is doing its part to realize the across dozens of industries. The Global Compact UNGC’s vision of a sustainable, inclusive and and its principles are part of Arrow’s global growing global economy that will benefit us all. strategy, culture, and day-to-day operations. Michael J. Long Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer UNGC 2013 Human Rights Section PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Arrow Spotlight: PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Arrow Electronics further believes that human rights are not abuses. limited to operating a fair and open workplace. That’s why we take specific measures in the developing world to both to Arrow Electronics always has been committed to human rights widen access to technology and limit the exploitation of and maintains channels so that any concerns can be addressed. impoverished and indigenous peoples due to the illegal Last year’s communication on progress focused on our open disposition of used electronics. door policy and company-wide alert line for raising and addressing concerns. We also restated our resolve to review For a decade, Arrow’s reverse logistics business unit has our practices and procedures to ensure we were upholding our partnered with the Brussels-based non-profit organization commitment against all forms of human rights abuses. Close the Gap. Together, we help to bridge the digital divide by providing high-quality used IT equipment to social, We have formed a team to work on Conflict Minerals, in a medical and educational projects in developing countries, collaborative effort to meet the reporting requirements of the especially in Africa. 2010 Dodd-Frank Act and stop any indirect financing of armed conflicts that are contributing to human rights abuses. We have We clean the hard disks and reconfigure the hardware developed and posted a company policy regarding Conflict before distribution. Close the Gap also provides a support Minerals and are preparing to meet federal reporting and maintenance program to sustain the equipment’s use. requirements in 2014. Close the Gap’s representatives facilitate the distribution of the refurbished equipment to schools, teaching hospitals, In an effort to amplify conflict minerals reporting throughout the research centers and vocational training centers that electronics industry, Arrow offers a database service via educate millions of students and emerging young SiliconExpert, which enables component and product professionals from Ethiopia to Kenya to South Africa. manufacturers to obtain Conflict Minerals information as well as hazardous substance content on all parts in the electronics To date, we have facilitated the donation of more than supply chain. 250,000 refurbished computers with Close the Gap. That’s because we believe that innovation and technology must be This year, Arrow chief executive officer Michael J. Long received at the heart of creating a sustainable and prosperous Africa, the 2013 International Bridge Builders Award from the University while sowing the seeds for a new market on the continent of Denver Korbel Graduate School of International Studies for and reducing the conditions that breed strife and human Arrow’s commitment to global humanitarian efforts. rights abuses. Goals: Arrow will continue to review practices and procedures to fully embed Arrow’s commitment against all human rights abuses. We will continue with our commitment to Conflict Minerals identification. UNGC 2013 Labor Section Environmental Section PRINCIPLE 3: PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Businesses should support a precautionary approach to and the effective recognition of the right to collective environmental challenges; bargaining; PRINCIPLE 8: PRINCIPLE 4: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory responsibility; and labor; PRINCIPLE 9: PRINCIPLE 5: Encourage the development and diffusion of The effective abolition of child labor; and environmentally friendly technologies. PRINCIPLE 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect to We set several environmental goals for this year, and employment and occupation we’re pleased to report we achieved all of them. We worked to strengthen Arrow’s recycling efforts by forming Arrow’s culture and Code of Conduct is very strong Arrow’s “Green Team” and sharing best practices around regarding labor principles. We cover Equal Employment the globe. The new European facility relocation, which Opportunity, Professionalism and Harassment, as well as we highlighted as an opportunity to reduce our energy Global Diversity and Inclusion. We conduct yearly consumption indeed did, a 29% decrease over the last 5 training on professionalism in the workplace and require months. We continued to expand our usage of LED annual commitments to our Code of Conduct. Our open lighting, especially in our warehouse facilities. Lastly, we door policy, training and development program, increased our certifications for ISO 14001, OHSAS performance management and career and talent 18001, R2, and RIOS as targeted. systems all support these principles from the top down. Furthermore, Arrow’s global transportation fleet consists The prohibition of compulsory and child labor has always of approximately 400 vehicles. We have been lowering been Arrow’s practice, but we decided to expressly state our carbon output through the fleet since 2009 by it by adding it to our Company Code of Conduct in May utilizing more fuel-efficient vehicles and reducing our of this year. We are committed to providing our work fleet size. As a result, we attained a 40% reduction in force around the globe with freedom of association and carbon footprint this past year. In Europe, our company with an environment free of discrimination. Arrow cars must meet certain emissions standards and a formal succeeded this year in our goal of establishing a global policy outlines these requirements. human resources information system. Workday provides a single system of employee records for consistent and Goals: accurate reporting of employee information globally. Arrow’s “Green Team” will make measurable progress in Goals: the areas of recycling and emissions. We are working towards our overall carbon footprint baseline, with initial In 2014, Arrow will commence the creation of a global emphasis on North America in 2014 and consideration on-boarding program that reinforces these principles. for expanding on a global basis. In 2014, an executive team will develop company-wide sustainability goals. UNGC 2013 Arrow Environmental Spotlight: This summer, Arrow Electronics and the Basel Action Network (BAN) launched a three-year partnership that raises the bar for electronics recycling worldwide. Under the new agreement, all of Arrow’s electronics recycling and IT asset recovery operations will be certified to the e-Stewards® standard established by BAN. BAN is a non-governmental organization focused on reducing the illegal trade and dumping of electronic waste. The partnership with Arrow extends the e-Stewards program not only across North America but also into Europe and Latin America. Arrow will be the first global eStewards recycler taking the program to all of its facilities in multiple continents, including nine processing facilities in the United States, six in Europe and one in Brazil. Arrow’s value recovery business provides specialized management of reverse material streams, IT asset recovery and remarketing services that enable technology users to uncover opportunities for greater efficiencies and value capture at the end of the IT product lifecycle. Arrow also held electronics donation events in North America to promote responsible e-waste handling. At one such event in Denver, nearly 1,300 people delivered and donated more than 154,000 pounds of electronic devices. Items collected included computer hardware and peripherals, home-office machines, mobile devices, televisions, gaming equipment and small appliances. The collected devices were recycled, and some of the items refurbished and donated to charity. UNGC 2013 Anti-Corruption Section PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. As a company, we are committed to operating with the Arrow Spotlight: highest standards of integrity and ethics and observing the laws and regulations, which govern our operations in Arrow Electronics extended a required online training program in every country where we do business. Our reputation 2013 on anti-corruption laws. All active employees had to rests on Arrow’s unwavering commitment to the highest complete the tutorial and correctly answer test questions. The training was created for Arrow to explain anti-corruption ethical standards. laws around the world and present scenarios that employees might face on a global basis. To that end, Arrow has introduced its Business Partner Code of Conduct (COC) in 2013. This policy ensures that Our Global Anti-Bribery & Corruption course was created to any third parties that we engage to act on our behalf do deliver rock solid content, establish a culture of compliance and the same. integrity, and reduce law and policy violations. Some of the topics covered in our courses include but not limited to: “All vendors, contractors, consultants, agents, sub-contractors and other providers of goods and services as well as customers  Fundamentals of Arrow’s policies on anti-bribery and (“Business Partners”) are expected to sign off on the Business corruption and the law Partner Code of Business Conduct. This contains the  Overview of gifts, hospitality and reimbursement of requirement to comply with all applicable laws, ensure business expenses professionalism in the workplace, maintain fair labor practices,  Improper payments under the law protect human rights, and the ability for confidential reporting  Consequences for violating law or Arrow policy through Arrow’s Alert Line. If a Business Partner has a Code of  Spotting and reporting conduct that may violate law or Conduct that is substantially similar to Arrow's we do not require policy them to sign Arrow's COC. All our contracts include a provision  Importance of seeking guidance and asking questions that the partner will abide by the all laws and specifically contain  Importance of maintaining accurate books and provisions addressing anti-bribery. The agreement of our records partners to comply with the Business Partner Code of Business  Spotting common red flags and suspicious activity Conduct and anti-bribery and anti-corruption contractual  Prohibition against retaliation provisions, assures alignment throughout the supply chain with these important principles. The program is divided into several sections that must be completed correctly in order. Each section includes a brief video We have also expanded our internal anti-bribery training with actors performing scenes that depict hypothetical situations initiatives with additional online training as well as a live question where corrupt business behavior or bribery solicitations occur. and answer session in Asia.” After watching the video, the employ must correctly answer a series of online questions in order to move onto the next section of the training. Wrong answers prompt a review of the material Goals: and the questions are posed again. For example, one video shows managers under pressure to Arrow plans to participate in an industry due diligence secure new business. They struggle whether to hire a local platform that will enable the shared collection and agent in a foreign country– and who happens to have important processing of information from third parties (potential government connections to help secure new business because Business Partners), by platform participants. This will be “that’s how it’s done there.” Local agents often are instrumental a streamlined due diligence process. This will also in breaking into new markets. Arrow employees were tested on provide us with the opportunity to train our vendors on how to recognize and avoid instances where local relationships cross ethical and legal lines. anti-corruption. In addition, we plan to continue training around the world, especially with newly acquired companies. We plant to refresh vignettes on anti-bribery training to keep our employees engaged and updated on current trends and new areas of concerns.
