UNGC index January 11, 2013 As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), PepsiCo is committed to supporting the Compact's 10 principles on human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption in our everyday business operations. For more details on our activities please see our website. Message from PepsiCo’s Chairman & Chief Executive Officer PepsiCo is proud to support the UN Global Compact and its ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment and anti-corruption. PepsiCo is guided by Performance with Purpose, our promise to deliver sustained, financial performance by providing a wide range of foods and beverages for local tastes and needs; by finding innovative ways to cut costs and minimize impact on the environment through energy and water conservation and reduction of packaging volume; by providing a safe and inclusive workplace for our employees globally; and by respecting, supporting and investing in the local communities where we operate. Our annual Communication on Progress demonstrates our continued support of the Global Compact. Thank you for the opportunity to participate. Indra K. Nooyi UNGC Principles Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. PepsiCo is committed to compliance with applicable laws and regulations and doing the right thing consistently, without compromise. Our Human Rights Workplace Policy, available in over 40 languages, seeks to ensure a work environment that is free from all forms of discrimination, and where people feel comfortable and respected. Human rights policy violations can be reported to Human Resources, the PepsiCo Law Department or by using a confidential program called Speak Up where associates can raise questions or concerns by phone or Internet. We are a charter endorser of the Sullivan Principles, whose goals are to support economic, social and political justice by companies where they do business, to support human rights and to encourage equal opportunity at all levels of employment. In 2006, PepsiCo 1 certified to requesting entities that its policies reflect the fair employment standards embodied in the MacBride Principles of fair employment. To learn more about key areas please see our website: Values, Philosophy and Guiding Principles Code of Conduct Human Rights Human Rights Workplace Policy Corporate Policies Supplier Code of Conduct Labor standards 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our first priority as a company is the safety, health and well-being of our associates around the world. We provide competitive pay and a full range of benefits to help associates live healthier, balance work and family, and build a secure financial future. We are also continually working across our businesses to prevent occupational injuries and illnesses, striving for an incident-free workplace. We deal fairly and honestly with our associates regarding wages, benefits and other conditions of employment, and recognize our associates right to freedom of association. We do not use compulsory or child labor. We do not tolerate discrimination, and we work to ensure equal opportunity for all associates. We are committed to compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and other employment standards, wherever we operate or work. We encourage our partners, suppliers, contractors and vendors to support these policies, and we place substantial value on working with others who share our commitment to human rights. To learn more about key areas please see our website: PepsiCo Policies Diversity and Inclusion Health and Safety Development and Learning Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. PepsiCo is fully committed to protecting the earth's natural resources through innovation and the efficient use of land, energy, water and packaging in all our operations. We rely on the earth's natural resources every day and as we grow our businesses in developed countries and expand in developing and emerging countries, we strive to use only methods and tools that are scientifically proven, socially responsible and economically sound. Our environmental sustainability efforts are primarily focused on 2 water, climate change, agriculture and packaging areas that are critical to our business and where we believe we can make the biggest impact. To learn more about key areas please see our website: Environmental Sustainability Water Packaging and Waste Minimizing Waste Climate Change Agriculture Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. PepsiCo has strict corporate standards that govern our operations and ensure accountability for our actions. We believe that operating ethically and with integrity means compliance with the laws and regulations that impact our business worldwide. It also means adhering closely to our policies including a Global Anti-Bribery Compliance Policy, Global Code of Conduct, Worldwide Gifts Policy and Travel and Entertainment Policy. To learn more about key areas please see our website: Corporate Policies PepsiCo Human Rights Policies (including Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) Anti-Bribery, Commercial Bribery and Business Gifts) Speak Up Hotline <end> 3
