United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), being the world’s largest voluntary global social responsibility initiative, has garnered the interest of Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd to take part in its efforts and exclamation. Having pledged and attached to obligatory requirements in alignment of the UNGC’s ten universal principles, our company has conducted our daily business and operation with great care and commitment so that it is in accordance to human rights, labour rights, environmental sustainability and anti-corruption principles as stipulated by UNGC. Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses, assessment, policy and goals Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd, as a company, relates to and respects United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) human rights’ principles, conducts and implements our business practices and operation in a manner that complies with the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. We believe that in our involvement in the service and consulting industry, we always adhere to “people always comes first” concept. Our clientele encompasses both local and international audience. Thus, considerations and details are looked into meticulously especially that of sensitive sentiments such as culture, traditions and customs of our clients in every business engagement. Our attention range is not limited to our clients only but is extended to our staff as well. We view our staff as our company’s assets and treasure each and every individual equally. We respect and practice equality of rights during recruitment and as well as in employment. We believe in a strong sense of belonging and promote inclusivity among our employees. The employeremployee relationship likens to that of the nation-citizen relationship in which a strong attachment within staff towards the company is needed in a positive working environment. 1) Race, colour, religion, politics At Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd, everyone is welcomed regardless of race, colour, religion and even political beliefs. Considerations and decisions pertaining hiring, promotion, remuneration or dismissal of staff is based solely on their performance and reputation. Employees are allowed to practise their chosen religion and belief without prejudice. Malaysia’s rich cultural diversity is indeed perceived as one of the splendours living in a multi-cultural society and our employees’ diverse race, colour and religion makes it an even more meaningful experience especially celebrating all the main festivities together. Performance reviews of all staff and rewards, promotions and remunerations are made annually based on merits and discrimination is ultimately absent in the process. 2) Gender Public relations is a female-dominated industry and therefore it is a normal scenario to have a higher ratio of women than men working in our company. We believe that in the modern era, both genders are equally capable and competent to excel in their profession and thus stereotypical perceptions of women as weak and men as strong does not exist in our working environment. 3) Physical disabilities The company does not discriminate against physical disabilities. Staff are hired and retained based on their performance. Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd tries to find employment to suit the abilities of all our staff members. In fact, we have employed a person with disability in our payroll. 4) Workshops and training Upholding to the company’s motto of “Responsibility, Relationship and within Reach”, we possess the sense of responsibility to develop our staff’s skills and knowledge. Public relations is a challenging industry and it evolves along with modernisation. Thus, we need to constantly equip and train our staff with skills and knowledge relevant to the needs of the current market. Workshops and trainings serve as a platform for them to gain the skills and knowledge required of that certain era. 5) Annual Leave The company grants staff a total of 8 days of paid annual leave for the employment period of less than 2 years; 12 days for 2 years or more but less than 5 years and 16 days for our staff who have been employed for 5 years as stipulated by the Malaysian Labour Law. Staff are also given rights to all national and state public holidays. The company believes strongly in the Code of Conduct and will carry out investigations if they have been violated in any manner. Implementation Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd is part of United Nations Global Compact which has a comprehensive Code of Conduct which includes policies with regards to human rights. The company’s employees are introduced and informed of the Code of Conduct upon employment through the provided Employee’s Handbook and are advised to report any abuses straight to the administration executive or CEO. Measurement and outcomes Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd has never been charged with any legal action pertaining to human rights violations or any of the principles as stipulated by the UN Global Compact. Upon employment, all Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd’s staff would have read and understood the code of conduct and shall be required to hand in signed copies of the acknowledgment and acceptance of the code of conduct to our administration executive upon report of duty. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd respects the rights of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining. Being a small company, Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd treats each and every member of the company as family members and believe that close relationship within and outside of the working environment is needed to inculcate strong teamwork within our cluster. Being a small company, there are no unions and there have been no complaints against the company in this area. Measurement and outcomes The company will continue to monitor the progress of the matter. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd does not employ or condone to any form of forced or compulsory labour. In line with the group’s motto, “Responsibility, Relationship and within Reach”, we believe in “people” values and thus to maintain good rapport among the employer and staff, we have always placed great emphasis on respect and attention towards our employees. Employees are provided the freedom to choose career development plans that best suit them. With our assistance through training and programmes drafted to enhance their skills and knowledge for the job, employees are free to determine the career path that they wish to seek from Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd. However, we are mindful that our company can become associated with forced labour through our business links with contractors and suppliers. We have to be more aware of the forms and causes of forced labour, as well as how it might occur in different industries. Measurement and outcomes The company will be more cautious about labour practices of our associates and make them aware of our own principles in this regard. Implementation Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd will constantly communicate to contractors and suppliers with regard to our stand against forced or compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd does not practice any form of child labour. We believe that children are our future and any form of child labour puts a child at risk of danger and deprives a child of his/her basic human rights including the right to an education and future. The Children and Young Persons (Employment) Act of Malaysia prohibits the employment of children younger than the age of 14. As an internal rule we do not employ anyone below the age of 17. However, we are mindful that our company can become associated with child labour through our business links with contractors and suppliers. We have to be more aware of the forms and causes of child labour, as well as how it might occur in different industries. Measurement and outcomes Our company do not employ children and the under aged. Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd will continue to employ the minimum age and qualification requirement when recruiting. Implementation We will communicate to suppliers, contractors and partners with regards to child labour policies and will constantly monitor them in this regard. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation As an extension to human rights under principle 1, Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd does not discriminate in respect of employment and occupation. We stand firm on our company’s principle that happy staff will create a conducive working environment at the office which will at the same time enhances productivity and ensure business prosperity. Thus, at Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd, we strongly oppose the practise of distinction, exclusion or preference made on other grounds (race, religion, gender, personal connections, etc). Our employees possess equal opportunities and infringements of their basic human rights are by all the means avoided. In return, their hard work and timely effort will enable positive development for the good of the company as well as the society. Equality of rights and treatment as well as rewards provided by the company motivates them to produce work of better quality at the same time developing their own selves to become better persons. Implementation 1. Human Capital development Human resource is developed via seminars, lectures and workshops that address all the employees or specific groups within the company. Trainings include functional and personal development training. The company encourages inter-disciplinary learning to further develop human capital in the office either through formal training or through work projects. 2. Performance review An all-year round assessment and observation of each individual staff is carried out by the CEO alongside the administration executive to assess employees’ performance and development. 3. Health insurance 100% of our employees receive social security benefits provided by the state and the company in accordance to the law of Malaysia. In addition, the company pays for and covers all employees with additional medical insurance which covers clinical visitations and hospitalisation. 4. Employees’ welfare The company believes in the well being of the staff. This builds rapport among employees. Close rapport among employers and employees provides sense of attachment and inclusion towards the company within employees. To date, we have no incidents of violations of labour principles including that in the area of discrimination. There have been no complaints, investigations or any legal cases against Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd. Measurement of outcomes In 2013, the company will continue to review the current situation and note of any areas for improvement with regards to staff working conditions and morale. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Our company specialises in providing Public Relations-related services such as reputation management, investor relations, crisis communication, corporate responsibility, branding and many others. However, due to the demanding needs and requirements of a greener Earth, our company foresees the need to extend our service in the cause through providing green consulting as well as one of our offered services. Along with our German partner, we have branched out into the sector of renewable energy. We have ventured into the market as solar PV (photovoltaic) system and as engineering, procurement, and construction service provider in the solar energy space. Apart from that, we also recognise the importance of implementation through daily practices towards creating a sustainable environment. We target to reduce direct impact on the environment and play our role diligently to save mother Earth. Implementation Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd strives hard in helping to create a paperless working environment. Our employees constantly practise to minimise the usage of paper in our daily transactions. The company also promotes the culture of paper recycling among our staff. Apart from that, our business venture within the area of green technology serves as a testimonial of our support towards the global call for sustainable environment. Instead of promoting the cause for a greener Earth only within our own company’s cluster, we also extend the cause towards our clients via green consulting. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd upholds this principle greatly and is non-tolerant towards corruption. In the Global Code of Conduct, there are 2 chapters that address this principle, namely i) “Gifts and Inducements” and ii) “Improper Payments”. Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd works very closely with our clients and suppliers. Therefore, the risk of corruption among our employees with clients and suppliers is zero. Apart from that, the fact that our company practices segregation of duties eliminates potential areas of corruption. Implementation Internally, we constantly check and monitor all of our business transactions. Our records are maintained with proper supporting documents and filed accordingly for ease of reference. This information is checked and controlled by our finance and administration executives. Measurement of outcomes To date, there is no report of incidents of corruption within Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd. Our accounts are subjected to statutory external audit (Sam and Co) annually. These audits are one of the methods of identifying any suspicious payments which could be related to bribery or corrupt behavior. No reports of malpractices have been made since our company’s establishment. In addition, we have an external consultant that reviews and check our internal control system on a monthly basis and Russ Consulting Sdn Bhd is happy to announce that to date, there is no item highlighted by the external party in their risk assessment. The external consultant reports directly to the CEO and CFO, in their monthly reviews of our internal controls.
