ETIKET NEST NIGERIA LTD RC.982623 1.1.2013 2, United Nations Plaza, New York, NY 10017, USA. Dear Sir/Madam UN Global Compact CEO Statement of Commitment ETIKET NEST NIGERIA ETIKET NEST NIGERIA LTD is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. We hereby reaffirm our commitment to the principles of the Global Compact, we have embraced its principles and promote corporate social responsibility and community development projects in our communities, and partnership with relevant stakeholders like Junior Chamber International Warri, Nigeria to promote its ideals. We have attached our communication of progress covering from November, 2011 to December 2012. Sincerely yours, Fakpor, Richmond Miller Irikefe CEO/Managing Director 98 Airport Road, Warri, Delta State, Nigeria. 234-8034014678 info@etiketnest.com www.etiketnest.com UN GLOBAL COMPACT Communication of Progress (COP) ETIKET NEST NIGERIA LTD 98 Airport Road, Warri, Delta State, Nigeria. 234-8034014678 info@etiketnest.com www.etiketnest.com The period covered by our Communication of Progress (COP) is from November, 2011 to December, 2012. Etiket Nest Nigeria Limited has entrenched the principles of the Global Compact in the core values of the company. We also partnered with the Junior Chamber International (JCI) Warri, Nigeria to promote the principles and also embark on an empowerment programme for 100 indegent persons in Warri to train them various skills for work life along the lines of building sustainable solutions in the community. Human Rights Principles Etiket Nest Nigeria upholds and supports the respect for human rights in the work place. We believe that our human resources is pivot to our continued business hence we treat them with respect and dignity. Assessment, Policy and Goals This policy is entrenched in our employee handbook. We also require our vendors, supplier and business partners to adhere to these principles. Implementation We have in place suggestion boxes at our office location and any other operational field we find ourselves. We have also put in place awareness training for employees on human rights and civic training. We do wide consultation with stakeholders and affected parties to resolve issues. 98 Airport Road, Warri, Delta State, Nigeria. 234-8034014678 info@etiketnest.com www.etiketnest.com Measurement of Outcomes We have in place suggestion boxes at our office location and any other operational field we find ourselves. We have also put in place awareness training for employees on human rights and civic training. We do wide consultation with stakeholders and affected parties to resolve issues. Labour Principles We promote freedom of association and recognize the rights of workers. We allow for periodic reviews of the condition of service through collective bargaining. We do not condone child labor. We also do not discriminate against employees. Our employment is merit driven. Assessment, Policy and Goals We have entrenched freedom of association and collective bargaining in our employee handbook. We also require from our vendors, suppliers and partners to do same. Implementation We have in place suggestion boxes at our office location and any other operational field we find ourselves. We have also put in place awareness training on labor rights and civic policy. We do wide consultation with stakeholders and affected parties to resolve issues. Measurement of Outcomes We have in place suggestion boxes at our office location and any other operational field we find ourselves. We have also put in place awareness training on labor rights and civic policy. We do wide consultation with stakeholders and affected parties to resolve issues. Environmental Principles 98 Airport Road, Warri, Delta State, Nigeria. 234-8034014678 info@etiketnest.com www.etiketnest.com We support precautionary approaches to environmental challenges. We have undertaken initiatives to promote environmental responsibility. Assessment, Policy and Goals This policy is entrenched in our employee handbook. We also require our vendors, supplier and business partners to adhere to these principles. Implementation We have in place suggestion boxes at our office location and any other operational field we find ourselves. We have also put in place awareness training on environmental efficiency and energy usage. We do wide consultation with stakeholders and affected parties to resolve issues. Measurement of Outcomes We have in place suggestion boxes at our office location and any other operational field we find ourselves. We have also put in place awareness training on environmental efficiency and energy usage. We do wide consultation with stakeholders and affected parties to resolve issues. Anti-Corruption We vehemently work against corruption in all forms We uphold the highest standards of integrity in our operations and do not compromise on it. Assessment, Policy and Goals This policy is entrenched in our employee handbook. We also require our vendors, supplier and business partners to adhere to these principles. Implementation 98 Airport Road, Warri, Delta State, Nigeria. 234-8034014678 info@etiketnest.com www.etiketnest.com We have in place reporting system to handle complaint boxes at our office location and any other operational field we find ourselves. We have a zero tolerance for corruption in all our dealings. We have introduced external audit of anti-corruption programmes. Measurement of Outcomes We have in place reporting system to handle complaint boxes at our office location and any other operational field we find ourselves. We have a zero tolerance for corruption in all our dealings. We have introduced external audit of anti-corruption programmes. Conclusion We will continue to partner with the Junior Chamber International (JCI) Warri, Nigeria to promote the principles of the Global Compact in the coming years. Prepared by; Fakpor, Richmond Miller Chairman/CEO 1st January, 2013 98 Airport Road, Warri, Delta State, Nigeria. 234-8034014678 info@etiketnest.com www.etiketnest.com Environmental Policy Statement This is the Environmental Policy of ETIKET NEST NIGERIA LIMITED; ETIKET NEST NIGERIA LIMITED is committed to minimising the impact of its activities on the environment. The key points of its strategy to achieve this are:  Minimise waste by evaluating operations and ensuring they are as efficient as possible.  Minimise toxic emissions through the selection and use of the source of its power requirement.  Actively promote recycling both internally and amongst its customers and suppliers.  Source and promote a product range to minimise the environmental impact of both production and distribution.  Meet or exceed all the environmental legislation that relates to the Company.  Use accredited products that are eco-friendly. Approved by; Richmond Miller Chairman/CEO 1st January, 2013 98 Airport Road, Warri, Delta State, Nigeria. 234-8034014678 info@etiketnest.com www.etiketnest.com Quality Policy Statement This is the Quality Policy of ETIKET NEST NIGERIA LIMITED;  ETIKET NEST NIGERIA LIMITED is dedicated to ensuring that all products and services fully meet or exceed customer requirements. The goal of the company is to achieve a high level of customer satisfaction at all times through our commitment to providing high level of personal service and our desire to exceed customer’s expectations sets us apart from our competition.  ETIKET NEST NIGERIA LIMITED we recognise that quality is everyone’s responsibility, by making quality each employee’s responsibility through an ongoing training and staff development programme, we create the open environment necessary for all employees to play an active part in our Quality Management System.  Objectives needed to ensure that customer requirements are met and continual improvement is maintained in line with the spirit of the policy, will be set, determined and monitored at Management Review meetings. Our processes are continually monitored and continually improved to create a more efficient and productive environment.  This Policy will be reviewed for suitability during Management Review meetings, on a minimum of an annual basis.  We are committed to ensuring that all our personnel understand and fully implement our Company's policies and objectives, and are able to perform their duties effectively through an ongoing training and development programme.  ETIKET NEST NIGERIA LIMITED. Core Values  Service  Creativity  Result  Integrity  Professionalism  Teamwork Approved by; Richmond Miller Chairman/CEO 1st January, 2013 98 Airport Road, Warri, Delta State, Nigeria. 234-8034014678 info@etiketnest.com www.etiketnest.com Health and Safety Policy Statement This is the Health and Safety Policy of ETIKET NEST NIGERIA LIMITED Our statement of general policy is:  to provide adequate control of the health and safety risks arising from our work activities;  to consult with our employees on matters affecting their health and safety;  to provide and maintain safe plant and equipment;  to ensure safe handling and use of substances;  to provide information, instruction and supervision for employees;  to ensure all employees are competent to do their tasks, and to give them adequate training;  to prevent accidents and cases of work-related ill health;  to maintain safe and healthy working conditions; and  to review and revise this policy as necessary at regular intervals. Approved by; Richmond Miller Chairman/CEO 1st January, 2013 98 Airport Road, Warri, Delta State, Nigeria. 234-8034014678 info@etiketnest.com www.etiketnest.com
