United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 www.arup.com United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2013 Contents −− A. Introduction 1 −− B. Human Rights 4 −− C. Labour 8 −− D. Environment 13 −− E. Anti-Corruption 20 −− F. Development, Partnerships, Community −− Engagement and Arup International Development 23 Attachments −− 1. Key Speech −− 2. Global Human Rights Code of Practice −− 3. Global Harassment Code of Practice & UK Local Procedure −− 4. Global Health & Safety Policy −− 5. OHSAS 18001:2007 −− 6. UK Disciplinary Procedure −− 7. Corporate Report −− 8. Global Diversity & Inclusion Code of Practice and UK Equal Opportunities Procedure −− 9. Grievance Code of Practice −− 10. Sustainability Procurement Vision Statement −− 11. Sustainability Policy −− 12. Ethics Global Code of Practice / Procedure, Ethical Standards Policy and Ethical Decision Process −− 13. Global Conduct and Performance Code of Practice −− 14. Financial Statements 2012 for OAPIL United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2013 A A: Introduction A Introduction We are an independent firm of designers, planners, engineers, consultants and technical specialists offering a broad range of professional services. Through our work, we make a positive difference in the world. We shape a better world. As part of the requirements of the UN Global Compact, we are required to submit an annual Communication on Introduction to Arup Progress. Arup is the creative force at the heart of many of the We have approached our response in relation to four key world’s most prominent projects in the built environment. areas Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption, and seperate chapters have been created for −− over 10,000 people each of these. In line with the UN’s criteria we have set out our response in terms of Arup’s commitment, systems, −− over 60 years activities and indicators, and supporting documentation is −− projects completed in 160 countries appended. −− over 10,000 concurrent projects As a firm, we have in place a sustainability strategy that sets −− 18 businesses out our sustainability and corporate social responsibility expectations from the top level. This strategy defines our −− over £900m turnover approach and enables us to maintain leadership in this −− trust ownership area. Our sustainability strategy is split into four areas: our business, our people, our facilities and our external We view our challenge as ‘Shaping a Better World’. At the relationships. heart of this is a deep understanding of the issues driving the world’s growing urban environments – from the effects Our corporate report which comprises Arup Group’s of climate change to meeting the needs of a growing performance in finance as well as sustainability shares population. our progress with our external stakeholders. Published annually, the report includes our performance against the Our experience in cities is well established and growing – Global Sustainability KPIs and the targets that have been set from icons like Sydney Opera House to Chinese Eco Cities, going forward. and we are the strategic advisor to the C40 world cities committed to tackling climate change. The indicators used in this Communication on Progress are those that we report on in our corporate report. As a result In 2013, Arup’s influence on the built environment goes of the UNGC we have included additional indicators over far beyond engineering. Our global, multi-disciplinary and above our corporate reporting requirements. consultancy practice delivers everything from traditional management consultancy, to environmental impact assessment, master-planning, and energy strategy services. Our clients range from city governments, to major corporations, international NGOs, utility companies, property developers and architects, and we have been helping local governance organisations deliver sustainable development and regeneration across England for over 60 years. Arup is owned in trust for the benefit of our employees, giving us all a genuine share in our success. Each year Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 1 we set aside 40% of profits to share with our staff – an employee’s share allocation is based on their grade and A better way length of service. Profit share is paid twice a year in addition to salary. The power to influence the future of the built environment carries with it a weighty responsibility. Arup took part in the first Employee Ownership Day on 4 July 2013. Alden Whittaker-Brown (London) joined Jo Many of Arup’s projects leave a legacy to subsequent Swinson, Minister for Employee Relations, and leading generations: a legacy that outlasts any one individual. experts, for a panel debate at the EO Day conference. Vince With over 10,000 projects going on at any one time, Cable, part of the UK ministerial team who visited Arup on Arup is doing the best possible job for current and future this day, said “I hope more businesses give their employees generations. Putting sustainability at the heart of our a greater stake in their future and the success of their work is one of the ways in which Arup exerts a positive company.” influence on the wider world. Put simply, Arup people are driven to find a better way. Arup’s independent ownership structure gives conviction a place in its decision-making, alongside the needs of ““…our lives are inextricably mixed up clients and commercial imperatives. The result is clearwith those of our fellow human beings, sighted, thoughtful decisions about our priorities as a and that there can be no real happiness in business and as a member of society. isolation…” Sir Ove Arup, November 1970 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2013 B B: Human Rights In this section: −− Principle1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights −− Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human Rights Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Commitment Our approach to human rights covers the following areas: • Diversity • Self esteem • Life balance • Fair reward • Effective workplace • Integrity • Personal development • Acting honourably • Social responsibility • Respect Our mission statement “ To shape a better world”. Arup supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and ensures that it is not complicit • To enhance properity and quality of life in human rights abuses. • To deliver real value Our Global Human Rights Code of Practice, states that: • To have the freedom to be creative and learn Arup is founded on the principles of ensuring that our people’s work is interesting, rewarding and stimulated by a Systems drive for excellence in an environment where people’s lives are inextricably linked with those of other human beings. • Key Speech: A guiding principle of the firm is that everyone accords A speech written and delivered by our founder to others the rights that individuals claim for themselves Sir Ove Arup in 1970, that defines who we and accept the moral and humanitarian values that this are, and sets out our core values and guiding embraces. A person cannot be treated just as a link in a principles. The Key Speech is the high-level chain of command but as someone whose happiness and framework that guides appropriate behaviour prosperity is a concern of all. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 4 Arup /Communication on Progress 2013 within the firm. The speech sets out the firm’s Global code of practice Harassment humanitarian attitude which “leads to the Harassment : code of practice creation of an organisation which is human and Purpose friendly in spite of being large and efficient... Arup believes that all employees have a right to be treated with dignity and respect while at this attitude also dictates that we should act work and when representing the company outside of work. The following code of practice informs employees of the type of behaviour that is not acceptable and provides employees who are subjected to harassment with a means of redress without fear of reprisal. honourably in our dealings with our own and other people...Humanitarianism also implies a CODE OF PRACTICE Arup identifies that employees have a right to be treated with dignity and respect. social conscience, a wish to do socially useful Harassment is harmful, unlawful and can reduce the effectiveness of the organisation by undermining the confidence of employees and creating a threatening environment. work, and to join hands with others fighting for Employees have a right to work in an environment, which is free from harassment of any kind. the same values.” The organisation will take positive action to prevent its occurrence. Any complaint will be taken seriously and the necessary resources deployed to investigate and resolve the matter. All employees receive a copy of the key speech Effective date as part of their induction. Please see attachment 1 May 2001 1. Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide. Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 GCP10601 • Disciplinary Procedure: The disciplinary procedure is designed to be • Global Human Rights Code of Practice: supportive and to encourage improvements in individual conduct and performance. Arup’s Global Human Rights Code of Practice Disciplinary action follows for individuals who sets out the firm’s expectation and approach on abuse Arup’s policies and procedures, including human rights. It is available to all staff via the the Global Human Rights Code of Practice, company intranet. Please see attachment 2. and for any “actions which undermine working relationships with colleagues and / or other • Global Harrassment Code of Practice: organisations, or which may compromise our Arup believes that all employees have a right integrity as a firm and our honourable dealings to be treated with dignity and respect while with people. at work and when representing the company • Sustainable Procurement: outside work. The Global Harrassment Code of Practice informs employees of the type of Arup’s commitment to Human Rights in its behaviour that is not acceptable and provides procurement is managed through the sustainable employees who are subjected to harrassment procurement plan which feeds into Arup’s with a means of redress without fear of reprisal. sustainability strategies. The plan is built on six Please see attachment 3. themes which are: • Global Health & Safety Policy: • Environmental management Arup promotes the health and safety at work • Supplier equality and diversity of all employees including temporary and contract staff, and of other persons affected • Support of fair practices in our supply by our actions. The firm has set objectives to base provide health and safety training, specialist advice, information instruction and supervision, • Ethical trading as may be necessary, to personnel at all levels. • Promoting fair employment practices The firm operates within a management system that is registered as meeting the requirements • Community benefits of OHSAS 18001 or equivalent. Please see The plan contains specific categories of goods attachment 4. and services that are defined as priority areas Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 5 through a sustainability risk assessment incorporating these themes. These priority Indicators areas are then managed through individual category plans developed to solely focus on • LA6: We have a pro-active UKMEA Health improving the sustainable procurement of the & Safety Committee which meets every three goods and services. The category plans are months with 23 representatives from across the used to embed our sustainability requirements region and business groups. in our processes for supplier selection, goods/ services specifications, contracts and contract • LA8: We have provided asbestos awareness management. training in the UK to 299 people in the last year. • Accident Incident Rate for 2013: 0 per 1000 The supplier’s sustainability ethos is a key employees. feature within Arup’s tendering process to select responsible suppliers. Furthermore, Arup works • Accident Frequency Rate for 2013: 0 per to engage its suppliers in working together to 100,000 employee hours. deliver improved sustainability performance. • Lost time accidents for 2013: 0 per 100,000 employees. • Arup was awarded the Highways Agency Activities Annual Health and Safety Assessment Certificate 2011/2012. • Communication of Policies and Procedures • Arup was awarded the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply (CIPS)Sustainable All employees are made aware of Arup’s Procurement Review Gold Award. policies and procedures with respect to human rights. All policies are available on Arup’s employee intranet. • Sustainable Procurement Activities Sustainable procurement activities differ depending on the particular features of the goods and/or services purchased within each category. Examples of our activities in this area include: • Working with our catering supplier to source and purchase fair traded catering items such as tea and coffee and verifying the authenticity of the stated certification. • Ensuring the application of the London Living Wage for contracts with our suppliers of on-site services such as catering, cleaning and security. • Reviewing occurrences of anti-competitive practice within our supply base. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 6 Arup /Communication on Progress 2013 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2012 C C: Labour In this section: −− Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining −− Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour −− Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour −− Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Labour Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Commitment Addressing gender imbalance in Arup is our priority in a wider diversity drive. We believe improving gender balance will help us to nurture creativity and innovation, tap Arup is committed to the principles listed above. We hidden capacity for growth and improved competitiveness, recognise that to produce work of high quality, to maintain and positively impact financial performance. Our Diversity our reputation for innovation and creativity and to Champion signed the CEO charter for Women in Science, understand and delight our clients we need to fully embrace Engineering and Technology and our Chairman has signed the skills, talents and knowledge that only a diverse the UN Global Compact CEO Statement of Support for workforce can offer. Women’s Empowerment Principles. We work to ensure that everyone feels that their contribution is valued and their successes are celebrated Our mission statement through our process and through our training and development, which encourages knowledge sharing, intellectual growth and stimulation. “ To shape a better world”. Subject to the relevant laws in the countries where we operate, we fully respect the right of our people to freedom • To enhance properity and quality of life of association and representation. • To deliver real value We aim to ensure that our people have satisfactory wages • To have the freedom to be creative and learn and working conditions and that there is no exploitation of labour. Systems We do not employ individuals that are younger than the legal school leaving age. • Key Speech: We ensure that Arup people work in an environment that is A speech written and delivered by our founder free from all forms of discrimination gender, race, origin, Sir Ove Arup in 1970, that defines who we background, religion, marital status, sexual orientation, are, and sets out our core values and guiding disability or age, and that they are valued as individuals and principles. The Key Speech is the high-level treated with dignity and respect. framework that guides appropriate behaviour Human Rights Labour Environemnt Anti Corruption Development 8 Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 within the firm. One of the six core principles • Equal Opportunities Procedure: is a “humane organisation” which should result in satisfied members. All employees Global and regional equal opportunities receive a copy of the key speech as part of their procedures exist to ensure that employment induction. Please see attachment 1. practices are applied fairly and equally. These procedures cover: recruitment, training, career • Freedom of Association and Representation: development and promotion, pay, selection for redundancy, grievance and monitoring. Arup’s terms and conditions are not governed Every member of Arup has a responsibility to by a collective agreement. uphold our equal opportunities codes of practice in order to ensure that everyone with whom In 1977, the founder of the firm, Sir Ove Arup, we work is treated equally and honourably. gifted the firm to itself, creating a visionary The leaders have a particular responsibility arrangement based on trusts, which are to ensure that grievances are investigated, responsible for the long-term custodianship that confidentiality is maintained and that of the firm for the benefit of past, present and appropriate action is taken. future employees. Membership of the trusts includes past and current employees. As a • Diversity and Inclusion: Code of Practice and self-owning organisation, we have no external UKMEA Diversity Strategy shareholders, which is fundamental to the way we are organised and how we operate. Arup’s global diversity and inclusion code of practice sets out our aim to “recognise and We have developed peer communications respect each others’ differences and strive channels and we have effective formal and to build a working environment where our informal channels between management and different values and perspectives are actively staff. We have in place ‘Airtime’ a UK forum harnessed to create the best solutions for our for communication and consultation. Airtime equally diverse client base”. The diversity and encourages us to influence our internal world, inclusiveness of our workforce is supported by and enables us to work together to provide an our ethics on sustainability and human rights. environment which addresses our personal Arup’s principles of diversity and inclusion and professional aspirations. Meetings are extend to our clients, our suppliers and all held between leadership and elected staff those with whom we choose to work. Our representatives twice yearly. Airtime has a UKMEA region 2012-2014 diversity strategy number of key principles: sets measurable diversity improvement actions for this period which are described below. Refer • Enable leadership and elected staff to our global diversity and inclusion code of representatives to exchange information practice. Please see attachemt 8. and consult on possible changes and draft policies of significance. • Conduct, Performance and Disciplinary Procedure: • Enable ideas to be harvested from the body of the firm through the staff Our global Conduct and Performance Code representatives for the leadership to of Practice provides guidance on the standards consider in making decisions on issues expected from all our members. The firm that significantly affect our professional takes its commitment to equal opportunities lives very seriously. Any acts of discrimination • Improve the flow of information between by its members will result in disciplinary all members of staff. action, including termination of employment if appropriate, in accordance with the firm’s • Corporate Report 2012: disciplinary procedures. Pages 10 and 11 of our corporate report relate • Harassment Procedure: to our being an employer of choice. Our people are essential to us creating a sustainable Global and local harrassment procedures are business. Attracting, nurturing and developing in place. Any complaint of harassment will be the skills of people who share our values is key taken seriously and the necessary resources to the Arup model. Please see attachment 7. deployed to investigate and resolve the matter and take appropriate action. Please see attachment 3. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 9 • Grievance: Code of Practice: diversity improvement actions for each area, which are set out below.This systems approach Arup believes that all its members should to behaviour change will address any barriers have the opportunity to discuss any matter of at all levels of our organisation. The diversity concern with the person to whom they report. strategy is communicated internally through a In most cases employment related matters are variety of channels, including: film, intranet, likely to be resolved informally in this way. If, internal publications, Airtime (our staff forum however, the outcome of informal discussions for communications and consultation). Staff can is unsatisfactory then the issue can be addressed also send emails to diversity@arup.com which through the grievance procedure. For a copy of are published annonymously, to encourage our global Grievance Code of Practice please further communication. see attachment 9. • Inclusive Leaders and Leadership We will equip • Young Workers: our leaders with the skills, knowledge and There are special UK laws to protect the framework to act as role models, be accountable employment rights of young workers (aged 16 for their team’s adoption of diversity practices, to 18) which Arup adheres to. These concern and challenge the status quo. Three key health and safety, what jobs they can do, when ojectives include: introducing a new appraisal they can work, and how many hours they work. system requirement for leaders to seek feedback Arup does not employ young people under the on their ability to lead inclusively (measured age of 16 in line with legislation. by system revision and % of leaders with positive feedback); building on our successful • Apprentices “inclusive leadership” workshops to provide We recruit over ten 16-19 year old apprentices training for all staff (measured by the % of staff in London annually, who complete a three year trained); and addressing areas of leadership vocational training at a London college. We development appropriate for staff from minority support the Fairbridge Programme, which aims populations (measured by completion of needs to get the most vulnerable, workless, 16-25 analysis and demonstrable return on investment year olds into education or work and runs two for attendees). centres in London. Amanda Bailey is our key • My Career at Arup We will ensure that everyone liaison for the Prince’s Trust (the umbrella is empowered to embrace diversity, that all our body for the Fairbridge Programme), which staff are free to express themselves fully and is one of our strategic chartable partners. We that we provide opportunities for networking, have a memorandum of understanding, and and skills and knowledge development. Three an engagement plan, including undertaking key objectives include: encourage informal direct activities with the centres. We also mentoring of minority group staff by suitable provide support through our professional skills role models (measured by % of female and eg we recently developed a visualisation of other minority leaders mentoring); achieve a PT centre, enabling £3.5m of funding to be a gender balance with women as 40% of our obtained from a large corporate sponsor. workforce and 20% of our leadership grades (measured by % achieved); and increase our Activities Connect networks’ activities and expand into each sub region, with four ConnectWomen and three ConnectOut events per year (measured by • Diversity Strategy: number of events). Arup has a global commitment to being an • A Diverse Organisation We will ensure that ‘employer of choice’ manifested in our global our policies, processes and mode of operating diversity policy, action plan and associated is supportive and does not hinder diversity, training. The vision of our diversity steering and that we move towards an organisational group is “to create a work environment based culture where diversity is evident in all we on fairness, respect and merit which embraces do. Two key objectives include: providing difference and enables talented people to guidance and encouragement on how to flourish.” Our UKMEA region 2012-2014 challenge inappropriate behaviour (measured diversity strategy is formulated to deliver this by % minority staff reporting that their leaders vision. The focus of our strategy continues actively discourage inappropriate behaviour); to be in four broad areas and sets measurable and all groups to have a diversity plan for embedding and diversity (measured by % of Human Rights Labour Environemnt Anti Corruption Development 10 Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 groups with plans in place and with evidence). • Sustainable Procurement Vision: • Our Diversity Brand We will achieve Our sustainable procurement vision includes recognised benchmarks and awards, widening creating diversity as an objective. We the recruitment pool, leading by example, and communicate this to new suppliers at tendering meeting clients’ expectations. A key objective is stage and have revised our sourcing practices, to implement a suitable benchmarking process supplier questionnaires, tender scoring criteria / external audit (measured by achieving a level and supplier contracts. We hold supplier which accurately reflects our progress and conferences to inform SME and BME’s about identifies areas for improvement). Arup’s sustainability vision and objectives, and • Flexible Benefits to share best practice. To retain the best staff we offer a strong • ConnectOut: remuneration and benefits package with competitive salaries, profit share payments and ConnectOut is the firm’s lesbian, gay, bisexual a flexible benefits fund to spend on the benefits and transgender (LGBT) network and is open that suit individuals’ requirements. Some of the to all employees (regardless of profession, inclusions in that package are: 22 days holiday position or sex). ConnectOut is supported by plus public holidays. (this increases to 25 days the UKMEA diversity champion, Alan Bellfield after two years service); interest free travel and the UKMEA diversity and inclusion season ticket loan or bicycle loan; free eye-tests steering group and managed by a committee of ;private medical insurance and life and accident volunteers who meet regularly to plan activities insurance. The flexible benefits fund can be and initiatives. Events include: bi-monthly used to buy benefits that suit each employee, or networking opportunities, a panel discussion to can be taken as cash on top of their salary. discuss discrimination in countries Arup works in (Nov 2012) and hosting a second annual • Airtime lecture by Evan Davis on ‘how authenticity breeds success’ (June 2013). ConnectOut has Airtime meetings are held twice yearly as a also set up a new diversity and inclusion rorum forum for elected staff representatives to discuss to host ongoing discussion. internal changes. A record of each meeting is issued to all staff in the form of the Airtime • ConnectWomen: Broadcasts. The broadcasts are intended to engage staff and show them what issues are ConnectWomen is an internal network that being considered. Staff can raise any concerns improves the opportunities for women in or issues they have with their elected regional Arup, to enable them to maximise their valued representative. contribution to the firm, our clients and our industry. The ConnectWomen Network is open • Flexible Working to all Arup employees (regardless of profession, position or sex) who support our aim of We offer enhanced maternity and flexible improving opportunities for women within our working benefits above the statutory industry. Recent events include a Manchester requirements. As a result the number of office informative networking masterclass, a women that took maternity leave and returned London office ‘secrets to career success’ client to work rose from 87% in 2009 to 91% in event (both May 2013), a Newcastle office 2011. We have a flexible working policy that ‘making life happen’ inspirational talk by Shona encourages anyone wishing to work flexibly to Marshall (April 2013), multi office International make a request to their line manager and find Women’s Day events (Mar 2013), and a London a solution that works for them. We also share office panel discussion on the future of work case studies of senior staff who work flexibly (Feb 2013). Recent feedback from the Set Fair to encourage others to do so when this fits their Standard benchmarking process, where we were circumstances. awarded ‘achieving’ status, highlighted our • Female Leaders approach to developing inclusive leaders and the use of ConnectWomen as a tool for bringing We set out annual targets for percentages of about change. women on our boards and we have successfully reached these targets. Our group is holding a series of lunches with women who show high potential, to enocurage networking, familiarity and support. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 11 • ConnectCultures women. This is the new cultural and ethnic diversity • We have three female directors who attend strand in our family of diversity networks. The UKMEA Board meetings. networks aim to foster an inclusive and equal • In 2012 our female graduate intake was 32% opportunity work environment that respects and against an industry average of 23%. Our our individual differences and the value they 2013 intake is currently predicted to reach 36%. can bring to the firm. The first ConnectCultures event, a talk by Areeb Khan on what Ramadam • ‘My Career at Arup’ achieved the target four means to Arup took place this July. ConnectWomen and three ConnectOut events this year. • ‘A Diverse Organisation’ guidance for challenging inappropriate behaviour is in progress. • ‘A Diverse Organisation’ establishment of diversity plans in all groups is in progress. • ‘Our Diversity Brand’ benchmarking process was implemented in March 2013. • Arup was listed in the Times Top 50 Employers for Women 2011 and 2012. • Arup was commended at the 2012 UK WISE Awards WISE Diversity Award for addressing the gender balance in the UK workforce. • Our graduate recruitment team has received bias-awareness training and we have held a female undergraduate event for the last three years, aimed at girls interested in our firm and Indicators industry. In 2012 32% of our graduate intake was female against an applicant pool of 26%. • EC5: Arup does not pay below the minimum We consult with recruitment specialists and the wage. UKRC women returners programme to identify the best way to advertise roles to attract more • ‘Inclusive Leaders and Leadership’ new women. Female staff regularly speak at schools appraisal system requirement for leaders to seek and universities and we participate widely in feedback on their ability to lead inclusively will women focussed industry events. Arup is now be in place, for the first time, for October 2013 one of the first choices for female graduates annual appraisals. in the UK and our efforts for improving our gender balance serve as a model for attracting • ‘Inclusive Leaders and Leadership’ new other groups that are under-represented in the webinar version of “inclusive leadership and industry. working” has been attended by 200 staff. • In the UK Yewande Akinola won the • ‘Inclusive Leaders and Leadership’ needs Association for Black Engineers UK Young analysis of leadership development appropriate BME Engineer Exceptional Achiever Award, for staff from minority populations is currently and was the Institution of Engineering and underway. Technology (IET) Young Woman Engineer of • ‘My Career at Arup’ mentoring of minority the Year Award winner. group staff programme pilot will launch in • Lee Franck, based in London, won the UK September 2013. Royal Academy of Engineering Rising Star • ‘My Career at Arup’ and LA15: 14% of leaders Award. are women, at management (Grades 7-9), in the • Arup was shortlisted for the Leadership UKMEA region, against an industry average of Diversity Award at the 2012 National Business 7.6%. Awards UK, for championing diversity within • Operating in the traditionally male-orientated our industry and commitment to becoming an industry, 28.5% of our UKMEA workforce are employer of choice for women. Human Rights Labour Environemnt Anti Corruption Development 12 Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 • The published results of the 2010 global Arup staff survey showed that 86% of respondents agree that “I feel proud to work for Arup” and 84% of respondents agree that “I would recommend Arup as a place to work.” • As part of the Arup improvement plan, in November 2012 Arup created the global diversity and inclusion mission statement, to cultivate a more diverse and inclusive Arup. This states that “diversity and freedom of thought enhance Arup’s value. They stimulate creativity and robust decision-making resulting in satisfied clients, profitable projects, enthusiastic staff and better strategic agility. We embrace diversity, in all its forms, as a means of broadening perspective and reflecting the communities where we work. We enable our people to achieve their potential by fostering fair, inclusive working environments that are supportive and welcoming to all through value-based policies, talent development and leadership styles.” • In July 2012 Arup signed up to Stonewall’s Diversity Champions Programme, Britain’s good practice employer’s forum on sexual orientation, demonstrating our intention to respect, welcome and support LGBT professionals in our business. • ConnectOut took part in a volunteer project in april 2013, at Alfred Salter Primary School, to provide an outdoor learning environment and support an anti-homophobic bullying campaign. The school has seen extremely positive results in the overall behaviour of the kids not only their increased respect for each other, regardless of race and religion, but also improvement in academic results. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 13 Human Rights Labour Environemnt Anti Corruption Development 14 Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2013 D D: Environment In this section: −− Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges −− Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility −− Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment Our mission statement Sustainability is fundamental to our thinking at Arup, helping us to deliver on our mission ‘to shape a better world”. We are taking steps to minimise the carbon “ To shape a better world”. emissions associated with our operations and will endeavour to prevent pollution within the scope of our • To enhance properity and the quality of life activities. Our offices are the second biggest contributor to • To deliver real value Arup’s carbon footprint, after travel. We are committed to taking a resource efficient, sustainable approach to the way • To have the freedom to be creative and learn we run our offices. Responsibility for our sustainability, at regional board Systems level, is held by Ian Rogers (director). Our foresight and innovation team is dedicated to managing the firm’s global innovation programme, gathering and taking views on • Key Speech: emerging technologies, and sharing these experiences with A speech written and delivered by our founder Arup offices and our clients around the world. Every year Sir Ove Arup in 1970, that defines who we we invest a percentage of our profits to fund this research. are, and sets our our core values and guiding principles. The Key Speech is the high-level As a firm of consultants, the biggest impact we can have on framework that guides appropriate behaviour the environment is through our work with clients. We try to within the firm. Sir Ove Arup, established embed sustainability in everything that we do in the way the firm over 60 years ago with the principles we run our business, our projects, and our physical impacts of ‘total design’ very much at the fore the on the external environment. We help our clients to face the integration of the design process and the challenges of sustainability by investing in our passion for interdependence of all the professions. He turning ideas into tangible tools and methodologies. also championed the social value of innovation and the humanitarian purpose of good design. We extend our influence at every level, from individual Today we understand this as a commitment to buildings and large portofolio owners to cities and sustainability. Please see attachment 1. governments. Through our many partnerships and committee memberships we disseminate best practice • Global Sustainability Strategy sustainable design. We strive to deliver better solutions for our clients and create a lasting and positive legacy for future Our Sustainability Strategy offers a framework generations. that sets out our sustainability expectations from the top levels of the firm. It defines our approach, and it enables us to maintain our position of leadership in this area. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 16 • Corporate Report of the input data so the process is robust and auditable. The software can be used throughout Within our 2012 Corporate Report, we celebrate a project where sustainability appraisal is some of the achievements from turning thought required, from initial design to operation. leadership on sustainability into action, SPeAR® output is available in a range of including a chart reporting on our performance languages including Chinese, German, Italian, against the key performance indicators in Polish and Spanish. our Sustainability Strategy collated from all our regions. Where we measured it, we have included historical data to demonstrate our trend in performance.Please see attachment 7. • Environmental Management System (EMS) A strategic approach has been taken to the implementation of our EMS within Arup. Implementation occurs at the group level, with our offices seeking certification locally to the requirements of ISO 14001:2004. • Risk Assessment Whilst all of the environmental impacts of our activities require management, the assessment of each activity and consequent impact is used as a guide to prioritise action through the EMS. This assessment results in a significance • ASPIRE rating, calculated by considering the likelihood, severity and legal implications. This tool provides organisations with an analytical framework that comprehensively • Audits and Reviews of Sustainability addresses three ‘pillars’ of sustainability, Performance (environment, society, economics) and uniquely recognises institutions as a fourth critical We carry out annual internal system dimension, in developing country contexts. It audits, regular project audits and an annual uses over 90 detailed indicators to ensure that management review to ensure compliance with users ask the right questions and consider all our internal processes and management of our the critical issues. It is built on the SPeAR® environmental aspects.Our environmental audit platform and has been developed by Arup process contributes to ongoing monitoring and International Development in collaboration improvement of environmentally sustainable with Engineers Against Poverty. This tool is performance. currently being used in Nicaragua to assess • SPeAR® the sustainability of a water and sanitation programme, for schools and small towns across Our global Sustainable Project Appraisal the country. The assessments are undertaken Routine software tool SPeAR® was updated, in partnership with the Swiss Agency for expanded and relaunched in February 2013 to Development and Cooperation. extend effectiveness and help clients get a better understanding of interdependancies to create virtuous ciycles of sustainable improvement. The software takes into account rating tools including LEED®, BREEAM and CEEQUAL. SPeAR® was developed by Arup’s software and sustainability experts to help the firm support clients’ sustainability goals. The tool appraises projects based on key themes such as transport, biodiversity, culture, employment and skills. Results are presented graphically on the unique SPeAR® diagram – a traffic light system indicates performance in each area. The software also generates a tabulated summary Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 17 Arup ./ Communication on Progress 2013 • CEEQUAL practices, supplier questionnaires, tender scoring criteria and supplier contracts. Please Arup is a CEEQUAL Project Partner and see attachment 10. member of the Technical Advisory Group. Arup has been involved with each stage in the • Arup Management System (AMS) design development of CEEQUAL. We have The Arup Management Systems embraces two Verifiers and 30 Assessors. We have not Health and Safety, Quality and Environmental scored less than excellent in any award to date Management. This provides all staff with and have achieved one of the first 8 CEEQUAL appropriate procedures, processes and the awards and won one of the first Outstanding accompanying documentation and forms in Achievement Awards. We have a running total a single source. The AMS has achieved a of 21 awards at interim and final stages. “single certificate” to ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and • BREEAM and LEED® OHSAS 18001 covering all UK offices. Arup currently has 57 trained BREEAM assessors who have assessed a total of 225 Arup projects in the UK to date. Arup has over 140 Activities projects certified or pre certified through the USGBC’s LEED Green Building Rating System • Global Sustainability Strategy around the globe. We have over 250 LEED® assessors, with new additions regularly, in In 2013 we launched our Global Sustainability nearly every discipline of the firm. Strategy. The strategy and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) act as an overall barometer of • Sustainability Policy Statement how we are performing as a firm, and are used Arup’s Sustainability Policy states that the firm to communicate our progress both internally will implement practices that promote economic and externally. These KPIs are cascaded to security, social betterment and environmental regional plans. Our Sustainability Strategy is stewardship and will strive for continuous split into four areas: our business, our people, improvement of performance in these areas. our facilities and our external relationships. Our Please see attachment 11. global target is for 35% of staff to have received sustainability training. Our results for the 2011 • SusNet 2012 year were 23.6%. SusNet is Arup’s intranet site for sustainability • AssetMap skills, guidelines, tools and technologies. The site is an ‘umbrella’ or gateway for all skills in Our building retrofitting services are Arup that relate to sustainability. It provides underpinned by our proprietary software tool access to information across a range of other AssetMap, which brings together architectural, sites to cover all aspects of sustainability engineering and financial risk analysis in at a business and project level. It also has a one place to enable us to quickly analyse the forum where people can ask sustainability / economic potential, and potential to improve environmental questions and quickly get a the environmental performance of a client’s response from an expert within Arup. building or property portfolio. It helps us • OvaGreen to advise clients on where best to focus any physical interventions. OvaGreen is a global network of environmental volunteers in Arup’s offices. They coordinate environmental initiatives within our offices, including: recycling waste, reducing energy, reviewing our purchase of products and improving our use of transport. • Sustainable Procurement Vision Arup’s Sustainable Procurement Vision aims to improve the environmental, social and ethical performance of its business by addressing these areas in the procurement of its goods and services. We communicate this to new suppliers at tendering stage and have revised our sourcing Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 18 • Existing Buildings are at the forefront of the latest thinking on sustainability. For example, via secondments With 40% of the UK’s energy usage and 50% our Arup ID team developed an environmental of GHG emissions being attributed to existing management system for a confidential partner’s buildings, Arup is committed to working to overseas operations centres. This new integrated reduce the impact these assets have on the system is compliant with ISO14001:2004, and communities in which they are located. We have enables continuous sustainability performance extensive experience of assisting the property improvement. sector to embrace sustainability and transform their property portfolios. Our expertise covers • Helping Cities Tackle Climate Change the complete property lifecycle from the In 2011 Arup produced a ground-breaking design of new green buildings and guidance study into the action being taken by mayors to on property acquisitions, to the retrofitting of globally to combat climate change. In doing so existing assets and development of strategies Arup collected and analysed huge volumes of to reduce energy use and change behaviours. data from 36 megacities around the world. In We have produced existing buildings survival 2013 Arup is producing the follow up report, strategy guides to help owners to plan for the covering 63 of the world’s largest cities, which future of their buildings. These guides set out will allow C40 to see the progress being made and explain research on market related and around the world. legislative challenges, strategies for revitalising buildings and assets, a range of initiatives • Control of Waste in our Projects’ Environments and ideas for prioritising actions, and case studies. Looking to the future, we are already We develop our designs for built assets with an considering how issues like new legislation, awareness of the need to reduce constructionresponsible property investing and net zero will phase site generated waste though the use impact the property market and are working to of standard sizes and lengths of materials, help our clients around the world be ready to and through encouraging the use of off-site meet these challenges and avoid the risk of asset pre-fabrication of elements. For example in obsolescence. the case of the MEP works this may include plantrooms, pumpsets, risers, toilets, etc. Our • Climate Change Adaptation Framework designs reference statutory and best practice (CCAF) requirements, and achieve credits within Due to the increasing prominence of climate BREEAM or other green building rating change, there is a growing need to carry out a systems. general ‘climate change appraisal’ for projects, • Sustainable Office Environments be they a single building or master plan. Arup has developed a framework that guides the Arup promotes multiple sustainability initiatives user through a structured appraisal process. within the office environment focusing on reuse, This takes into account all the factors that are recycling, energy consumption and behavioural deemed to be important and relevant. It then change. We encourage our staff to consider provides an objective ‘score’ and displays their environmental impact and how we can the information graphically. The framework work together sustainably. Our sustainable divides the issues into two groups, mitigation procurement vision outlines our approach to and adaptation, which are then broken down procuring products and services. Please see into a number of ‘sectors’ shown as segments attachment 10. Arup has invested in the Credit of a circle. Mitigation concerns ‘carbon 360 reporting tool to improve our environmental management’, which is the reduction of reporting. Examples of sustainable initiatives greenhouse gas emissions that cause climate are given below. change. Adaptation concerns the provision of increased physical resilience to anticipated • Office Energy Use and Supply:Arup now climate changes. purchases 100% renewable, Climate Change Levy (CCL) excempt electricity, where we are • Shaping the Sustainability Agenda responsible for the supply. Energy use data for our two largest London offices is made All around the world, Arup people are actively available to staff via our intranet and via EPC involved in external organisations that promote certificates displayed in foyers. and progress sustainability. This is a two -way activity, as they are also able to bring • Video Conferencing: Since 2001, we have knowledge back into the firm, ensuring we invested in, and make extensive use of, video Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 19 Arup ./ Communication on Progress 2013 conferencing and teleconferencing. These • Pocket Habitat technologies have enabled effective Pocket Habitat is a unique modular vegetation communication whilst reducing the need system for promoting biodiversity on roofs for excessive travel. This year there has or brownfield areas. Each pocket is an been a massive global increase in our use independent unit made from recycled carpet of desktop video conference calls (via waste, containing mixed recycled substrates Microsoft Lync) and it is predicted that and wildflower seed. They are manufactured desktop VC will be the main driver for face at Remploy who ‘equip disabled people with to face meetings in the future, alongside our the skills and confidence they need to build use of meeting room VC . enduring careers’. • Follow You Printing: The installation of print management software in the UK continues to reduce wasted prints by automatically deleting those not collected within 24 hours. • Nightwatchman: This power management solution controls power and shuts down connected desktop computers at a scheduled time, preventing any computers still on after staff have left from consuming power overnight. • Bicycle Facilities: Arup has cycle storage with cyclist changing rooms and showers at all main offices in London. There is an active employee community of cyclists • Other called BUG (Bicycle User Group). Arup offers a cycle to work scheme in the UK to Further environmentally responsible initiatives encourage employees to enter a tax efficient include using FSC or equivalent sourced bicycle rental agreement for cycling to materials (e.g. furniture), fair trade or equivalent work. Employee uptake is steady at 155 on coffee, tea, sugar, and rainwater harvesting cyclists this year, despite the scheme being in our recently renovated offices. Over 83% of well established. our office cut paper is FSC, with the remainder recycled or accredited to other environmental • Stationery From “Green / Core” Products: classificiations. Arup has a core list of stationary and office supplies from recycled, environmentally friendly and sustainable materials, which encourages the business to identify with the Indicators economic and environmental sustainability pillars. • In 2012 we achieved ISO14001certification for all the offices in our UKMEA region. This • Office Waste: Our offices follow the means that 100% of Arup UKMEA staff are principles of waste prevention, reduction, working in offices with an EMS certified to re-use, recycling,/composting and energy IS014001. Our biannual Management System recovery. We apply waste segregation to Evaluation scored 95.4% for Health & Safety, minimise disposal to landfill, for the waste 98.8% for Environment and 99.2% for Quality. which is produced. Colour coded containers Our annual Onsite Assessment scores for June clearly identify the correct waste locations 2013 were 98.9% for Health and Safety, 98.6% for our office staff. for Environment and 100% for Quality. • Recycling – London Offices: Arup’s waste • For this year, 90% of UKMEA region Arup staff management system is set up to segregate have received relevant sustainability training. and maximise recycling for a number of waste streams. For general waste, a number • The UKMEA region carbon emissions per fullof waste collection options have been time employee per year (tonnes CO2) were 3.98 implemented. tonnes (slightly increased). • Paper consumption per full time UKMEA employee per year was 36kg (reduced). Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 20 • In 2011-2012, 20% of UKMEA region projects • Our two main London offices now display HM set sustainability objectives. Government Energy Performance Certificates in their foyers. The older building scores 65 • Arup won the Best Environmental Consultancy (C) which is more energy efficent than typical Award at the Sustainability Leaders Awards, similar buildings. The newer building scores 47 held in December 2012. (B), which is more energy efficient than newly • Arup is afiliated with a number of sustainability built similar buildings. organisations and institutions: • Our C40 cities Climate Change Leadership • Since 2009 Arup has voluntarilly reported Group Advisory won the UK Management annual carbon emissions to the Carbon Consultancies Association (MCA) Awards disclosure Project. Environment Award. • Arup is a global partner of The Climate Group • Our London 2012 Olympic South Park and partner for the Forum for the Future. landscape and urban realm project won a CEEQUAL Award with a 95.8% rating and very • Arup is a founding member of the UK high Excellent score and won the Landscape Green Building Council, Australian Green Category at the 2013 Outstanding CEEQUAL Infrastructure Council, and the Institute of Achievements Awards. Sustainability. • Our Swansea University Institute of Life • Arup is a member of the US Green Building Sciences project won the Healthcare category at Council, the Green Building Council of the Welsh BREEAM Awards. Australia, the Hong Kong Green Building Council, the Russian Green Building Council, • Gary Cheung of Arup China won a 2013 the UK Business Council for Sustainable BREEAM Assessors Country First Award. Development, the Climate Action Registry, • Our Hong Kong Sludge Treatment Facility the Institute of Environmental Management project combines a striking architectural design and Assessment, the Institute of Ecology with sludge treatment and energy production, and Environmental Management and is an spas, and environmental, educational and affiliate of the Chartered Institution of Waste exhibition facilities. Not only is it set to be one Management of the world’s largest sludge treatment works, • Arup supported a re-enactment of British it also opens a new chapter in the integration of explorer Sir Earnest Shackleton’s legendary work, education, health and social wellbeing. 1916 Antarctic expedition, led by Tim Jarvis • Our HaloIPT project won the Clean Equity (of Arup Adelaide). The Shackleton Epic aimed Monaco Awards Award for Excellence in the to raise awareness of climate change and the Field of Environmental Technology Research importance of preserving Antarctica’s marine 2012. environment. Tim led a crew of six Australian and British adventurers who sailed 800 nautical • In the UK we are the first company to achieve miles in a replica wooden lifeboat, then Gold status certification in the 2012 Chartered traversed South Georgia’s treacherous mountain Institute of Purchasing & Supply (CIPS), peaks and glaciers to complete their journey. Sustainable Procurement Review for sustainable They filmed ice melt and compared current procurement. climactic conditions with those Shackleton • Arup was highly commended in the CSR experienced a century ago. category of the 2012 Procurement Leaders Network, Procurement Leaders Awards. • The Good Eating Company has been working with Arup since 2008, focussing together on sustainability, and developing a number of sustainability processes. One small, but effective loyalty project, underway at8 Fitzroy Street, encourages staff to retain, rather than dispose of, the coffee sleeves they receive. Once they have collected 10 sleeves, they return them to the coffee bar for a complimentary hot drink. This eliminates the need for additional loyalty cards, reducing additional waste, and enables reuse of the sleeves, reducing the quantity of Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 21 Arup ./ Communication on Progress 2013 sleeves purchased. • Our latest available figures for UK ‘core and green’ purchasing percentage are 35% at March 2012. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 22 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2013 E E: Anti Corruption In this section: −− Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Commitment Our mission statement “ To shape a better world”. Ethical Standards Policy Mission To shape a better world Objectives To deliver this, the firm will: • commit to acting honourably and with integrity in all its business dealings; • ensure that no financial or other inducements to gain or retain work are offered • To enhance properity and the quality of life or accepted by or on behalf of Arup; • recognise the duty of confidentiality in all our client relationships and give it the highest importance; • identify and address appropriately any potential conflicts of interest; • To deliver real value • endeavour to raise the ethical standards of global business in the market in • To have the freedom to be creative and learn which we operate; • provide such training, advice, information as may be necessary to personnel at all levels; • integrate ethical considerations into our design and business decisions; and • provide pro bono services where appropriate and engage with the wider community. Systems Outcome In meeting these objectives, the firm will: • comply with all legal and other applicable requirements of the countries in which we work; • justify the trust of our clients by giving their interests first priority in the work we do for them; • take steps to see that all personnel are aware of, and follow the Ethics Code • Key Speech: of Practice; • appoint a Group Board Director with responsibility for ethical business Practices; • where appropriate undertake due diligence of our clients, joint venture partners, A speech written and delivered by our founder agents and other advisors; • participate in appropriate industry forums to promote industry best practice; and • achieve a performance which will sustain the long-term success of the business and enhance our reputation in the market. Sir Ove Arup in 1970, that defines who we are, and sets our our core values and guiding ............................................................... principles. The Key Speech is the high-level Robert Care Arup Group Ethics Director framework that guides appropriate behaviour www.arup.com within the firm. One of the six core principles Last reviewed January 2012 is “straight and honorable dealings”. Our global codes of practice support this and appropriate policy level statements are supported by Our Ethical Standards Policy, defines our core objectives as local procedures as necessary. All employees to: receive a copy of the key speech as part of their induction. Please see attachment 1. −− commit to acting honourably and with integrity in • Anti Corruption Links all its business dealings Our UK intranet provides guidance on the −− ensure that no financial or other inducements to Bribery Act 2010 for the Infrastructure Sector gain or retain work are offered or accepted by or from the UK Anti Corruption Forum. on behalf of Arup • Ovacode: −− endeavour to raise the ethical standards of global business in the market in which we operate Ovacode sets our conditions of employment −− provide such training, advice, information as may for all staff. This reinforces our global conduct be necessary to personnel at all levels and performance code of practice and ethical standards policy. Ovacode also provides an −− integrate ethical considerations into our design and Anti-Bribery and Due Diligence Check List of business decisions issues to consider when working on a project. −− provide pro bono services where appropriate and engage with the wider community. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 24 Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 • Global conduct and performance code of organisations or which may compromise our practice. integrity as a firm and our honourable dealings with people. Please see attachment 6. “All members of Arup are expected to act in a professional and competent manner in all aspects of their work. In support of this, the firm’s role shall, wherever practicable, be to Activities give advice and guidance in accordance with its disciplinary procedure”. Please see attachment • Global Board Representative / Champion: 13. • Ethical Standards Policy: Robert Care, Chair of the UKMEA Board is the firm’s global champion for ethics. He This sets our ethical objectives as a firm works with others across the firm to create and (as listed previously under the commitment approve policies and procedures and to continue heading). Please see attachment 12. to promote communications and education in • Ethics Global Code of Practice / Procedure: this area. This sets out our ethical values and is intended • Increased Communications to provide guidance on acceptable business practice to ensure that these values, principles Since his nomination as global board champion and standards are being met across a range of for ethics, Robert has released regular email areas including: financial inducements, third communications, video guidance and updates, parties, gifts and entertainment, competition, and created, launched and communicated a confidentiality, conduct and performance dedicated intranet area for ethics, which is kept at work, client activity, conflict of interest, up to date with the latest relevant policies and political contributions and asking questions and procedures. raising concerns. Please see attachment 12. • Ethics Guidance on Making Ethical Decisions:  Making Ethical Decisions Making ethical decisions can be difficult and to help, we recommend you apply a 5-step approach to the ethical decision making process. Feelings Reputation 2 4 Consider Effects Options 1 3 5 Consider the Problem: Consider how your intended Consider how those affected Consider what others Consider the options for raising • Is it legal? action will make you feel: will feel: will think: a concern: • Does it violate our company • Relief, regret or remorse? • Duped, used, angry, annoyed • What would your family, • What is the best method for policies or Code? • If you have to convince or disappointed? friends and colleagues think? raising this concern? • Is it consistent with our values? yourself you are right then you • Pleased, proud, respected? • Would you, or they, be happy • What evidence do you have • Is it a question of being fair? are probably wrong • That you are the only one reading about it in the paper? or will you need? to benefit? This simple 5 step approach can be applied to any dilemma and when used alongside the code of practice you’ll have the confidence to act ethically.  This gives a five step process to assist staff with • Global Ethics Code of Practice and Procedure making ethical decisions. Please see attachment 12. As previously mentioned, this procedure provides practical guidance on acceptable • Disciplinary Procedure: behaviour across a range of areas. The disciplinary procedure is designed to be supportive and to encourage improvements • Training and Development in individual conduct and performance. Disciplinary action follows for individuals A training programme, delivered via an who abuse Arup’s policies and procedures, e-learning course for all staff, underlines the including the Ethical Standards Policy, and importance attached to high standards in all our for any “actions which undermine working business activities. The training is compulsory relationships with colleagues and / or other for all staff. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 25 Indicators • Zero offences for corruption or bribery in the firm. • 100% of new employees received the key speech, setting out our guiding values and principles. • All staff are required to complete the e-learning ethics training course. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 26 Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2013 F F: Partnerships, Community Engagement and Arup International Development Partnerships, Community Engagement and Arup International Deveopment Development, Partnerships, Community Engagement & Arup International Development Our open approach encourages collaboration between our staff, clients and partners, as well as community stakeholders. Commitment • Corporate Giving, Pro-bono Work and Our Social Contribution Our founder, Ove Arup, established the firm to be ‘an Today, Arup fulfils this commitment to social organisation which is human and friendly’ and one that usefulness via: carries with it ‘a wish to do socially useful work and to join hands with others fighting for the same values’. • Giving – corporate donations through our charitable trust and regional community engagement commitees Our mission statement • Doing – funding staff to provide technical assistance to humanitarian and development organisations around the world through the “ To shape a better world”. Arup Cause, strategic partnerships or local charities • Developing – encouraging staff to undertake • To enhance prosperity and the quality of life networking and shared learning activities on • To deliver real value charitable and community issues under the umbrella of Arup’s Community Engagement • To have the freedom to be creative and learn Skills Network. The end result is that Arup engages with communities around the globe in a vast array of Systems direct and indirect initiatives. The Arup Group has committed to donate • Key Speech: at least 1% of the prior year’s management A speech written and delivered by our founder accounts profits each year to charitable causes. Sir Ove Arup in 1970, that defines who we are, and sets out our core values and guiding principles. The Key Speech is the high-level Activities framework that guides appropriate behaviour within the firm. One of the six core principles Arup contributes to social purpose by completing projects that the speech identifies is “social usefulness” which “shape a better world.” The speech also describes the ideal of ‘Total Architecture’ as our “collaboration with other As well as our working relationships and collaborations like minded firms... in the quest for excellence.” with our clients and other construction industry companies Our global codes of practice support this and bodies, we engage in community engagement, and appropriate policy level statements are professional secondments, and our Arup International supported by local procedures as necessary. All Development team partners with humanitarian bodies and employees receive a copy of the key speech as NGOs. part of their induction. Please see attachment 1. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 28 Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 Community Engagement • Arup Cause Water Hygeine and Sanitation Project in Bulambuli Eastern Uganda • The Arup Cause Since 2008 this project has been improving the health and resilience of rural communities, by The Arup Cause was initiated in 2006 to mark delivering sustainable water supply, sanitation, our 60th Anniversary. This global initiative and hygiene education. Funding is from a exists to reward, encourage and leverage private donor, with the Arup Cause funding pro staff abilities and interest in undertaking bono technical advice and project management communitycentred and educational activities. services. In addition, Arup staff work on a This typically involves providing technical voluntary basis, both from the UK and on assistance to humanitarian and development assignments in Uganda. The delivery is in organisations; enhancing their capacity to partnership with local government, community reduce suffering and improve people’s lives. organisations, NGOs and Engineers Without Over the past seven years, it supported nearly Borders UK (an Arup Cause partner). 60 projects focused on water and shelter, which have contributed to improving the lives of tens of thousands of people. An example Arup Cause project in Uganda’s Teso region saw volunteers from the firm help develop the Shalom International School – phase one of a vocational college for young people in the area that will serve as a model for similar projects in the future. Strategic partnerships have been set up with charities such as WaterAid to provide technical support for a country program in Nicaragua. And across the firm, sponsored bake sales, walks, cycle rides, and even moustache-growing have all featured in Arup offices as fundraising Over 60 local volunteers have received training efforts have connected our people with in the delivery of water, sanitation and hygiene communities in need around the world. education, with an emphasis on capacity building during the construction of shallow wells, rain water harvesting, latrines and household hygiene facilities. The volunteers have delivered hygiene education for more than 4000 people. Nearly 2000 people now have better access to safe water and around 1000 people have improved their own latrines. Arup continues to provide project support, with a new six month volunteer assignment starting in September 2013. The programme will conclude in December 2014, and we will work with local government to ensure their adoption of protected water sources, and to share our experience with NGOs and other stakeholders in the WaSH sector. • Community Engagement Our Global Community Engagement Committee recently appointed Sarah Bowden as theUKMEA Region Head of Community Engagement. She meets with other regional leaders to promote best practice, and to set the strategic direction for all our charitable giving, strategic partnerships, fundraising and directing funds, and volunteering time to Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 29 projects. Sarah says “ Arup donates to charitable −− ICLEI (local governments for sustainabilty) causes ... but we believe we can make an even −− IOMOIM bigger impact by donating our time and skills.” Our community engagement and ArupID −− Just Energy teams have collaborated on the Sabre Schools Ghana project. To build more schools they are −− Mercy Corps initiating a social enterprise approach, to obtain −− Muslim Aid funding from outside Arup for the Sabre charity, so that beneficiaries aren’t reliant on Arup to −− Oxfam keep the work going. −− Qatar Foundation Our intranet Community Engagement Skills −− Rockefeller Foundation Network Forum is used to communicate internally about opportunities and activities, for −− Sabre Charitable Trust capacity building in our offices in developing −− Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation countries, and to share knowledge, news and enthusiasm. −− Taru −− Thailand Environment Institute −− WaterAid Arup International Development −− World Economic Forum (ArupID) Partnerships The firm’s ambition to engage with organisations that share Separate from charitable donations and pro bono work, our values and ambition to promote sustainability leadership Arup International Development (ArupID) is a not-formeans Arup has worked closely with partners such as the profit business within Arup, working in partnership with World Economic Forum to highlight the multi-billion dollar humanitarian and development organisations. ArupID market potential for energy-efficient buildings. This is a strengthens the overall impact of the firm’s work, helping to vital contribution as buildings are responsible for 40% of deliver strategic objectives and outcomes at organisational, the world’s energy consumption and generate 40% of all programme or project level. carbon emissions. As such, retrofitting buildings to improve their energy efficiency presents a tremendous opportunity to The team works across a range of sectors and often in reduce costs and impact on the environment. challenging geographies, to help combat poverty and vulnerability, to increase wellbeing and resilience in the Another example of cooperation in this area is the joint developing world. venture created between Arup and the Japanese group, Mitsui, aimed at sparking a wave of green investment Arup ID partners include: around the globe. Arup and Mitsui signed a deal to form MBK Arup Sustainable Projects in 2011 with the aim of −− Aha Khan Development Network getting low carbon investments off the ground. −− British Embassy Lima United Nations Office for Project −− Care Services (UNOPS) −− Christian Aid −− Department for International Development In October 2010, UNOPS (the United Nations Office for Project Services) and Arup signed a three year long term −− Disasters Emergency Committee (DEC) agreement/memorandum of understanding (MoU) for the −− Disaster Recovery Board (Turks and Caicos Islands) provision of infrastructure based services. This makes Habitat for Humanity shared standards, tools and personnel exchanges available, to allow UNOPS to rapidly mobilize to project sites. This −− Holcim also encourages participation in joint activities, to improve project outcomes and strengthen the capacity of UNOPS, −− International Institute for Environment and Development Arup and/or their clients, in respect to infrastructure −− International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent planning, implementation, maintenance and management. Societies (IFRC) The agreement is managed jointly by the Physical Infrastructure Practice and ArupID. It enables UNOPS −− International Water and Sanitation Centre project managers to draw upon the unique expertise within −− IRC Arup from our global network of designers, planners, Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development 30 Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 engineers, consultants and technical specialists. Jo da Silva, who leads our ArupID team, lectured on the role of engineers in disaster risk reduction, at the first major event held at UNOPS headquarters in Copenhagen’s new UN City. Her speech formed part of the Brunel International Lecture Series, established by the Institution of Civil Engineers. She is the first woman and the third member of Arup to deliver the lecture. of the cities to withstand, to prepare for, and to recover from the projected impacts of climate change. We have shaped this initiative from the beginning with strategic direction, programme management, knowledge management and network-building. We are also contributing technical expertise towards city level project implementation, while evaluating and strengthening projects for success. The ultimate aim is to reduce the vulnerability and exposure that poor and vulnerable populations face with respect to climate change. We are part of an ambitious City Resilience Index project, researching urban resilience at city scale, to define Arup ID Example Projects the characteristics of a resilient city and detemine key measurable indicators, to catalyse action and resource allocation. We anticipate partnering with multiple experts Rockefeller Foundation worldwide, to evaluate the ability of cities and urban communities to evolve and adapt to changing circumstances Arup is the Asia-Pacific Regional Partner in the Rockefeller and extreme events. Specifically we aim to reveal which Foundation US$60m funded Asian Cities Climate Change interventions will be most effective for poor and vulnerable Resilience Network (ACCCRN). We are providing strategic people in urban areas. advice, technical expertise and assessment and evaluation. The programme is working in over 20 small and medium cities to identify strategies, models and actions for assessing and addressing risk that will collectively improve the ability Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 31 C40 Advisory Role Measuring community labourers on three construction sites and, to date, these schools have provided a better education to 500 Climate Change Action in children. Megacities Community-Based Disaster Risk In 2011 Arup produced a ground-breaking study into the action being taken by mayors globally to combat climate Reduction (CBDRR) Study change, for the C40 and Clinton Climate Initiative. In doing so Arup collected and analysed huge volumes of data In partnership with the International Federation of Red from 36 megacities around the world. We are delivering Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) we are providing action-oriented UrbanLife workshops in six of these cities strategic advice, assessment and evaluation for a two phase to address specific issues, such as seal level rise. Each study covering Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean. workshop aids effective policy development and design. In 2013 Arup are producing the follow up report, now with 63 of the world’s largest cities, which will demonstrate the progress being made around the world. Sabre Schools Ghana Arup collaborated with the Sabre Charitable Trust and Davis Langdon LLP, providing pro-bono strategic advice, design, site supervision and training, sustainability assessment and construction manuals for two prototype schools, completed in November 2011. These prototypes are for 30 future schools for the region. Prototype evaluation and re-design reduced build cost by 5%, equivalent to This study began when we were asked to review IFRC CBDRR programmes implemented in four Asian countries following the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami.We identified and documented lessons learned, undertaking participatory workshops and interviews in numerous communities. We developed ‘characteristics of a safe and resilient community’ and the ‘key determinants of a successful CBDRR programme’. We have since replicated this study in Latin America and the Caribbean. Our work is contributing to an improved understanding of community resilience as well as influencing the design and implementation of successful CBDRR programmes worldwide. the cost of 9 intensive teacher training courses. The build programme was also reduced by 15%. The buildings achieved an Excellent ASPIRE Sustainability Assessment and users report classrooms as being lighter, cooler and quieter than government built schools. Attendance at the first school has increased by 190% and community groups have repeatedly reported satisfaction at the inclusion of their ideas. Over 50 people from around the Arup globe have contributed to the design and construction supervision for the schools. Arup and Sabre have now cwompleted three kindergarten complexes in the KEEA Municipality and Shama District. They have delivered training to 45 Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 32 Improving Shelter Responses to Danish Red Cross Integrated Humanitarian Crises Programming Study The Danish Red Cross have been building community resilience by implementing integrated programmes, that typically combine elements of disaster risk reduction, health, livelihoods, food security, and water and sanitation for the last 15 years. We were was asked to assess and evaluate five completed programmes, via desk-based research and four current programmes via desk and field based research in Liberia, Mozambique, Nepal and Pakistan. Our report, and an additional programming tool, has helped improve the effectiveness of their integrated programmes across the world. In partnership with Christian Aid and Habitat for Humanity International (HFHI) we were asked to undertake a comprehensive shelter-specific review of their shelter responses in Haiti, the Caribbean and the Republic of Philippines, over a 10-year period to 2012. Our study captured learning from a range of shelter assistance efforts, to inform the design and implementation of future interventions. We also identified actions that can be taken prior to a disaster to improve community resilience, and enable more rapid responses to shelter needs in the aftermath of a disaster. Our work has contributed to an understanding of best practice, influencing the future effectiveness of shelter response. Low Carbon Routemap for the UK Other Secondments and Built Environment Partnerships Working with the Climate Centre for the Green We work closely with our clients in assigning each Construction Board, we have developed a Routemap to secondment to identify the appropriate specialists for each address how the UK’s built environment could achieve role. Our seconded staff provide an essential role on these a Greenhouse Gas emissions reduction target of 80% by projects. They integrate within client teams, while drawing 2050. on their Arup colleagues’ experience and specialisms. Our experience has shown that secondments are very successful Our deliverables included a visual Routemap that shows on both sides providing our staff with an insight into other major policies, targets and actions over time and a organisations while giving our clients access to very highly dynamic tool to test the impact of different scenarios and qualified and capable individuals with experience and skills assumptions. The analysis shows the UK could achieve that the client may not have. We often find that Arup staff 80% carbon reduction through existing technology, ‘shine’ in their secondments and clients tend to want to assuming significant progress is made in decarbonising the hang on to them as long as they can! electricity grid, but that this would require strong policies and incentives to drive action. Secondments are also useful in the training of our engineers. We have undertaken reciprocal secondments The underlying analysis framework is flexible and should with contractors, to develop employees’ site experience and be transferable to different regional contexts and industry capability. Experience ‘on site’ or out of the Arup offices is sectors. The Routemap was launched by the Green an important part of a young engineer’s development. Construction at the 2013 ecobuild conference. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 33 We have seconded staff to many clients including: The LDA, The Sorrell Foundation, Imperial College London, University College London Hospitals NHS Foundation, BBC, East London Line Project, Environment Agency, Highways Agency, Carbon Trust, Eon, CTRL, Procter & Gamble, and Greater London Authority. Arup was a founder member of RedR, an international charity that coordinates the deployment of skilled professionals to where they have most impact in emergency situations. Arup engineers have taken part in field assignments to provide help at the scene of disasters such as the Szechuan earthquake and hurricanes Gustav and Ike in the US. Many more actively fundraise for RedR. Indicators • In 2012 Arup charitable donations totalled £743,000 and pro bono engagement was £843,000 (£ equivalent staff cost). • In addition Arup staff added significantly to this total, with more than 21,755 unpaid hours of volunteering and individual fundraising projects. • There are over 200 community engagement projects globally, where there is more than one member of staff involved. • Individual staff also give time for mentoring in schools, lecturing at colleges, fundraising etc. • ArupID have over 30 worldwide partners including charities, charitable foundations, NGOs, and governments. • ArupID have completed over 35 projects in more than 30 countries. • Today, 1 in 20 of our people around the globe is on secondment at any one time, providing tremendous scope for individual development. • Arup is a member of Business for Social Responsibility. • Arup is also a member of Business in the Community. Human Rights Labour Environment Anti Corruption Development Arup / Communication on Progress 2013 34 United National Global Compact: Communications on Progress 2013 1 Attachment: −− The Key Speech The Key Speech Sir Ove Arup A In its pre-natal stage, this talk has been These two general principles are not honoured with the name of ‘key in dispute. I will elaborate them a speech’. It is doubtful whether it can little further: live up to this name. What is it The first means that our work should supposed to be the key to? The future be interesting and rewarding. Only a job of the firm? The philosophy? The aims? done well, as well as we can do it and On 9 July 1970 Ove Arup spoke At the moment, sitting in my garden as well as it can be done is that. We to a meeting at Winchester of his and waiting for inspiration, I would be must therefore strive for quality in what partners from the practices more inclined to call it: ‘Musings of an we do, and never be satisfied with the around the world bearing the old gentleman in a garden’ and leave second-rate. There are many kinds of Arup name. His talk was in it at that. quality. In our work as structural response to the collective desire engineers we had and have to to continue working together, I have written before a piece called satisfy the criteria for a sound, lasting despite the changes that would ‘Aims and Means’ for a conference of and economical structure. We add to Senior and Executive Partners in take place as the founding that the claim that it should be pleasing London on 7 July 1969. It did not partners progressively retired and aesthetically, for without that quality it manage to deal much with means, gave up ownership, handing over doesn’t really give satisfaction to us or however, and it is of course difficult to control to the successors they to others. And then we come up generalise about means, for they must would choose for these practices. against the fact that a structure is vary with circumstances. The first part generally a part of a larger unit, and we of this paper was published in Newsletter are frustrated because to strive for The pre-natal name of ‘key37, November 1969. This you may quality in only a part is almost useless if speech’ for this talk has endured, have read but I will shortly summarise the whole is undistinguished, unless the in recognition of the fact that in it the aims of the firm as I see them. structure is large enough to make an Ove both states the aims of our impact on its own. We are led to seek There are two ways of looking at the firm and analyses in his very overall quality, fitness for purpose, as work you do to earn a living: distinctive way the principles well as satisfying or significant forms through which they may be One is the way propounded by the late and economy of construction. To this achieved. From time to time we Henry Ford: Work is a necessary evil, must be added harmony with the but modern technology will reduce it to surroundings and the overall plan. have asked ourselves whether a minimum. Your life is your leisure lived We are then led to the ideal of ‘Total what he said in 1970 remains in your ‘free’ time. valid for us, despite the fact that Architecture’, in collaboration with other inevitably some specifics about The other is: like minded firms or, still better, on our To make your work interesting and own. This means expanding our field of the firm’s organisation and rewarding. You enjoy both your work activity into adjoining fields architecture, individuals’ roles therein to which and your leisure. planning, ground engineering, he refers in passing have changed environmental engineering, computer We opt uncompromisingly for the over the years. On each occasion programming, etc. and the planning second way. we have found that it does, and and organisation of the work on site. thereby reaffirmed our There are also two ways of looking at commitment to these principles. the pursuit of happiness: It is not the wish to expand, but the One is to go straight for the things quest for quality which has brought us The Key Speech is required you fancy without restraints, that is, to this position, for we have realised reading for each person who without considering anybody else that only intimate integration of the joins Arup or who wants to be besides yourself. various parts or the various disciplines reminded of what we are all will produce the desired result. The other is: about, and for those who want to recognise that no man is an island, The term ‘Total Architecture’ implies to learn about us. that our lives are inextricably mixed up that all relevant design decisions have with those of our fellow human beings, been considered together and have and that there can be no real been integrated into a whole by a well happiness in isolation. Which leads to organised team empowered to fix an attitude which would accord to priorities. This is an ideal which can others the rights claimed for oneself, never or only very rarely be fully which would accept certain moral or realised in practice, but which is well humanitarian restraints. worth striving for, for artistic wholeness We, again, opt for the second way. or excellence depends on it, and for our own sake we need the stimulation produced by excellence. The humanitarian attitude hand and becomes very dangerous for and accepted. In short, we must be our harmony, unity and very existence. efficient individually, in all our subThe other general principle, the divisions, and as a world organisation. humanitarian attitude, leads to the It costs money to produce quality, creation of an organisation which is especially when we expand into fields I have tried to summarise the foregoing human and friendly in spite of being where we have no contractual in a number of points. Like all large and efficient. Where every obligations and can expect no pay for classification, it is arbitrary and rough member is treated not only as a link in our efforts. We may even antagonise but may nevertheless be useful as a a chain of command, not only as a people by poaching on their domain help to understanding and discussion, wheel in a bureaucratic machine, but or by upsetting and criticising traditional if its imperfections and its as a human being whose happiness is procedures. incompleteness are borne in mind. the concern of all, who is treated not only as a means but as an end. It also costs money to ‘coddle’ the staff The main aims of the firm are: with generosity and welfare, or to lose Group A Of course it is always sound business lucrative commissions by refusing to to keep your collaborators happy just 1 Quality of work bribe a minister in a developing country, as any farmer must keep his cattle in or to take our duty too seriously if 2 Total architecture good health. But there is or should be nobody is looking. 3 Humane organisation more in it than that. (We know what happens to cattle.) If we want our work 4 Straight and honourable dealings Money spent on these ‘aims’ may be to be interesting and rewarding, then wisely spent in the long term, and may 5 Social usefulness we must try to make it so for all our cause the leaders of the firm a certain 6 Reasonable prosperity of members. people and that is obviously much satisfaction but if so spent it is not more difficult, not to say impossible. It available for immediate distribution If these aims could be realised to a is again an ideal, unattainable in full, among the members, whether partners considerable degree, they should but worth striving for. It leads to the or staff. So aim No. 3 conflicts to that result in: wish to make everybody aware of, and extent with aims 1 and 2. Moreover, if interested in, our aims and to make the money is made the main aim if we are Group B environment and working conditions as more greedy than is reasonable it will 7 Satisfied members pleasant as possible within the accentuate the natural conflict about 8 Satisfied clients available means. how the profit should be distributed 9 Good reputation and influence. between our members the partners This attitude also dictates that we and staff or the different grades of staff. But this will need: should act honourably in our dealings with our own and other people. We The trouble with money is that it is a Group C should justify the trust of our clients by dividing force, not a uniting force, as is 10 A membership of quality giving their interest first priority in the the quest for quality or a humanitarian 11 Efficient organisation work we do for them. Internally, we outlook. If we let it divide us, we are 12 Solvency should eschew nepotism or sunk as an organisation at least as a 13 Unity and enthusiasm. discrimination on the basis of force for good. nationality, religion, race, colour or sex Of course there is not really any strict basing such discrimination as there So much for our aims. As aims, they demarcation between aims (Group A) must be on ability and character. are not in dispute. What is debatable, and means (Group C) and the results is how vigorously each shall be pursued (Group B) flowing from the whole or Humanitarianism also implies a social which is the most important; how to partial fulfilment of the aims in A. And it conscience, a wish to do socially useful balance long term against short term is not absolutely certain that these work, and to join hands with others aims. Let us first see what these results are obtained. For instance, A3 fighting for the same values. Our aims imply. and 4 (a humane organisation and pursuit of quality should in itself be straight dealings) can as well be useful. If we in isolated cases can show Obviously, to do work of quality, we considered as a means, and in fact all how our environment can be improved, must have people of quality. We must the points are to some extent both this is likely to have a much greater be experts at what we undertake to do. aims and means, because they effect than mere propaganda. Again, there are many kinds of quality, reinforce each other. And there will be and there are many kinds of job to do, members who are dissatisfied no There is a third aim besides the search so we must have many kinds of people, matter how good the firm is, and the for quality of work and the right human each of which can do their own job same may apply to clients, who may relationships, namely prosperity for all well. And they must be able to work not appreciate quality at all. But on the our members. Most people would say well together. This presupposes that whole, what I said is true. We should that this is our main aim, this is why we they agree with our aims, and that they keep the six aims in A in view all the are in business. But it would be wrong are not only technically capable but time, and concentrate on the means to to look at it as our main aim. We should acceptable to us from a human point of bring them about. rather look at it as an essential preview, so that they fit into our kind of requisite for even the partial fulfilment of organisation; and that they are But before I do this, I will try to explain any of our aims. For it is an aim which, effectively organised, so that the why I am going on about aims, ideals if over-emphasised, easily gets out of responsibility of each is clearly defined and moral principles and all that, and don’t get down to brass tacks. I do this In the following 13 points, which I must consider whether this way is possible, simply because I think these aims are have jotted down some time ago whether it leads to the desired result. very important. I can’t see the point in I found them in an old file I am Unless of course his goal is to go having such a large firm with offices grappling with this question, perhaps through, not to arrive anywhere, like the all over the world unless there is not very successfully. I give them to man in the sports car. But this only something which binds us together. you now: shows that it is the goal which is If we were just ordinary consulting important, whatever it is. engineers carrying on business just as Principles business to make a comfortable living, 1 Some people have moral principles. The star system is an attempt to soften I can’t see why each office couldn’t 2 The essence of moral principles is the rigidity of moral principles. But it carry on, on its own. The idea of that they should be ‘lived’. doesn’t really solve this dilemma. It is a somebody in London ‘owning’ all these little more flexible than moral precepts 3 But only saints and fanatics do businesses and hiring people to bring as to the way, but surely the ‘stars’ follow moral principles always. in the dough doesn’t seem very must be fixed for if they can be inspiring. Unless we have a ‘mission’ 4 Which is fortunate. changed ad lib the whole thing although I don’t like the word but 5 Are then moral principles no good? wobbles. And that in a way is what it something ‘higher’ to strive for and I 6 It appears we can’t do without does I can’t do anything about that. don’t particularly like that expression them. I should have loved to present you with either but unless we feel that we have a strictly logical build-up, deducing the 7 It also appears we can’t live up to aims for the firm from unassailable first a special contribution to make which them. principles. Or perhaps this is an our very size and diversity and our whole outlook can help to achieve, I for 8 So what? exaggeration for I know very well that one am not interested. I suppose that 9 A practical solution is what I call the this can’t be done. All I can do is to try you feel the same, and therefore my star system. to make the members of the firm like words to you may seem superfluous; 10 The star or ideal indicates the the aims I have mentioned. I would like but it is not enough that you feel it, course. Obstacles in the way are to persuade them that they are good everybody in the firm should as far as circumnavigated but one gets back and reasonable and not too impossible possible be made to feel it, and to on the course after the deviation. aims, possessing an inner cohesion, believe that we, the leaders of the firm, reinforcing each other by being not 11 The system is adopted by the only aims but means to each really believe in it and mean to work for Catholic church. Sins can be other’s fulfilment. it and not just use it as a flag to put out forgiven if repented it doesn’t on Sundays. And they won’t believe affect the definition of good or evil. ‘Stars’ like goodness, beauty, justice that unless we do. 12 That this system can degenerate have been powerful forces in the On the other hand, who am I to tell you into permanent deviation is history of mankind but they so often and the firm what you should think and obvious. are obscured by a mental fog or feel in the future when I am gone or 13 One needs a sense of proportion. perhaps I should say the opposite before that, for that matter? It wouldn’t they are created by a mental fog, and be any good my trying to lay down the Incidentally, they should not be taken when the fog lifts, they are seen to law, and I haven’t the slightest inclination as an encouragement to join the have been illusions. They are manto do so. That is my difficulty. I dislike Catholic church! made. I do not rate them less for that hard principles, ideologies and the like. reason but they are too remote, too They can do more harm than good, they I found also another tag: indefinable, to be of much practical use can lead to wholesale murder, as we ‘The way out is not the way round but as guide-lines. They sustain or are born have seen. And yet we cannot live life the way through.’ That’s rather more of the longings of mankind, and belong entirely without principles. But they have uncompromising, more heroic. It to the ideal world of Plato which is in some way to be flexible, to be springs from a different temperament. fixed for ever. Rigid ideologies feed on adaptable to changing circumstances. It’s equally useful in the right place. them. Not so practical politics. ‘Thou shalt not lie’, ‘Thou shalt not kill’, But the man that bangs his head are all very well, generally, but do not Our aims on the other hand are not against a wall may learn a thing or two apply if for instance you are tortured by nearly so remote. We will never from the reed that bends in the wind. fanatical Nazis or Communists to reveal succeed in fulfilling them in toto, but the whereabouts of their innocent The trouble with the last maxim is that they can be fulfilled more or less, and victims. Then it is your duty to mislead. it says something about the way, but the more the better. And they are not What these commandments should not about the goal. The way must be grasped arbitrarily out of the sky or define is an attitude. To be truthful adapted to the circumstances the wilfully imposed, they are natural and always, wherever it does no harm to goal is much more dependent on what obvious and will, I am sure, be other ideals more important in the sort of person you are. I admit that the recognised as desirable by all of you: context, to respect the sanctity of human last maxim also says a good deal so much so, in fact, that the thing to life and not to destroy life wantonly. But about the man who propounds it, a be explained is not why they are where to draw the line in border cases man of courage, of action, perhaps not desirable, but why I should waste any depends on who you are, what life has given too much to reflection, perhaps words on them. taught you, how strong you are. not a very wise man. The wise man will I do, as I pointed out at the beginning them, of course (and I think we have a more it needs to be organised. Most of this argument, because our aims are larger proportion of really good people strong men, if they are also wise, will the only thing which holds us together, than any other firm of our kind). And accept that. Somebody must have and because it is not enough to when we take on new people the authority to take decisions, the approve them, we must work for them choice is limited. Again we have to take responsibility of each member must be and the leaders must be prepared to the best we can get. We cannot pay clearly defined, understood and make sacrifices for them. Temporary them a much higher salary than our accepted by all. The authority should diversions there must be, we have to average scale, because that would also be spread downwards as far as make do with the second best if the upset our solvency and sink the boat. possible, and the whole pattern should best is not within reach, we have to Naturally our method of selection is be flexible and open to revision. accept expediencies and from a strict important, and what we can do to point of view all our activities can be educate our staff and give them We know all this, and we have such an considered as expediencies, for in opportunities to develop is important, organisation: we have both macro, theory they could all be better still but but I can’t go into details here. All I can micro and infra-structure. It has been the important thing is that we always say is that staff getting and staff developed, been improved, and it get back on the course, that we never ‘treating’ must not degenerate into a could undoubtedly be improved still lose sight of the aims. Hence the name bureaucratic routine matter, but must further. We are of course trying to do star system derived from comparison be on a personal level. When we come that all the time. The organisation will with old fashioned navigation. But I across a really good man, grab him, naturally be related to some sort of propose to abandon this expression, even if we have no immediate use for hierarchy, which should as far as partly because its meaning in the film him, and then see to it that he stays possible be based on function, and industry may confuse, especially as it is with us. there must be some way of fixing very opposed to our point of view, remuneration, for to share the available which is in favour of teamwork rather The last is the really important point, profit equally between all from senior than stardom: and also because it which in the long run will be decisive. partner to office-boy would not be suggests star-gazing, which I find Why should a really good man, a man reasonable, nor would it work. And all uncomfortably near the bone because I or woman who can get a job this is very tricky, as you know, might with some justification be anywhere or who could possibly start because, as soon as money and status accused of it. So I am afraid we have out on his own, why should he or she come into the picture, greed and envy to fall back on ‘philosophy’. Having choose to stay with us? If there is a and intrigue are not far behind. One dabbled in this subject in my youth I convincing and positive answer to that, difficulty is particularly knotty, the have been averse to seeing the term then we are on the right way. question of ownership, which is degraded by talk about the philosophy connected with ‘partnership’. There is of pile-driving or hair-dressing, but it is Presumably a good man comes to us dissatisfaction amongst some of those of course useless to fight against the in the first instance because he likes who in fact carry out the functions of a tide. The word has come to stay and the work we do, and shares or is partner dealing with clients, taking in ‘the philosophy of the firm’, it is not converted to our philosophy. If he decisions binding on the firm, etc used quite so badly. So that’s what I doesn’t, he is not much good to us because they cannot legally call have been giving you a dose of. anyhow. He is not mainly attracted by themselves partners but are ‘executive’ the salary we can offer, although that is partners or have some other title. I I will now discuss what we have to do of course an important point but by have discussed this problem in my in order to live up to our philosophy. the opportunity to do interesting and paper Aims and Means. If some viable And I will do it under the four headings rewarding work, where he can use his way could be found to make 100 10 to 13 in my list of aims and means: creative ability, be fully extended, can partners, I wouldn’t mind, but I can’t grow and be given responsibility. If he think of any. 10 Quality staff finds after a while that he is frustrated 11 Efficiency by red tape or by having someone In the Ove Arup Partnership we have all breathing down his neck, someone for but eliminated ownership the senior 12 Solvency whom he has scant respect, if he has partners only act as owners during 13 Unity and enthusiasm. little influence on decisions which affect their tenure of office because his work and which he may not agree someone has to, according to the laws But it will of course be necessary to with, then he will pack up and go. And of the country. And I wish that system mix them up to some extent. so he should. It is up to us, therefore, could be extended to all our to create an organisation which will partnerships. It no doubt irks some allow gifted individuals to unfold. This is people that the money invested in the Quality of Staff not easy, because there appears to be firm may one day (with some How do we ensure that our staff is of the a fundamental contradiction between contriving) fall into the turban of people right quality, or the best possible quality? organisation and freedom. Strongwho have done nothing to earn it but willed individuals may not take easily to what can we do? The money is We all realise, of course, that this is a directions from above. But our work is needed for the stability of the firm, it key question. The whole success of teamwork and teamwork except makes it possible for us to earn our our venture depends on our staff. But possibly in very small teams needs to living and to work for a good cause, so what can we do about it? We have the be organised, otherwise we have why worry? staff we have we must make do with chaos. And the greater the unit, the It may be possible to devise a different My advice would be: calibre, you may accuse me of leaving and better arrangement than the one ‘Stadig over de klipper’, reality behind. ‘As you said yourself’, we have now, more ‘democratic’, more or if you prefer: you may say, ‘our work is teamwork. fair: it may be possible to build in some ‘Take it easy!’ And most of this work is pretty dull. It is defences against the leaders ‘More haste less speed!’ designing endless reinforced concrete misbehaving and developing boss‘Hâtez-vous lentement!’ floors, taking down tedious letters complexes and pomposity and ‘Eile mit weile!’ about the missing bolts, changing forgetting that they are just as much ‘Hastvaerk er lastvaerk!’ some details for the nth time, attending servants in a good cause as everybody site meetings dealing with trivialities, else only more so. This is partly a It’s the fruit that matters. I have a taking messages, making tea what is legal question depending on the laws lingering doubt about trying to gain a exciting about that? You are of the country. But I have neither the foothold in various exotic places. Might discriminating in favour of an elite, it’s ability nor the time to deal with all that we not say instead: Thank God that we undemocratic. What about the people here. What I want to stress is the have not been invited to do a job in who have to do the dull work?’ obvious fact that no matter how Timbuctoo think of all the trouble we wonderful an organisation we can are avoiding. It’s different with the work devise, its success depends on the we do in Saudi Arabia, Tehran and Equality of opportunity people working in it and for it. And if Kuwait1. There we are invited in at the all our members really and sincerely top, working with good architects, You have certainly a point there. Of believed in the aims which I have doing exciting work. We are not course I am discriminating in favour of enumerated, if they felt some hammering at the door from outside. quality, and I would do anything to enthusiasm for them, the battle would But as a rule, grab and run jobs are not enable our bright people to use their be nearly won. For they imply a so useful for our purpose. I think the talents. You cannot equate excellence humanitarian attitude, respect and Overseas Department agrees with this with mediocrity, you cannot pretend consideration for persons, fair dealings, in principle, if not in practice. they are the same. We would be sunk and the rest, which all tend to smooth if we did that. We need to produce human relationships. And anyone It’s also different with civil engineering works of quality, and we need those having the same attitude who comes work, provided we have control who can produce them. One perfect into an atmosphere like that, is at least complete control over the design and job is more important for the morale of more likely to feel at home in it. And if are not ‘sharing’ the job or having a the firm, for our reputation for the right kind of people feel at home quantity surveyor or ‘agent’, etc, producing enthusiasm, than 10 with us, they will bring in other people imposed on it preventing us from doing ordinary jobs, and enthusiasm is like of their kind, and this again will attract a the job our way. The general rule the fire that keeps the steam-engine good type of client and this will make should be: if we can do a job we will going. Likewise one outstanding man is our work more interesting and be proud of afterwards, well and good worth 10 men who are only half good. rewarding and we will turn out better but we will do it our way. In the long This is a fact of life we cannot change. work, our reputation and influence will run this attitude pays, as it has already It is no good pretending that all are grow, and the enthusiasm of our done in the case of Arup Associates. equal they aren’t. There should be members will grow it is this And incidentally, the control of such jobs equality before the law, and as far as enthusiasm which must start the should be where our expertise resides. possible equality of opportunity, of process in the first place. course. But the fact that you are good To export Arup Associates’ jobs is at something is something you should much more difficult, for whilst we may be grateful for, not something to be be able to build a bridge or radio tower conceited about. It doesn’t mean that And they all lived happily in a foreign locality, good architecture you are better as a human being. And ever after? presupposes a much more intimate there are probably many other things knowledge of the country. Long Yes, it sounds like a fairy tale, and you are hopeless at. distance architecture generally fails. perhaps it is. But there is something in But that does not mean that the ideal No man should be despised or feel it. It is a kind of vicious circle except of Total Architecture is irrelevant to our ashamed because of the work he that it isn’t vicious, but benevolent, a purely engineering partnerships or does, as long as he does it as well as lucky circle. And I believe that we have divisions. In fact they have been he can. What we should aim at, made a beginning in getting onto this founded on the idea of integrating naturally, is to put each man on to the lucky circle. I believe that our fantastic structure with architecture and work he can do. And, fortunately, there growth has something to do with our construction, and in Scotland for is nearly always something he can do philosophy. And I believe our instance they are trying to give well. We will have square pegs in round philosophy is forward looking, that it is architects a service which will unite holes, we shall have frustrated people, what is needed today, is in tune with these domains2. unfortunately those who are not the new spirit stirring in our time. But of course there are many other and frustrated one way or another are in the Coming back to my main theme, I dangerous spirits about and too much minority. But fortunately people vary, as realise that when I have been talking growth may awaken them. Too much jobs vary, and few would want to do about quality, about interesting and growth may also mean too little fruit. the job another calls interesting if they rewarding work, about Total are no good at it. Architecture, and attracting people of 1. In 1970 Arup was carrying out a good deal of 2. In 1970 Arup’s Scottish practice had just work in the Middle East. begun to offer a multidisciplinary engineering service for buildings. If we can reach a stage where each worry us for the time being. At the the old leaders retire and growth takes man or woman is respected for the job moment the need for solvency is place mainly locally, the ties that bind they do, and is doing his or her best restricting, and is the most frequent us together may weaken. We should because the atmosphere is right, cause of having to compromise. That prevent this by forging more ties, because they are proud of what we are we may have to do but let’s not do it forming new friendships, and always and do and share in the general unnecessarily, and let’s get back being true to our principles. Improve enthusiasm, then we are home. And on course. communications the universal each job is important. Secretaries, for injunction nowadays. Absence does instance. They could have a And Unity and Enthusiasm, the last not make the heart grow fonder, tremendously civilising influence on our item, is in a way what my talk has been unfortunately. There will always be a staff. They could teach them to write about. It is a question of giving the firm need for a strong coordinating body English, for instance, a most important an identity. What do we mean, when which is at the moment formed by the and necessary job. But secretaries who we speak about the firm, about ‘we’ or senior partners which has the power can do that are of course at a ‘us’? Is it the whole collection of people to interfere if our principles are seriously premium. We must try to find them. It in dozens of offices in different places? betrayed. For should that happen, it is even more important than that they Are ‘we’ all of them or some of them, would be better to cut off the offending are good-looking and nobody could and which? limb, less the poison should spread. accuse me of being indifferent to that. Our name must not be allowed to I think it is unavoidable that ‘we’ should cover practices which conflict with our Our messengers and cleaners how mean different things in different philosophy. But at the moment there is important it is that they are reliable and contexts. Sometimes what is said is no danger of that, and we can take likeable, human, with a sense of only relevant to the upper layers of comfort from what has been achieved. humour. A cheerful remark can brighten management, sometimes it is meant to Perhaps that should have been the gist the day. All our people are part of us, include everybody. What we must aim of my talk? But you are seeing it for part of our ‘image’, create the at is to make ‘we’ include as many as yourself. I could also have dwelt on atmosphere we live in. possible as often as possible. To how far we have still to go; it would increase the number of those who perhaps have accorded more with my But it doesn’t alter the fact that the have a contribution to make, however star-gazing habits. But my time is up services of a messenger are less small, who agree wholeheartedly with my speech should have been valuable to the firm than those of a our aims and want to throw in their lot condensed to one-third but it is too gifted designer or an imaginative with us. We might think about them as late now. I hope at any rate that I mechanical engineer, a fact that even members of our community; the haven’t deserved the warning which the messenger will understand. others, who come and go, might be the Duke of Albany addressed to called staff. Of course there can never Goneril in King Lear: But there are of course people we be any clear line of demarcation it is cannot employ usefully. Masses of not a question of signing a form or How far your them, in fact. Those we should not bestowing a title it is a matter of how eyes may pierce take on, obviously, except on a strictly each feels and what we feel about I cannot tell. temporary basis. But sometimes they them. For it is a two-way business. Striving to better, are found inside the firm. They may oft we mar have been good once, but are on the But what binds our membership what’s well. way down. I am a case in point myself. together must be loyalty to our aims. But their loyal service, their place in the And only as long as the leaders of the hierarchy, makes it difficult to de-grade firm are loyal to these can they expect them. To deal with them requires much and demand loyalty from the members. tact, and is embarrassing. But they This speech is too long already, and I should not be allowed to pretend to do have not even touched on what you jobs they are no good at. They must perhaps expected to be the main not prevent the good ones from subject of my talk, the relationship functioning. It’s a problem all firms between the Ove Arup Partnership and have, it’s one of the cases where the Overseas Partnerships. But from humanity and efficiency clash. To the foregoing my point of view should resolve it tactfully may be expensive, be clear. not to resolve it is fatal. The fact that we have these outposts So far I haven’t said much about all over the world is of course an solvency. Stuart Irons3 can tell you enormous source of strength to us and something about that. I compare it to to you, it helps to establish our stability in engineering structures reputation and power for good, and without it the whole thing collapses but opens up opportunities for all our if you have much more money than members. This is however only you need the usefulness of it declines because the leaders in these places until it becomes distracting and are our own people, bound to us by dangerous. That danger need not common aims and friendships. But as 3. The then Financial Director. Arup’s core values maintain the vision established by Sir Ove Arup (1895-1988): • We will ensure that the Arup name is always associated with quality. • We will act honestly and fairly in dealings with our staff and others. • We will enhance prosperity for all Arup staff. Our priorities are: • our clients and our industry • our creativity • our people • sustainable development. We shape a better world: • to enhance prosperity and the quality of life • to deliver real value • to have the freedom to be creative and to learn. 13 Fitzroy Street, London W1T 4BQ, UK tel +44 (0)20 7636 1531 fax +44 (0)20 7580 3924 email corporate@arup.com www.arup.com United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2013 2 Attachment −− Global Human Rights Code of Practice Global Code of Practice Page 1 of 2 Human Rights: Global Code of Practice CODE OF PRACTICE Arup is founded on the principles of ensuring that our people’s work is interesting, rewarding and stimulated by a drive for excellence in an environment where people’s lives are inextricably linked with those of other human beings. A guiding principle of the firm is that everyone accords to others the rights that individuals claim for themselves and accept the moral and humanitarian values that this embraces. A person cannot be treated just as a link in a chain of command but as someone whose happiness and prosperity is a concern of all. Purpose Our approach on human rights reflects this by: Value Diversity. Ensuring that Arup people work in an environment that is free from all forms of discrimination and that they are valued as individuals and treated with dignity and respect. Discrimination on the grounds of disability, race, age, religion or gender or sexual orientation is in conflict with out guiding principles. Self Esteem. Providing an environment that is free from any form of harassment or intimidation by eliminated any form of behaviour or abuse that could affect an individual’s self esteem, including bullying and victimisation. Life Balance. Helping people to more easily balance their work, domestic and personal lives Fair Reward. Fairly compensating employees through wages and benefits for their labours. Providing for rewards and other means for staff to share in the firm’s success. Effective Workplace. Giving people a safe, clean, comfortable and healthy working environment that provides for the needs of all employees including those with disabilities. Integrity. Operating in an environment where we demonstrate consideration for people and respect for the job they do when they are striving to achieve the best that they can. Personal Development. Treating people fairly, respecting the sanctity of human life and allowing gifted people to unfold. Global Human Resources Adapted 2009 Global Code of Practice Page 2 of 2 Acting Honourably. Acting honourably in our dealings with our own and other people Social Responsibility. Being aware of our social responsibility, striving to do socially useful work and joining hands with others who are working to achieve these values Respect. Ensuring that no-one is subjected to arbitrary interference in their privacy, home or family or attacks on their honour or reputation. Effective Date 28 May 2012 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide and other third parties who are permitted access to the firm’s electronic communications systems, including temporary staff, people who are hired on contract, contractors, joint venture partners and clients. Global Human Resources Adapted 2009 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2013 3 Attachment: −− Global Harassment Code of Practice −− UK Local Harassment Procedure Global code of practice Harassment Harassment : code of practice Purpose Arup believes that all employees have a right to be treated with dignity and respect while at work and when representing the company outside of work. The following code of practice informs employees of the type of behaviour that is not acceptable and provides employees who are subjected to harassment with a means of redress without fear of reprisal. CODE OF PRACTICE Arup identifies that employees have a right to be treated with dignity and respect. Harassment is harmful, unlawful and can reduce the effectiveness of the organisation by undermining the confidence of employees and creating a threatening environment. Employees have a right to work in an environment, which is free from harassment of any kind. The organisation will take positive action to prevent its occurrence. Any complaint will be taken seriously and the necessary resources deployed to investigate and resolve the matter. Effective date 1 May 2001 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide. Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 GCP10601 Local procedure for UK Harassment Harassment : local procedure for UK 1 Introduction Harassment may be characterised as unwanted conduct affecting the dignity of people in the workplace. It may be related to age, gender, gender reassignment, race, disability, sexual orientation, religion, nationality, or any other personal characteristic of the individual. It may be persistent or an isolated incident. The key is that the actions or comments are viewed as demeaning and unacceptable to the recipient, whether or not this is intentional. Any complaint will be taken seriously and the necessary resources deployed to investigate and resolve the matter. Once the investigation is completed, the Leader who initiated the investigation will decide, on the strength of the findings, the appropriate action to be taken. Conversely, any malicious complaint which, on investigation, is shown to be without foundation, will be treated as a matter no less serious than an act of harassment. 1.1 Bullying Bullying may be characterised as offensive, intimidating, malicious, or insulting behaviour; an abuse or misuse of power through means which undermine, humiliate, denigrate, or injure the recipient. Research suggests that bullies are just as likely to be female as male and that bullying happens equally to men and women. Bullying behaviour may include: • setting of unachievable objectives and timescales • insisting that the management way is the only correct way of doing things • frequently ‘changing the goal posts’ • setting of ‘trick’ problems • public ‘dressings down’ whether justified or not • continual nit-picking about minor issues • asking individuals loaded questions about themselves • continually making derogatory statements about an individual • calling individuals by offensive names. 1.2 Sexual harassment Sexual harassment takes many forms, from relatively mild banter to actual physical violence. Employees may not always realise that their behaviour constitutes sexual harassment; they must recognise that what is acceptable to one person may not be acceptable to another. Sexual harassment is unwanted behaviour of a sexual nature by one employee towards another, whether of the opposite sex or the same sex. Sexual harassment may include: • insensitive jokes, innuendoes, teasing and pranks • lewd comments about appearance or dress • unnecessary body contact • displays of sexually offensive material, eg pin-ups • requests for sexual favours • speculation about a person's private life and sexual activities • threatening or actual sexual violence • threat of dismissal, loss of promotion, etc, for the refusal of sexual favours. 1/4 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 LP106L01 Local procedure for UK Harassment 1.3 Racial harassment Racial harassment can also take many forms, from relatively minor abuse to actual physical violence. It should also be borne in mind that everybody has an ethnic origin. For example an individual's ethnic origin may be Welsh while they may categorise themselves as White European. Racial harassment may include: • insensitive jokes or pranks related to race, colour, nationality, or ethnic origin • deliberate exclusion from conversation or activities • abusive, threatening, or insulting words and behaviour • displaying abusive or offensive writing and pictures • deliberate non co-operation. 1.4 Religious discrimination This is discriminatory behaviour which fails to acknowledge or ignores the rights or needs of people with different beliefs. 1.5 Disability This can include harassment, undignified treatment, ridicule or exclusion of people because of their disability, vulnerability, or perceived reduced independence. 1.6 Age This is ridiculing or demeaning behaviour focussed towards people because of their age. 2 Procedure 2.1 Informal procedure Employees who are harassed should keep a written record of all incidents, including the date, time, nature of incident, the names of those involved and the names of any witnesses. They should ask for colleagues who have witnessed the harassment to provide written statements of what they have seen or heard, so that they can be provided as evidence. The Human Resources Group is available to give confidential support and advice. If possible, the person or persons carrying out the harassment should be told by the individual who is being harassed that the behaviour is offensive and unwanted and must stop. This can either be done by talking to the individual(s), or alternatively, writing a letter stating what happened, where and when. A colleague or a member of Human Resources Group can act as a witness when this statement is made. Alternatively, an appropriate Leader can speak to the alleged harasser. Whenever possible, any complaint of harassment should be made in the first instance to the person to whom they report or someone of a similar level. 2.2 Formal procedure Where informal methods fail, or where a more serious incident of harassment occurs, employees have the right to bring a formal complaint using the firm's Grievance procedure (see Grievance code of practice). The complaint should be made in writing, and where possible state: • the identity of the harasser(s) • the nature of the harassment 2/4 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 Local procedure for UK Harassment • date(s) and time(s) when harassment has occurred • names and witnesses to any incidents of harassment • any action taken by the employee to stop the harassment. Employees may raise a complaint of harassment either with their Leader, a more senior member of the firm, or directly to the Human Resources Group. Where the complaint is raised initially with a Leader, the Leader should immediately involve the Human Resources Group. The Leader will arrange for a thorough investigation of the complaint. The steps taken will be those set out in the Grievance procedure. As far as possible, confidentiality will be maintained throughout the investigation. Once the investigation is completed, the Leader who initiated the investigation will decide, on the strength of the findings, the appropriate action to be taken. This may include disciplinary action, in which case the Conduct & Performance code of practice and disciplinary procedure will apply. Any malicious complaint which, on investigation, is shown to be without foundation, will be treated as a disciplinary matter no less serious than an act of harassment. If the complainant or the alleged harasser is dissatisfied with the outcome of the procedure then he or she may appeal, (see appeals procedure in Conduct & Performance code of practice). 3 Responsibility 3.1 Leaders • Any Leader who receives a complaint of harassment must arrange for an investigation of the complaint or incident and ensure that the problem is resolved as quickly as possible, making sure that appropriate action is taken to ensure compliance with the code of practice. Failure to take corrective action may in itself be treated as a disciplinary offence. • All Leaders have a duty to establish and maintain a working environment free from harassment and should be observant and alert to the kind of behaviour which might indicate that a problem exists. Leaders should also be prepared to deal with any inappropriate behaviour even if it has not been complained about. • Leaders are responsible for notifying the Human Resources Group when a formal case is raised, and must keep the Human Resources Group informed and involved as necessary, throughout the process. • Leaders are responsible for ensuring that employees for whom they are responsible have knowledge of and understanding of the firm's code of practice. 3.2 Human Resources Group • The Human Resources Group will assist Leaders and employees with advice and guidance involved in the use of this code of practice. • The Human Resources Group will also arrange for employees who request it to have access to advice from trained counsellors, eg from the firm’s Employee Assistance Programme. 3/4 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 LP106L01 Local procedure for UK Harassment 3.3 Employees • All employees must comply with this policy and take steps to ensure that harassment does not occur. • Any employee who feels bullied should feel confident that complaints will be taken seriously and dealt with in confidence. • Any employee who is made aware of harassment by a colleague must respect the confidence of the parties involved and should encourage the person being harassed to consider using the correct procedure. • If an employee believes that a colleague is being harassed and that they have not complained about it, then it is the employee's duty to report the harassment of the colleague to their Leader or to the Human Resources Group. 4/4 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2013 4 Attachment: −− Global Health & Safety Policy Global Health and Safety Policy Mission To shape a better world Objectives To deliver this, the firm will:  ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, the health and safety at work of all our employees including temporary and contract staff, and of other persons affected by our actions;  provide such health and safety training, specialist advice, information, instruction and supervision as may be necessary to personnel at all levels;  implement programmes for the prevention of injury and ill health and continued improvement in the management and performance of our health and safety systems;  integrate health and safety considerations into our design and business decisions; and  operate within a management system that is registered as meeting the requirements of OHSAS 18001 or equivalent. Outcome In meeting these objectives, the firm will:  comply with applicable legal and other requirements;  maintain a high standard of health and safety awareness by training and developing our staff;  develop and record health and safety competencies for key staff; and  achieve a performance which will sustain the long-term success of the business. …………………………………………………. …………………………………………………….. Lup-Moon Lui …………………………………………………….. Arup Group Health and Safety Director Leader for ………………………………………. …………………………………………………….. …………………………………………………….. …………………………...…… Sub-region/Group www.arup.com Last reviewed March 2013 . United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2013 5 Attachment: −− ISO 9001:2008, OHSAS 18001:2007 and ISO 14001:2004 combined certificate United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2013 6 Attachment: −− UK Disciplinary Procedure UK disciplinary procedure Conduct & Performance Conduct & Performance : UK disciplinary procedure 1 Applicability This procedure applies to all members of Arup in the UK, and to UK members seconded temporarily to work with the UK Partnership, outside the UK. Employees with less than six consecutive months' service with Arup will be subject to a modified procedure as outlined below in section 4. 2 Introduction The disciplinary procedure is designed to be supportive and to encourage improvements in individual conduct and performance. It provides clear guidelines on the standard of conduct and performance which is expected, whilst also offering support to those who experience difficulty in meeting the standard. Where there are no improvements in conduct/performance, sanctions may be imposed. Particularly in the case of performance issues, the action may be to consider suitable alternative work within the firm or suitable training which may improve the situation. Conduct: The following list of examples of conduct which may result in disciplinary action is a guide and is not exhaustive. Unsatisfactory conduct could lead to disciplinary action such as the issue of a warning and/or the imposition of sanctions. Unsatisfactory conduct includes such things as: • poor time-keeping • abuse of Arup's policies and procedures • wilful refusal to carry out reasonable instructions given by someone in authority or other acts of unjustifiable insubordination • persistent or unauthorised absences • actions which undermine working relationships with colleagues and/or other organisations or which may compromise our integrity as a firm and our honourable dealings with people. Some behaviour is completely unacceptable and could result in summary dismissal with no warnings being given. Such behaviour, termed gross misconduct, includes: • misappropriation or abuse of the firm's property, including electronic property, or wilful damage to it • instances of harassment or discrimination • any kind of physical assault, threatened or actual, during employment or whilst using premises provided by the firm • breaches of Arup's health and safety practices, or any action which endangers people's health or safety • incapacity to work through being under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs • theft, attempted theft, fraud, misuse, or any other act intended to deprive the firm of its finances or property, including intellectual property and software; timesheet and expense claim falsifications are included • serious breach of confidentiality, for whatever reason, except where specifically allowed by relevant UK legislation • distribution by any means, including electronic, of material of an offensive, libellous, sexual, or racist nature. 1/4 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 LP101U01 UK disciplinary procedure Conduct & Performance Performance: Before commencing any role within Arup employees should be aware of the performance standards expected. Where those standards are not met, the firm's disciplinary procedure will be used to agree the action required to rectify the situation. 3 The procedure Wherever appropriate, an informal discussion will be held between you and the person to whom you directly report to discuss a case of poor performance or conduct. A written record will be made of this discussion, a copy given to you and a copy kept on your personnel file. If this discussion does not lead to the agreed improvement, the disciplinary procedure as outlined below will be used and this informal record of your discussion will be taken into account in subsequent disciplinary meetings with you. Where the situation is more serious the formal disciplinary procedure will be used straight away. There are four formal stages to the procedure, the fourth stage being dismissal. Serious breaches of conduct or repetitions of unsatisfactory conduct/performance may result directly in an appropriate warning, not necessarily at the first stage. Cases of gross misconduct could result directly in the fourth stage, dismissal. In this case dismissal will be summary, ie with no notice. 3.1 First stage warning (verbal warning) • If conduct/performance does not meet expected standards you will be invited, in writing, to attend a discussion with the person to whom you directly report to talk about the issue and agree action to improve the situation. The letter you receive will give you at least 48 hours' notice of the meeting and will include: the reason for the meeting; who will be present and your right to be accompanied by a colleague from within Arup. • The person to whom you directly report will investigate the circumstances of the incident. He/she may do this by taking statements from any available witnesses which will be available to you. You will be asked during the meeting to present any other relevant information. • The meeting should cover clearly: • a brief description of the conduct/performance to be addressed • reasons for the unsatisfactory conduct/performance • the improvement required • the action agreed with you to achieve this • the timescale within which the improvement is required to take place • the consequences of not achieving the necessary improvement. • No travel costs will be paid in connection with a colleague of your choice attending the meeting with you. During the meeting your colleague may clarify points, request clarification and take notes but, may not answer questions on your behalf. • The person to whom you report will conduct the meeting and your Administrator may be there to take notes. • If it is decided that there is a case for disciplinary action, after the meeting you will be sent a note confirming the items discussed in the meeting. You will be required to sign and return a copy of it to confirm receipt and that copy will be held in your personnel file for the period specified in the note. The more serious the matter the longer the warning remains in your personnel file. The warning might include sanctions such as demotion or a salary freeze, depending on the severity of the matter. Your employment record with the Partnership will be taken into account in determining any such sanctions. 3.2 Second stage warning (written warning) • If there is no improvement within the agreed timescale or there is another instance of the unsatisfactory conduct/performance (or similar), another meeting will be held. This second stage will 2/4 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 UK disciplinary procedure Conduct & Performance follow the same format as the first stage. The person to whom you report directly may also take into account any previous warnings you have received for whatever reason and which are still current. • Your Group Leader or equivalent may decide to attend along with, or instead of, the person to whom you report directly. • After that meeting you may be issued with a second stage warning and/or sanctions as for a first stage warning. This will also be put in your personnel file for the duration specified in the warning. 3.3 Third stage warning (final written warning) • If there is still no satisfactory improvement in your conduct/performance, or there is another instance of the unsatisfactory conduct/performance (or similar) or an instance of a more serious nature, a meeting will be called as for the first stage. Your Group Leader or equivalent may decide to attend along with, or instead of, the person to whom you report directly. In some instances, an appropriate member of the Human Resources Group may attend in place of either the person to whom you report directly or your Group Leader. • If the issue to be addressed is a serious conduct issue and you are on assignment or secondment away from your home Group, you may be required to return to your home Group for the meeting. In this case, your reasonable travel expenses in doing so will be reimbursed, providing they are authorised in the usual way. The meeting will be held with your home Group Leader or equivalent. If the meeting results in a warning being issued, your assignment may be ended with immediate effect. After this meeting you may be issued with a third stage warning and/or sanctions as for a first stage warning. This will also be put in your personnel file for the duration specified in the warning. 3.4 Fourth stage (dismissal) • If there is still no satisfactory improvement in your conduct/performance, or there is another instance of the unsatisfactory conduct/performance (or similar) or an instance of gross misconduct, a meeting will be called as for the first stage. Because of the serious nature of the fourth stage, your Group Leader or equivalent will be expected to attend this meeting rather than the person to whom you report directly, along with a senior member of the Human Resources Group. • In serious cases, particularly of gross misconduct, you may be suspended on full pay whilst circumstances are investigated. This period should not exceed 10 working days. • If you are on assignment or secondment away from your home Group, you may be required to return to your home Group for the meeting. In this case, your reasonable travel expenses in doing so will be reimbursed providing they are authorised in the usual way. The meeting will be held with your home Group Leader or equivalent. • The decision to end your employment is made jointly between your Group Leader, or equivalent, and the Human Resources Group. You will be given a letter confirming the date of dismissal, the reasons for dismissal and details of your right to appeal. • If it is decided that the matter is one of gross misconduct, then you may be summarily dismissed, ie without notice. You will be given a letter confirming the date of dismissal, the reasons for dismissal, and details of your right to appeal. 4 For employees with less than six consecutive months' service with Arup The firm's principles of fairness and reasonableness will apply to conduct/ performance issues which are raised with you. During your first six months of service, your performance will be monitored and appropriate training and guidance given where needed. 3/4 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 LP101U01 UK disciplinary procedure Conduct & Performance You should note that you are subject to the firm's Conduct & Performance code of practice and its associated disciplinary procedure, but it will be modified such that there will be three instead of four stages to the disciplinary procedure; the second stage of the procedure will be omitted. 5 Appeal You may appeal against any measures imposed as a result of the disciplinary procedure. An appeal must be made in writing, outlining your justification for the appeal and sent to your Human Resources Manager. This must be done within five working days of the notification of the measure to be imposed. Your appeal will be heard within 10 working days of the receipt of the appeal, subject to postponement by mutual agreement. The appeal will be heard by a Group Leader outside the Group in which you are employed. You will be required to attend and present your case and you will be entitled to be accompanied by a colleague from within the firm. The appeal may be upheld or rejected or an alternative disciplinary measure to that already taken may be substituted. (The decision reached is final no further appeal will be heard.) Whilst an appeal against dismissal is pending, the dismissal will continue and the appeal heard afterwards. If the appeal is successful and you are reinstated, your employment with the firm will be deemed to be unbroken by the dismissal and you will receive payment for all salary owed to you. 6 Responsibility of the Human Resources Group The Human Resources Group is available to provide advice and guidance to all employees involved in issues arising from this code of practice and its associated procedure. Those investigating action under this code of practice are required to keep the Human Resources Group informed of all disciplinary matters. The Human Resources Group is responsible for overseeing any dismissal action meetings (and third stage warning meetings, where appropriate) and for hearing any appeal against measures imposed at any stage of this disciplinary procedure. 4/4 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 Global code of practice Conduct & Performance Conduct & Performance : code of practice Purpose Arup maintains a Conduct & Performance code of practice to uphold the professional standards expected from all its members. The code of practice provides a framework for guidance to members of the firm whose conduct and/or performance does not fulfil the firm’s expectations. It also provides guidance to members who manage such issues. The aim of the supporting disciplinary procedure is to provide a uniform, fair and responsive means of addressing issues of unsatisfactory conduct and/or performance. CODE OF PRACTICE All members of Arup are expected to act in a professional and competent manner in all aspects of their work. In support of this, the firm's role shall, wherever practicable, be to give advice and guidance in accordance with its disciplinary procedure. Effective date 1 May 2001 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide (but see also section 1 for further details). Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 GCP10101 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2013 7 Attachment: −− Corporate Report Corporate Report 2011/2012 © Iwan Baan Steady performance in a tough global climate Focusing on diversification and resilience provides a solid platform to face the uncertainties of the global economy The 2011-2012 financial period has undoubtedly been another challenging year for a sector beset by continuing uncertainty in Europe and Middle East. Yet Arup has maintained our strategic focus, worked hard with our clients and continued to deliver steady results in a tough economic environment. At the end of the financial year, the Group Board was pleased to report that Arup managed to maintain rising income and profits in a very competitive global marketplace. Income grew modestly to hit £991.8 million, while full-year profits stayed positive at £31.1 million. This resilience stands as a testament to the commitment and hard work of everyone across the Arup family. Yet we are also aware that we cannot afford to be complacent and it is important we guard against that across the firm. As a result, we remain just as keenly focused on improving efficiency and productivity as we are in achieving the highest design standards for our clients. The firm also continues to follow a path toward becoming more diversified both across businesses and geographies – a strategy that has helped provide stability in the choppy waters generated by the global economic environment of recent years. As a result, we remain well placed to meet the uncertainties of the market in the year ahead with excellent people on board and a strong pipeline of both talent and projects coming through. The highlight of 2012, though, is the chance to showcase our abilities to deliver to a gold medal standard in this Olympic year. London 2012 represents a boost in income for the firm, but far more importantly it once again highlights our ability to deliver complex projects on time, to budget, and to the very highest standards – a benchmark we fully intend to continue to strive for on every project we tackle. Philip Dilley, Group Chairman © Dennis Gilbert/VIEW © MetroSantiagoChile © Kenny Ip © Darren Soh Baku Tollgate, Heydar Aliyev Timber Wave, London, UK Metro de Santiago, Chile Kingkey 100, Shenzhen, China Marina Bay Sands, Singapore International Airport, Azerbaijan Left: Lincoln Center, New York City, USA 3 CHAIRMAN’S FOREWORD © Zhou Ruogu Architecture Photography International Finance Centre, China Owned in trust for a secure, independent future Arup’s ownership structure has The ability to offer impartial, trusted advice is the foundation for much of Arup’s success over the decades. Whether on major infrastructure works like High Speed been the foundation for decades 2 in the UK, building projects like the International Finance Centre in Guangzhou, China, or consulting projects such as providing transaction advice on the reof solid growth and sound development of the Presidio Parkway in San Francisco, USA, our independence is finance. Most importantly, it never in doubt. allows the firm to maintain its That independence of thought is a key component of our business model, putting us in a trusted position with clients and external stakeholders. At the same time, independence it has also proved important to the firm’s financial foundation over the years. As a Trust-owned firm, Arup is owned for the benefit of the employees, past and present. In practice, this leaves us free to pursue long-term business strategies without the distraction of serving the needs of short-term shareholder profits. Today, the responsibility for maintaining that legacy falls to the Trustees who administer the Ove Arup Employee, Charitable and Service Trusts. Among other things, the Trustees are responsible for appointing the Group Board. The Group Board is led by the Chairman, Philip Dilley, along with 13 Directors, including two non-executives, and supported by three officers. The Group Board is responsible for setting the overall direction, strategy and policies to deliver the firm’s objectives. To reflect the complexity of our multi-disciplinary work, the Group Board has devised a matrix structure for the firm. This runs along strategic lines featuring Regions, Practices, Businesses and a number of senior level executive bodies tasked with supporting specific areas such as design, people and operational management. GOVERNANCE 4 design markets people © Ronald Tilleman operations Group Board Government office, Groningen, The Netherlands The regional structure covers five areas in total – the Americas, Australasia, East Asia, Europe and UKMEA (UK, Middle East and Africa). The three Practices cover the overarching disciplines of Building, Consulting and Infrastructure and help drive our focus on technical expertise and skills development. Meanwhile, the 18 Businesses are outward facing in recognition of the need to support our clients in key sectors such as rail, aviation, waste and energy. Peter Bailey Jenny Baster Alan Belfield Overall, the structure is managed in such a way as to provide internal cohesion between the many skills we have, while maintaining external clarity across the intersecting multi-disciplinary activities that feature in the firm’s work. In combination, Arup is able to develop the skills and careers of our people, while engaging with clients and stakeholders at all levels across multiple disciplines and Robert Care Tristram Carfrae Andrew Chan business areas. This allows Arup to provide the highest quality work and make the most of new opportunities. Strategic approach Arup is widely recognised as a world leader in delivering design and consulting Philip Dilley Greg Hodkinson Michael Kwok engineering services, as well as numerous other architectural and professional skills. Spanning these multiple skillsets and business areas, the Group Board has set out a strategy that aims to promote excellence in four key areas: • to be leaders in design • to invest in markets for the future • to invest in our people and make Arup an employer of choice LM Lui Mahadev Raman David Whittleton • and to inspire operational excellence across the board Non-Executive Directors These four overarching strategic objectives have implications for everything we do. For example, our ambition to be leaders in design has driven Arup to become partners on cutting edge schemes such as the Rokko Observatory in Japan, as well as developing a global series of ‘Penguin Pool’ events to engage with artists and designers across the globe. The strategy of investing in markets for the future has prompted a number of Michael Bear Ngaire Woods initiatives from the expansion of our activities in fast-growing markets in China to the development of a new induction charging technology for electric vehicles in the Officers form of HaloIPT, which proved to be a success for Arup and for low carbon transport. Making Arup an employer of choice means not only reinforcing our commitment to career progression through continuous professional development and the Arup University programmes, but also through developing robust diversity policies across the globe. Martin Ansley-Young Cathy McNulty Matt Tweedie In each area of the firm’s activities, we also aim to promote operational excellence by cutting red tape and focusing on the quality of the work rather than pursuing growth targets, for example, as well as ensuring that sustainability and innovation remain at the heart of our design approach across the board. In short, Arup’s strategy is framed around attracting the best and brightest people and then developing their skills so that Arup can deliver the best projects for our clients and stakeholders. In doing so, we strive to shape a better world. 5 GOVERNANCE © Timothy Hursley Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, HQ, Seattle, USA Resilience drives progress in competitive global markets Arup aims to stay profitable Arup’s business performance in 2011-2012 was influenced by a number of external factors, not least the continuing after-effects of the global financial crisis and and build a better business uncertainty in the Eurozone and the Middle East. Despite the impact of these geopolitical difficulties on specific markets, the picture for the Group as a whole has for our people and our clients been characterised by solid returns and a resilient performance. In a very competitive global market, Arup Group’s resilience saw income rise 2.6% to £991.8 million, while operating profits climbed 16.4% to £28.7 million. Performance was helped by the integration of the previously independent Arup Ireland into the Group and the sale of the HaloIPT electric vehicle venture, which pushed full-year profits to a positive £31.1 million. These solid financial results demonstrate how the Group has responded to the challenges brought to bear in a patchy and cautious global investment climate. It also highlights the effectiveness of a strategic approach that emphasises excellence in design and operations alongside sound strategic investment in key markets and the people who are at the core of all our businesses. Critically, the firm will maintain its tradition of adding value through innovative and sustainable design approaches across the business – the underpinning element that has helped guide Arup’s success over the years. BUSINESS OPERATIONS 6 © Marcel Lam Photography Harbour Area Treatment Scheme, Hong Kong Across the regions Analysis of the Group’s performance over the year highlights the resilience of Arup’s global diversification strategy. Increased turnover in Asia (up 18.1%), Australasia (up 9.5%) and the Americas (up 10.9%) helped offset declines in the Middle East and The Group’s key interest Africa region (down 18.2%). remains in delivering great At the same time, income in the UK and Europe held relatively steady, which the projects for our clients Board believes represents a commendable performance for the Group overall given the economic climate. There is no doubt that turnover is a useful metric for the firm, but the Group’s key interest remains in delivering great projects for our clients as part of our ambition to shape a better world. Looking across the regions there is no doubt that some outstanding projects were delivered over the period in each of the three main Practice areas – buildings, consulting and infrastructure. In the buildings arena, a number of schemes stood out, not least the AAMI Park Selected awards Stadium in Melbourne, Australia, the Education Executive Agency and Tax Office in Groningen (one of the most environmentally-friendly buildings in the Netherlands) Moses Mabhida Commuter Station, Durban, and the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation HQ in Seattle, USA. AAMI Park set new KwaZulu Natal, South Africa benchmarks in efficiency and sustainability, while the Seattle HQ demonstrates the Kwazulu Natal Institute for Architecture (KZ NIA) Award true value of delivering sustainable design at scale as the Bill and Melinda Gates Southern African Institute of Steel Construction (SAISC) scheme became the largest non-profit LEED Platinum building in the world. Steel Award Winner In a similar vein, the consulting teams have been enhancing the firm’s global reputation with world-class projects such as the Singapore Sports Hub, which uses an Sabiha Gokcen International Airport, Istanbul, energy-efficient spectator cooling system, as well as through work such as the joint Turkey publication of a Low Energy Lighting Guide for the BBC, which has helped the UK European Steel Design Award broadcaster cut energy use as well as costs. Evelyn Grace City Academy, London, UK In the other main Practice area – infrastructure – the firm’s success is a truly Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA) worldwide phenomenon with several major projects nearing completion such as the Stirling Prize prestigious A30 Autoroute in Montreal and the Harbour Area Treatment Scheme in Hong Kong – a new sewage system that will serve a population of five million on both sides of the Victoria Harbour. In all these areas, the Practices work tirelessly to ensure that Arup maintains its world-beating edge in technical expertise and thought leadership, as well as maintaining our reputation for innovation and sustainability across the board. 7 BUSINESS OPERATIONS Gautrain, South Africa Arts & Culture ial © NA30 CJV n erc Aviat A30, Montreal, Canada io mm io n Co at uc gy Ed En er ent Arup Businesses r nm G ove When it comes to dealing with clients, our approach is to strive to ensure that our teams ‘talk the same language’ as the people we deal with, both figuratively and hcare 18 Healt metaphorically. This is why Arup aims to employ a diverse workforce, work with Business clients who share a passion for innovation, and run 18 Businesses across the firm, Highways Areas so that a complex mix of seamlessly integrated services are targeted and tailored to Hote ls & L specific client audiences and stakeholder groups. eisur Ma e riti me Rail, for example, is one of the firm’s largest Businesses and in this sector any project M of significant scale requires a huge number of different skillsets. As a result, we have in in Wat i g a dedicated global rail team which works with clients and at the same time each er Ra Wa individual project team can draw on a wealth of in-house expertise. For example, en l ste t Retail sid Science & Industry Spor environmental experts can be deployed to examine the route and look at impact Re mitigation such as the tunnels created for the Gautrain project in South Africa. The tial team might draw on high-level operational expertise to inform the design engineering for highly complex projects such as the Second Avenue Subway in New York. Or the firm’s acoustics expertise can be used to engage the public during consultation as Arup did on the HS2 high speed rail line in the UK. BUSINESS OPERATIONS 8 The story is the same for other major Businesses such as Highways. The firm’s internal networks allow internationally recognised experts from across the globe to collaborate seamlessly on vast infrastructure schemes including the Forth Bridge Replacement near Edinburgh in the UK or the Presidio Parkway in San Francisco, USA, where the project team is tasked with delivering a new approach to the Golden Gate Bridge while maintaining traffic flows of some 100,000 vehicles per day. Across all our Businesses, we actively seek to work with clients who share our values and vision in terms of sustainability and this is clearly evident from many of the projects undertaken in another of Arup’s major business areas – Commercial Property. A particularly interesting example is 1 Bligh Street in Sydney, Australia, which was the city’s first 6-Star Green Star high-rise building. The project is the first high-rise in Australia to employ a double skin façade on this scale and set new standards for sustainability and innovation in high-rise development in the country. At the same time, the firm is enhancing our reputation for innovation with projects such as BSkyB’s Harlequin building in London, UK, where Arup has helped design arguably the most sustainable broadcasting studio of its type in the world. The studio includes eight state-of-the-art, naturally-ventilated studios, offices and free-cooled data rooms, all following the client’s design brief to create a world-leading, genuinely sustainable HQ. These examples represent just a few of the many schemes where Arup once again combines innovation and sustainability. © Oaker Singapore Sports City Global outlook Despite the inevitable challenges created by a soft global trading environment, Arup approaches the year with confidence, safe in the knowledge that the firm boasts many of the world’s best people working in fields ranging from sustainable masterplanning and acoustics to high speed rail and airport design. The firm’s Trust-owned structure also means that Arup retains the ability to plan for a long-term future. That advantage, allied with another solid financial performance and the rising number of existing and potential clients around the globe who share the group’s culture and passion for excellence, innovation and sustainable solutions means that Arup is optimistic the firm will see an even better 2012-2013. 9 BUSINESS OPERATIONS Employee engagement is a key factor in Arup’s success The art of being an ‘employer of choice’ Attracting, nurturing and It is often said that Arup is ‘unique’. One of the reasons for this is that Arup is a Trust-owned firm run for the benefit of the employeesa. As such, the group values its developing the skills of people greatly. This is why one of the strategic goals Arup has set itself is to invest in our people and have Arup recognised as ‘an employer of choice’. It is a critical people who share our values ambition for the firm as it is one of the key ways in which the group can sustain is key to the Arup model its culture, its expertise and its talent pool, and in turn maintain and grow Arup’s reputation and standing around the globe. As a professional services company, practically everything the firm does for clients and partners depends on the quality of the people who work at the group. So at every level, Arup is committed to attracting those who share our core values, nurturing their talents, developing their skills and striving to provide the best projects and working conditions to enhance our ability to deliver for clients and stakeholders. Selected awards This long-term commitment to excellence and being an ‘employer of choice’ manifests itself in a number of ways. For example, Arup actively promotes and pursues a global diversity policy, action plan and associated training to ensure that Ric Snowden we attract and retain the broad range of people needed to reflect the diverse global Consulting Engineers South Africa (CESA) Aon Engineering stakeholder base the firm serves. Arup’s approach means that these principles of Excellence Awards Mentor of the Year diversity and inclusion extend to our clients, our suppliers and all of those with whom we choose to work. Tim Chapman Institution of Civil Engineers (ICE) The firm has also sought to maintain graduate recruitment in an uncertain global President’s Medal economic climate to ensure that we sustain the lifeblood of the firm, maintaining the pipeline of new talent coming into the group. Indeed, in the past year Arup took Dervilla Mitchell on more than 400 graduates, on a par with pre global recession levels. This reflects Women of Outstanding Achievement Award the group’s confidence in the future and ensures that Arup’s people continue to be supported – and challenged – by the pool of new talent coming through. Phil Nedin Once on board, new Arup staff are regularly given responsibility for key deliverables Institute of Healthcare Engineering and Estate Management during the early stages of their careers. This helps promotes responsibility and (IHEEM) Lifetime Achievement Award engagement, which is then reinforced in other ways, for example, via the firm’s commitment to promote global mobility and ensure the group is well-placed for the best international projects. Today, 1 in 20 of our people around the globe are on secondment at any one time, providing tremendous scope for individual development, as well as helping Arup to nurture the global perspective and leadership needed to sustain an international firm serving clients in the long term. PEOPLE 10 Global mobility is an important goal Arup University is a visible commitment to continuous learning The firm’s ambition to promote continuous development is apparent at every level, including the development of critical technical expertise gained via external 86% professional bodies; senior leadership courses designed to reinforce the ethics and culture of the group; and through the Arup University – an organisation established within the firm to increase the return on intellectual capital. Among other things, Arup University accelerates the development of staff capabilities through the provision of modules, workshops, e-learning and formal courses at “I feel proud to work for” Arup Professional, Masters and Doctoral level. Just in the past year, for example, Masters Modules on topics such as Sustainability Leadership and Business Economics were 84% completed by 65 students, while a further 90 students were accepted and enrolled on Modules for the coming period. The Arup University continues to work with internal and external partners such as Imperial College and UCL to develop our engagement in this area. Learning and development has always been highly valued within Arup, because “I would recommend Arup it is so critical to the future of the firm. By attracting, developing and retaining a as a place to work” talented and diverse group of people who share Arup’s values and ambitions, the firm enhances its relevance and sustainability for current and future generations, putting Source: 2010 Arup Staff Survey great design at the service of our clients, partners and communities. 11 PEOPLE © Veolia Water Leighton John Holland Joint Venture Sludge Treatment Plant, Hong Kong Turning thought leadership into action on sustainability Thought leadership is not Arup has a tradition of being in the vanguard of new thinking about how we should operate as a firm and this is very much the case when it comes to the wider enough, which is why Arup sustainability agenda. From the earliest days, the firm’s founder, Ove Arup, set out the importance of having a joined-up approach to design, which included sensitivity is determined to pursue ‘do to the environment and aiming to achieve a social purpose. This early example leadership’ on sustainability of thought leadership has been fundamental to the firm’s development ever since and remains embedded in the group’s thinking, reflected in how we approach our and resilience business, our people, our relationships and even our facilities. The firm’s long-held aspirations in these areas are formalised in Arup’s Sustainability and Policy Strategy. The key elements of the strategy are found in the Group’s philosophy, not least the overarching mission to ‘shape a better world’. By detailing the agenda across four specific areas business, people, relationships and facilities Arup has developed explicit policy goals against which to match progress across the group (see indicators on page 14). SUSTAINABILITY 12 In many of these areas, the firm is doing relatively well. For example, in a short Selected awards time Arup has managed to ensure that 99% of its people work in offices certified to ISO14001 environmental management standards. Inevitably, though, there are Central Park and Canals, Songdo City, South Korea areas where further progress can be made, such as boosting gender diversity. Yet American Council of Engineering Companies (ACEC) – arguably the most important aspect of the Sustainability Strategy is that it represents Diamond Award for Engineering Excellence – Special Projects a commitment to further progress across the regions and ensures that sustainability remains firmly at the core of the business. Arup Today’s focus on sustainability is evident across the four main planks of the strategy. 2012 Sustainability Leaders For example, we work with clients to optimise social, economic and environmental Best Environmental Consultancy Award performance on extraordinary projects such as the Hong Kong Sludge Treatment Facility. This particular project combines a striking architectural design with sludge HaloIPT treatment and energy production, spas, and environmental, educational and exhibition CleanEquity Monaco Awards facilities. Not only is it set to be one of the world’s largest sludge treatment works, Award for Excellence in the Field of Environmental Technology it also opens a new chapter in the integration of work, education, health and social Research wellbeing. In the same way, we encourage people at all levels in the firm to put sustainability BSkyB HQ, London, UK high on their agenda as part of their everyday work by providing targeted training. Energy Efficient New-Build Project Winner As a result, Arup nurtures the level of environmental awareness the firm is noted for, while developing the high calibre personnel who can make their mark as thought leaders in the field, supporting and encouraging clients, partners and other Yale School of Forestry & Environmental Studies, USA stakeholders following the same path. American Council of Engineering Companies (ACEC) Excellence Award This is why Arup is known as a ‘go to’ global firm for sustainability projects such as the pioneering study – ‘Copenhagen: Solutions for Sustainable Cities’. Here, Arup and the City of Copenhagen authorities collaborated on an in-depth study into how the Danish city could develop the principles of green growth to deliver real-world economic and environmental benefits. The partners hope to build on the report’s findings in the future to help Copenhagen lead the green growth agenda as the city works to create a smarter, cleaner and healthier environment in the future. 13 SUSTAINABILITY © HG Esch Fotografie/Gale International Korea Halo IPT electric vehicle induction charging 200920102011KPI 2010 2011 2012 Projects setting sustainability New Songdo, South Korea 22.9 25.3 27.3 objectives (%) The firm’s ambition to engage with organisations that share our values and ambition Profit (% of turnover) 2.6 4.8 6.1 to promote sustainability leadership means Arup has worked closely with partners such as the World Economic Forum to highlight the multi-billion dollar market Investments (% of turnover) 1.5 1.2 1.3 potential for energy-efficient buildings. This is a vital contribution as buildings are responsible for 40% of the world’s energy consumption and generate 40% of all Cash at bank (weeks of costs, before profit share) 7.7 6.9 5.3 carbon emissions. As such, retrofitting buildings to improve their energy efficiency presents a tremendous opportunity to reduce costs and impact on the environment. Repeat clients (%) [2] 76.4 65.1 83 Another example of cooperation in this area is the joint venture created between Arup Women in the firm (all grades (%)) 29.5 30 30.5 and the Japanese group, Mitsui, aimed at sparking a wave of green investment around the globe. Arup and Mitsui signed a deal to form MBK Arup Sustainable Projects in Women in management positions 12.8 13.7 14.3 2011 with the aim of getting low carbon investments off the ground. (grades 7-9 (%)) Staff who have received relevant Moving to the final plank of the Sustainability Strategy – the firm’s own facilities – 40.7 33.2 23.6 sustainability training (%) Arup is well aware of the responsibility to practice what it preaches, endeavouring Staff working in offices with and EMS to minimise pollution, waste, and energy use. Here, the indicators show the firm is certificated to ISO 14001 (%) 70.1 99.1 99.7 doing better on carbon with some work to do on paper consumption. At the same Carbon emissions per full-time time, the group can point to some excellent high points over the year such as the employee per year (tonnes CO2) [4] 3.4 3.6 3.3 Brisbane office’s award for being the National Signatory of the Year for improving office energy efficiency under the national CitySwitch Green Office Program. The judges in this particular award were also impressed with Arup’s Office Realtime data Paper consumption per full-time _ 35.5 40.1 employee per year (kg) [5] visualisation system, which allows staff members to directly see their energy, water, Lost time accidents per 100,000 99.7 120 120 paper, and flight consumption trends, ensuring a correlation between individual employees actions and overall outcomes. Charitable donations (£, to nearest 742,000 749,000 743,000 £000) In short, the group is committed to turning a tradition of thought leadership into Pro bono engagement (£ equivalent ‘do leadership’ in very practical ways. The concept of sustainability is constantly 582,000 560,000 843,000 staff cost, to nearest £000) evolving as evidence, knowledge and understanding is accrued around the globe. Arup plans to play its part in both learning and disseminating best practice as a thought leader in the field. SUSTAINABILITY 14 WZQ Bridge, Yunnan Province, China Working in partnership around the world Connecting with partners and Arup’s aspirations to shape a better world put the firm at very heart of communities around the globe. Every day, the firm’s work is helping to regenerate stakeholders in communities neighbourhoods, forge new physical and social infrastructure and transform lives for the better. around the globe is a key element in our work The nature of the work Arup undertakes means that people across the firm are acutely aware of the responsibilities we have toward partners and stakeholders in the wider community. This goes some way toward explaining why one of the many things that sets Arup apart from other firms is a deeply held commitment to communities and causes. The founder, Ove Arup, established the firm to be ‘an organisation which is human and friendly’ and one that carries with it ‘a wish to do socially useful work and to join hands with others fighting for the same values’. Today, Arup fulfils this commitment through: • Giving – via corporate donations through our charitable trust and regional community engagement commitees • Doing – by funding staff to provide technical assistance to humanitarian and development organisations around the world through the Arup Cause, strategic partnerships or local charities • Developing – encouraging staff to undertake networking and shared learning activities on charitable and community issues under the umbrella of Arup’s Community Engagement Skills Network. The end result is that Arup engages with communities around the globe in a vast array of direct and indirect initiatives. 15 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Arup people engage with global communities One of the most straightforward indications of through pro bono work and fundraising this commitment is charitable donations, which amounted to some £743,000 over the year (2011: £749,000). Some of the most sizeable contributions are listed below (see Top 10 Donations) and include the founder’s own charitable body, The Ove Arup Foundation, as well as some well-known international organisations such as RedR and Habitat for Humanity. In addition, the Group provided thousands of hours of pro bono work to various charities at a cost of approximately £843,000, while Arup staff will have added significantly to that total with 21,755 unpaid hours of volunteering and individual fundraising projects. For the Arup family, it is here that the story of community engagement really comes alive as staff at all levels get to use their skills and knowledge to make a difference to their communities. Take the Rayalanka Island flood mitigation and adaptation project in India, for example. Working with the community and local partners, Arup staff were able to help develop an engineering solution that made use Top 10 Donations of locally available Vetiver grass, providing a long-term Name Total sustainable solution for erosion protection. South Africa Education Trust 180,214 The Ove Arup Foundation 81,762 Another Arup Cause project in Uganda’s Teso region RedR 40,320 saw volunteers from the firm help develop the Shalom WuZhiQiao Charitable Foundation 31,635 International School – phase one of a vocational SportsAid 20,464 college for young people in the area that will serve as a Engineers Without Borders 16,313 model for similar projects in the future. Fairbridge Trust 16,000 In Australia, Arup volunteers joined forces with The Smith Family 15,165 Engineers Without Borders to deliver the Murra Habitat for Humanity 13,318 Murra Amenities project in collaboration with the AtmosFair 12,482 Kooma Traditional Owners Association Incorporated at a remote aboriginal homestead in the Queensland outback. The team worked with Emergency Architects SUSTAINABILITY 16 21,755 Hours of voluntary work and fundraising £743,000 Charitable donations in 2011/12 Australia as part of a wider sanitation program in The The team works across a range of sectors and often Solomon Islands at Ranongga, which was among the in challenging geographies to help combat poverty areas hit by the 2007 earthquake and tsunami. and vulnerability, working to increase wellbeing and resilience in the developing world. Another particularly interesting project took place in rural China at Mixia Village in Yunnan Province, close A good example of its recent work is the Communityto the Vietnamese border. Here, Arup teams put in Based Disaster Risk Reduction (CBDRR) study carried years of preparation alongside volunteers from the Wu out for the International Federation of Red Cross and Zhi Qiao Charitable Foundation and Hong Kong and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC). This global study first mainland universities to build an Arup-designed bridge began when ArupID was asked to review the impact that will provide a safe passage for the local population of the client’s programmes following the 2004 Indian to access schools and nearby communities. Ocean tsunami. The work has since been replicated in Latin America and the Caribbean, influencing the All of these projects are backed by a whole host of design and implementation of successful CBDRR mentoring and fundraising activities by Arup teams programmes worldwide. across the firm, which brought in £184,000 over the year. Staff in the New York office, for example, The group also helped guide the planning and design partnered with PENCIL, a non-profit organisation that of a new Humanitarian Logistics Hub in Panama brings together business leaders to strengthen New for the United Nations Office for Project Services York City public schools. (UNOPS). The project will improve the capacity of governments and international agencies to respond Strategic partnerships have been set up with charities to natural disasters and other events that may require such as WaterAid to provide technical support for a humanitarian assistance in the region. country program in Nicaragua. And across the firm, sponsored bake sales, walks, cycle rides, and even Meanwhile in Haiti, following the devastating moustache-growing have all featured in Arup offices earthquake in 2010, ArupID helped Habitat for as fundraising efforts have connected our people with Humanity plan their aid programme and coordinate a communities in need around the world. long-term disaster response. Arup International Development The firm and its staff are acutely aware that Arup can never do enough, but by engaging with communities Separate from charitable donations and pro bono work, around the globe, and forging new partnerships, we are Arup International Development (ArupID) is a nottaking positive steps towards fulfilling our aspiration – for-profit business within Arup, working in partnership to shape a better world. with humanitarian and development organisations. ArupID strengthens the overall impact of the firm’s work – helping to deliver strategic objectives and outcomes at organisational, programme or project level. 17 SUSTAINABILITY Who we are Arup is the creative force at the heart Acoustic consulting Masterplanning of many of the world’s most prominent Advanced geometric design Materials projects in the built environment and Advanced technology and research Mechanical engineering across industry. We offer a broad range of Airport planning Nuclear energy professional services that combine to make Architecture Oil and gas engineering a real difference to our clients and the Audio visual and multimedia Operations consulting communities in which we work. Bridge design Planning policy advice Building design Product design Building modelling Project management We are truly global. From 90 offices Building physics Public health engineering in 38 countries, our 11,000 planners, Civil engineering Quantity surveying designers, engineers and consultants Cost management Renewable energy deliver innovative projects worldwide. Economic planning Research Economics and planning Resilience, security and risk Founded in 1946 with an enduring set Electrical engineering Seismic design of values, our unique trust ownership Energy strategy Site development fosters a distinctive culture and an Environmental consulting Software products intellectual independence that encourages Façade engineering Specialist technical services collaborative working. This is reflected in Facilities management Structural engineering everything we do, allowing us to develop Fire Sustainability consulting meaningful ideas, help shape agendas and Fluid dynamics Sustainable buildings design deliver results that frequently surpass the Geotechnics Sustainable infrastructure design expectations of our clients. Hydrogeology Theatre consulting Infrastructure design Thermal energy Interchange design Town planning The people at Arup are driven to find a International development Transaction advice better way and to deliver better solutions IT and communications systems Transport consulting for our clients. Landscape architecture Tunnel design Lighting design Vertical transportation design Management consulting Water engineering Maritime engineering Wind engineering ABOUT ARUP 18 Opposite: Kauffman Center for the Performing Arts, Kansas City, USA © Timothy Hursley Arup Group 13 Fitzroy Street London W1T 4BQ United Kingdom Cover image: www.arup.com London Aquatics Centre, UK © Hufton + Crow United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2013 8 Attachment: −− Global Diversity and Inclusion Code of Practice −− UKMEA Region Diversity Strategy −− UK Equal Opportunities Local Procedure Global Code of Practice Page 1 of 1 Diversity and Inclusion: Code of Practice CODE OF PRACTICE As a global organisation, we recognise and respect each others’ differences and strive to build a working environment where our different values and perspectives are actively harnessed to create the best solutions for our equally diverse client base. We will work to ensure that everyone feels their contribution is valued and their successes are celebrated through our processes and through our training and development. The diversity and inclusiveness of our workforce is supported by our ethics on Sustainability and Human Rights. Our employment and recruitment practices will adhere to, and strive to exceed, local legislation wherever we work in the world. Arup’s principles of Diversity and Inclusion extend to our clients, our suppliers and all those with whom we choose to work. Purpose Arup recognises that to produce work of high quality, to maintain our reputation for innovation and creativity and to understand and delight our clients we need to fully embrace the skills, talents and knowledge that only a diverse workforce can deliver. Effective Date 1 January 2009 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide, our applicants and all those with whom we have contact with through our working lives. Global Human Resources Adapted 2009 UK procedure Equal opportunities Equal opportunities : local procedure for the UK 1 Introduction We must all be committed to ensuring that employment practices are applied fairly and equally, unless directed otherwise by law. The Human Resources Group will monitor our employment policies and practices to ensure that they conform to relevant legislation, remain free from bias and enable us all to take advantage fully of available opportunities. The Human Resources Group will take action to redress any examples of discriminatory employment practices, direct or indirect. Any such examples within Arup should be brought to the attention of the Human Resources Group. 2 Procedures 2.1 Recruitment Our equal opportunities code of practice applies equally to all recruitment activities, both internally and externally. Those involved in the recruitment process must be familiar with the code of practice and its proper implementation. Information and training in support of this code of practice are available; each Arup employee is responsible for obtaining these as necessary. The selection process shall be based on a job description which relates to the particular experience, knowledge and skills that are needed for the safe and effective performance of the job. In the event of any complaint or criticism being made by any job applicant in relation to the application of the code of practice, the firm's grievance procedure is to be followed. 2.2 Training Training is available to all members of Arup in accordance with our training code of practice. Any selection criteria applied to training opportunities will take full account of this equal opportunities code of practice. 2.3 Career development and promotion The selection criteria for promotion and other career development opportunities within Arup will consider the relevant qualifications, experience and requirements that are needed for the safe and effective performance of the job and shall take full account of this equal opportunities code of practice. 2.4 Pay Your salary and benefits will take account of your experience, knowledge and skills, in accordance with the spirit of this equal opportunities code of practice. 2.5 Selection for redundancy If job functions become redundant, the selection process shall take full account of this equal opportunities code of practice. The firm will ensure that any criteria applicable from time to time to the selection for redundancy are not directly or indirectly in conflict with this code of practice. 1/2 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 LP103U01 UK procedure Equal opportunities Those responsible for selecting and informing employees of redundancy must be familiar with the equal opportunities code of practice and its proper implementation. Information and training in support of this code of practice are available; each employee is responsible for obtaining these as necessary. 2.6 Grievance If you believe you have not been treated equitably in accordance with this code of practice, you should refer to the firm's grievance procedure for details of action that may be taken. If the grievance issue relates to the behaviour or actions of the person to whom you report or if you are not comfortable talking to the person to whom you report because of the nature of the grievance eg sex discrimination, the matter may be raised instead with an alternative member of Arup. This should be either a member of the Human Resources Group or another member of Arup who is at least as senior as the person to whom you report. In this event, the manager approached should notify the Human Resources Group directly that a grievance has been raised. All grievance matters raised will be treated confidentially. 2.7 Monitoring Both members of Arup and job applicants are expected to provide certain reasonable personal data in order to ensure that our policies and employment practices are applied equitably throughout the firm. Such information will be collected when you apply when you become a member of the firm, and from time to time, as requested. Any such information collected will be treated confidentially and will only be used for the purpose of monitoring whether our practices meet the aims stated in this code. 3 Responsibility 3.1 Every member of Arup has a responsibility to uphold our equal opportunities code of practice in order to ensure that everyone with whom we work is treated equally and honourably. 3.2 Leaders have a particular responsibility to ensure that grievances are investigated, that confidentiality is maintained and that appropriate action is taken. 3.3 The Human Resources Group has a particular responsibility to ensure that the firm's employment practices do not discriminate, directly or indirectly, against its members and job applicants. It will do this by monitoring procedures and providing a framework, which facilitates access to opportunities. The Human Resources Group will also support the grievance procedure. 3.4 The firm takes this commitment very seriously. Any acts of discrimination by its members will result in disciplinary action, including termination of employment if appropriate, in accordance with the firm's disciplinary procedure. 2/2 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2013 9 Attachment: −− Global Grievance Code of Practice −− UK Grievance Procedure Global code of practice Grievance Grievance : code of practice Purpose The purpose of a grievance code of practice is to assist the employee in seeking fair, unbiased redress of an employment-related issue. It provides an explicit framework in which employment-related problems can be discussed and addressed. It does not apply to matters related to the outcome of disciplinary action, as there is a separate procedure for this. CODE OF PRACTICE Arup believes that all its members should have the opportunity to discuss any matter of concern with the person to whom they report. In most cases employment related matters are likely to be resolved informally in this way. If, however, the outcome of informal discussions is unsatisfactory then the issue can be addressed through the grievance procedure. Effective date 1 May 2001 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide. Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 GCP10501 UK procedure Grievance Grievance : UK procedure The framework outlined below is intended to be fair. It is designed to give you the appropriate opportunity to have your personal employment-related concerns heard within Arup. Your concern ( grievance ) will be investigated thoroughly, and taken seriously, and you will be informed of the outcome. 1 Initial contact You should always be able to talk in the first instance to the person to whom you report if you have a concern about an aspect of your employment with the partnership. If you do not feel it is appropriate, because of the nature of your concern, to talk to the person to whom you report you will have the facility to contact your next level of management, in which case you should contact your representative from the Human Resources Group for guidance. In the case of members of the Human Resources Group, they should contact another nominated leader within the same Division in order to seek guidance on how to proceed. Any discussion you have will be confidential between the people involved unless you specify otherwise. The matter may be resolved at the time of the discussion, or the person to whom you report may need to check information. In any event, it is intended that you are notified of the outcome of your discussions within 10 working days. The outcome of the discussion will take into account all the facts and be sensibly and carefully considered. If you are unhappy with the decision reached, you may raise the concern again, formally. 2 Raising a concern formally You should submit a written summary of your concern to the person to whom you report. A meeting will be arranged within 10 working days, subject to postponement by mutual agreement to discuss the issue and attempt to resolve the matter. If the matter is not dealt with to your satisfaction then an appeal may be made, in writing, to the next level of management within five working days of receipt of the original decision. Should this person be a Divisional Director, it shall be treated as the final stage of the procedure. If you remain dissatisfied with the decision on appeal then a further appeal may be made, in writing, within 10 working days to the next level of management. This will be the final stage of the procedure and no further appeal will be possible. 3 Guidelines At each stage of the formal procedure you may be accompanied by a colleague from within Arup and you should notify the person to whom you report if you intend to do this. Although this procedure may be used to pursue an allegation of sexual harassment there is a separate procedure designed specifically for this which you may prefer to use. 1/2 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 LP105U01 UK procedure Grievance Every effort will be made to give you a written explanation of the decision about your grievance within 10 working days, subject to postponement by mutual agreement. 4 The Responsibility of the Human Resources Group The Human Resources Group are available to provide advice and guidance to all members involved in the use of this code of practice. The Leadership is responsible for notifying Human Resources when a formal grievance is raised, and for keeping Human Resources informed, and involved as necessary, throughout the process. A Human Resources representative will attend any meetings addressing an appeal. In the case of appeals from members of the Human Resources Group, any meeting will be attended by a member of the leadership team within the same Division. 2/2 Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2013 10 Attachment: −− UK Sustainable Procurement Vision Statement United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2013 11 Attachment: −− Sustainability Policy Sustainability Policy Mission To shape a better world Objectives The firm will implement practices that promote economic security, social betterment and environmental stewardship and will strive for continuous improvement of performance in these areas. To deliver this, the firm aims to: • set a sustainability strategy for the firm; • be a leader in sustainable development in areas relevant to its business; • work with its clients to pursue, promote and develop sustainable business outcomes; • promote sustainable practices; • use its skills and influence to improve the built environment and to maintain the integrity and quality of the natural and cultural environments; • hold its performance accountable to its staff through objective measurements; • report on its sustainability performance and achievements; and • operate within a management system that is registered as meeting the requirements of ISO 14001. Outcomes In meeting these objectives, the firm will: For its core business • comply with legal and other requirements that relate to its environmental aspects; • provide value to clients by building upon its reputation for integrated design and a holistic approach to projects; • deliver projects recognised for their sustainability credentials, in line with client expectations; • evaluate projects with respect to their sustainability risks and opportunities and, where appropriate, work with the client to deliver a more sustainable outcome; and • achieve performance that ensures the firm’s economic, environmental and financial viability. For its people • employ and retain staff who have a high degree of awareness and expertise in sustainability for all disciplines practised; • provide ongoing education and training for all staff on sustainability issues relevant to the firm’s business; and • support innovative approaches to the implementation of sustainability strategies on projects. Last reviewed March 2013 Page 1 For its facilities • endeavour to prevent pollution; • aim to use resources efficiently and to minimise waste, usage of water, energy and other consumables; • implement a strategy to move towards minimising carbon emissions in its operations; and • implement a strategy for the firm to move towards sustainable procurement of the goods and services used in its operations. For its external relationships • engage with organisations that practise sustainability and that enable the exchange of ideas and the promotion of sustainability leadership across its businesses; and • implement a strategy to work on community projects that achieve sustainability goals. ............................................................... ............................................................... Robert Care ............................................................... Arup Group Sustainability Director ............................................................... Leader for ............................................................... www.arup.com Sub-region/Group ....................................................... Last reviewed March 2013 Page 2 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2013 12 Attachment: −− Ethics Global Code of Practice / Procedure −− Procedure, Ethical Standards Policy −− 5-Step Ethical Process for Making Ethical Decisions Global Procedure Ethics ___________________________________________________________________________ Ethics: global procedure 1 Introduction ___________________________________________________________________________ The ethical values of integrity, openness and fairness apply to all the activities of a company. It is important not only to have standards, but also to demonstrate to clients, and under possible media scrutiny, that such standards are being met; there is considerable reputational risk associated with ethical failures at a time when anti-corruption issues are high on the media and wider business agenda. The construction sector has been identified as one of the most vulnerable, and global companies that are exposed to diverse local business practices are particularly at risk. The Board accepts responsibility to see that the values, principles and standards of business conduct underpinning how Arup operates are established and applied globally and in accordance with the Ethical Standards Policy has nominated a member of the Arup Group Board to be responsible for ethical business practices. This code of practice is intended to provide guidance on acceptable business practice to ensure that these values, principles and standards, are being met. Our behaviour will be judged against these standards. 2 Financial inducements: ___________________________________________________________________________  Arup will not, in any circumstances make or offer to make a payment or transfer anything of value for the purposes of improperly obtaining or retaining business or any other improper business advantage.  Arup does not permit ‘facilitation’ payments (payments made to expedite or guarantee government services that we are legally entitled to e.g. connection of water, customs clearances) as these are prohibited in most countries. The only circumstances in which a facilitating payment should be authorised is where there is a real risk to your health and/or safety, or that of a third party, if such a payment is not made. In such event the payment should be reported so that actions can be taken as appropriate. 3 Using third parties (including agents) or working in a Joint Venture: ___________________________________________________________________________  Arup commits to undertaking appropriate due diligence on all agents and joint venture partners, and where appropriate, sub consultants that we work with.  If we are required to use agents or representatives in particular countries they must have a clearly defined scope of service and agree to abide by the applicable laws and the terms of this policy as we may be liable for any financial inducements that our agent makes, or offers to make.  Any agency or joint venture agreements that we enter into should require the partners to comply with all applicable anti-bribery laws and to comply with this policy.  Arup should reserve the right under any such agency or joint venture agreements to terminate the arrangements if there is a breach of any applicable laws or of this policy. Arup Date: January 2012, Rev 3.1 Global Procedure Ethics ___________________________________________________________________________ 4 Gifts & Entertainment: ___________________________________________________________________________  You should exercise discretion in accepting or offering gifts or hospitality and in determining whether it is appropriate you should ensure you are aware of the circumstances and implications of the offer.  Gifts and entertainment may be perceived as a financial inducement and should never be offered or accepted where the purpose is to gain an improper business advantage.  Wherever possible, gifts from clients should be shared within the group that has been involved in the project.  The following should be considered when determining if it is appropriate to accept or offer a gift or entertainment:  Any gifts or entertainment should be of a modest value, occur occasionally and be appropriate in all the circumstances. If you would feel embarrassed that colleagues or anyone outside of Arup knew about the gift, it is likely to be inappropriate.  The purpose of the hospitality must have a legitimate business purpose. It is not acceptable to accept hospitality if our business contact will not be present, and vice versa.  It is important to consider if the recipient is allowed to accept gifts, government officials and public bodies may be unable to do so.  As a general rule, we should only offer as gifts and entertainment what we would be comfortable to accept; and vice versa  There are some gifts and entertainment which cannot be accepted without prior approval from your Group Leader; these include, but are not limited to money; hospitality that lasts more than one day and that involves meals and/or travel being paid for. 5 Competition: ___________________________________________________________________________  Competition, however fierce, should always be undertaken honestly and fairly.  You must not use improper means to obtain information about our competitors. 6 Confidentiality: ___________________________________________________________________________  Information that is not in the public domain or that may be regarded as confidential in relation to Arup’s business or concerning any other organisation with which you, in the course of your work have had business dealings, must be kept confidential.  You are reminded that there are laws in many countries that prohibit the use of confidential or unpublished information for insider trading on the stock market 7 Conduct & performance at work: ___________________________________________________________  You are expected to apply due skill, care and diligence in the services that you provide for clients. You should, at all times, work to the best of your ability. Arup Date: January 2012, Rev 3.1 Global Procedure Ethics ___________________________________________________________________________  It is your personal responsibility to acquaint yourself with the legal standards and restrictions that are applicable to the location in which you are working any to comply with these in all respects.  Many of the professional bodies of which staff are members have ethical standards or Codes of Ethics that we individually, and corporately, must adhere to.  If you are responsible for supervising others in Arup you should:  Promote ethical behaviour and compliance with the policy  Monitor compliance with the policy and enforce it as is necessary  Support employees who ask questions or raise concerns in good faith 8 Client Activities: ___________________________________________________________________________  If you are reasonably concerned abut the ethical aspects of a particular project, you will be allowed to decline involvement following appropriate consultation and agreement with your Group Leader  If you are reasonably concerned about ethical aspects of a client’s activities, you will be allowed to withdraw from working with that client after appropriate consultation and agreement with your Group Leader and the approval of the Region Chair. 9 Conflicts of Interest: ___________________________________________________________________________  Arup’s professional duty extends to not placing ourselves in a position where any conflict of interest is likely to arise. Where any potential conflict does arise, we must identify it and ensure it is appropriately addressed. Where we have more than one role on the same project for different clients: Follow the procedures for identifying all job opportunities through job application forms. Seek client agreement to the arrangements Implement effective information barriers between project teams so that teams are from separately located groups, led by separate project directors, and operating effectively as separate organisations. Further guidance on information barriers is available here  You must not allow your private interests to influence your business judgment or decision making on behalf of Arup.  You are not prohibited from owning shares in any of our client, partners, contractor’s or competitor’s businesses but it is essential that these business dealings do not raise a conflict of interest or give the appearance of doing so and you must comply with insider trading legislation at all times.  Jobs/affiliations of close relatives may give rise to the appearance of a conflict of interest and this should be taken into account.  You may be asked to serve on the board of directors or as trustees etc. of another organization and such roles can provide opportunities for personal development as well as building experience and relationships in new areas. Approval must be sought before such a post may be accepted in the following circumstances: Where the organization is commercial (as this is likely to increase the chance of a conflict arising); or Where there are, or may be perceived to be, concerns in respect of time and commitment, financial exposure or reputation Arup Date: January 2012, Rev 3.1 Global Procedure Ethics ___________________________________________________________________________ Approval should be obtained from the relevant Region Chair or, in the case of a Region Chair or Group Board member, by the Group Chair. 10 Political Contributions ___________________________________________________________________________  Arup funds or facilities may not be used to make political contributions to any organisation or candidate for public office. You are not restricted from contributing financially, from your own funds, to political campaigns or from participating, in your own time, in political campaigns. 11 Asking Questions & Raising Concerns: ___________________________________________________________________________  Arup encourages all staff to discuss any queries or concerns that relate to ethical business practices.  If you have a concern or suspect that a breach of this policy has occurred or may occur, you have a duty to report these concerns.  You may report suspected breaches of this policy anonymously, although you are encouraged to identify yourself so that a full investigation is possible. Investigation may not be possible or effective where reports are anonymous. Arup will conduct any investigations sensitively and will take all reasonable steps to keep your identity confidential but in some cases disclosure will be unavoidable.  All potential breaches of this policy that are reported in good faith will be investigated responsibly.  Arup will not tolerate any form of retaliation against individuals who report, in good faith, breaches or potential breaches of this policy.  If you would like to ask a question or to report a suspected breach, you should: o Direct all queries are directed through your Group Leader in the first instance. o Where this is not possible or appropriate, employees may choose to contact the nominated member of the Arup Group Board 12 Disciplinary Procedure for breach: ___________________________________________________________________________ Failure to comply with the spirit or letter of this policy may result in significant reputational damage to Arup and breaches of the law, of any country, is a serious matter which may subject Arup and/or individual employees to civil and criminal penalties. In addition to the above, where individuals are in breach of the terms of their contract of employment they may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination. Approved by Group Board, October 2011 Arup Date: January 2012, Rev 3.1 Ethical Standards Policy Mission To shape a better world Objectives To deliver this, the firm will: • commit to acting honourably and with integrity in all its business dealings; • ensure that no financial or other inducements to gain or retain work are offered or accepted by or on behalf of Arup; • recognise the duty of confidentiality in all our client relationships and give it the highest importance; • identify and address appropriately any potential conflicts of interest; • endeavour to raise the ethical standards of global business in the market in which we operate; • provide such training, advice, information as may be necessary to personnel at all levels; • integrate ethical considerations into our design and business decisions; and • provide pro bono services where appropriate and engage with the wider community. Outcome In meeting these objectives, the firm will: • comply with all legal and other applicable requirements of the countries in which we work; • justify the trust of our clients by giving their interests first priority in the work we do for them; • take steps to see that all personnel are aware of, and follow the Ethics Code of Practice; • appoint a Group Board Director with responsibility for ethical business Practices; • where appropriate undertake due diligence of our clients, joint venture partners, agents and other advisors; • participate in appropriate industry forums to promote industry best practice; and • achieve a performance which will sustain the long-term success of the business and enhance our reputation in the market. ............................................................... Robert Care Arup Group Ethics Director www.arup.com Last reviewed January 2012 Making Ethical Decisions Making ethical decisions can be difficult and to help, we recommend you apply a 5-step approach to the ethical decision making process. Feelings Reputation 2 4 Consider Effects Options 1 3 5 Consider the Problem: Consider how your intended Consider how those affected Consider what others Consider the options for raising • Is it legal? action will make you feel: will feel: will think: a concern: • Does it violate our company • Relief, regret or remorse? • Duped, used, angry, annoyed • What would your family, • What is the best method for policies or Code? • If you have to convince or disappointed? friends and colleagues think? raising this concern? • Is it consistent with our values? yourself you are right then you • Pleased, proud, respected? • Would you, or they, be happy • What evidence do you have • Is it a question of being fair? are probably wrong • That you are the only one reading about it in the paper? or will you need? to benefit? This simple 5 step approach can be applied to any dilemma and when used alongside the code of practice you’ll have the confidence to act ethically. United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2013 13 Attachment: −− Global Conduct and Performance Code of Practice Global code of practice Conduct & Performance Conduct & Performance : code of practice Purpose Arup maintains a Conduct & Performance code of practice to uphold the professional standards expected from all its members. The code of practice provides a framework for guidance to members of the firm whose conduct and/or performance does not fulfil the firm’s expectations. It also provides guidance to members who manage such issues. The aim of the supporting disciplinary procedure is to provide a uniform, fair and responsive means of addressing issues of unsatisfactory conduct and/or performance. CODE OF PRACTICE All members of Arup are expected to act in a professional and competent manner in all aspects of their work. In support of this, the firm's role shall, wherever practicable, be to give advice and guidance in accordance with its disciplinary procedure. Effective date 1 May 2001 Applicability All employees working for Arup worldwide (but see also section 1 for further details). Arup May 2001: Rev 1.0 GCP10101 United Nations Global Compact: Communication on Progress 2013 14 Attachment: −− Financial Statements 2012 for OAPIL Financial Statements 2012 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited Contents Directors’ report 1-3 Independent auditors’ report 4 Profit and loss account 5 Statement of total recognised gains and losses 5 Balance sheet 6 Notes to the financial statements 7-19 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 1 Directors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2012 Directors’ report The directors present their report together with The principal area of risk and operating uncertainty the financial statements of Ove Arup & Partners for the business is its ability to continue to secure International Limited (the “Company”) for the new projects and deliver the performance of existing year ended 31 March 2012, which were approved projects in line with management’s objectives. by the board of directors on 19 September 2012. To monitor these, the directors use the following financial key performance indicators (KPIs): The capital of the ultimate parent company is divided into equity shares, which are held in trust • Turnover and profit per person is a financial KPI for the benefit of the employees (past and present) used to monitor the continued contribution to the of the Arup group of Companies (the “Group”) Company. In calculating this measure, profit is and voting shares which are held by the Ove stated before tax and staff profit share. For the Arup Partnership Charitable Trust. year ended 31 March 2012, turnover per person was £112k (2011: £106k) and profit per person Principal activities was £5k (2011: £5k). The Company practices in the field of consulting • Staff turnover is a key non-financial measure engineering services, in architecture and in other of business performance. For the year ended related professional skills, principally in the United 31 March 2012, staff turnover was 16% Kingdom and Continental Europe. (2011: 16%). The Company operates branches in the United The Company will continue to operate in similar Kingdom, Indonesia, Ireland, Moscow, Poland, markets. The Company has a solid, diversified Qatar, Romania and St Petersburg. portfolio to navigate the market challenges and a breadth of quality employees that will help to exploit opportunities when growth returns. Review of the business and future developments Dividends These are the results for the Company for the The directors do not recommend a dividend financial year ended 31 March 2012. The results payment (2011: nil). show a profit after taxation of £9.2m (2011: £13.0m). During the year the Company’s turnover decreased Directors by 6.2% (2011: 2.8%) and the Company made a The directors of the Company during the year total profit before tax and staff profit share of and up to the date of signing this report, were £19.4m (2011: £21.3m). as follows: The performance developments of the Company J Baster* are in line with the expectations of the directors. A J Belfield* The directors draw attention to the following R F Care* matters that have had an impact on the reported performance in the current year: T G A Carfrae* • Despite challenging economic conditions, the A K C Chan* Company’s UK market has stabilised with a P G Dilley* slight decrease of 2% in turnover (2011: 24%). T M Hill European markets continue to be affected but this has been offset by the marked growth in G S Hodkinson* (Appointed 01/06/2012) Asia and Australasia regions of 45% from A R M Marcetteau prior year. J C Miles (Resigned 01/01/2012) • The translation of the performance and assets J G Turzynski of the Company’s branches from their principal D A Whittleton* operating currencies to sterling, have resulted in an increase of £0.1m (2011: £0.4m) to the All directors marked with an * were also directors Company’s net assets. of Arup Group Limited at 31 March 2012. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 Directors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2012 2 Directors’ report (continued) Directors’ indemnities Note 1f) in the notes to the financial statements As permitted by the Company’s Articles of provides further information on accounting for Association, the directors have the benefit of an exchange differences. indemnity which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined by section 234 Research and development of the Companies Act 2006. The indemnity was The Company engages in research and in force throughout the last financial year and is development on an ad-hoc basis as required to currently in force. The Company also purchased complete projects during the normal course of and maintained throughout the financial year business. Costs incurred in research and Directors’ and Officers’ Liability Insurance in development are immediately expensed to the respect of itself and its directors. profit and loss account. The Company obtains enhanced tax relief for these costs from HMRC. Independent auditors The Company’s auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP Charitable donations have indicated their willingness to continue in During the year the Company made donations office for another financial year. to charities and for charitable purposes of £280k (2011: £241k). The majority of the donations were Financial risk management made through the Ove Arup Partnership Charitable The Company’s financial assets and liabilities Trust, whose financial statements are publically comprise cash at bank, overdraft and trade and available at the Charities Commission. In addition, other payables and receivables, whose main the company provided approximately 6,700 hours purpose is to maintain adequate finance for the of pro bono work to various charities, at a cost of Company’s operations. approximately £280k. The Company has overseas subsidiaries where transactions, assets and liabilities are denominated Employees in foreign currencies and is therefore exposed to The maintenance of a highly skilled workforce is currency fluctuations arising from these sources. key to the future of the Company. Health and safety matters are regularly reviewed by the The Company is exposed to a number of financial directors and it is their policy to ensure that: risks and actively mitigates the risk of financial loss. The key aspects are: • full and fair consideration is given to all applications for employment made by disabled • Liquidity risk: Cashflow forecasts are prepared to persons, having regard to their capabilities; ensure that sufficient funds are available to meet the Company’s liabilities as and when they fall due. • when existing employees become disabled (whether from illness or accident) every • Foreign exchange risk: Where possible the reasonable effort is made to continue to provide Company matches its currency earnings suitable employment either in the same job, with currency costs. Where this is not or by training, in an alternative job; and possible, appropriate derivative contracts may be used. There is no speculative use of • disabled persons are given equal consideration financial instruments. for training, career development and opportunities for promotion within the Company. • Interest rate risk: The Company currently does not hedge interest rate risk, however the need to The Company is active in the field of employee do so is regularly reviewed. communications and employees are encouraged to express their views on major policy issues. • Credit risk: The main exposure to credit risk is ‘Working at Arup’ surveys are conducted to on amounts due from customers. Controls and obtain feedback from employees. This survey is procedures are in place to mitigate this risk. confidential and is used alongside consultation Cash investments are held with banks with a with employees where appropriate. minimum credit rating of A-1/P1. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 3 Directors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2012 Directors’ report (continued) Each year, employees are provided with a Company and hence for taking reasonable steps Chairman’s report and financial information. for the prevention and detection of fraud and Employees are informed of significant business other irregularities. issues via the use of email, discussions with senior management, the Company’s intranet The maintenance and integrity of the Company and in-house publications. website is the responsibility of the directors; the work carried out by the auditors does not involve Employee involvement in the Company’s consideration of these matters, and accordingly the performance is encouraged and maintained via auditors accept no responsibility for any changes participation in a staff profit sharing initiative. that may have occurred in the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website. Statement of directors’ responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Disclosure of audit information directors’ report and the financial statements in The directors confirm that, as at the date this report accordance with applicable laws and regulations. was approved, so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company law requires the directors to prepare Company’s auditor is unaware and that he or she financial statements for each financial year. has taken all the steps he or she ought to have Under that law the directors have prepared the taken as a director in order to make him or herself financial statements in accordance with United aware of any relevant audit information and to Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice establish that the Company’s auditor is aware (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and of that information. applicable law). Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view By Order of the Board of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: • select suitable accounting policies and then M S Tweedie apply them consistently; Company Secretary • make judgements and accounting estimates that 19 September 2012 are reasonable and prudent; Registered Office: 13 Fitzroy Street, London W1T 4BQ • state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; • prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business. The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions, disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 Independent auditors’ report | for the year ended 31 March 2012 4 Independent auditors’ report to the members of Ove Arup & Partners International Limited We have audited the financial statements of audited financial statements. If we become Ove Arup & Partners International Limited for the aware of any apparent material misstatements year ended 31 March 2012 which comprise the or inconsistencies we consider the implications profit and loss account, the statement of total for our report. recognised gains and losses, the balance sheet and the related notes numbered 1 to 23. Opinion on financial statements The financial reporting framework that has been In our opinion the financial statements: applied in their preparation is applicable law and • give a true and fair view of the state of the United Kingdom Accounting Standards (United Company’s affairs as at 31 March 2012 and Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). its profit for the year then ended; • have been properly prepared in accordance Respective responsibilities of directors with United Kingdom Generally Accepted and auditors Accounting Practice; and As explained more fully in the statement of directors’ responsibilities, the directors are • have been prepared in accordance with the responsible for the preparation of the financial requirements of the Companies Act 2006. statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view. Our responsibility is to audit and Opinion on other matters prescribed express an opinion on the financial statements in by the Companies Act 2006 accordance with applicable law and International In our opinion the information given in the Standards on Auditing (UK and Ireland). Those directors’ report for the financial year for which standards require us to comply with the Auditing the financial statements are prepared is consistent Practices Board’s Ethical Standards for Auditors. with the financial statements. This report, including the opinions, has been prepared for and only for the Company’s members Matters on which we are required to as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 report by exception of the Companies Act 2006 and for no other purpose. We have nothing to report in respect of the We do not, in giving these opinions, accept or following matters where the Companies Act 2006 assume responsibility for any other purpose or to requires us to report to you if, in our opinion: any other person to whom this report is shown or into whose hands it may come, save where • adequate accounting records have not been kept, expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing. or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or Scope of the audit of the • the financial statements are not in agreement financial statements with the accounting records and returns; or An audit involves obtaining evidence about the • certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration amounts and disclosures in the financial statements specified by law are not made; or sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material • we have not received all the information and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error. explanations we require for our audit. This includes an assessment of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Company’s circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed; the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Jonathan Hook (Senior Statutory Auditor) directors and the overall presentation of the financial For and on behalf of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, statements. In addition, we read all the financial Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditors and non-financial information in the directors’ London report to identify material inconsistencies with the 19 September 2012 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 5 Profit and loss account for the year ended 31 March 2012 Statement of total recognised gains and losses 2012 2011 Profit and loss account £’000 £’000 Notes Turnover 1b & 2 406,095 432,708 Staff costs 3 Wages and salaries (168,701) (192,219) Social security costs (18,764) (18,645) Pension contributions (13,723) (15,198) Other staff costs (8,017) (15,212) (209,205) (241,274) Depreciation 1c & 9 (10,153) (10,618) Other operating charges Charges from sub-consultants and other direct project costs (98,526) (87,064) Accommodation (32,214) (33,459) Communications and other overheads (42,261) (47,871) Provision against balance due from Group undertakings (1,252) (174,253) (168,394) Operating profit 5 12,484 12,422 Interest receivable and similar income 6 49 89 Interest payable and similar charges 7 (945) (287) Other finance costs 23 (1,300) (500) Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 10,288 11,724 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 8 (1,044) 1,330 Profit for the financial year 16 & 17 9,244 13,054 All activities of the Company are derived from continuing operations. 2012 2011 Statement of total recognised gains and losses £’000 £’000 Notes Profit for the financial year 16 & 17 9,244 13,054 Exchange translation gains 16 & 17 77 436 Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in the pension scheme 23 (31,000) 1,000 Deferred tax asset movement related to the actuarial loss/(gain) 4,241 (3,398) Total (losses)/gains recognised since last annual report (17,438) 11,092 There is no difference between the profit on ordinary activities before taxation and the profit for the financial year stated above, and their historical cost equivalent. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 Company number 952468 Balance sheet | as at 31 March 2012 6 2012 2011 Balance sheet £’000 £’000 Notes Fixed assets Tangible assets 9 29,399 34,472 Investments in subsidiary undertakings 10 25,352 25,352 54,751 59,824 Current assets Debtors 11 280,101 243,232 Cash at bank and in hand 24,228 15,877 304,329 259,109 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 12 (242,693) (203,783) Net current assets 61,636 55,326 Total assets less current liabilities 116,387 115,150 Provision for liabilities Dilapidation provision 13 (1,825) (1,850) Net assets excluding pension liabilities 114,562 113,300 Pension liability 23 (96,030) (77,330) Net assets after pension liabilities 18,532 35,970 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 15 45,000 45,000 Profit and loss account 16 (26,468) (9,030) Total shareholders’ funds 17 18,532 35,970 The financial statements on pages 5 to 19 were approved and authorised by the board of directors on 19 September 2012 and signed on its behalf by: A R M Marcetteau Director Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 7 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2012 1 Accounting policies a) Basis of accounting transactions or events recognised in the statement of These financial statements are prepared on the going total recognised gains and losses or directly in equity is concern basis, under the historical cost convention and in charged or credited to the statement of total recognised accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and applicable gains and losses or directly to equity respectively. UK Accounting Standards. e) Deferred taxation The Company is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Arup Full provision is made for timing differences at the tax Group Limited and is included in its consolidated rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which financial statements which are publicly available. the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on Consequently, the Company has taken advantage of the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantially exemption from preparing consolidated financial enacted at the balance sheet date, in respect of timing statements under section 400 of the Companies Act differences which have arisen but not reversed at the 2006. The Company has also taken advantage of the balance sheet date. Timing differences are differences exemption from publishing a cash flow statement under between the Company’s taxable profits and its results as the terms of FRS 1 (Revised 1996). stated in the financial statements, which are not permanent. Having considered post year end trading and forecasts Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis. and the cash resources available to the Company, the No deferred tax has been provided for on any gain arising directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to continue to from the sales of any assets where the taxable gain has use the going concern assumption. been, or will be, rolled over to replacement assets. The principal accounting policies, which have been applied Deferred tax assets are only recognised where they arise consistently throughout the year, are set out below. from timing differences where the recoverability is foreseen with reasonable certainty. b) Turnover Turnover represents the value of work performed on f) Exchange rates contracts in the year. Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency have For contracts on which turnover exceeds fees rendered, been translated into sterling at year end exchange rates. the excess is included as amounts recoverable on contracts The trading results of overseas operations have been within debtors. For contracts on which fees rendered translated using an average rate for the year. exceed turnover, the excess is included as deferred income Exchange differences on the translation of the results within creditors. of overseas operations together with those on assets and liabilities in foreign currency are taken directly to c) Tangible fixed assets and depreciation reserves. All other exchange differences are included in Tangible fixed assets are carried at cost less accumulated the profit and loss account. depreciation and impairment. Cost comprises purchase price after discounts and rebates plus all directly g) Long term contracts attributable costs of bringing the asset to working The value of long term contracts is based on recoverable condition for its intended use. Freehold property (buildings) costs plus attributable profit. Cost is defined as technical are depreciated over 50 years, expenditure on leasehold staff costs and related overheads plus project expenses. properties is depreciated over the period of the lease As projects reach stages where it is considered that their and all other tangible fixed assets are depreciated over outcome can be reasonably foreseen, proportions of a 4 to 10 year period. the expected total profit are brought into the financial Fixed assets and investments are reviewed for statements. Provision is made for all known and impairment wherever events or changes in circumstances anticipated losses. indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. For contracts on which turnover exceeds fees rendered, An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by the excess is included as amounts recoverable on which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its contracts on lump sum projects, and as accrued income, recoverable amount. The recoverable amount is the on time basis projects, within debtors. For contracts higher of the fair value less costs to sell and value in use. on which fees rendered exceed turnover, the excess is d) Taxation included as deferred income, within creditors. Current and deferred income tax are recognised in the h) Research and development profit and loss account for the period except where the All research and development cost is expensed in the taxation arises as a result of a transaction or event that is year incurred. recognised in the statement of total recognised gains and losses or directly in equity. Income tax arising on Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2012 8 1 Accounting policies (continued) i) Pension costs l) Trade debtors Contributions to the Company’s defined contribution Trade debtors are recognised at original invoice amount. scheme are charged to the profit and loss account when A provision for impairment of trade debtors is established they fall due. when there is reason to believe that the Company will The Company also operated a defined benefit scheme not be able to collect all amounts due according to the during the year as described in note 23. The assets from original terms of the debtor. A provision for exchange the scheme are held separately from those of the differences is also recognised on debts raised in Company in an independently administered fund. Under currencies other than sterling. FRS 17 the assets of the defined benefit pension scheme are measured at their fair (market) value at the balance m) Cash sheet date and compared to the liabilities of the scheme, Cash can comprise of cash in hand, demand deposits and at the same date, measured on an actuarial basis using short term highly liquid investments that are readily the projected unit method. The discount rate used is the convertible to known amounts of cash and which are rate of return at the balance sheet date on a high quality subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. corporate bond of equivalent currency and term to the n) Dilapidation provision scheme liabilities. The extent to which the scheme’s The Company is required to perform dilapidation repairs assets exceed/fall short of their liabilities is shown as a on leased properties prior to the properties being vacated surplus/deficit in the balance sheet. The surplus/deficit is at the end of their lease term. Provision for such costs are shown net of deferred taxation. made where a legal obligation is identified and the The increase in the present value of pension scheme liability can be reasonably quantified. The provision is liabilities arising as a result of employee service in the discounted to net present value at the balance sheet date current period is charged to operating profit. Any using an appropriate discount rate. increase in the present value of pension scheme liabilities arising in the current period but as a result of employee service in prior periods is charged to operating profit on a straight-line basis over the period in which the increases in benefit vest. The amount of expected return on the scheme’s assets and the increase during the period in the present value of the scheme liabilities arising from scheme liabilities being one year closer to payment are included as other finance costs in the profit and loss account. Actuarial gains and losses are reported in the statement of total recognised gains and losses. Management assessed the expected return on scheme assets based on a review of past returns and professional advice of the level of future returns. j) Leased assets Rentals payable under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the term of the lease. Benefits received and receivable as an incentive to sign an operating lease are spread on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where the period to the review date on which the rent is first expected to be adjusted to the prevailing market rate is shorter than the full lease term, in which case the shorter period is used. k) Investment in subsidiaries Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are stated at cost less impairments. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 9 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2012 2012 2011 2 Segmental Report £’000 £’000 Turnover by destination United Kingdom 255,556 260,846 Europe 52,630 63,480 Middle East & Africa 47,954 67,407 Asia 21,989 12,415 Australasia 15,285 13,281 Americas 12,681 15,279 406,095 432,708 The Company only operates materially in the business of consulting engineering. 2012 2011 3 Staff costs £’000 £’000 Salaries 159,615 168,657 Staff profit sharing 9,086 9,587 Social security costs 18,764 18,645 Pension contributions 13,723 15,198 Redundancy costs 792 8,180 Other staff costs 7,225 7,032 209,205 227,299 Prior year restatement for non-payroll staff costs 13,975 Total staff costs prior year 241,274 Prior year included non employed staff costs Average number of persons employed by the Company Number Number Engineering and technical staff 3,012 3,116 Administrative staff 613 643 Directors 7 12 3,632 3,771 Prior year statement for non-payroll staff numbers 301 Total staff numbers prior year 4,072 Prior year included non employed staff numbers Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2012 10 2012 2011 4 Directors’ remuneration £’000 £’000 Aggregate remuneration Aggregate emoluments paid 2,775 2,337 Aggregate contributions paid to money purchase schemes 65 27 Number of directors accruing pension benefits under Number Number Money purchase schemes 3 4 Defined benefit schemes 7 8 Some directors are included under both money purchase and defined benefit due to the closure of the defined benefit scheme. 2012 2011 Highest paid director £’000 £’000 Total emoluments excluding contributions paid to pension schemes 479 330 Accrued pension from defined benefit scheme as at 31 March 97 97 During the year ended 31 March 2012, the highest paid director received a one-off payment on resignation as a director and employee of the Company, which is included in total emoluments paid of £479k (2011: nil). 2012 2011 5 Operating profit £’000 £’000 This is stated after charging/(crediting) During the year, the Company obtained the following services from the Company’s auditor: Fees payable for audit services 172 225 Fees payable for other services relating to taxation 3 Loss on disposal of fixed assets 5 2 Loss/(profit) on foreign exchange 927 (1,701) Research and development costs 12,477 13,822 Operating leases for land & buildings 18,527 18,290 Depreciation 10,153 10,618 2012 2011 6 Interest receivable and similar income £’000 £’000 Bank interest 49 89 2012 2011 7 Interest payable and similar charges £’000 £’000 Bank interest 8 1 Interest payable to group undertakings 928 285 Other interest 9 1 945 287 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 11 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2012 2012 2011 8 Tax on profit on ordinary activities £’000 £’000 a) Analysis of tax charge The charge for taxation comprises: UK corporation tax for the year at 26% (2011: 28%) 133 Less: double tax relief (133) Adjustments in respect of previous years (676) (676) Non-UK tax for the current year 115 338 Adjustments in respect of previous years 756 Current tax charge/(credit) 871 (338) UK deferred taxation for the current year (29) (986) Adjustments in respect of previous years 202 (6) Total tax charge/(credit) 1,044 (1,330) b) Factors affecting the tax credit for the year The tax assessed for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax of 26% (2011: 28%) The differences are explained below: Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 10,288 11,724 Profit on ordinary activities at the standard rate of corporation tax of 26% (2011: 28%) 2,675 3,283 Effects of: Group Relief (1,510) (2,308) Permanent differences (2,609) (1,063) Timing adjustments 1,444 199 Non-UK tax in excess of UK Tax 115 205 Adjustments in respect of previous years 756 (676) Unrelieved losses carried forward 22 Current tax charge/(credit) 871 (338) c) Factors affecting current and future tax charges Effective from 1 April 2011 the UK main corporation tax rate was 26%. Following the March 2012 Budget Statement, the main rate of corporation tax was further reduced from 26% to 24% from 1 April 2012, and the relevant deferred tax assets have been re-measured. Further reductions to the main rate are proposed to reduce the rate to 23% by 1 April 2014 but these later reductions had not been substantively enacted at the balance sheet date and, therefore, are not included in these financial statements. The proposed reductions of the main rate of corporation tax by 1% per annum to 23% by 1 April 2014 are expected to be enacted separately each year. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2012 12 9 Tangible fixed assets £’000 Furniture, Leased Leasehold fittings & Motor motor property equipment vehicles vehicles Total Cost Balance at 1 April 2011 33,285 44,371 140 40 77,836 Additions during the year 712 4,408 5,120 Disposals during the year (1,612) (6,842) (26) (40) (8,520) Adjustment for exchange differences (67) (5) (72) Balance at 31 March 2012 32,385 41,870 109 74,364 Depreciation Balance at 1 April 2011 11,330 31,897 106 31 43,364 Charge for the year 3,561 6,584 6 2 10,153 Eliminated in respect of disposals (1,612) (6,839) (25) (33) (8,509) Adjustment for exchange differences (43) (43) Balance at 31 March 2012 13,279 31,599 87 44,965 Net book value at 31 March 2012 19,106 10,271 22 29,399 Net book value at 31 March 2011 21,955 12,474 34 9 34,472 10 Subsidiary undertakings Ove Arup & Partners International Limited owns ordinary shares in the companies noted below and these companies were all wholly owned subsidiary undertakings of Ove Arup & Partners International Limited at 31 March 2012. The operating companies were all engaged in the same principal activities as the parent company. Direct holdings Country of incorporation Arup Associates Limited England & Wales Arup doo Serbia Arup Gulf Limited England & Wales Arup International Limited England & Wales Arup Limited England & Wales OASYS Limited England & Wales Ove Arup & Partners Limited England & Wales Indirect holdings Arup India Private Limited India Ove Arup & Partners Scotland Limited Scotland Movement of investment £’000 Cost at 1 April 2011 and 31 March 2012 25,352 The directors believe that the carrying value of the investments is supported by their underlying net assets. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 13 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2012 2012 2011 11 Debtors £’000 £’000 Amounts recoverable on contracts 14,715 16,786 Trade debtors 49,767 41,185 Amounts owed by group undertakings 180,774 155,315 Foreign tax recoverable 39 212 Deferred tax asset 4,209 3,240 Corporation tax 2,000 4,083 Other debtors 4,067 3,496 Prepayments and accrued income 24,530 18,915 280,101 243,232 2012 2011 12 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year £’000 £’000 Deferred income 59,728 62,914 Trade creditors 11,559 8,490 Amounts owed to group undertakings 131,691 85,213 Provision for foreign tax 822 Taxation and social security costs 7,691 9,177 Other creditors 367 262 Accruals 30,835 37,727 242,693 203,783 2012 2011 13 Provision for liabilities £’000 £’000 Balance at 1 April 1,850 (Utilisation)/charge to the profit and loss account in the year (25) 1,850 Balance at 31 March 1,825 1,850 This provision relates to dilapidations on buildings leased by the Company, in accordance with our lease contracts. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2012 14 2012 2011 14 Deferred taxation £’000 £’000 Movement of deferred tax asset: At 1 April (3,240) (1,053) Adjustment in respect of previous years 202 (6) Restated opening balance (3,038) (1,059) Charge for the year (29) (986) (Plus)/less deferred tax on pension scheme deficit (2,391) 890 Adjustment for change in corporate tax rate 1,249 (2,085) At 31 March (4,209) (3,240) The provision comprises: Accelerated capital allowances (3,879) (2,887) Short term timing differences (330) (353) Deferred tax asset as at 31 March (4,209) (3,240) 2012 2011 15 Called up share capital £’000 £’000 Issued, called up & fully paid 45,000,000 (2011: 45,000,000) ordinary shares of £1 each 45,000 45,000 2012 2011 16 Profit and loss account £’000 £’000 Balance at 1 April (9,030) (20,122) Retained profit for the financial year 9,244 13,054 Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in the pension scheme (31,000) 1,000 Deferred tax asset movement related to the actuarial loss/(gain) 4,241 (3,398) Adjustment for exchange differences 77 436 Balance at 31 March (26,468) (9,030) Profit and loss reserve excluding pension liability 69,562 68,300 Pension liability (note 23) (96,030) (77,330) Profit and loss reserve (26,468) (9,030) 2012 2011 17 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders’ funds £’000 £’000 Balance at 1 April 35,970 24,878 Retained profit for the financial year 9,244 13,054 Actuarial (loss)/gain recognised in the pension scheme (31,000) 1,000 Deferred tax asset movement related to the actuarial loss/(gain) 4,241 (3,398) Adjustment for exchange differences 77 436 Closing shareholders’ funds 18,532 35,970 Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 15 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2012 18 Contingent liabilities The Company has recorded a liability for the best estimate of certain claims that have been brought against the Company. At this time it is not possible to measure reliably any other items that may have been incurred but have yet to have a claim raised in respect of it. The Company monitors all claims and takes appropriate insurance procedures to mitigate the Company’s risk. 2012 2011 19 Capital commitments £’000 £’000 Authorised and contracted for 136 226 20 Other financial commitments The Company has the following annual property leasing commitments at the year end, in respect of leases expiring as follows: 2012 2011 £’000 £’000 Within one year 4,679 223 In two to five years 3,058 2,725 After five years 11,506 14,936 21 Ultimate parent company Ove Arup & Partners International Limited’s immediate parent company is Ove Arup Holdings Limited, a Company incorporated in England and Wales. The ultimate parent undertakings and controlling parties are the Ove Arup Partnership Employee Trust, the Ove Arup Partnership Charitable Trust and the Arup Service Trust. These are the owners of Arup Group Limited. 22 Related party transactions The Company transacts with other Group companies in the normal course of business. These transactions, in accordance with FRS 8 paragraph 3, are not disclosed as the Company is a wholly owned subsidiary of Arup Group Limited whose consolidated financial statements, in which the Company is included, are publicly available at 13 Fitzroy Street, London W1T 4BQ. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2012 16 23 Pension commitments The Company operated a UK registered, contributory pension scheme, which had a defined benefit and a defined contribution section, for employees. On 31 March 2010, the scheme was closed to new members. With effect from 30 June 2010, the future accrual of benefits for existing members ceased. The company replaced this scheme with a group personal pension plan for employees who were able to join it with effect from 1 July 2010. All contributions for the new plan are held and managed by BlackRock Pensions Limited. The Company has no ongoing liability to the funds held by BlackRock in respect of the employees. For the pension scheme which closed on 30 June 2010, contributions were made in accordance with the rules of the scheme and the advice of independent qualified actuaries on the basis of triennial valuations. The most recent valuation was at 31 March 2010 using the projected unit method. The actuarial valuation of the scheme’s assets at 31 March 2010 (which took into account the closure of the scheme to come on 30 June 2010) on an ongoing basis represented 74% of the actuarially calculated liabilities for benefits that had accrued to members and the scheme’s assets had a market value of £494m at that date. The most significant assumptions made by the actuary in carrying out this valuation were the discount rate of 7.3% pre retirement and 5.0% post retirement and the consumer price inflation of 2.5%. Allowance was made for the closure of the scheme and no assumption was made for future salary inflation. There were no employer’s contributions for the year to 31 March 2012 (2011: £4.0m). A special employer’s contribution of £10.5m was made during the year to 31 March 2012 (2011: £8.8m). The next actuarial valuation will be carried out no later than 31 March 2013. The valuation position of this scheme was reassessed at 31 March 2012 by a qualified independent actuary for the purposes of the financial reporting standard FRS 17. Relationship between the reporting entity and the trustees (managers) of the defined benefit scheme The pension assets are held in a separate trustee-administered fund to meet long term pension liabilities to past and present employees. The trustees of the scheme are required to act in the best interest of the scheme’s beneficiaries. The appointment of trustees to the scheme is determined by the scheme’s trust documentation. The Group has a policy that one-third of all trustees should be nominated by members of the scheme, including at least one member by current pensioners. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 17 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2012 23 Pension commitments (continued) Assets in the scheme and the expected rates of return at 31 March: Long term rate Value of assets of return expected in the scheme 2012 2011 2012 2011 £’m £’m Equities and property 7.8% 8.4% 371.1 320.9 Bonds and cash including net current assets 4.0% 4.5% 179.4 203.7 Total market value of assets 550.5 524.6 Present value of defined benefit obligation (676.9) (629.2) Deficit in the scheme (126.4) (104.6) Less: related deferred tax asset at 24% (2011: 26%) 30.3 27.2 Net scheme liability (96.1) (77.4) Major categories of scheme assets as a percentage of total scheme assets 2012 2011 Equities 64% 57% Gilts and bonds 32% 38% Property 4% 4% Other 0% 1% 100% 100% Amounts recognised in the profit and loss account: 2012 2011 £’m £’m Current service cost (4.2) Interest on obligation (35.9) (34.8) Expected return on scheme assets 34.6 34.3 Net charge (1.3) (4.7) Actual return on scheme assets 36.5 38.4 Movement of deficit during the year 2012 2011 £’m £’m Deficit in scheme at 1 April (104.6) (113.7) Movement in the year: Current service cost (4.2) Employer’s contributions 10.5 12.8 Interest cost (35.9) (34.8) Expected return on scheme assets 34.6 34.3 Actuarial (loss)/gain (31.0) 1.0 Deficit in scheme at 31 March (126.4) (104.6) Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2012 18 23 Pension commitments (continued) Reconciliation of the present value of the defined benefit obligation 2012 2011 £’m £’m Present value of defined benefit obligation at 1 April 629.2 608.5 Current service cost 4.2 Interest cost 35.9 34.8 Members’ contributions 2.0 Actuarial loss on scheme liabilities 32.9 3.1 Benefits paid (21.1) (23.4) Present value of defined benefit obligation at 31 March 676.9 629.2 Reconciliation of fair value of scheme assets 2012 2011 £’m £’m Fair value of scheme assets at 1 April 524.6 494.8 Expected return on scheme assets 34.6 34.3 Actuarial gain on scheme assets 1.9 4.1 Actual return on scheme assets 36.5 38.4 Employer contributions 10.5 12.8 Members’ contributions 2.0 Benefits paid (21.1) (23.4) Fair value of scheme assets at 31 March 550.5 524.6 Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date (expressed as weighted averages) At 31 March 2012 2011 Future average rate of increase in salaries N/A N/A Future average rate of increase for pensions in payment and deferred pensions 1.8% 2.5% Future average rate used to discount liabilities 5.2% 5.8% Retail price inflation 3.2% 3.5% Consumer price inflation 1.8% 2.5% Pension increases: Pre 88 Guaranteed Minimum Pension 0.0% 0.0% Post 88 Guaranteed Minimum Pension 1.7% 2.3% NGMP accrued before 01/10/2006 (5% LPI) 3.0% 3.3% Pension accrued after 31/09/2006 (2.5% LPI) 2.0% 2.3% NGMP Non Guaranteed Minimum Pension LPI Limited Price Indexation Mortality 2012 & 2011 PNA00 birth year mortality tables using the 92 series medium cohort projections, allowing for minimum improvements in mortality of 1% per annum. Cash commutation 2012 & 2011 30% of members’ pensions assumed to be taken as cash. Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 19 Notes to the financial statements | for the year ended 31 March 2012 23 Pension commitments (continued) The assumed life expectations on retirement at age 65 are: 2012 2011 Number Number of years of years Retiring today Males 22.6 22.5 Females 25.0 24.9 Retiring in 20 years Males 24.5 24.4 Females 26.9 26.8 The assumptions used by the actuary are the best estimates chosen from a range of possible actuarial assumptions. History of experience gains and losses 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 £’m £’m £’m £’m £’m Defined benefit obligation (676.9) (629.2) (608.5) (492.0) (511.8) Scheme assets 550.5 524.6 494.8 359.9 453.7 Scheme deficit (126.4) (104.6) (113.7) (132.1) (58.1) Experience adjustments on scheme liabilities (14.0) (23.7) 12.4 11.9 (5.0) Experience adjustments on scheme assets 1.9 4.1 101.8 (138.2) (54.3)) Total actuarial gains and losses recognised in statement of total recognised gains and losses (31.0) 1.0 (66.0) (81.9) 5.1) Estimated contributions The employer’s best estimate of contributions to be paid to the scheme by the employer next year is £9.5m (2011: £10m). Defined contribution schemes The Company has also made payments to defined contribution schemes of £14m (2011: £11m).­ Ove Arup & Partners International Limited | Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2012 Arup Group 13 Fitzroy Street London W1T 4BQ United Kingdom t +44 (0) 20 7636 1531 www.arup.com
