International Standard Serial Number 2013 10302 002 Hope for Tomorrow Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2013 About This Report Characteristics of the Report Korea Rail Network Authority (KR) has published a sustainability report since 2008 to disclose and share the activities and accomplishments of KR’s sustainability management. This is KR’s fifth sustainability report and contains all activities and accomplishments in the general areas of economy, environments, and society. Standards Used in Writing the Report This report was written in accordance with the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G3.1 Guidelines and ISO 26000, which is an international standard in the field of corporate social responsibility. The report was written to fulfill all the requirements for receiving the “A+” level in the application index of criteria in the GRI 3.1 Guidelines. Period and Scope Covered by the Report This report covers quantitative results and accomplishments produced from January 2012 to December 2012. As for noteworthy accomplishments for time-series analysis, the date for three years from 2010 is included, and significant qualitative accomplishments from the first quarter of 2013 are also covered. The activities for sustainability management of KR’s main headquarters and five local headquarters are addressed according to their priority, and the data taken from 211 construction sites is surveyed in the environment category. The currency unit used in this report is Korean won. Verification of the Report The credibility and accuracy of the data and contents of the report were ensured through a third party’s verification. The third party authenticating agency confirmed that the legitimacy of the report meets the “A+” level in the application standards in the GRI G3.1 Guidelines. Additional Information and Feedback Further information can be found on KR’s website and For those who have opinions about this report, please submit the questionnaire at the back of the report to us or contact us through the number below. Website http://www.kr.or.kr Address 242 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon Metropolitan City E-mail csr@kr.or.kr Phone +82-42-607-3156 Fax +82-42-607-3169 Department M  anagement Strategy Department, Management Performance Office, Planning and Innovation Center Contents 2012 Sustainability Highlights 04 CEO’s Message 06 KR Network Story 08 Ⅰ. Introduction Ⅳ. Harmonizing Rail Network ·KR Overview 12 ·Coexisting Cooperation for Shared 62 ·KR Vision and Value 14 Growth ·Governance Structure 16 ·Customer Satisfaction 68 ·Ethical Management 18 ·Risk Management 22 ·Participation by Stakeholders 24 and Communication Ⅴ. Sharing Rail Network ·Interview with Stakeholders 26 ·Employees 74 ·Major Sustainability Issues 28 ·Local Community 82 Ⅱ. Sustainable Rail Network Ⅵ. Appendix ·The Importance of Investing 32 ·Outcome of Sustainability Management 88 in Rail Network ·Assessment on Application Level of 92 ·Providing Public Transportation 36 ISO 26000 ·Safe Rail Network 40 ·Third Party's Assurance Report 94 ·Overseas Projects 44 ·GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index 96 ·Utilizing Resources and 46 ·System for Implementation of 101 Revitalizing Development Sustainability Management ·Reinforcing the Competitiveness 48 ·Recognitions and Affiliation 102 of Rail Network Technology Ⅲ. Green Rail Network ·Response to Climate Change and 52 Environmental Management ·Construction of Eco-friendly 56 Rail Network 2012 Sustainability Highlights Expansion of Benefits of Public Transportation through Timely Opening of Rail Network KR expanded areas covered by KTX in order to construct nationwide rail networks that make any place in the country accessible within 90 minutes of travel and carried out rail network construction projects, fully considering project priorities such as travel demand and the benefits of rail opening. As a result, double tracking and electrification projects of 8 lines, including the Gyeongui Line, and the conventional rail speed-up projects of 11 projects for major 8 lines, including the Gyeongchun Line and Jeolla Line, were opened in a timely manner. Boosting The Corporate Transparency KR boosted contacting transparency to earn trust from the public by improving its evaluating process and associated contacting methods in selecting enginering companies for the planning and inspection of rail construction projects. In addition, the One Strike Out Policy for offenders was expanded to business partners, and disciplinary measures were strengthened on companies that violated fair trade contracts between business partners to lay a foundation for preventing corruption in advance. Reduction of Greenhouse Gas by 820 thousand tons by 2020 KR has established middle and long term plans to respond to climate change by December 2012 and aims to cut greenhouse gas emissions by 820 thousand tons by 2020 by improving over planning, applying new renewable energy, and constructing low carbon rail networks by utilizing eco-friendly new materials and methods. This corresponds to 3.4% of the estimated greenhouse gas emission of 2.4 million tons, which are expected to be emitted by 2020 at rail construction sites. Current Status of KR’s obtainment of overseas contracts (2004~2012): 1. China 6. Vietnam 28 projects in 9 countries, 72.9 billion won 1 7. Cambodia 2 2. Nepal 4 6 7 3 3. Cameroon 8. Indonesia 5 8 9 4. India 9. Paraguay 5. Malaysia Awarded Korea’s Most Creative Executive Grand Prize in 2012 Expanding into Global Overseas Market The Chairman of the Board of Directors, Kim Kwang Jae, won Korea’s Most Creative KR has diversified overseas projects after entering into China, the largest rail network Executive Grand Prize in April, 2012. market in the world, in 2005 and continually expanded into the overseas market. The At the event co-hosted by the Ministry of Knowledge Economy and Joogang Ilbo, Kim contract price for 2012 greatly increased to 12.6 billion won, a 67% increase compared Kwang Jae was accredited for his innovative work in solving the budget waste problem to last year’s contract price of 7.6 billion won. 22 rail network projects are being caused by excessive design and constructing user-friendly rail networks to establish a conducted in 9 countries including China, Cameroon, Nepal, and India. foundation for sustainable growth in the rail network industry. His process of achieving results and experiences were published in a book to encourage corporate CEOs and the young generation to endure and overcome crises. Korea France 69.1% 52.54% China Germany 51.98% 59.06% Germany Japan Spain France Spain 61.51% 60.39% China Japan Korea Reached a 69.1% Rate of Electrification, No. 1 in the World Highest Level in Construction Safety with 0.082% Rate of Accidents KR completed 11 electrified double-track constructing projects including the KR is investing great efforts in preventing safety accidents in advance. KR carried Gyeongjeon Line connecting Masan and Jinju, Suin Line connecting Oido and Songdo, out special management for construction sites that were vulnerable to accidents, Bundang Line connecting Wangsimni and Seolleung, Gyeongui Line connecting including sites where an accident occurred before. The lowest bidding was conducted Gongdeok and DMC, and others. The electrified lines were increased by 86.4km, a by reinforcing its quality safety management system and analyzing the major causes of accidents. New and foreign workers, who account for 67% of all accidents, were 69.1% rate of electrification (2,522km electrified line/3,650km line), putting KR in first required to receive mandatory customized safety education. This helped achieve the place in electrification rate among developed countries that are operating high-speed lowest level accident rate of 0.082%, which is 1/9 of the average accident rate of 0.74% railways. KR plans to achieve an electrification rate of 85% by 2020 as it repositions in the domestic construction business. itself as the eco-friendly global leader in the rail network construction industry. International Credit Rating Raised from A1 (Positive) to Aa3 (Stable) Achieved the Highest Level in Shared Growth for 2 Consecutive Years No. 1 among KR redeemed a debt of the amount of 92.9 billion won in 2012 by developing new All Affiliated Agencies of the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport rail assets, winning overseas contracts and reducing the national budget. KR also KR signed fair trade agreements with 805 primary and secondary business partners improved its financial system through cost-cutting efforts such as optimizing participating in the rail network construction business, and made continuous efforts construction scales and upgrading construction methods. As a result, Moody’s, an in eliminating illegal activities at construction sites. Furthermore, KR cooperated with international credit evaluating agency, raised the international credit rating of KR from small and medium companies to develop catenary materials with 100% domestic A1 to Aa3, facilitating solid procurement of finances for rail network construction. technologies. KR also led the government’s shared growth policy by increasing the number of opportunities for small and medium companies to participate in the rail construction business, achieving the highest level in the shared growth evaluation of public corporations hosted by the Ministry of Industry and Commerce for 2 consecutive years. CEO’s message We will revitalize the national economy by constructing user-friendly rail networks and provide faster, safer, and more convenient public rail transportation. Respectable Stakeholders of KR! As the concern for environmental and social issues along with possible within 90 minutes by 2020 and benefiting more citizens. The economic growth and the demand for corporate social responsibilities entire country will be united as a single-unit city within a 90 minute has been rapidly rising in the 2000s, many corporations today in and travel -time zone, establishing a convenient and safe rail network out of the country consider sustainability management as one of the transportation system, reducing greenhouse gas emission—the main basic and crucial values of corporate activities. culprit in global warming—and saving 2.59 million TOE tons of energy Sustainability can be defined as increasing corporate value through annually. Travel time, The number of car accidents, and environmental management activities to meet the needs of various stakeholders costs will be reduced, creating an estimated 6.8 trillion won of added while creating positive value in the areas of society and environment value annually while causing a production effect in the amount of 233 and realizing economic growth. KR was founded in January, 2004 trillion won and employment effect in 1.98 million job openings by to promote public convenient use of transportation for the Korean 2020. public and contribute to the healthy development of the national economy on behalf of the government though efficient implementation Strengthening Responsibility Management for the Future of the Rail of construction and management of rail facilities and all related Network Industry projects. After joining the UN Global Compact in February, 2007, KR produced admirable accomplishments by guiding the government’s KR abides by the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact in the 4 rationalization policy for public corporations, observing the principles categories of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. and basic rules to realize efficient management, and creating KR has also annually published sustainability reports, sharing the innovation through the hard work of all employees. To pay off the debt accomplishments of KR in 3 fields of sustainability issues, namely created by KR’s self-supplying 50~60% of its construction investment economy, society, and environment, with stakeholders. cost of high-speed rails, the scale of facilities was optimized according to the plan of rail operation and the demand in travel. 1,020.5 billion Rail Network as Sustainable Means of Transportation won of expenses was saved in 2012 through improving construction With the emergence of the rail network industry as an eco-friendly methods, planning VE, and 6 Sigma Creative Innovation. Furthermore, means of transportation and a creative convergence industry combining active participation in profitable activities such as new resources civil engineering, rails, vehicles, architecture, and information development, overseas projects, and lease of governmental property communication technology, the future value of the rail network industry enabled KR to redeem the debt of 41.5 billion won in 2011 for the first is just being realized. KR is reviving the value of rail networks as an ecotime since the establishment of the corporation and to repay 92.9 friendly and energy efficient means of transportation to build faster, billion won of net debt in 2012, thereby raising its international credit safer, and more convenient rail networks, reflecting the changes in the rating from Aa3 by 2 grades. world rail network market that has been developing through high speed Investment priorities were examined from the perspective of the railways. customers who use the rail network, and resources were dispensed in an efficient manner to successfully open 11 rail network projects Building a Rail Network to Make Any Place in the Country Accessible in 2012, such as the speed-up rail projects for the Gyeongchun Line within 90 Minutes of Travel by 2020 and Jella Line, 4 Metrorail projects, and 5 conventional rail network KR will complete the construction of the Honam High-speed railways projects as promised to the public. By implementing the field-oriented and the Seoul Metropolitan Area High-speed railways on time and quality safety system, the number of accidents was reduced by transform the main-line railways into high-speed railways. This addressing the roots of problems, recording the lowest accident rate of connected the existing Gyeongbu High-speed Rail with strategic 0.082% in the domestic construction industry in 2012. spots across the country, making traveling anywhere in the country KR will improve the competiveness of Korea’s rail networks by 2013 Sustainability Report 6 /7 continually developing new technologies and lead industry growth through ceaseless innovation and transformation. Take off as an Eco-Green Rail Enterprise Fulfilling Environmental Responsibilities KR is preemptively responding to climate change by building middle and long term plans, reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 820 thousand tons by 2020. KR is vigorously carrying out environmental activities by improving over planning, using eco-friendly material and methods to minimize impact on the environment. Solar energy generation projects using rail network facilities such as the platforms within train stations and roofs of depots are in progress to help solve the national power shortage issue and to reduce inconvenience to the public. KR will elevate the eco-friendly value of rail networks by implementing stage-appropriate environmental policies in each stage of the rail network life cycles, covering planning, construction, operation, and the restoration and reuse of abandoned rail lands. Collaboration for Shared Growth and Contribution to Local Communities KR signed fair trade agreements with all primary and secondary business partners in the rail network construction field to eradicate unfair bidding practices. KR strives to root out corruption by giving rewards for reporting unethical activities by subcontractors. Practical assistance is provided to small and medium firms through joint venture with prime contractors, benefit sharing, and private and public joint technology development, to achieve shared growth as business partners. In addition, VOC improvement activities catering to customer needs will satisfy customers, and outstanding social contribution activities utilizing rail network engineering will help KR in fulfilling its social responsibilities as a public corporation. KR will concentrate its efforts on building faster, safer, and more convenient rail networks that will make any place in the country accessible within 90 minutes of travel by 2020 and will reinforce sustainability management to fully carry out its increasing social and environmental responsibilities. KR will appreciate your continuous attention and encouragement as our stakeholders for our rail network to attain greater growth and competiveness in the global market. KR will always listen to your opinions and feedback, fulfill our social responsibilities through transformation and innovation, and be with you as a global partner and a green rail network company leading sustainability management I’d like to express my deepest gratitude for your continuing support. Korea Rail Network Authority CEO Kim Gwang Jae KR Rail Network NETWORK Construction STORY Establishment of Next Generation Transportation Networks including Highspeed Railways, Conventional Railways, Metro Rails, and Tilting and Magnetic Levitation Railways Increase in Railways 2020 Vision Building Rail Network to Enable 3,650 km Access to Any Place in the Country within 90 Minutes of Travel 90 Field Survey Field Inspection Business Scale High-speed Metropolitan Conventional rail ways railway ralway minutes 32 18 39 Design and Examination trillion won trillion won trillion won 6.0 Seismic Reinforcement Facility Safety Management Richter Scale Safety Review of Facilities and Maintenance, Screen Doors, Multi-level crossing, Continuous Welded Rail Tracks, Construction of Soundproof Walls Improvement and Modernization of Rail Facilities (including decrepit facilities, safety facilities, and environment facilities) Network Building Overseas Projects Seeking opportunities for overseas project including supervision of overseas railroads Winning overseas projects, participating in Official Development Assistance (ODA) projects Establishment of public and private collaborative networks, cultivation of international human resources Winning overseas Rail Projects 729 (2004-2012) Billion Won 28 Projects in 9 Countries Railway Assets Management Development of Complex Station and Station-influenced Area, Management of State-owned Property Transformation into Eco Parks and Bike Paths from Abandoned Rail Yards, Construction of Happy Housing on Idle Land Asset-size under 90 Management Trillion Won Ⅰ Introduction • KR Overview • KR Vision and Value • Governance Structure • Ethical Management • Risk Management • ‌Participation by Stakeholders and Communication • ‌Interview with Stakeholders • Major Sustainability Issues KR is preparing for the happier world of tomorrow. KR is advancing into the world to reestablish itself as the center of transportation, culture, and distribution in Northeast Asia, drawing upon its expertise and experience accumulated from its 110 year of Korean rail history. KR is always at the center of the future of the world’s rail networks. <Key Performance Indicators of Sustainability Management> Category Performance Indicator Unit 2010 2011 2012 Total Length of Railways Km 3,618 3,637 3,650 Rate of Electrification % 61.14 66.97 69.1 Economy Amount of Budget Saving 0.1 Billion won 4,722 5,299 6,532 Profits from Development of Railway Assets and 0.1 Billion won 708 855 994 Overseas Projects Environmental Management Index Points 105.4 113.1 158.1 Reduction Rate of Greenhouse Gas % 5.8 16.6 Environment Cases of Environmental Law Violations Cases 0 0 0 Rate of Recycled Construction Waste % 92.57 95.6 97.2 Customer Satisfaction Rate Points 93.21 95.43 93.98 National Integrity Rate Points 8.35 8.81 8.22 Society Employee Satisfaction Rate Points 74.75 73.7 76.4 Construction Site Accident Rate % 0.128 0.142 0.082 Rate of Securing Core Talents % 30.77 31.51 33.38 KR builds fast, safe, and convenient rail KR Overview networks. KR was established to effectively build rail networks and to systematically manage and operate rail network facilities on behalf of the country, providing public transportation and contributing to the stable growth of the national economy. ❖ Introduction of the Corporation <General Status> KR not only efficiently fulfills its required role of constructing and managing rail networks and facilities, but also strives to provide the public with the, safe, and convenient rail network service so that travelers can reach any (As of December 31, 2012) place in the country within 90 minutes through the “construction of user-friendly rail networks”, “modernization Name of Korea Rail Network of existing rail networks to improve user’s convenience and safety”, and “active utilization and development of rail Organization Authority assets”. Drawing upon its accumulated experience and technology as the 5th country to build high-speed railroads Date of January 1, 2004 in the world, KR will maximize its efforts to launch into the overseas market, thereby boosting Korea’s national Establishment Framework Act on the prestige and revitalizing the national economy. Development of Railway Legal Basis of Industry (No. 9772) Establishment Korea Rail Network Authority Act (No.9391) ❖ Introduction of Organizational Structure Chairman & Kim Kwang Jae CEO KR consists of its headquarters (4 head offices and 1 department), branch offices (5 local head offices, 1 overseas Formation Quasi-Governmental Agency branch office), and secondary institution (1 research institute). The headquarters and secondary institution are Current Status located in Daejeon. Local head offices are located in Seoul, Busan, Suncheon, Daejeon, and Wonju for the efficient 9,062.7 Billion Won of Budget supervision of rail network construction projects and management of rail facilities dispersed around the country. Government The overseas branch in China aids in the successful performance of contracts obtained in China. KR operates 4,159.0 Billion Won Investment under 3 principles for a small yet strong organization, innovative organization for the creation of future values, and Number of competitive organization specializing in technology. A flexible quota system is in place to respond to the changes 1,347 Employees Employees of workload in different areas and fields, which is characteristic of the construction industry, and enhance the 242 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Location Daejeon Metropolitan City management of KR’s structure. ※No changes were made in the scale, structure, or ownership structure during the period of report. Organization Structure Chairman & CEO Audit Secretary’s Public Relations Safety Office Office Office Audit & Inspection Vice Office Chairman Management Support Planning and Construction Engineering Facilities and Business Department Innovation Department Department Department Department Seoul Metropolitan Yeongnam Honam Chungcheong Gwangwon Research Headquarters Headquarters Headquarters Headquarters Headquarters Institute Quickening Period (2003 ~ 2004) Foundation Building Period (2005 ~ 2008) Beginning of 300km/h high-speed railway era 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 •Establishment of Korea Rail •Winning the first contract of •Electrification of the Entire •Selected as a top supervising •Opening of Cheonan-the Onyang Network Authority supervision in Chian’s railway Gyeongbu Line organization of Chinese Springs-Sinchang Double-track •Opening of Gyeongbu Highprojects •Opening of Rail Traffic Railways electrified Railways and Janghang speed Railway (Phase 1) •Opening of Cheongrangri•Running test Connecting Line Control Center Lines between South and •Opening of Paldang-Guksu DoubleDeokso Double-track •Opening of UijeongbuNorth Koreas Track electrified Railways in Jungang electrified Railways in Jungang Dongducheon Double•Penetration of Han River Line Line track electrified Railways in underwater tunnel through •Creation of 10 billion won of profits Gyeongwon Line Wangsimri-seonleung from overseas business 2013 Sustainability Report 12 / 13 Structure of Rail Industry in Korea Current State of Major Places of Business Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport ➋ Seoul Metropolitan Headquarters (Establishment of Rail Policies and Investment Plans) ➎ Kwangwon Headquarters ➏ Facilities and Management Office ➊ ‌Headquarters Chungcheong Research and The Korea 2.수도권본부 Headquarters 5.강원본부 Business Korail Development of (Construction of Railways, Railway 6.시설장비 Partners 사무소 Rail Technology Management of Rail Facilities and Association Rail Safety, Development of Rail 1.본사➌ ‌ Yeongnam 충청본부 Assets and Overseas Projects) Headquarters Railway Operation Research and Establishment of Railways Rail Construction and ➍ Honam Headquarters Development of Rail Cooperative Network Procurement Network Technology ❖ Introduction of Major Business ➊ Headquarters 242 Jungang-ro, Dong-gu, Daejeon Metropolitan City KR opened the era of 300km/h high-speed railways in 2004, emerging as a global enterprise by launching into the ➋ Seoul Metropolitan Headquarters overseas rail network construction market. Furthermore, public services projects improving public transportation 378 Cheongpa-ro, Youngsan-gu, Seoul Metropolitan City and building cultural spaces, such as the development of complex transfer centers and station-influenced areas, ➌ Yeongnam Headquarters creation of traditional markets and public parks, and construction of bike paths at abandoned rail yards are being 4647 9th St. Chungjang-daero, Jung-gu, Busan Metropolitan City more strongly promoted. ➍ Honam Headquarters Business Contents Identifying opportunities for 16 Yeokjeon-gil, Sooncheon, Jeollanam-do Business Contents Safety review and Maintenance of railway facilities, Improvement and overseas projects, Winning contracts of foreign ➎ Gwangwon Headquarters Modernization of Railway facilities including multirailway projects including construction planning 2650 Bukwon-ron, Wonju-city, Kwangwondo level crossing, continuous welded rail tracks and project management, construction planning soundproof walls supervision, participating in Official Development ➏ Facilities and Equipment Office Railway Assets Assistance (ODA) Projects Establishment of public 384 Yeongje-ro, Jeongjung, Gwanoi-myun, CheongwonBusiness Objectives Modernization Management and private collaborative networks, gun, Chungcheonbuk-do of railways for the Cultivation of International Human convenience and safety Resources of users Business Objectives Safety Management Business Contents Construction Overseas Railway Improvement of of Rail Network of Happy Housing on idle land, Network Facilities Projects competitiveness iin global Development of station-influenced railway market, Creation area and complex stations, creation of profits. of eco parks and bike paths on abandoned rail yard, Management and Rental Process of governmentowned property Business Contents Development of future rail Business Contents Construction of next Business Objectives Efficient networks and practical technology, Localization Development of Domestic railways Products Construction generation transportation networks such management of government-owned of Rail Network of Rail ways as high-speed railways, conventional property and balance between public Business Objectives Development of future Technology railways metro rails, and tilting and interest and profitability rail network technology and advanced railway magnetic levitation railways technology Business Objectives Building rail networks to make any place in the country accessible within 90 minutes of travel Leap Period (2009 ~ 2010) Advancement Period (2011 ~ ) Achievement of 350km/h Preparation of 400Km/h 2009 2010 2011 2012 •Opening of Seongsan-Munsan •Creation of 36.5 Billion Won of profits from •Opening of Iksan-Yeosu Double•Opening of Yongsan-Chuncheon HighDouble-track electrified Railways overseas business (Technology consulting for Track electrified Railways in Jeolla speed Railways in Gyeongchun Line in Gyeongui Line Lanxin/Yunnan, Guizhou and other projects) Line •Opening of Iksan-Yeosu High-speed •Opening of Phase 2 of Gyeongbu High-speed Railway •Opening of Guksu-Yongmum •Opening of Jecheon-Dodam Railways in Jeolla Line •Opening of Sinsangbong-Chuncheon Double-track electrified Railways Double-track electrified Railways in Double-track electrified Railways in •Opening of Yongmum-Seowonju in Jungang Line Gyongchun Line Jungang Line Double-track electrified Railways in •Opening of Samrangjin-Masan Double-track Jungang Line electrified Railways in Gyeongjeon Line KR Vision and KR is driving forward the 2020 Global Value Management Strategies focusing on Core Values. KR fully understands the value of rail networks as an eco-friendly, energy-efficient, safe, and efficient means of transportation, and established the 2020 Global Management Strategies based on the public demand for faster, safe, and convenient rail networks, changes in the global railway market gravitating towards high-speed railways, and the governmental policies on low -cost and highly -efficient economic construction of rail networks. ❖ Middle and Long Term Strategies <Establishment of Promotion Goals> KR redefined its purpose of establishment, reflecting the CEO’s philosophy on the development of the railway industry and the values requested by the public, set its mission of the “Realization of a Fast, Safe, and Convenient Application of Governmental Policies Rail Network’, and created a new vision of “Realization of a Rail Powerhouse through Establishment of a Railway •1,376km of New Railways to Be Constructed Network Connecting Any Place in Korea within 90 Minutes of Travel”. This is a result of KR putting the public’s •973km of railways to Be Turned into Highdemand before everything else. by attaching a challenging and clear purpose to its 2020 vision. Speed Railways •80% Improvement Rate of Facilities After the realization of the 2020, major cities across the country will be incorporated into one metropolitan region within the 90 minute travel time zone, bringing regional balanced development. All major cities in the metropolitan economic blocs will be connected by green rail networks, and. the transportation and distribution systems 90-Minutes-Travel-Time Zone based on these rail networks will be in place. With the foundation for low carbon green growth, green house gas (Covering 76% of the Country by 2020) emissions from transportation will be reduced and energy will be saved. <KR 2020 Global Business Strategies> Global Goals •2,047km of Double-Track Lines Mission Realization of Fast, Safe, and Convenient Rail Network Top Global Level Vision Realization of Rail Powerhouse through Establishment of Railway Network Connecting Any Place in Korea within 90 Minutes of Travel (79% Double-Tracks Rate, 85% Electrification Rate) Core Sustainability Management Professionalism Mutual Trust Values Promotion Goals Construction of Upgrading Existing Accident Rate on Profits from New •0.05% Accident Rate in Construction Sites Strategic New railways Railways Construction Sites Business Goals •Railways Turned into High(2020) speed Railways: 973 km Quality Improvement •1,376km •Double-track electrified •Below 0.05% •3.6 trillion won Achievement of Zero-Accidents Railways: 2,047 km •Improvement Ratio 80% Rationalization of Public Agency Modernization of Existing Rail Development and Management of Strategic Construction of UserNetwork for the Convenience Asset and Maximization of Opportunities •Additional Business Profits of 3.6 Trillion Direction friendly Rail Network and Safety of Users for Entry into Global Market Wond •Timely Construction of Rail Network •Turning Existing Railways into •Making profits from Focusing on Opening Projects High-speed and Double-track Government-owned Property Reinforced Financial Soundness •Effective Investment through Optimum Lines •Diversifying Development Projects Planning and Construction •Improvement of Decrepit, Project of Station-influenced •Systematic Management of Quality, Disaster, and Safety Facilities Area Development Projects Safety, Construction, and Environment •Maximizing Retern on Investment •Pursuing Competitive Strategic in Rail Network Construction Overseas Projects Assignments •Customer Service Going beyond •Establishing Labor-Management •Strategic Finance Management Customer Satisfaction Culture of Coexistence and Trust for Debt Reduction •Securing World-class Rail Network •Advancing Information •Accelerated Creative Innovation Functions Technology Capability Service based on IT and Management Support •Nurturing Leaders for Rail •Achieving High Transparency, from •Excellent Fulfillment of Social Network Industry Low Grade of Integrity Responsibilities of a Public Corporation 2013 Sustainability Report 14 / 15 KR’s Core Values <Core Values> KR’s 3 Core Values are Sustainability Management, Expertise, and Mutual Trust. Challenge, Passion, Autonomy, Creativity, Loyalty, and Trust are designated as the 6 Practical Values. which are the driving force behind achieving 1 vision goals and carrying out strategies. The 3 Management Philosophies and 6 Management Policies in connection 2 Sustainability Mutual Trust with the Core Values are being defined and declared in preparation for making the next leap into the future. Management Realization of In response to the rapid change in environment, KR is striving to accomplish its vision goals by realizing the future CountryRail Powerhouse through Establishment of value of rail networks expected by the public. KR does not settle on “maintaining the status quo”, but endeavors to Railway Network Connecting create a favorable management environment through passion and a spirit of challenge under “Environment-creating Any Place in Korea within 90 Minutes of Travel Management” and to accumulate resources and special talent that will guarantee a competitive edge through creative innovation under “Sustainability Management”. KR’s Core Values are playing a pivotal role in building trust 3 with customers and raising KR’s enterprise value. Professionalism Blueprint of KR 2020 Global Management Strategies KR is making efforts to carry out its most basic mission of the “Realization of Fast, Safe, and Convenient Rail 1 On a National Scale Fulfilling Social Network” given from the public. When the 2020 Global Management Strategies are accomplished, major cities Responsibilities and Pursuing Continuous Growth and Development across the country will be incorporated into one metropolitan region within the 90 minute travel time zone. The metropolitan economic blocs will be connected by green rail networks, and the transportation and distribution 2 Dealing with Customers Mutually systems based on rail network will be in place. Respecting and Trusting Each Other and Seeking Mutual Prosperity Based on Trust As the foundation for carbon and green growth is prepared, 7.74 million tons of greenhouse gas by traffic will be reduced and 2.59 million tons of energy will be saved on an annual basis. In addition, the Gyeongbu, Honam, and 3 At an Internal Scale Nurturging Seoul Metropolitan High-speed Railways will be opened by 2020, and all major conventional railways will be turned Capabilities to be the Best Specialist in the into high-speed railways, connecting every major city within 90 minutes of travel to bring balanced growth among Rail Network Field. different regions. Promotion System of Sustainability Management KR’s sustainability is managed by the Management Strategy Office, Management Performance Agency, and <Comprehensive Performance Planning and Innovation Department, and various activities are being promoted to carry out the economic, social, Management System> and environmental responsibilities by each business department. In addition, committees of different fields such as the Social Services Committee and the Rail Network Policy Committee are assisting sustainability efforts. <Sustainability Chairman & CEO Committees Promotional System> •Social Services Committee Vice Chairman •Deliberation Committee •Budget and Bonus Screening Executive Office (Working Level) Committee Planning and Innovation Department (Management Performance Agency) •Financial Risk Management Committee Rail Network Rail Network Rail Network Overseas Rail Development Facilities Safety Assets of Rail Network •Strategies and Management Construction Management management Network Projects Technology <Overall Company KPI Achievement> Evaluative Committee •Construction •Facilities & Business •Facilities & Business •Facilities & Business •Research Institute (Unit : %) Department •Rail Network Policies Department  epartment D Department •Technology •Safety Department •Regional Committee 99.11 Department 98.40 98.49 •Regional •Regional Headquarters •Planning Advisory Committee Headquarters Headquarters •Rail Network Construction Planning Deliberation Committee Customer Social •Contracts Deliberation Ethics/Integrity Shared Growth Satisfaction Environment Responsibilities Committee Planning and Planning and Management Research Institute Management Innovation Innovation Support Support Department Department Department Department 2010 2011 2012 Management of Sustainability Performance KR set practical assignments and KPI (Key Performance Indicator) to evaluate economic, environmental, and social accomplishments in establishing Global Business Strategies 2020, and introduced a unified performance management system to monitor the performance rate in real-time. To encourage the performance of assignments and improve overall KPI, practical assignments given to each department and KPI are evaluated within the department. Customized education, contests, and seminars were provided to the persons in charge to achieve greater consensus for sustainability enabling KR to earn trust from stakeholders. KR will recreate its business portfolio according to the changes in the environment and make continual improvements in the executive system of business strategies to achieve sustainability. KR enhances corporate value based on Governance Structure transparent governance structure by practicing responsibility management. KR has created and operated committees consisting of the best experts to increase the <Board of Directors Meeting> transparency of the governance structure and to achieve efficient and continuous management through swift policy making. ❖ Makeup of the Board of Directors The majority of the board of directors is represented by the non-executive directors to ensure mutual checking and independence under the Law on Management of Public Bodies for the responsibility and transparency of management. The board of directors consists of 5 executive directors and 7 non-executive directors as of May, 2013 <Performance Indicators of the Board of Directors> to manage KR’s sustainability management; they are experts in finance, law, management, quality, traffic, policy, environment, safety, and assets development. Performance Unit 2010 2011 2012 Indicators <Current Members of the Board of Directors> Number of Numbers 14 11 15 Category Name Role (Field of Expertise) Major Career Board Meetings Items on Director of Aviation Policy Department for the Ministry Agenda for Numbers 57 32 34 Kim Kwang Jae Chief Director (Chairperson of the Committee) of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs Board Meetings Ratio of Oh Byung Soo Vice Chairperson Executive Director of Construction Department, KR Preliminary % 100 100 100 Deliberation Executive Executive Director of Planning and Directors Kim Young Woo Director of Planning and Adjustment Office, KR Innovation Department Ratio of Revised Agenda for % 7.0 9.4 11.8 Kim Young Gook Executive Director of Construction Department Executive Director of Seoul Metropolitan Headquarters, KR Deliberation Attendance Head of Test of Certification Center, Korea Railroad % 90.3 95.7 97.9 Choi Gang Yoon Executive Director of Technology Department Rate Research Institute Attendance Leader of High-speed Railway Planning Team of the Rate of NonLee Seok Am Finance, Traffic % 95.3 92.9 96.2 Ministry of Construction and Transport executive Directors Yang Bang Seung Law Senior Researcher of Law and Policy Research Institute Participation Rate of NonAdjunct Professor at the Department of Business % 39.9 44.6 46.7 Cho Gye Geun Management executive Administration, Hanlim University Directors NonManagement executive Han Gwang Moom Quality Director of the Defense Agency for Technology and Quality Consultation by Directors Cases 18 18 18 Head of National Housing Agency, National Rental Non-executive Park Gwang Seo Asset Development Directors Housing, Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs Management Professor at the Department of Administration, Proposals by Heo Man Hyung Policy Cases 68 89 94 Joogang University Non-executive Directors Lee Taek Kwan Environment/Safety Auditor of Korea Environment Corporation Number of Management ✽All Members are male members currently Cases 39 42 43 Proposals Accepted <Five Major Management Information ❖ Vitalizing the Board of Directors Provided by the Board of Directors> KR holds a monthly board of directors meeting on a regular basis, and a temporary board of directors meeting Human Current Status of Each Position, Resources Years of Service, Age Group, etc. is held when an item demands immediate deliberation. The notice for meetings is made 2-7 days prior to the Affairs meeting under the revised provision, and the efficient operation of the board of directors is guaranteed through A Variety of Financial Indicators regular meetings of the board of non-executive directors and sub-committee meetings. “7 days in advance of Finance Including Assets and Debts the board meeting”, a board meeting of non-executive directors consisting of the chief non-executive director Amount of Budget Allocation (chairperson), executive director (executive director of Planning Department), and non-executive directors is held Budget and Execution for the preliminary deliberation on the items in the agenda. 15 board of directors meetings were held in 2012, and Construction Process, Total Expenses, the attendance rate of the non-executive directors was recorded at 96.2%, expanding the non-executive directors’ Planning and Interface, etc. participation in the board, exercising their voting right, and playing the role of checking management. Additionally, Profits from Governmenta webpage for the board was created to provide updated information to the directors on 5 major fields of Assets owned Property , Land Purchase Result, etc. management information areas to encourage more participation in management from the non-executive directors. 2013 Sustainability Report 16 / 17 <6 Management Committees> ❖ Utilizing the Expertise of the Non-executive Directors KR established a subcommittee for each field of expertise for an in-depth deliberation on items in the agenda in Committees Major Accomplishments November, 2012 and founded a management participation system in each non-executive director’s field of expertise •Recommendation of 3 by utilizing a board of non-executive directors, subcommittee, and a management commission. The 6 management Executives Non-executive Directors in Recommendation May commissions are led by the non-executive directors. The non-executive directors belong to a different management Committee •Recommendation of Auditor commission of each field, playing an active role in policy-making processes such as the deliberation of the items on Candidates in October agenda, making management proposals and research proposals. KR established subcommittees of planning and •Establishing Integrate Policy management, construction, facilities, and other fields. to actively make use of the expertise of the non-executive for Conflict Resolution, directors. The attendance rate at the board meetings and the number of business proposals are evaluated as part Finding and Managing Conflict of the non-executive directors’ performance index to reinforce the role of the board of directors. The performance Conflict Resolution measures Resolution •4 cases of Conflicts Including index of the non-executive directors in 2012 recorded at 98 points in 2012, a 0.8 point increase from the previous year. Committee Changing the Scales of Jeongeup and Iksan Stations <Subcommittees within the Board of Directors> in Honam High-speed Railways. High-speed Railways Subcommittee Composition Role •Evaluation and Management Planning and Business 3 non-executive directors, executive Planning of Management Goals, Budget, Finance, etc. of Financial Risk for Securing Subcommittee director, assistant administrator Management of the Structure, Accounting, Closing of account, Labor, etc. Financial Risk Financial Soundness Rail Network Construction of High-Speed Railways, Metropolitan Management Construction 2 non-executive directors, executive •Voting on the Plans of Committee Railways and Private Finance Projects Rail Network Technology of Issuing Annual Rail Network Subcommittee director, assistant administrator Tracks, Electricity, Vehicles, etc. Facilities Bond 2 non-executive directors, executive Facilities Management of Facilities Planning, Overseas Rail •Improving Financial Facilities Subcommittee Financial Auditor director, assistant administrator Networks, Assets Development and Management, etc. Transparency with Fair Appointment Selection of External Committee Financial Auditors Strategic •Inside Evaluation and ❖ Appointment Process Management Deliberation within the Evaluation KR appoints its executives under the Law on Management of Public Bodies and built the Executives Department (Twice a year) Committee Recommendation Committee (ERC) for the transparent appointment of executives. ERC consists of 5 members—3 Budget and •24 cases accepted out of 43 non-executive directors, 1 private member, and 1 governmental member—selected through deliberation by Saved Payment Estimates the board of directors. ERC determines the evaluation criteria of executive candidates and conducts document Bonus Screening and Amount of Increased Committee screening and in-depth interviews of the applicants through an open application process. ERC recommends the Avenue final applicants to the person in charge of appointing executives, and the person in charge of appointing executives selects the best applicants for the executive posts. The chairperson of the board is appointed by the president <KR’s Persons in Charge of Executives after a recommendation is made by ERC and the Minister of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport. The auditor is Appointment> appointed by the president after a recommendation is made by ERC and the Minister of Land, Infrastructure, and A Person in Charge of Transport and voted by the Management of Public Bodies Committee. The executive directors are appointed by the Executives Appointment chairperson after a recommendation is made by ERC, and the non-executive directors are appointed by the Minister Chairperson of Land, Infrastructure, and Transport after the ERC’s recommendation. President of the Board <Recommendation Process for Executive Nominees> Auditor President Executive 01. Establishment of ERC’s Management Plans 02. Open Recruitment Process 03. Document Screening 04. In-depth Interviews Chairperson of the Board Directors Daily Papers and NonAnnouncements on the The Minister of Land, Selection of Appropriate Conducting Document Conducting a 30-minute Inexecutive Websites of KR, the Ministry Infrastructure, and Transport, Evaluation Criteria for Screening According to depth Interview for Each Directors of Land, Infrastructure, Applicants out of 19 the Evaluation Criteria for Applicant and Transport, Ministry Requirements for the Job Each Job Performance of Strategy and Finance, Performance Requirement and Ministry of Public <Non-executive Directors’ Participation Administration and Security Indicator> (Unit : Points) 98.0 95.7 97.2 ❖ Evaluation and Rewards CEO entered into a performance agreement with the executive director in accordance with the Law on Management of Public Bodies, and differential pay is awarded to the executive directors depending on the job performance of the director. The evaluation of the director is broken down as 50% leadership and 50% job performance. Leadership is categorized into leadership evaluation, customer satisfaction indications, integrity level, and creativity & innovation indications. Performance is assessed in the categories of contribution rate to the governmental management evaluation, achievement of the management strategies, and job performance results. The annual salaries of the 2010 2011 2012 auditors and executive directors including the CEO in the year 2012 are disclosed through the public business announcements. KR pursues transparent and trustworthy Ethical Management corporate through the realization of ethical management. KR strives to grow into a public corporation, earning the citizens’ support and trust through faithful practice of ethical management. KR held an Executives’ Integrity Resolution Rally to emerge as an institution with an excellent integrity index score in April, 2012. KR also held an Integrity Resolution Rally for corruption-free construction of rail network in December to form a consensus between the executives and employees. ❖ Promotional System of Ethical Management Strategic System of Ethical Management <Anti-Corruption Resolution Statement> KR has consistently organized its infrastructure and ethical guidelines to take the top position in the integrity ratings in 2013. Under the vision of the “Realization of Shinbaram KR, Transparent, Clean, and Trusted by the Public” for ethical management, the title for ethical management includes the word “shinbaram”, meaning “exciting”, to encourage all employees to participate in the realization of an exciting and trustworthy workplace. The determination of the CEO to promote ethical management resulted in the establishment of mid and long term promotional strategies and core strategies based on 3C*, and an operational system based on PDCA was implemented for the execution of these strategies. <Naming of Shinbaram for Ethical Management> Logo Meaning Creating a Trustworthy Company for the Public and Exciting Workplace for Employees through Ethical Management ※ ‌Name for the Ethical Management Selected through an Inside and Outside Open Contest for Publicizing KR’s integrity and Encouraging Participation of All Employees <Promotional Strategy of Ethical Management> Ethical Management Realization of Shinbaram KR, Transparent, Flawless, and Worthy of the Public’s Trust Vision Entry into the Institution Establishment of the System Maintenance of Excellent with Excellent Integrity for the Maintenance of the Integrity Rating for 10 Mid and Long Excellent Integrity Rating Consecutive Years Rating (2012~2013) Term Promotional (2014~2017) (2018~2020) Strategic Execution Tasks of Ethical Establishment of the System Improvement and Monitoring and Rewarding for Management Infrastructure and Ethical Norms Settlement of Integrity Culture achievements Establishment of Ethical Removal of Corruption Causing Performance Check and Promotional System for the Factors and Efforts for Improving Reinforced Feedback through Unification of Ethical Projects the Integrity Rating Evaluation and Rewards <Ethical Management System> Ethical Mandates Evaluation Agency Formation of Consensus Core Strategies (Based on 3C)* Supplying Detailed Ethical Creation of Practical Evaluation Formation of Ethical Practices Values Agency and Ethical Awareness Ethical Management System KR monitors and checks its ethical management activities and integrity rating through operation of the Shinbaram Ethical Management System. Cases of anti-corruption and exemplary ethical activities are shared through the Ethical Management System. Ethical management activities are inspected in real-time, starting from the consultation and reported cases of corruption and public interests to the self-evaluation and self-integrity check. All ethical management activities of departments are monitored through an inside evaluation system to prevent corruption, starting from the roots of possible problems. ✽ 3 Points of Ethical Management 1. Code of conduct 2. Compliance check organization 3. Consensus by ethics education 2013 Sustainability Report 18 / 19 <Company-wide Ethical Management Structure <Ethical Management System Operation> from the Point of PDCA> Ethical Management System Promotional Classification Major Role Management Organization Users Department Ethical Plans Management Real-time Integrity Forecast Anti-corruption Distribution of Major Ethical Return and Reporting of Money, Self-evaluation of the Areas Prone Ethical Management Management Valuables, and Gifts to Corruption Policies (Chairperson: Committee Management Audit Office Vice Chairperson) Plan (12 Members) On-line Consultation of the Ethical Measurement of Integrity Mileages Practice Guidelines as Individuals and in Departments Establishment of Ethics Ethical Management Corrective actions for Solving RealManagement Report System for Ethical Activities Plans, Monitoring and Ethics Ethics (3 Members) Performance time Integrity VOC Review Managers Group Exposing Corrupt Analysis of Various Statistics and Real-time Integrity VOC Integrity Weak Points Improvement Measures activities, Inspection, Auditors Replying to Eliminating Corrupt (7 Members) System Incorporated Customers Activities All Employees Support of Ethical Ranis Results Social Contribution Activities in Soriseam Management PHONE MAIL Do Integrity (KR’s Intranet) Activities Different Affiliations, Performance Performance and Group in Management of Ethical Different Promotional Organization of Ethical Management Activities (Consisting Affiliations (3 Members) of the Head, Ethical KR’s ethical management is supervised by the Innovation/Ethics Sector of the Management Performance Agency and Performance Leader, Planning and Innovation Department, and ethical activities are conducted company-wide with the establishment of Guardian of Integrity) annual ethical management promotional plans for the company and each department. In addition, the ethical activities of Advisory Body for the each department utilizing the Ethical Management System will be monitored in real-time. As for feedback of monitoring, Integrity Chairperson, Audit Ombudsman Request, System rewards will be awarded to the departments producing outstanding results, and integrity mentoring will be provided (4 Members) Improvement and for departments showing poor performance levels. The round-the-clock corruption monitor is handled by the Integrity Check Corruption Monitoring Auditing Department, ensuring the prevention of corruption and the effectiveness of autonomous integrity activities. Phone Line Self-evaluation of (2 People in Integrity Rating and Charge) Phone Monitoring ❖ Practice Activities for Ethical Management Reinforcement Human of All Employees’ Resources Ethical Capability Organization of Ethical Management Infrastructure Department and Mentoring of KR has made continuous efforts to improve ethical guidelines through the establishment of an ethical charter, code of (3 Ethics Employees with conduct for employees, guidelines on integrity ombudsman, guidelines on management of public interest disclosure and Instructors) Poor Performance Rating protection of corruption reporters, and amendment of guidelines on criminal actions for the settlement of ethical culture. Action Criteria were newly created for setting the amount of employees’ lecture fees from outside offices: any amount exceeding Sharing Ethics the standard was required to be returned to reinforce the employees’ integrity code of conduct. A system of notice for Achievements of Management Ethical activities enactment and revision of guidelines was introduced to gather the stakeholders’ opinions through the bulletin board in and Ethics and Carrying out the web pages in case that the enactment and revision of guidelines has an impact on public life. Performance Measurements for Group Improvement <Activities for Organization and Expansion of Ethical Norms Infrastructure of 2012> Classification Major Activities <KR Ethical Rules System> Revision of Ethical Charter (third) •Application of KR 2020 Management Strategies and Obligators of Ethical Charter Stated (April, 2012) •Requirement of Integrity Education through Different Cycles of the Public Office and Addition of Ethical Chart Forbidden Clause on the Transfer of and Money Valuables to the Spouses, and Linear Ascendants Revision of Employee’ Code of Conduct and Descendants of the Employees (April, 2012) (12th, 13th) •Establishment of Criteria for on the Employees’ Lecture Fees and Duty to Return Any Amount Ethical RulesRules Exceeding the Criteria (August, 2012) Revision of Integrity Ombudsman •Creation of a Clause on Right to Request Audit on Corruptive Behaviors (April, 2012) Guidelines (6th) Guidelines Employees Dealing Operation Enactment of the Public Interests Code of with Public Guidelines of •New Enactment of Prevention and Corruptive Report of Violation of Public Interests related to Management and Public Interests Conduct Interests Ombudsmen Rail Network Safety (August, 2012) Reports Reporters Protection Guidelines Revised Guidelines on Report of Criminal Specific •Compensation Newly Assessed for the Reporters (Maximum 100 million won) and the Amount of Executives Corruptive Behaviors and Criminal Charges Rewards Modified to Maximum of 2 billion won (June, 2012) against KR 10 Integrity Rules of Actions (3rd) Responsibilities Human Unlawful Resources •Limitation on the Voluntary Resignation and Honorary Resignation for the Persons in Violation of Activities Rules Detailed Enforcement Rules of Human the Laws and Integrity Responsibilities (February, 2012) Resources Regulations (23rd and 24th) •Establishment of Disciplinary Provisions for Persons Requesting Personal Favors (October, 2012) •Collection of Stakeholders’ Opinions on Enactment and Revision of the Major Guidelines Having System of a Notice of Guidelines an Impact on the Public Life (12 Cases including Operation guidelines on Planning Change Enactment and Revision Review Committee, May 2012 Ethical Management Program and Education for Expansion of Ethical Culture <Transparency/Responsibility Index of Land KR implements various ethical programs such as semi-annual CEOs’ Integrity letters on self-evaluation ethical Compensation> (Unit : Points) management, ethical campaign called ethical wave movement touring the main headquarters and regional 8.41 headquarters, integrity practice campaign for corruption-plagued period such as the holidays to spread company7.77 wide ethical management and raise ethical awareness. All employees completed the cyber integrity education after the new system, which requires all employees to receive education according to different cycles of the public 7.01 7.49 post, was introduced. Newly hired and promoted employees and executives above the level of directors received an additional 8 hours of integrity education. Additionally, mentoring was given to departments showing poor integrity performance ratings, and education was also given to business partners. All of these efforts were carried out to realize company-wide ethical education and operation of the integrity academy. <Ethical Practice and Expansion Program> 2011 2012 Business Partners F.G.I Education For Departments Showing Transparency Responsibility VOC Collection through Face-to-Face Poor Performances and Public Officers Method for the Analysis of Corruption according to the Life Cycles (Year-round) Causes such as Money and Valuable, and Taking compulsory Integrity Education Gifts according to Different Life-Cycles of the Public Offer/Integrity Academy for the Departments Showing Poor Performance CEO Integrity Letters (Semiannual) Self-evaluation of Ethical Management Rating Appeal to the Families of Employees (Monthly) <Activities of Integrity Ombudsman> and the Business All Employees’ Voluntary Evaluation for Integrity Promotion on the General Public Partners for the Participation in the Increased Awareness of the Anti(Year-round) KR’s Ethical Management corruption Introduction and Promotion of the Corruption and Public Interests Reporting System through The Operation of Report Center Integrity Wave Campaign (Semiannual) Web pages and Integrity Customer Support for Return of Money and Tour Campaign Through Main Valuable Headquarters and Regional Practice Campaign for CorruptionViolation of Article 16 of the Headquarters for the Internalization of plagued period (Semiannual) Ethical Report of Guidelines the Ethical Culture Campaign not to Exchange Gifts Campaign (Around the Year-round) for Corruption-free holidays ❖ Monitoring Activities for Ethical Management <Current Status of Integrity Ombudsmen> Corruption Monitoring through Integrity Ombudsman KR has played a leading role in operating an integrity ombudsman system since 2007 to improve any unfairness in Fields Names the system and practices from the perspective of the public. 9 regular meetings and 3 field activities in the year 2012 Jeong Jun Hyun, Professor identified 8 cases of institutional improvement on land compensation. Additionally, participation in the meetings on Law of Dankook University land purchase countermeasure and field briefing sessions for land compensation reinforced field auditing activities, Jang Byum Soo, Korea improving the transparency and responsibility index in the category of land compensation compared to the previous Civil Engineering Infrastructure Safety and year. Technology Corporation Kim Gyung Bok, Ilsin Vitalization of Public Interest Reports Finance Accounting Firm KR introduced an anonymous reporting system for disclosure of public interest and violations of law of rail network System Kim Woo Jae, Professor of safety directly related to public safety, rail network construction, and facilities management laws for the first out Seoul Science College of public corporations to respond to the governmental policy of improving public interest reporting. In addition, a professional confidential agreement was waived for the inside public interest disclosure so that employees will be exempt or partially exempt from facing disciplinary measures for voluntarily reporting their own violations to better protect the persons reporting public interests. Furthermore, persons receiving compensation for public interest reports were expanded to include persons who are not subject to compensation but contributed to the prevention of public interest invasion as part of the continuing efforts to encourage public interest reporting. Reinforcement of Code of Conduct KR strives to meet the government’s policy on corruption prevention and improve its integrity level, fundamentally eradicating unlawful conduct by strictly enforcing disciplinary actions within the organization. Before, an expulsion was required in the cases of receiving money, valuables, or treats favors worth more than 3 million won, and a dismissal was required for more than 1 million won. Now, an expulsion is required for accepting more than 1 million won, and a dismissal is required for more than 100 thousand won. Stricter standards were created by unifying disciplinary standards for different amounts. As a result, strict punishments for the smallest corruption will contribute to the increase of KR’s integrity level. 2013 Sustainability Report 20 / 21 Constant Monitoring <Cross Audit Business Agreement> FGI (Focused Group Interview) is conducted semiannually in the first and second half of each year for the regular monitoring of ethical management performance, and has already collected 67 cases of integrity VOC of construction sites. In addition, the Help-line and an anonymous report system using QR codes for corruption and public interest disclosure submitted throughout the year was established. A constant monitoring system for the realization of “Just KR” is in operation with regular self-integrity inspections (7 sessions), and monitoring activities including quarterly meetings of integrity crisis management are hosted by the executives. Results of Integrity Rating Inspection KR is carrying out company-wide efforts to improve integrity ratings through various ethical management activities, constant monitoring of weaknesses, and immediate establishment of countermeasures. The results evaluated by the Anti-corruption and Civil Right Commission recorded an increase by 0.15 points in the area of internal integrity ratings compared to the previous year. In spite of these efforts, the outside integrity rating dropped by 0.67 points (12 cases in 2012 → 27 cases in 2012) in comparison to the previous year, but this can be attributed to increased penalty points for the prevention of fraudulent construction. KR will strengthen the reporting system of corruption <Audit Result Review> and public rights, expand the one-strike-out system to business partners, and reinforce special auditing activities in the fields particularly prone to corruption to emerge as an institution with an excellent integrity rating through continued promotion of ethical management. <Evaluation of the Integrity Rating in 2012> Average of All Categories 2010 2011 2012 Institutions(2012) Unified Integrity Rating 8.35 8.81 8.22 7.86 Anti-corruption and Civil Outside Integrity Rating 8.15 8.98 8.31 8.10 Rights Commission Inside Integrity Rating 8.88 8.55 8.72 7.85 Performance Review of Corruption Prevention Policy Poor Excellent Acceptable Acceptable of Anti-corruption and Civil Rights Commission <Audit Cases> Internal Inspection of Integrity Rating 81.9 86.7 94.2 ❖ Internal Audit System KR established the Audit Office under the control of the auditor and reinforced the transparency of management by securing independence in the structure, human resources, and budget. The audit office performs strategic auditing duties to strengthen its role of self-checking and effectively prevent negligent management by attaining expertise, ethics, and autonomy of the business. Effective Auditing Activities <Quality Examination of Audit Activities> The audit office established annual auditing plans early in 2012 to reflect the mid and long term audit strategies, audit (Unit : Points) report of the previous year, current state of affairs, and results of risk evaluation. This produced 2 cases of general audit, 13 cases of specific audit, and 3 cases of performance audit. The department subject to the audit received a 91.0 91.0 88.7 checklist prior to the audit, earning the opportunity to voluntarily check for cases of negligent management. A constant monitoring system was also implemented to effectively prevent negligent management. The audit office continually provides online/offline education to employees of the audit office to perform a professional auditing service, leading to high receptivity from the department subject to the audit. In addition, the business agreement with the Korea Water Resources Corporation for the administration of the cross audit facilitated mutual bench marking of cross audit methods, securing objectivity of audits. 2010 2011 2012 Establishment of Audit Activities Feedback The audit office holds a review for the department subject to audit upon the closing of actual auditing activities to share the results and posts the audit report on the internal bulletin board upon the signing of the audit report. Audit cases are published and contain major audit cases. A quality review of the pertinent year is conducted at the end of each year for internal feedback of auditing activities, along with a collective review of the performance level of the corrective measures. As a result, the audit office constantly improves its performance level and ends the recurrence of any cases of corruption. Risk KR efforts to prevent risk in advance and Management takes efficient action. KR established a company-wide risk management structure and system to resolve financial and nonfinancial risks and builds a foundation to become a global rail network enterprise with efficient job performance. <Management of Financial Risk> <Types of Risks and Departments in Charge> Fields Types of Risks Departments in Charge Business Environment Risks Planning and Budget Department Ethical Management Risks Management Results Department Management Risks Financial Risks Planning and Budget Department Investment Risks Assets Development Department Natural Disaster Risks Safety Office Terror Risks Emergency Planning Department Disaster Risks Computer System Failure Risks Information Management Department Information Security Risks Information Management Department <Management of Safety Accident Risk> Communication (PR) Risks Media Damage Risks Public Relations Office Construction Planning Department, Rail Network Construction/Facilities Management Risks Electricity Department, Facilities Management (Conflicts, etc.) Department (Each Department’s Risks) Business Risks Safety Accident Risks Safety Office Quality/Environment System Risks Research Institute ※ Source: Company-wide Risk Management Guidelines ❖ Preventative Risk Management <Management of Information Security Risk> An increase in the instability of the management environment due to natural disasters such as the earthquakes and floods, economic crisis, terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, etc. called for the reinforcement of a company-wide risk management system. A risk conversion table was created in consideration of risk factors, such as occurrence probability and effects, and provided different risk countermeasures for 4 different stages of risks—Attention, Caution, Alert, and Serious—to strengthen preventative risk management. Risk Conversion Table 매월 세 번째 수요일은 「사이버·보안 진단의 날」입니다. 해킹으로 인한 국가기밀 유출 피해예방과 공직자 보안의식 제고를 위해 매월 세 번째 수요일을 사이버·보안 진단의 날로 Critical (Maximum) 11Points 11 22 33 44 66 지정하였습니다. Significant (Large) 7Points 7 14 21 28 42 Impact Considerable (Average) 5Points 5 10 15 20 30 Slight (Small) 3Points 3 6 9 12 18 Minor (Minimum) 1Points 1 2 3 4 6 Rare 1 Low 2 Average 3 High 4 Certain 6 Risk Point Points Points Points Points Occurrence Probability <Risk Level Standard> Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Level 4 Attention Caution Alert Serious 1~4 Points 5~10 Points 11~21 Points 22~66 Points 2013 Sustainability Report 22 / 23 ❖ Operation of Constant Monitoring System <Risk Management Computer System> KR developed ERM (Enterprise Risk Management), a company-wide risk management system to effectively resolve risks. Around-the-clock monitoring, which uses major risk indicators of major threats to the management, designates different response procedures for different levels of risks. For instance, the director of the relevant department is required to form an emergency management agency in each field when the risk level reaches Attention (Purple).The same is required for the assistant director for the Caution level (Green), as well as for the head of the department for Alert (Orange). In cases reaching the level of Serious (Red), the CEO himself will be leading the “Collaborative Emergency Management Center”. ❖ Recognition of Risks and a Response System for Emergencies <Response Agency in Times of Risks> The department in charge of major risk indicators prepared its own criteria for issuing levels of risk into 4 different Collaborative Emergency categories of Attention, Caution, Alert, and Serious, managing potential risks according to the response manual for Management Center different levels of risks. Joint Head of Center: Chairperson KR operates the 3STEP-5R system, following the company-wide risk management guidelines for cases in which (Vice Chairperson) Assistant Director: Director of Planning a potential risk factor grows into a pending issue or an accidental issue unexpectedly arises. The risk categories and Innovation Department of Attention, Caution, and Alert belong to Step 1 before the occurrence of risks while Steps 2 and 3 will come into Agencies in Charge play when the risk level reaches Serious”. When a situation at the “Serious” level of risk happens, the chairperson ·Ministry of Land, of the board operates and leads the “Collaborative Emergency Management Center” to promptly respond to Transport, and Maritime Affairs such risks. The Collaborative Emergency Management Center consisting of the management decides on the ·Ministry of Strategy risk situation and operates an emergency management agency led by the director of the relevant department for and Finance ·Ministry of National different types of risks once a company-wide risk response system is determined. In addition, the computer system Defense ·National Emergency for risk management carries out effective monitoring of all current issues at different levels, departments, and Management Agency categories of risks. ·National Policy Agency, Etc. <Risk Response Matrix> Director of Management Head of Head of Head of Assistance Facilities 1R (Reduction): Mitigation Stage Construction Technology Projects Office STEP 1 Damage Minimization with Legal, Technical, and Educational Measures Stage of Reinforcement of Organization and Education, Evaluation of Crisis Condition and Management Index Emergency Management Agency Concerned Agency Information Collection and Head: Director of the Agency Municipal 2R (Readiness): Preparation Stage Preparation Assistant Director: Head of the Governments Preparations of Channels of Education and Communications and Responding to Emergency Cases Concerned Department Business Partners Situation Emergency Public Administration 3R (Response): Response Stage Outreach Control Control Relations Assistance Center Center Center Center Center STEP 2 Stages of Understanding Major Cases of Level Application of Public KR’s Regional Management Headquarters Risks Media Channels of Alert of Relevant Sentiment and Position External Response of Reports Director of Regional Management Determined Manual Decided Headquarters Environment Activated Situation Emergency Administration Outreach 4R (Recover): Risk Stage Control Control Assistance Center Prompt Follow-up Measures according to Progresses made in Different Stages of Risks Center Center Center STEP 3 Follow-up Measures by the Concerned Agencies and Internal Meetings Conducted Stage of Risk Recovery 5R (Result Evaluation): Evaluation Stage Self-review of Risks Management and Circumstances, Revision and Improvement of Manual and System Participation by Stakeholders and KR efforts to communicate with stakeholders Communication for sustainable growth. KR fully understands the stakeholders’ pivotal role in all corporate activities and sustainability management and fully considers their concerns and expectations. ❖ Definition of Stakeholders <Customer Suggestion Center> KR categorized the stakeholders into groups of value influencing customers (the government, media, NGO), value cooperation customers (business partners, local government agencies, Korail), value producing customer (employees), and value purchasing customers (citizens). <Categorization of Stakeholders in terms of value cycle of different rail network project processes> Business Management Planning/Construction/ Projects Planning such as Planning/Contracts/ Business Operation Trial Procurement, etc. Value Influence Value Cooperation Value Producing Value Purchase Government, Media, NGO Business Partners, Local Employees Citizens Government Agencies, Korail Relationship of Relationship of Relationship of Trust Relationship of Service Coordination Cooperation ❖ Participation by Stakeholders and Communication Channels <Emotional Communication between Employees> KR mirrors the stakeholder’s requests and the public expectation of KR’s role in the planning stages of business activities. The company shares its promotional directives and accomplishments as part of its effective communication efforts. Organic communication with the government, congress, local governments, and civil organizations is steadily reinforced. KR reinvigorates channels of communication appropriate for the characteristics of each stakeholder and actively applies their suggestions to management activities. 김미선 과장이 이종도 실장이 이종도 실장에게 보내는 이대원 사원에게 보내는 마지막 한 걸음은 퇴계처럼 혼자서 가야 한다 <Shared Growth Conference> <Rail Network Construction Planning Review Committee> 김상혁 과장이 이대원 사원이 김미선 과장에게 전병하 차장에게 보내는 보내는 7년후 프라하의묘지 <Paraguay Deputy Minister of Public Construction and Communication Meeting> <World Consulting Engineering Conference> 김광석 차장이 전병하 차장이 김상혁 과장에게 보내는 김광석 차장에게 보내는 하이에크 노예의길 마흔의 서재 2013 Sustainability Report 24 / 25 Major Issues for Different Stakeholders and Communication Channels 1 Customer Types 2 Major Issues 3 Shared Channels and System 4 Results of Communication 4 •Enactment of Special Rule on Nest Housing Utilizing Rail Network Land •5.2 Points Rise in the Business Partners’ Satisfaction Rate (89.6 Points → 94.8 Points) •Achievement of Independence and Efficiency of Tracks Allocation Business •Selection as the Public Institution with Excellent Shared Growth and with the Revision of “Tracks Allocation Guidelines” Won Small, Medium, and Large Corporations Technology Collaboration Grand Prize •Won Prime Minister’s Awards in the Field of Civil Affairs 3 •Policy Discussions and Hearings •Conflict Resolution Committee/Rail Network Policy •CEO’s Seminar for Public Employees and Experts Mediation Council •News Briefings, Meetings with the CEO, and Letters to the Media •Shared Growth Council/Small and Medium Sized •Conferences such as Associations/Societies, Policy Newsletters Companies Support Center, Shared Growth Webpages/ Symbiotic Development Newsletters/CPMS 2 •Effective Execution of •Conflict Resolution in Rail Network Governmental Projects Construction Process(NIMB, •Budget Reduction and Debt Environmental Problem) Management •Symbiotic Development, 1 •Results of Rail Attainment of Quality/Safety Network Valu ng e Advancement nci , etc . Bu C l ue edia /Local G sines oo M ove s Gov Value / nt rn r ern pe ers n me Inf rtn /Korail atio Pa ents m loy b Pu u rod ees P lic puci Value rch Em P ng ase alue V •Provision of Fast, Safe, and •Boosting Pride in KR’s Vision Convenient High Quality •Increased Work Satisfaction, Transpiration Service Creation of Results •Formation of Consensus for •Establishment of Coexistence/ Governmental Policies Trust Labor-Management Culture •Websites/Newsletters/Blog and SMS/Management •On/Off line Education, Workshops, Labor-Management Announcements Negotiation Conference •Customer Suggestion System Open to All Public/ •Young Generation Executive Meetings/Luncheon Meetings Customer Service/Sorisam with the CEO/Open Discussion (Monthly Assembly)/Education Cooperative Group (Cop)/Results Sharing Convention •Achievement of the Institution with Excellent Customer Satisfaction Ratings for •Improvement of Over Planning, 1,020.5 billion won of Budget Saved with Planning VE, etc. •Net Debt Paid (92.9 billion won) → International Credit Rating Raised (Aa3 Stable) 3 Consecutive Years •Won “National VE Competition Grand Prize” for Contributing to Budget Reduction through •Selected as “Institution with Outstanding Accessibility on the Web” for 2 Consecutive Economic Planning Years for Efforts to Improve the Disabled and Elderly’s Accessibility and Usability of the •Improvement of the Audit Office’s Suggested Areas through Two-way Communication Information (Promotion according to the Years in Service, etc.) Interview with Stakeholders KR listens to various voices of stakeholders. KR considers stakeholders in various fields as precious assets that are central to sustainability management. The opinions of major stakeholder groups such as the government, customers, business partners, local communities, employees, etc. will be collected and applied in management activities on an annual basis for more systematic and advanced sustainability management. Kim Dong Jun, Deputy The Korea Rail Network Authority is the organization with the most expertise in the Korean Rail Network Industry. Each individual Director of the Rail Network employee holds great devotion to the rail network. 0 1 G overnment Construction Department of the Ministry of Land, The rail network has been neglected as a means of transportation so far, but the role of the Korea Rail Network Authority is Transport, and Maritime expected to be expanded as railways are likely to form a major national basic network in the future due to their speed, ecoAffairs friendliness, and mass transportability. The Korea Rail Network Authority needs to work with other transportation systems such as road authoritiess and airports for long-term growth and to form an efficient network for the Seoul metropolitan and national units. In addition, technology development meeting the global standard, organic relationships with external experts, and nurturing internal talent will help boost the international prestige of Korean Rail Network. Arrangement of facilities considering the accessibility for rail network users’ convenience, a new requirement for the location of the railroad station within the 50m transit distance from other means of transportation will help to expand the traffic network. Through the establishment of rail network planning criteria under Union International des Chemins de Fer (UIC) and KR’s high quality rail network construction, global competiveness is guaranteed to make inroads into the overseas market. Response Jang Soo Eun, Professor The extent of the rail network’s impact on the national economy is significant, and has created the term “KTX Economic Zone” with of Environmental Planning the introduction of high-speed rail networks. The stops that KTX makes will be playing a role in the economic activities of nearby Department, Environment College, Seoul National cities. Therefore, KR should make construction plans, considering the fact that it is building new spaces for the nation’s economic activities. For this purpose, KR does not only need to follow the government’s agenda but also carry out the role of assisting its 0 2 A ca d e m i a University policy to see how it can be incorporated into the nation’s middle and long term vision. Furthermore, KR should break off from its traditional roles as a supplier constructing high-speed rail networks and actively listen to the various demands and opinions of customers. KR is building a “user-friendly productive rail network” by discovering rail networks that are likely to have a huge demand, are connected to high-speed railways, and correspond to the government’s policies. The reflux process such as the continuous monitoring of changes in demand for rail network and reinforced legitimacy of investment plans, legitimization KR’s of the scale of facilities, and efficient construction of the rail network through improved construction methods will help Response maximize the efficiency of financial investments. Yoo Soon Ja President, KR achieved significant progress in accommodating the socially disadvantaged class in transportation such as the disabled who Women Striving for use the train stations. In particular, Jinju Station took great care in fulfilling the needs of wheelchair users. Nonetheless, the rail Brighter Tomorrow, Gyeongnam Society network has a long way to go in providing facilities and services for the handicapped compared to other traffic facilities. KR should make more efforts in designing facilities in consideration of the elderly and disabled as a basic requirement. Wheelchairs are equivalent to legs for the handicapped. As non-handicapped citizens are free to travel within the train stations, the handicapped in 03 Cu sto me r wheelchairs should also be able to enjoy freedom of movement there. Instead of merely following the government’s policies, KR should be more pro-active in improving mobility for the disabled and convenience in using the facilities from their perspective. KR received the “Barrier-Free (BF) Living Environment Certification” by clearing away encumbrances in the use of the rail network facilities for socially disadvantaged people in transportation such as the disabled as part of the efforts to improve the user friendliness of railroad stations. Jinju Station and Mykheon Station earned the highest levels of BF certification last KR’s year, and 12 newly built stations including Jeongeup Station in Honam High-Speed Railway are currently under construction Response to meet the BF standard. The entire process of planning, construction, operation, and closing has integrated an eco-friendly system, resulting in the use of new renewable energy, environmental pollution reduction, and revival of the ecosystem to lead environmental-friendly rail network construction. 2013 Sustainability Report 26 / 27 Kim Seong Gyun, Branch KR’s operation of business is based on government funds and rail network fees, and therefore it has few ways to generate Manager of ChoongCheong profits on its own. There is a limit in redefining the welfare with the government’s budget, so it is necessary to actively engage in Labor Union Branch, Korea profitable projects such as the development of station-influenced areas and expansion into the overseas market. For this reason, Rail Network Authority the increased capacity of employees, adventurous corporate culture, and harmony between the management and union should 0 4 E m p loye e be the foundation of all business. Primarily, labor and management should work together within the corporation to promote collaboration with external entities, local communities, and future generations. To satisfy the various needs of customers, labor and management should establish a sound corporate culture, initiating an affirmative cycle of structure as a rail network leader. KR strengthened formal and informal channels of communications to expand the gathering and sharing of information between labor and the management and to encourage consensus among members. In addition, a young executives council was created for the realization of a sound organization culture to seek ways to communicate, harmonize, and lead the growth KR’s of KR. Response Cho Heon Il, Chief of KR is the first among public agencies to sign a shared-growth MOU for general ordering agencies, resulting in separate ordering, Policy Assistance Office, prime contractor joint-venture, use of standard subcontractor agreements, payment confirmation of subcontract price, etc. to lay a Construction Association foundation for small and medium construction companies to grow into strong enterprises. Amid the trend of emphasizing shared of Korea growth thanks to the government’s new “hope ladder” advancement policy for small and medium companies, it is encouraging to know that KR is playing a pivotal role. KR, however, is the largest customer and ordering agency for small and medium companies, 0 5 Pa r t n e r and the method through which KR awards contracts has a huge influence on business management. Therefore, it is imperative that KR make more efforts in fulfilling its social responsibilities to perform the function of fair distribution as a public agency. KR entered into fair-trade agreements with 805 primary and secondary business partners all across the rail network construction sites. The company continually strives to eradicate all forms of unfair business practices from the construction sites. The prime contractor joint-venture method was introduced for companies in the same field of work with an estimated KR’s amount of sum of more than 50 billion won and a 5% share in the joint venture out of the estimated construction price. 6 cases Response will be applied and subcontracted in the double-track railways connecting Wonju and Gangreung, etc. in 2013. Furthermore, a results sharing system was introduced—the first among public agencies—to promote improvement of the process and development of new technology with business partners to share the benefits. Choi Myung Ok, Director KR carried out nation-wide social service works for socially neglected children, not only in Daejeon but also around the country of Daejeon Regional Branch, through the “KR Hope Project” activities. KR distinguished itself in conducting “KR Youth Group” satisfaction surveys from the 06 L ocal Co mmu ni t y Children’s Foundation beneficiaries to study the needs of the children and improve the effectiveness of aid. Likewise, two-way assistance through evaluating the desires and effects of the beneficiaries is a great example to follow in regard to future corporate social service works. KR’s continuous efforts in providing children with hope and dreams for the future would be deeply appreciated. KR promotes user-friendly social service works through a systematic system, not limiting itself to one-time events, and also conducts continuous monitoring of the stakeholder’s changes of needs. KR executes distinct projects of building eco resting spaces, rail bikes, etc. in connection with rail network engineering to contribute KR’s capabilities and resources to local KR’s communities. Response Major Sustainability management is at the heart of the Sustainability Issues business activities of KR ❖ Materiality Test Process KR followed the ISO 26000 guidelines for the drawing of major sustainability issues that require attention from management to analyze the internal and external environments and select the most essential sustainability issues for KR and its stakeholders. STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 Awareness of Social Stakeholders’ Participation Materiality Test Responsibilities •Media Analysis •Specialists Interview •Drawing of Major Issues •Relevant Corporations Analysis •Surveys •Trend & Impact Analysis •Social Responsibility Management Quality Review Media Analysis 2,419 articles from January, 2012 through December, 2012 were analyzed to select relevant issues for studying the internal and external awareness of KR’s major sustainability issues. Relevant Corporations Analysis The sustainability reports of domestic and international corporations displaying excellent performance levels of sustainability management and rail network business were evaluated in terms of specific issues of ISO 26000 core subjects and the GRI application index of criteria to select KR’s major issues. Trend & Impact Analysis Surveys on major sustainability issues were conducted for employees in the areas of Trend*/Impact**/Internal Capacity for drawing a list of issues which KR may have an impact, issues which have an impact on KR, or internal capability issues. ISO Review of ISO 26000 Performance Level 26000 ISO 26000 review tools developed by the Ministry of Industry, Commerce, and Energy were used to determine KR’s social responsibility performance level and to conclude major issues, focusing on identified weaknesses. Specialists Interview KR selected a core group of stakeholders with respect to the legal, financial, and operational responsibilities and levels of influence on the management, and then administered in-depth interviews of 6 specialists representing each group to decide the specific issues of sustainability management. Surveys Surveys of the major groups of stakeholders including the employees, customers, business partners, government, local communities, etc. were conducted to gather various opinions on KR’s sustainability management. The period of the surveys was from May 20, 2013 through June 4, 2013. KR’s sustainability issues perceived by each stakeholder were identified and reflected in the significance review. * Trend: External economic, social, and environmental trends that impact KR ** Impact: KR’s external economic, social, and environmental impacts 2013 Sustainability Report 28 / 29 ❖ Major Core Issues The materiality test was implemented through the relevance evaluation and importance evaluation of the initial 102 sustainability issues. As a result, 24 trend and impact issues receiving 87 points or more out of 100 were determined as the final core issues to be reported. KR Internal Major Issues 95.0 93.0 External Stakeholder Major Issues 91.0 89.0 87.0 85.0 83.0 85.0 87.0 89.0 91.0 93.0 Trend Impact ➊ ‌Increase in Demand for KR’s Transparency (Ethical  Workplace Healthcare and Safety Security Management)  Increase ‌ in Attention for Command System (Responsibility ➋ Increase in Demand for Fair Competition/Fair Trade Management) ➌ ‌Increase in Significance for Business Partners and  Potential ‌ Impact on Local Communities (Participation in Shared Growth the Development of Local Communities) ➍ ‌Increase in Demand for Safety (Responsibility) of the  C ‌ onflict Resolution following Business Projects (Land Good and Services Compensation, Noise Reduction, etc.) ➎ Anti-corruption  I‌ndirect Economic Effects for Public Interests (Social ➏ Observance of Social Rules Overhead Capital) ➐ Increase in Various and Demanding Customers’ Needs  S ‌ ocial Contribution to Local Communities (Education, ➑ ‌Reinforcement of Importance in Human Resource Culture, Creation of Jobs and Income, etc.) Management  Y‌outh Unemployment and Increase in Temporary Jobs ➒ Customer Health and Safety Education of Employees and Career Development ➓ Increase in Demand for Customer Information Safety Tightening of Environmental Regulations  Easy Access to Corporate Information (Internet, SMS) Increase ‌ in Demand for Employees’ Welfare and Rights  Environmental ‌ Damage (Air, Water, and Soil (Balance between Work and Life) Contamination) Climate Change (Global Warming)  Protection of Customers’ Personal Information Ⅱ Sustainable Rail Network •The Importance of Investing in Rail Network •Providing Public Transportation •Safe Rail Network •Overseas Projects •Utilizing Resources and Revitalizing Development •Reinforcing the Competitiveness of Rail Network Technology KR will be the green traffic light in this economy. Our Approach KR is striving to provide the public with fast, safe, and convenient rail network service that will cover the entire nation within 90 minutes of travel time with efficient management of rail network construction and facilities. Based on years of experience and technology, KR will enhance the national prestige of Korea and boost the national economy by diligently expanding into the overseas market. Our Strategy Providing Public Transportation : 11 projects scheduled to be opened in 2012 were finished on time. The rail network will be efficiently constructed by 2020 to cover any place in the country within 90 minutes of travel time. Safe Rail Network : KR operates unified management system (QESM) incorporating the management of quality, environment, and safety for the construction of high quality rail networks and accident-free safety construction. The accident rate at construction sites is projected to drop to 0.05% by 2020. Overseas Projects : KR is preparing to lead the global rail network market by 2020 by establishing promotional strategies according to different cycles of overseas projects. The competitiveness of Korea’s rail network industry will be boosted with the achievement of 700 billion won in accumulated profits from overseas projects by 2020. Utilizing Resources and Revitalizing Development : KR strives to create profits and improve financial soundness through the diverse utilization and development of rail network assets owned by KR. Reinforcing the Competitiveness of Rail Network Technology: KR is focusing its research and development efforts on expansion into the global rail network market and development of future rail network technology. 100% use of local materials for rail network goods will be accomplished by 2020. Performance Progress Key Indicators Unit 2010 2011 2012 Total Length of Railways km 3,618 3,637 3,650 Accident Rate on % 0.128 0.142 0.082 Construction Sites Amount of Budget Saved 0.1 Billion won 4,722 5,299 6,532 Assets and Overseas Profits 0.1 Billion won 708 855 994 Rail Network Technology Level Compared to % 73.57 75.04 78.83 Developed Countries Rate of Electrification % 61.14 66.97 69.1 Sustainable Rail Network The Importance of Investing in Rail Network Energy and Environment! Keywords for the Nation’s Continuous Development! The means of transportation required for the 21st century must be able to respond to the increasing demand in transportation while receiving minimum investment and resolving environmental issues such as global warming. As sustainable transportation that supports social development, it must bring balanced development among regions and be a stepping stone as Korea becomes a central hub for Northeast Asia. This is why the role of rail networks as an efficient and eco-friendly means of transportation must be expanded. ❖ Necessity of Rail Network Investment <Increased Railway per a thousand persons> As the topics of energy crisis management and greenhouse gas reduction rise to the center of international attention, (Unit : m/a thousand persons) more people are interested in rail networks as an eco-friendly means of transportation. Icebergs are melting due to 1,869 global warming, and the climate is changing. The increasing social cost of overcrowded cities also can no longer be ignored. As a result, countries around the world, including the advanced part of Europe that already have well-developed rail network infrastructures, recognize the importance of rail networks and actively invest in the expansion of rail networks to improve their quality and quantity. The rail network is the optimum means of transportation: it is eco-friendly 526 411 and energy-saving and can help solve the issues of global warming, energy crisis, and traffic problems in metropolitan 73 158 areas. Korea, however, lacks an effective rail network infrastructure in comparison due to the SOC development concentrated on roadways starting in the 1990s. Korea Canada France Germany Japan Korea ranked in 68th place in the category of rail network expansion per thousand persons, which is 35 times less than ✽Source: UIC (International Union Internationale Canada’s expansion in railways per thousand persons; Canada is currently in First Place. Chemins De Fer) Therefore, Korea needs to increase investment in rail networks and raise long-term competitiveness by solving environmental and social cost problems through the establishment of a world-class infrastructure. Increase in Demand for Transportation The cost incurred by traffic congestion on Korean roads is estimated at 27.7 trillion won in 2009, and it increases every year. Traffic congestion in metropolitan areas, including the Seoul Metropolitan Area, is severe and reduces the speed of entry into downtown Seoul on a daily basis. Since the problem of traffic emerges as a social issue, there is a growing demand for the construction of a Great Train Express (GTX), an express railway in the Seoul Metropolitan Area. KR is promoting strategic activities such as persuading the government, congress, and the media by using different channels for the expansion of investment in rail networks. <Cost Incurred by Traffic Congestion> <Effects of Opening New Bundang Line (October, 2011)> (Unit : trillion won, %) 5.1 3.0 Time Reduced Using New Bundang Line ✽Amount of Costs Saved or Increased, Korean won in ( ) 4.2 4.6 1.3 1.7 27.7 3.2 25.9 26.9 Personal Drivers -14 Minutes (-1585) 24.6 23.1 23.5 22.8 Passengers of Local, -23 Minutes (+170) Wide Range Buses Passengers of Existing -26 Minutes (+313) Subway Citizen’s Forest, Entrance to Gannam Yangjae Yangjae Cheonggyesan Pangyo Jeongja 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Rate of Increase, Cost of Traffic Reduction Compared to the Congestion Line in Operation Previous Year (%) Line 2 Line 3 after Stage 1 Bundang Line ✽(Unit: m/a thousand persons) 2013 Sustainability Report 32 / 33 Reduction of Transport Costs due to High Energy-Efficiency Attention In this era of high-priced oil, the importance of energy conservation is on the rise. Considering the energy consumption •Rail network consumes 1/9 energy of for different means of transportation, the rail network offers the highest energy efficiency and transportability. The personal vehicles •Rail Network consumes 1/10 energy of rail network’s energy consumption per km in transporting passengers is merely 41.8% of energy consumption for commercial trucks commercial buses’ and 11.6% of that for personal vehicles. The energy consumption in transporting cargo per km is 10.2% of that for commercial trucks’. For this reason, 559.5 billion won of cost is estimated to be saved per 1% increase in the rail network’s transport of passengers and cargo due to the outstanding energy efficiency of rail networks. <Energy Consumption per Volume of Transport <Energy Consumption per Volume of Transport in the Field of in the Field of Cargo> Passengers> <Amount of Reduction in Energy (Unit : TOE ton/Million tons-km) (Unit : TOE ton/Million tons-km) Consumption per 1% Increase in Transport> 9,520 9,827 Passenger Cargo Total billion won 5,703 billion won 3,423 billion 971 661 1,583 won 11.3% 12% 13% 14% 15% Rail Network Roads Marine Transport Rail Network PersonalVehicles Buses Marine Transport •280.6 billion won per 1% increase in passenger transport load •278.9 billion won per 1% increase in cargo ✽ ‌Source : 「Study on National Rail Network Establishment Plan」 Ministry of transport load  ‌Energy Cost Saving Effect of 559.5 Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs, 2010 billion won Annually ✽ ‌Does not consider socioeconomic benefits including Eco-friendly Rail Network, Reduction in CO2 Emissions reduction of congestion cost and car accidents The international community is strengthening regulations on greenhouse gas emission by adopting climate change ✽ ‌Source : Eco-Rail 2015 Promotional Strategies for the Low-Carbon, Green Growth, Korail, 2008 agreements in active response to climate change following global warming. Under these circumstances, the contribution to CO2 emissions by different means of transportation reveals that 79.9% comes from roads, 10.9% by airliners, 3.9% from rail networks, 0.7% from marine transport, and 4.8% from miscellaneous means, proving the eco-friendliness of the rail network. The rail network’s CO2 emissions per unit in passenger transportation occupies 62.6% of commercial buses’ emissions and 17.7% of that of personal vehicles, and the rail network’s energy consumption per unit is only a mere 12% of commercial trucks’. Attention •Rail Network produces 1/6 CO2 level of personal vehicles <CO2 Emissions Per Unit in Cargo Transport> <CO2 Emissions Per Unit in Passenger Transport> •Rail Network produces 1/8 CO2 level of (Unit : (Ton/Million Persons-km)) (Unit : (Ton/Million Persons-km)) freight vehicles 299.6 315.3 168.2 110.6 47.6 35.9 29.8 Rail Network Roads Marine Transport Rail Network Personal Vehicles Buses Marine Transport ✽ ‌Source : 「Study on National Rail Network Establishment Plan」 Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs, 2010 The Importance of Investing in Rail Network Preparing for Increased Exchange between North and South Korea and the Era of Northeast Asia Cooperation <Future Changes in Rail Network Indicators> May 17, 2007 marks the beginning of the trial run of the North-South Railway (Gyeongui Line and Donghae Line) in support of smooth exchange of human and material resources. To prepare for the unification of Koreas and expansion Note 2012 2020 into Europe and Asia in the long run, the construction of a main road connecting the North and South is necessary. Increase in Rail Furthermore, Russia is promoting the connection of the Korea Trail Railway (KTR) to the Tran Siberian Railway (TSR), Network Full 3,650 4,934.1 Length (km) and it is necessary for Korea to build an international rail network transportation foundation to function as a gateway to Rate of DoubleAsia and Europe. This signifies the increasing importance of Korea’s rail network as part of an international rail network 55.28 79.1 tracks (%) transportation system. Rate of Electrified 69.1 85.0 Tracks (%) ❖ Face of the Rail Network in 2020 KR is carrying out efforts to a build fast, safe, and convenient rail network to integrate major hotspots of the country <Future Change in the Load Ratio of Rail within a 90 minute travel time zone. Network in Transport> Major Hotspots in the metropolitan economic blocs will be connected by the rail network in 2020, establishing a Categories 2008 2020 transportation and distribution system centering on the rail network. 7.74 million tons of greenhouse gas emissions in transportation will be reduced, and 2.59 million TOE tons of energy will be saved on an annual basis. The rail network Road (%) 81.4 69.3 will provide a people-friendly and eco-friendly means of transportation, paving the way for sustainable growth. Rail Network (%) 15.9 27.3 Aviation (%) 2.5 3.2 Transformation into a Green Transportation System Based on the Rail Network Marine Transport (%) 0.2 0.2 Major hotspots in the metropolitan economic blocs will be linked by the rail network, creating a transportation and distribution system based on the rail network. This will increase the ratio of the rail network’s load in transport from Total (%) 100.0 100.0 15.9% in 2008 to 27.3% in 2020. Expansion of Areas Benefiting from Rail Network The opening of the Gyeongbu-Honam-Seoul Metropolitan High-speed Railways and conversion of major regular railways <Expansion of Areas Benefited by Rail into high-speed lines will result in travel times between major cities in the country that are less than 1 and a half hours, Network Construction> covering 83% of the population within 90 minute economic bloc. This will rapidly improve accessibility to create balanced Categories 2010 2020 growth among different regions. Rate of the Number of 60 83 Creation of Added Value with Rail Network 90 Minute Beneficiaries (%) The construction of the national rail network will create direct benefits worth 6.8 trillion won on an annual basis. Such Economic Bloc benefits include reduction in travel time and cost, vehicle operation costs, car accident costs, and environmental costs. Rate of Area 30 76 The construction will also create great ripple effects in local economies. The process of rail network construction by 2020 Covered (%) is expected to generate 233 trillion won worth of production and 1.98 million new job openings. The benefit of improved Rate of the Number of Beneficiaries in accessibility for local production once the rail network enters the operational stage is expected to be approximately 91 74 96 2 hour the Economic trillion won. Bloc (%) Economic Bloc <Ripple Effects on Local Economy Following Rail Rate of Area <Economic Benefits Following National Rail Network Construction> Network Construction> 55 90 Covered (%) Benefits Items Ripple Effects Items Content (100 Million won/Year) Effect on Approximately Reduction in Travel Time Reduction in Travel Time 45,338 Increasing 233 trillion won Production Reduction in Vehicle Reduction in Oil Price and Stage of Approximately 14,715 Effect on Job Operation Costs Depreciation Cost Construction 1.98 Million Creation Reduction in Car Reduction in the Number of Death Openings 2,045 Accident Costs and Injuries Effect on Wages Approximately 3.5 Reduction in Inducement Trillion won Reduction in Air Pollutant Emission 6,217 Environmental Cost Enhancing Gross Stage of Approximately 9.1 Regional Domestic Total 68,315 Operation Trillion won Product (GRDP) 2013 Sustainability Report 34 / 35 <Map of National Rail Network Construction Plan for Year 2020> Uijeongbu Jinjeop Existing Lines Danggogae Ilsan High-speed Railways Byeollae Daegok Regular Lines Cheongnyangri Susak Number of Stopovers in the First Half Seoul Wangsimni Number of Stopovers in the Latter Half Yongsan Samseong Additional Review Incheon Gangnam Sosa Seolleung Suseo Incheon Gwangmyeong Indeogwon International Airport Oido Pangyo Songdo Geumjeong Jeongja Jejin Gwanggyo Wonsi Ori Homaeshil Suwon SinCheorwon Sokcho Dongtan Hyangnam Chuncheon Gangneung Uijeongbu Yongmun Pyeongchang Donghae Gujeolli Samcheok Incheon WonjuHoengseong International Yeoju Airport Hyangnam Bubal Jecheon Ssangyong Dongtan Uljin Poseung Anseong Dodam Change in Rail Network Travel Time Distribution Pyeongtaek Damjin Chungju (Seoul as Starting Point, Time Spent in Vehicle) Inju Cheonan CheonanCheongju Yeongju Anheung Sinchang Mungyeong Asan Airport Hong Jochiwon Osong Sinseong seong Jeomchon Incheon Metropolitan Seoul Gyeonggi-do Gangwon-do Jupo Yeongdeok City 2010 Gongju Daejeon Chungcheongbuk-do Nalpo Gimcheon Ganchi -Gumi Gumi Chungcheong nam-do Daejeon Gyeongsang Nonsan Pohang Metropolitan City buk-do Gunjang Pohang-Yeongil Daegu Metropolitan Youngcheon New Port Jeollabuk-do City Ulsan Iksan Gyeongsang Metropolitan City Daeya Inip Railway Dongdaegu nam-do Gwangju Busan Metropolitan City Metropolitan City Jeonju Shin Geongju Jeollanam-do Saemangeum Ulsan Ulsan Incheon Seoul Gangwon-do Jeongeup Samnangjin Metropolitan City Gyeonggi-do Namwon Masan Gwangju-Songjeong Bujeon Jinju 2020 Chungcheongbuk-do Gwangju Gwangyang Busanshinghang Chungcheong nam-do Daejeon Gyeongsang buk-do Busan Metropolitan Imseong-ri Suncheon Chonam City Boseong Yeosu Daegu Jeollabuk-do Metropolitan Mokpo Geoje City Ulsan Metropolitan Gyeongsang City Busan nam-do Metropolitan Gwangju Within an Hour Metropolitan City City Within an Hour and a Half Jeollanam-do Within Two Hours Over Two Hours Sustainable Rail Network Providing Public Transportation Q&A Q. What is KR doing to increase the A. ‌KR is pushing to establish a national rail network, connecting any place in the country within 90 Minutes of benefits of public transportation? Travel, and successfully completed openings of 11 projects scheduled for 2012. ❖ Efficient Construction of National Rail Network Attention What is a High-speed Railway? Timely Construction of National Rail Network in Consideration of Business Priorities •Railways Built to Enable Trains to Run at Speeds over 200km/h KR is building a national rail network according to the investment priorities that were chosen in general •Current State of Affairs Gyeongbu Highconsideration of the investment effects of each project, efficiency of train operation, and major governmental speed Railway, Honam High-speed Railway (to be completed in 2014) Seoul policies to provide eco-friendly transportation to the public. The entire country will be connected through a 90 Metropolitan High-speed Railway (to be minute travel time zone by 2020 under the “Construction Plan of Building National Rail Network”. 49 projects completed in 2014) including the construction of the Honam High-speed Railway scheduled to be open in 2014 and Seoul Metropolitan High-speed Railway, etc. are in the process of planning or construction as of 2012. <Business Management System PMS (Project Management System)> <Stages of National Rail Network Construction Plan> 1.EPMS Population Distribution Analysis Traffic Generation Analysis Traffic Pattern Analysis National Rail Network Design 2.GPMS ✽“Hub & Spoke” Structure Combining “×” Shape + “-” Shape ✽ Development of the High Speed Railways of approximately 250km/h for Increased Competitiveness and Fulfillment of Users’ Demands ✽Super Metropolitan Area in the “-” Shape, Application of 5 + 2 Metropolitan Economic Blocs and Corporate and Innovative City Plan Project Management for Timely Openings KR successfully completed openings of all 11 projects promised to the public through scientific process control based on the project management system and systematic monitoring, expanded management meetings, projects review meetings hosted by the CEO, and field inspection by the CEO, etc. Comprehensive test runs of the trains 3.CPMS before their openings were conducted to ensure safety. The management of conflicts is as crucial as managing safety and process in construction projects. KR operates a conflict resolution process to resolve any social and environmental conflicts occurring in the course of rail network construction to minimize impact on the environment and prevent construction delays. KR resolved all 4 cases of conflict in projects in 2012 and signed a “Baekdudaegan Environment Consultation Agency” in October, 2012, and proved its excellence in managing conflicts by winning the Prime Minister’s awards in February, 2013 from the Anticorruption and Civil Rights Commission in February, 2013. ✽ ‌Conflicts Resolution Review Committee (Details on Page 69) 2013 Sustainability Report 36 / 37 Major Effects of Completed Projects in 2012 <Opening Ceremony> A total of 11 rail network projects were completed on time, including 6 projects connecting Oido and Songdo, as well as Wangsimni and Seolleung in the Seoul Metropolitan Line, 2 projects connecting DongSuncheon and Gwangyang in the Honam area, and 2 projects connecting Yeongmun and Seowonju in the Gwangwon area. <Major Benefits of Openings> Areas Projects Opening Benefits Double-track Railway Connecting Oido Track Capacity 163 times/day, Reduction of 48 minutes in travel time (70 and Songdo (June 30, 2012) minutes on Bus ⇀22 minutes via Rail) Double-track Railway Connecting Track Capacity 345 times/day, Reduction of 13 minutes in travel time Wangsimni and Seolleung (October 6, 2012) (Compared to existing line) Restoration of Shintanri and Cheorwon Increased track capacity (0 times ⇀ 35 times) Line (November 20, 2012) Seoul Metropolitan Double-track Railway Connecting Area Increased track capacity (0 times ⇀ 206 times) <Site of Rail Network Construction> Giheung and Mangpo (December 1, 2012) Double-track Railway Connecting Increased track capacity 152 times ⇀ 168 times (Seoul Station as Gongdeok and DMC (December 15, 2012) starting point) Transfer of the Gyeongchun Line Connecting Yongsan and Chuncheon Reduction of 55 minutes in travel time (114 minutes ⇀ 59 minutes) into the High-speed Railway (February 28, 2012) Railway Shifting of Yeongdong Line Reduction of 20 minutes in travel time (36 minutes ⇀16 minutes), (June 27, 2012) Increased track capacity (30 times ⇀ 35 times) Gwangwon Area Double-track Railway Connecting Youngmum and Seowonju (September Increased track capacity (51 times ⇀ 136 times), 95 minutes ⇀ 25, 2012) 60 minutes (Reduction of 35 minutes, Cheongryangri~Wonju) Increased track capacity (21 times ⇀ 112 times), Reduction of 2 minutes Double-track Railway Connecting in travel time (9 minutes ⇀ 7 minutes) Honam Area Dongchuncheon~Gwangyang (June Increased number of passengers (in Suncheon Station) [Increase of 21, 2012) 390,641 passengers, 30.17%] Transfer of the Jeolla Line Connecting Iksan and Yeosu into the High-speed Reduction of 76 minutes in travel time (158 minutes ⇀ 82 minutes) Railway (May 1, 2012) Youngnam Area Increased track capacity (40 times ⇀ 104 times), Reduction of 43 minutes Double-track Railway Connecting in travel time (77 minutes ⇀ 34 minutes) Masan and Jinju (December 5, 2012) Increase in Number of Passengers (306,936 ⇀ 544,580 people) Turning the Trunk Line into High-speed Railways to Improve Speed Competitiveness KR has steadily promoted the renovation of existing lines into high-speed railways to improve the speed competitiveness of the rail network. The 2 projects of turning Gyeongchun Line and Jeolla Line into high-speed railways were completed in 2012, and 4 other projects are in the works, including the Jungang Line for hosting 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympic Games. These efforts will result in the reduction of travel time for the public and balanced growth between different regions. <Expected Benefits Following the Operation of High-speed Railways in the 6 Lines Including Gyeongchun Line, etc> Changes in the Operation Time(minutes) Target Lines Sections Opening Date (Estimated) Original After Building Time Speed Operation High-speed Time Railway Reduced Gyeongchun Line Yongsan~Chuncheon 180km/h February 28, 2012 114 59 55 Jeolla Line Iksan~Yeosu 200km/h May 1, 2012 158 82 76 Year 2017 (for the Winter Olympic Joonang Line Cheonrangri~Wonju 230km/h 95 33 62 Games) In Connection with the opening of Gyeongjeon Line Samnangjin~Jinju 230km/h 129 49 80 Jinju~Gwangyang Section in 2015 Donghae Line Pohang~Samcheok 230km/h In Planning 113 54 59 Janghang Line Cheonan~Shingunsan 250km/h In Planning 136 57 79 Providing Public Transportation Creation of 30 Minute Broad Range, High-speed Rail Network <Domestic Electrification Rate> Various efforts are being carried out for the construction of the Great Train eXpress (GTX) to relieve the traffic (Unit: %) congestion problem in the Seoul Metropolitan Area. KR has formed a consensus among the relevant parties by holding policy discussion meetings, persuading the relevant agencies, and making suggestions for optimizing the total business 69.1 66.97 cost, etc. The government is now conducting a preliminary legitimacy review. 61.14 Electrification of Existing Lines for Modernization The electrification rate of railways as of 2011 is at 66.97%, which is a higher level compared to the average rate of 45% of Union Internationale Chemins De fer (UIC) member countries, but KR plans to raise the rate up to 85%, the standard for developed nations, by 2020 to build a more eco-friendly and energy-efficient rail network infrastructure. 2010 2011 2012 Finding Economic New Rail Network Lines KR possesses a reflux process to improve the legitimacy of pre-existing investment plans through continuous monitoring of the changes in the demands of rail network users for the purpose of maximizing the effectiveness of financial investments and finding new rail network projects. This will lead to the finding of rail network lines that are expected to have a larger volume of user demand to produce an outstanding investment outcome. These new lines will connect with existing high-speed railways and be built in line with governmental policies (such as the hosting of <Electrification Rate of Developed Countries> Pyeongchang Winter Olympic Games) to realize the construction of a “user-friendly, economic rail network”. (Unit: %) 100 ❖ Enhanced Benefits for Rail Network Users 71.1 61.5 59 Improvement of Installation Standards of Train Stations and Transit Accommodations 34.1 KR recreated the standard for the location of the train stations and connecting transportation facilities in 2012 to provide rail network users with easy access to other means of transportation and convenient transfers. KR also promotes the legislation of the construction of connecting transportation facilities such as the buses, taxi, and rental cars when building new train stations. Switzerland Italy Germany England Japan * ‌as of 2011 Expansion of Barrier-Free (BF) Living Environment Certification KR earned the “Barrier-Free (BF) Living Environment” certification for the socially disadvantaged such as the disabled to experience no difficulties in using the facilities to improve the user friendliness of train stations. Jinju Station on the Gyeongjeon Line and Mukhyun Station on the Gyeongchun Line, which both have higher user demand, received the Attention highest level of certification in 2011 after BF design was applied for the first time in the rail network history for both the Certification of Barrier-free (BF) Living disabled and non-disabled to enjoy easy access to the facilities. Currently, 12 new stations such as Jeongeup Station on Environment the Honam High-speed Railway are under construction using BF design. A Certification Evaluating System is used for checking the floor plan (preliminary certification), as well as the plan for providing Improvement of Quality of Rolling Stock in Honam High-speed Railway trouble-free service for the disabled. Final KR plans to complete the Honam High-speed Railway project, which is scheduled to be opened by 2014, and employs a certification is awarded for construction in compliance with the design under the systematic management system to ensure the highest quality rolling stock to run on the new lines. The quality of train preliminary certification. cars is directly proportional to the safety of passengers. From the design and manufacturing stages of the cars, the opinions of the operators, manufacturers, and the public are gathered and reviewed by the advisory committees and technology review committees consisting of external experts to supply comfortable rolling stock. This will be in done in a timely manner so as avoid any delays in the opening of the Honam High-speed Railway. <Rolling Stock for Honam High-speed Railway> ❖ Boosting Investment Efficiency through Optimal Design and Construction Establishment of Rail Network Construction Standard under International Union of Railways (UIC) KR systemized the rail network planning guidelines and manual codes in conformity with the UIC’s rail network planning standards. This was done to increase expansion into the overseas market and improve KR’s global competitiveness. KR also modernized the rail network construction standards by reserving the unit price of rail construction. Planning Standards Improvement for Efficient Design and Construction 137 cases of unreasonable and inefficient design factors were found and resolved in 2012 to achieve economically effective construction. Major improvements include the optimization of the inner sections of tunnels and correction of dome-typed roofs for natural ventilation within the station. ✽ ‌Preliminary Legitimacy Review: In-depth review system of large-scale new publicly invested projects has set a standard for deciding the feasibility of projects. 2013 Sustainability Report 38 / 39 <Planning VE Operation Process> <Optimization of Tunnel Inner Sections> Annual Planning VE Operation Plan Submitted End of Every Planning and January Construction Department Annual Planning VE Operation Plan Established Confirmation of Department in Established Plan Notified Charge of VE Planning VE Operation Requested (Originally) 97m2 Cross-section of Inner Sections (Modified) 89.5m2 Cross-section of Inner Sections Planning and Construction Department 10 Days Prior to VE Operation VE Operation Plan Established Per Case <Dome-typed Roofs> Department in Charge of VE VE Executive Team Formed Department in Charge of VE Natural Ventilation VE Workshop Provided VE Executive Team (Originally) (Modified) VE Suggestion Notified Department in Charge of VE Enhancement of Design Quality with Design VE* and Review of Design KR strives to identify improvements in construction methods during the planning stage before reviewing the design. Matter of Adoption Decided This led to quality improvements and business expense reduction, saving a total of 356.9 billion won in budget Planning and Construction Department through design VE and review in 2012. These efforts earned recognition from the Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs, winning the Grand Prize in the National VE Competition of 2012. VE Measures Applied Planning and Economic Rail Network Construction with Optimization of Facilities Scale Construction Department KR has set annual budget saving goals and promoted systematic cost saving activities to avoid the building of VE Measures Confirmed excess facilities for the efficient construction of the rail network and optimizing facility scale. Construction methods Department in were improved through the application of new technology and methods for boosting quality, and expenses were Charge of VE EPMS Registration and Experience reduced by improving the investment efficiency of rail network construction. As a result, a total of 601 billion won Management was saved by reviewing the legitimacy of 31 projects during the planning and construction process in 2012. Department in Charge of VE <Improvement of Seohae Line Design Plan> Report to the Department of Land and Transportation (Yearly Results) 4,300 7,500 4,300 4,300 4,500 Department in Charge of VE <Amount of Budget Saving through Planning Poseung~ Poseung~ VE and Review> Seohae Line Pyeongtaek Seohae Line Pyeongtaek Section Section Amount(100 Million Won) Number of Cases (Cases) 198 179 3,569 Basic Planning (Separate Construction) Basic/Working Planning (All-in-One Construction) 2,382 2011 2012 ✽ ‌VE Design: Value Engineering Design (Review of Design Efficiency) Sustainable Rail Network Safe Rail Network Q&A Q. What is KR doing to build a safe A. KR is operating a unified system of Quality, Environment, and Safety Management (QESM) and working and trustworthy rail network? to realize its goal of a high-quality rail network through safe, accident-free construction and continuous improvement efforts. (Combined Management System QESM: Quality, Environment & Safety Management) ❖ Methodical Quality, Safety, and Environment Management System KR runs QESM, a unified system of management for the areas of quality, environment, and safety, for the safe Quality: ISO9001 Certification and accident-free construction of a high quality rail network. This system ensures efficiency to improve of quality, environment, and safety and prepares a solid foundation for a safe rail network. 71 improvements were made after the internal and external ISO/OHSAS review in 2012, and 69 cases were handled, reaching a 97.2% improvement rate. As a result, KR scored “Level 5 Plus” (772 Points) in the Quality Management System (QMS) Operation Level Review hosted by the Standard Association in 2012, which is a 7 point improvement Environment: ISO14001 Certification from the preceding year. Reformation of KR’s internal structure was made according to suggestions by external specialists to clarify the division of work between the Quality Assurance Department (Seoul Headquarters) and Quality Management Department (Regional Headquarters). The role of corporate managers of the Quality Management Department (Regional Headquarters) was reinforced to solidify the management system for quality, safety, and environment. Safety: OHSAS18001 Certification <Promotion System for Quality, Safety, and Environment Management> High Quality Accident-free Eco-friendly Promotion · Increased ‌ Level of the Incorporated · Strengthening ‌ of Safety · Systematic ‌ Response to Climate Strategies Management system Management System Change ‌ · Reinforcement of Planning· ‌ · Strengthening of Preliminary · Eco-friendly ‌ Rail Network Construction and Quality Management Preventive Maintenance Construction and Management <ISO/OHSAS Improvement Rate> Planning Stage Construction Stage Operation Stage Recycling Stage (Unit: %) On the Rise for 3 Consecutive Years 95.0 97.2 Performance 83.1 Tasks · Quality ‌ Improvement · Environmental ‌ · High-quality, ‌ eco· ‌Boosting Safety of Restoration of the Rail · Reinforcement ‌ of Safety friendly Planning Lines in Operation Network Land After Management System Closing Promotion Quality (ISO9001) + Safety (OHSAS18001) 2010 2011 2012 Combined Management System (QESM) Foundation + Environment (ISO14001) <Operating Level of Quality Management System> <Safety Management Examination System> Items Scores 2011 2012 Quality Management Targets in Beginning of Construction Completion of Construction Opening Management 125 98 98 Different Stages System Safety Management of Management Construction Sites Safety Check-up 125 108 113 Responsibilities Traffic Safety Act Resource Safety Management by 100 63 63 Management Regional Headquarters Comprehensive Safety Examination Product Safety Management Rules 338 260 260 Realization Facilities to be Opened General Trial Run Measurement Railroad Safety Act and Analysis 312 236 238 Improvement Facilities After the Completion of Construction Facilities Safety Safety Check-up of Facilities Total 1,000 765 772 Management Special Act Grade 5+ 5+ 2013 Sustainability Report 40 / 41 Q&A Q. What is KR doing to ensure the A. Safety Management of rail network facilities is carried out through continuous inspections and repairs safety of rail network users? to ensure the quality of facilities. Regular training is enforced to swiftly respond to emergencies such as natural disasters. ❖ Uniform Safety Management for Rail Network Users Drive for Passenger Safety and Quality Improvement <Joint Drill with Related Organizations> KR is realizing continuous quality improvements through cause analysis of defects found in the planning and operation – Accident Restoration Simulation Training stages. This analysis is based on the QESM combined management system and upgraded design standards for the construction of a high quality rail network. Compliance with the safety standards has helped to prevent accidents, and the safety levels of all stages of construction were inspected. Certain sites were designated to receive intensive management to rule out quality defects. Regular general safety inspections, close inspection of facilities, and comprehensive trials conducted prior to openings increased and safeguarded quality. The materials used in the rail network construction undergo a strict quality examination. KR operates international certification agencies such as the Korea Laboratory Accreditation Scheme (KOLAS) and state quality examination agencies, and insists on using high quality materials for passenger safety by concluding academy-business operation and continuously securing special test equipment. Results of Safety Assurance Efforts KR greatly increased the number of sites for preventative inspection from 886 in 2011 to 1,602 in 2012. This led to achieving, 1,457 cases of improvement to resolve potential quality and safety problems. The CEO and the management performed 479 field inspections as part of the field management drive, sharing expertise with all business partners through a presentation of cases of outstanding improvement. In 2012, a total of 10 cases of planning standard improvements were made to resolve the root causes of defects. The quality level was improved through an analysis of deficiencies in the rail network facilities and the implementation of 23 planning and construction improvements. As a result, no more than 15 cases of safety accidents occurred in 2012, dropping by 25% compared to the previous year. The hazard rate of completed facilities was 0.004%, a dramatic decrease in comparison to 0.024% of last year. Reinforced Response to Disaster KR constantly improves its response to disaster to secure the safety of rail network users. Emergencies resulting from extreme weather conditions such as heavy rain or snow, earthquakes, etc. are simulated to provide the related organizations with an opportunity to conduct regular training exercises, such the Joint Anti-disaster Drill (joint training exercises with the government) and the Joint Drill with Related Organization (KORAIL, Fire Department, etc.). Safety <Landslide Monitoring System> facilities are continuously repaired for disaster prevention, and an anti-landslide monitoring system is in operation. Establishment of Field Monitoring Collection of Disaster Information and Analysis Bulletin Board Control Field Facilities Control System Real time •Analysis of Imagery and Monitoring Information Monitoring •Camera •IR Sensor •Management of •Integrated Management All-source •Processing Analysis Results •Event Management System Expression of Images of Imagery Information •Miscellaneous Sensors •Monitoring and Weather Information Management Situation on Bulletin Board •Combined Monitoring •Wire Sensor Room (All•Equipment Condition Information Management source Control Liaison with the Association with Related Disaster Information Situation Control and Order System Center) Internal System Organizations Distribution System Development •Monitoring and Control of Monitoring Devices •in Connection with •Ministry of Land, Transport, •Accident Image Distribution X-ROIS and Maritime Affairs of Crisis •Imagery Monitoring and Control •Notification Accident through SMS, •Order Management •in Connection with •Korea Rail Network Authority E-mail, and FAX KOVIS * Governmental ‌ indicators measuring the quality level of the planning and construction of rail network facilities * Formula: ‌ Number of difficulties in train operation due to facilities/Increase in number of completed rail networks Safe Rail Network <Disaster Management Agency Operation> <Structure of Disaster Management Headquarters> •Regional Headquarters Winter Rainy Regular Season: Restoration Manager Season Season December •Headquarters March 16 ~ December May 16 ~ May 15 Director of Management 1 ~ March 15 October 15 October 16 ~ Headquarters Situation Restoration Support November 30 Room Team Team ※ Open throughout the Year Deputy Director •Regional Fields Field Restoration Situation Recovery and Inspection Leader <Expanded Investment in Improving Room Restoration Management Decrepit Safety Facilities> (Unit: 100 million won) Situation Support Decrepit Facilities Safety Facilities Public Relations Support Team Team Team 1,409 996 Equipment Manpower Team Team 646 Expansion of Safety Facilities KR has built and operated a state-of-the-art electrification system for the safe operation of trains, placing passenger 169 safety as its first priority. The Rail Network Control Center is equipped with a cutting edge system in the areas of electrification, electricity, signals, and communication to secure safety and punctuality of train operation through 2011 2012 intensive control. KR has consistently invested in the supplementation of rail network facilities for passenger safety. The investment cost in repairing decrepit facilities and expanding safety facilities recorded 205.5 billion won, a 76% increase compared to the previous year, and is scheduled to be increased further in the future. Accident-free train network facilities will be provided with the expansion of disaster prevention facilities, reinforced seismic resistance capacity, <Transmission and Transfer of Electric expansion of firefighting resources, safe pedestrian crossings, and repair decrepit facilities. As a result, accidents Power System> occurring at crossings dropped by 35.7%, compared to the previous year in 2012. <Electrical System> Area of Subway Electricity Area of Signals Area of Communication Transmission and Transfer of Electric Centralized Traffic Control (CTC) Train Radio System Power System Automatic Train Control (ATC) Exchange and Transport Network System Traction Line System Interlocking Device (IXL) Service Communication Equipment Power System <Rail Traffic Control Center> <Wireless Rail Network System> * CTC: ‌ Centralized method of controlling train operations in all lines or certain parts of the lines with electric devices 2013 Sustainability Report 42 / 43 <Accident Rate of KR> <Outcome of Facilities Safety Reinforcement Efforts in 2012> (Unit: %) Categories Content of Promotion 0.142 0.128 •Facilities improvement for the prevention of damage from natural disasters, Disaster including flood and wind Disaster Prevention Facilities Prevention 16 bride expansions, 18 sewage installations, 6 landslide prevention 0.082 facilities, 12 retaining wall installations, etc. Seismic Function Enhancement •Richter scale 5.5→6.0 (54 bridges and tunnels) Firefighting Safety Facilities •Supplementation of tunnels’ damage prevention facilities (8 places) Traffic Signal System •Device installed within trains for the assurance of a safe distance 2010 2011 2012 •Installation of screen doors for the prevention of passenger safety Screen Doors accidents (4 stations) Safety Improvement Concern for the Disadvantaged •Installation of elevator facilities: 33 units (24 escalators, 9 elevators) in Transportation •Railway crossings designed to prevent accidents (10 crossings) Safe Pedestrian Crossings *‌ ‌Results: Decrease in the number of railway crossing accidents (14 cases in 2011 → 9 cases in 2012, △35.7%) •Securing travel routes for local residents isolated by rail network <Accident Rate in Construction Business> Through Road under Railway (12 places) (Unit: %) 0.74 Improvement of Decrepit Track, Stations, Structures, •Increase in rail weight, elongation of rail length, precast concrete ballast Transportation Electricity (8 bridges), burying power lines underground, etc. 0.46 Facilities •Installation of soundproof walls to reduce the noise level in areas Soundproof Walls Improving Living surrounding railways (20 units) Conditions Burying Power Lines •Burying power lines passing through residential areas to improve living 0.082 Underground conditions and resolve public complaints Average in Top 1,000 KR Construction Construction <Improvements for Pedestrian System> Business Companies 2011 2011 2012 <Employees’ Safety Practice> Before After <Screen Doors on Platforms> ✽ ‌Number of Employees that Completed Safety Education in 2012: 30,467 (Compulsory Every Year) Before After Prevention of Safety Accidents at Construction Sites KR runs a systematic safety management system through checking safety in all stages of construction1), creation of a safety accidents database2), work danger level analysis3) work safety suitability examination4), vulnerable sites management5), and a wireless remote radio imagery monitoring system6). Speedy recovery after an accident is achieved by issuing a safety alarm to employees, field head supervisors, and on-site engineers in cases of accidents, dangers of disaster, and special weather reports. Systemized government training exercises and joint drills with relevant agencies are regularly executed to strengthen response to disasters while field workers are required to receive special and practical safety education and to increase safety awareness as part of the various safety accident prevention efforts. As a result, KR registered an accident rate of 0.082% in 2012, which is 1/9th of the average accident rate on construction sites (0.74%, year of 2011). This earned KR an award for excellence in the field of safety management from the Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency. 1) Compulsory Safety Confirmation before Launching Projects 2) Information Sharing by Data Review of Different Accident Types 3) Establishment of High Risk Plans through Preliminary Review of Danger Factors 4) Regular Examination Using a Checklist Prior to Work (Weekly) 5) Designation after Review of Damage Extent and Danger Levels at Site 6) Operation of 266 Units on 86 Sites Sustainable Rail Network Overseas Projects Q&A A. KR advances towards the future and into the international stage, never settling to be satisfied with its Q. How far have we come in current successes. To become a global rail network enterprise, KR enacts various efforts to expand into the expanding into the world? overseas rail network market by acquiring world-class technology and expertise. As a result, KR produced 15 billion won of profits, the highest amount since the establishment of the corporation. ❖ Competitive Overseas Projects Strategies for Expansion into the Global Market <Promotion Strategies in Different KR entered the world rail network market, drawing on the wealth of expertise knowhow from its domestic rail network Overseas Business Stages> to create profits and to promote the excellence of Korean rail network industry. Capability Bolstering Stage (2012 ~ Shortly after its establishment in 2004, KR obtained the first construction supervision contract for the Chinese passenger 2014/3 Years) train Sootuseon in 2005. Since then, technical service projects such as the construction supervision of Chinese High‌Expansion of Contract Obtainment and Bolstering Capabilities with Participation speed Railways and working design of Nepal electric railways were promoted as part of its overseas projects. The in the Service Business such as the scope of overseas expansion will be gradually increased to encompass future international Project Management PM1), Construction Supervision, Consulting, Planning, and ODA Projects Engineering, Procurement, and Construction (EPC)2) and quota investment business to boost its overseas share. Involvement ‌ in the Low Risk Government Financed Projects ‌Entry into PM Business including Larged Promotion Results of Overseas Projects Scale Projects Increased Obtainment of Contracts KR utilized its national rail network technology to win contracts by cooperating with domestic and international Business Expanding Stage (2015 ~ 2017/3 Years) private corporations and participating in the Official Development Assistance (ODA) projects to increase the number ‌Increase in the Capabilities and Sales with of international markets from 6 to 9 in 2012 and earn 12.7 billion won in new contracts. the Expansion of Existing Market KR’s high level of competence and technology bolstered its reputation in existing markets, awarding KR additional ‌Expansion of PM Business ‌Entry into EPC, Quota Investment Business projects in Nepal (7.7 billion won) and in China (2.6 billion won). Growth Stage (2018~ 2020 / 3 Years) Development of Profitability Analysis System ‌Leading Service (Construction Supervision, KR developed the Profitability Analysis System, taking into consideration the characteristics of rail network Consultation, Planning, and PM) Market ‌Expansion of EPC and Quota Investment business to analyze project feasibility and build a cost-estimating database appropriate for each country to be used Business and Full Range of Project in the legitimate decision making processes for overseas projects. The Profitability Analysis System was applied to Performance Nepal, India, and KOICA PMC3) projects to improve the profitability of overseas projects in 2012. Stabilization Stage (2021 ~) ‌Gradual Expansion of Full Range of Projects Diversification Efforts for Expansion into the Global Rail Network Market ‌Leading Global Rail Network Market KR is engaging in various activities to find new overseas projects and lay the foundation to win contracts for major businesses. <Profitability Analysis System> <Contract Winning Efforts in International Markets> Minimum Business Expenses Calculation •CEO’s Field Marketing and Contact Obtainment Efforts Bangladesh Enhancement of Railway Depot •Improved Profitability (Originally 40 billion won → Construction Cost Operation Cost Increased to 63 billion won) Calculation Calculation Technology Consultation for •Prime Alliance Selection and Discussion regarding Participation U.S.A. •Signing of a Team Agreement with Parsons JV Funding Procurement Risk Management California High-speed Railways •Attending Business Public Hearings and Discussing Conditional Multilateral Brazil High-speed Railways Construction Modification of Request for Proposal (RFP)4) Bilateral Cooperation •Application of Conditional Modification in the Announcement of RFP Cooperation Attraction of Investors Financial Model 1) Project Management, Business Management 2) Incorporated Bidding Method of Engineering, Procurement, and Construction 3) Project Management Consultant, Developing Countries’ Business Management Experiences Passed Down to Developing Countries 4) ‌RFP (Request for Proposal), Document prepared by the sellers that is clearly organized to provide buyers with information about functions, specifications, and characteristics of the goods to be purchased. 2013 Sustainability Report 44 / 45 <Overseas Projects Outcome> Record Sales in Overseas Market (Unit: 100 Million won) KR has carried out a total of 22 overseas projects, utilizing its construction knowhow based on rail network Sales in the Overseas Market 150 engineering as of 2012. As a result, KR produced 15 billion won in sales in 2012, its highest sales record in the 122 overseas market since its establishment. KR will not settle for past achievements but strive to increase the Korean rail network industry’s competitiveness to achieve accumulated profits of 700 billion won in 2020. Global Network 24 Building a Foundation for Business Expansion through International Relations and Cooperation KR raises the brand power of KR and probability of winning contracts through steady expansion of international 2010 2011 2012 relations and collaborations. KR took part in the Union Internationale Des Chemins de fer (UIC) project to raise the level of technology to the international standard and gave 3 presentations at international events on the excellence Number of Overseas Market of Korean rail network technology. KR also served as an accommodating host to the Ministers of Transportation (Number of Countries) Number of Projects under 22 from Oman and Nepal for the active promotion of international relations. Promotion (Number) 9 15 Involvement in the Official Development Assistance (ODA) KR secured a foothold to expand into the market for developing countries’ rail networks after signing an MOU 10 6 with Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) and Korean Export-Import Bank. KR publicizes Korean rail network’s outstanding technology through research and management of Public Private Partnership (PPP) cases, 2 management of 3 KOICA PMC projects, and offering training by invitation to Indonesia and Cambodia. 2010 2011 2012 <Results of Overseas Business Projects> 1. China 2. Nepal 3. Cameroon 2005 •Construction Supervision of Sootu Line 2011 •Feasibility Test Service of the City Train 2009 •Consultation for Rail Network Master 2006 •Construction Supervision of in Katmandu Working Design Service of Plan Muhan~Gwangju High-speed Railway Electric Railroad 2011 •Feasibility Test Service of the Rail 2008 •Consultation for Harbin~Dalian High-speed 2012 •Stage 2 in the Working Design Service of Network Construction Railway Electric Railroad Package Ⅰ,Ⅱ 2010 •Technical Consultation for Nanshin Line •Technical Consultation for Seoan~Bogye High-speed Railway •Technical Consultation for Cheonjin~Jinwhangdo High-speed Railway •Technical Consultation for Bangeum~Shinhaeseong High-speed Railway 1 KR’s Overseas Projects •Technical Consultation for Harbin~Qiqihar 2 Current Status of Contracts High-speed Railway 4 •Construction Supervision of 6 Obtainment (2004~2012) : 72.9 billion Jangsa~Gonmyung High-speed Railway 7 won in 28 projects for 9 countries 3 (Selected as the Best Construction Consulting Agency for 2 Consecutive Years) 5 8 2012 •Construction Supervision of Jeongju~Seojugan High-speed Railway 9 4. India 6. Vietnam 8. Indonesia 2012 •Consultation for High-speed 2012 •Construction Supervisors of Rail Network 2011 •Improvement of Jabotabek Circle Line Railway Working Design Improvement Projects Consultation and Business Management Consultation Education for Master Plan 5. Malaysia 7. Cambodia 9. Paraguay 2012 •MRT (Line 1) Communication 2011 •Business Management Consultation 2011 •Feasibility Test of Rail Network Project PM Consulting for Rail Network Master Plan Construction Business Management Consultation Sustainable Utilizing Resources and Revitalizing Rail Network Development Q&A Q. What is KR doing for the efficient A. KR strives to recover investment cost as early as possible by establishing collection standards for rail management of rail network network fees, reducing maintenance and repair costs, and generating profit through diverse utilization and assets? development of rail network assets. ❖ Efficient Management of Rail Network Assets Recovery of Investment Cost Collection of Track Access Charges <Profits from GovernmentalProperty KR signs an agreement on Track Access Charges with KORAIL annually and intends to recover part of the Utilization> (Unit: 100 million won) investment cost through timely collection of Track Access Charge. The unrealistic standard of Track Access 844 Charges estimation, however, made the recovery of the investment cost a challenge. For this reason, KR launched 720 the project to create a realistic standard for Track Acess Charges estimation in October, 2011. The company 677 then recovered the investment cost in rail network construction in a reasonable manner so that it could be used as a source of revenue to attain financial soundness. The originally delayed contracting and payment of Track Access Charges every year since 2004 (collection made at the end of 2011) was changed into an early signing of agreements and collection through active negotiations with the relevant agencies, resulting in a 3.6 billion won reduction in the annual interest rates and the collection of 347.1 billion won in Track Access Charges, which is 14% higher than the intended goal. In addition, the Iksan~Sinri section of the Jeolla Line promoted under the Build 2010 2011 2012 Transfer Lease (BTL) was subject to a standard of Track Access Charges estimation for new lines contributing to the recovery of investment cost with a collection of 1.4 billion won. KR will continue its efforts to improve the appropriate standard for Track Access Charges estimation and introduce an additional charge system in case of railroad accidents, thus maximizing the recovery of rail network investment cost. Categorization Major Activities of 2012 Promoting the Improvement of (Currently) High-speed Railway: 31% of Business Profits, Regular Railway: 70% of Maintenance and Repair Cost Appropriate Standard (Improved) Railway Usage Fees Per Cost = Railway Usage Fees Train Factor × Policy Factor ± Incentives and of Track Access Penalties Charges Estimation <Maintenance and Repair Cost of HighIntroduction of Speed Rail Network> Additional Charge •Additional Railway Usage Cost = Additional Number of Injuries + Additional Number of Accidents (Unit: 100 Million Won) System in Case of •Charged in the Case of an Accident, a Lump Sum Collection Annually in February, Following Year 1,089 Railroad Accidents 966 980 Maintenance and Report Cost Saving KR unified 2 guidelines in the area of rail network maintenance and repairs and succeeded in the cost reduction by improving rail network maintenance and the repairs standard, reflecting the research results. The reviews of international maintenance and repair technology in countries such as France (SNCF) and Belgium (SNCB) and the introduction of advanced methods of maintenance and repairs resulted in cost savings of 29 billion won in 2010 2011 2012 maintenance and repairs in 2012. KR achieved a 28.23% rate of maintenance and repairs cost to sales, surpassing its cost reduction goal by 31.6% Diversification of Assets Management Efficient Management of Governmental Property KR conducted a large scale analysis of the current state of profits made from fees and rent from utilizing rail network assets. The company reformed the existing passive farming land lease method, implementing active revenue generation strategies that include small scale investment and marketing. KR also established effective improvement measures to prevent payment delays and minimize outstanding bonds in addition to imposing rent on existing train stations, building a foundation for revenue creation through the innovative use and development of assets. These efforts achieved 84.4 billion won of profits in the utilization and development of assets, which is a 17% increase from the previous year. 2013 Sustainability Report 46 / 47 Development of Station-influenced Areas and Idle Land <Promotion Status of Development Projects> KR established a middle and long term road map for the diversification of rail network assets development. such as station-influenced areas and idle land. Part of the development project included signing MOUs with the local KTX Gwangmyeong Station Multi-Transit Facility governments to build an executive committee and recruiting business owners to build Special Purpose Companies (SPC) from which KR collects fees and rent. Gongdeok Station(Gyeongui Line) MultiComplex <Development Promotion Road Map> Area Surrounding Gongdeok Rail Network Authority ⇔ Local Governments Special Purpose Companies (SPC) Station(Gyeongui Line) KR, Local Governments (MOU Agreement) Business Authorization and Licensing and Seogang Station(Gyeongui Line) MultiField Inspection of Potential Facilities Construction Composition of Executive Development Complex Development Areas (Authorization of Governmental Property Committee Use, Permission of Occupation) Hongik Univ. Station (Gyeongui Line) MultiComplex Business Ideas and Consultation Business Basic Plan and Feasibility from Specialists Service Implementation Development and Commercial Facilities Operation Youngnam Headquarters Building Site Business Owners Recruitment Capital Investment and Establishment of SPC (3rd Sector) Restoration after Business Closing <Gangchon Rail bike> KR embarked on a new project of developing the abandoned land created by the closing of the Geyongchun Line into a theme park, offering rails, rail bikes, wine tunnels, and theaters in a single area after the establishment of a company jointly invested by the city of Chuncheon and private entrepreneurs. The project was completed, and all involved parties celebrated the start of its commercial operation in 2012. Operations would be carried out over 3 stages, producing a profit of 1.70 million won for the first development project for abandoned rail network areas. After the closing of all developmental projects in 2013, approximately 25.2 billion won of additional profits is expected, contributing to the invigoration of the local economy. KR is in the process of jointly developing the abandoned rail network areas of the Gyeongjeon Line (Jinju section) and Donghae Southern Line with the cities of Jinju and Busan, building momentum from the success of the Gyeongchun Line abandoned area development project. Along with the development project of idle land, the development of the station-influenced area around Gwangmyeong Station in 2012, the first project of its kind, was commenced with the opening of commercial <Construction of RV Campsites> operation. This project is expected to produce 82.2 billion won in reliable profits (76.1 billion won in rent, 6.1 billion won in development profits). Once the development projects around Hongik Univ. Station, Gongdeok Station, and Seogang Station are completed as planned, an additional 330 billion won in profits is likely to be created. <KTX Kwangmyung Station Multi-Transit Facility> Sustainable Reinforcing Competitiveness of Rail Network Rail Network Technology Q&A Q. What is KR doing to secure rail A. KR is directing a significant part of its energy into executing work-oriented research projects, as well as network competitiveness at the research and development of practical technology to obtain sustainable sources of growth in the Korean rail global level? network industry. ❖ Reinforced Development Rail Network Technology <Maximum Operational Speed of Major KR is conducting research for national R&D projects and practical technology to develop technology for expansion into Countries> the global rail network market and ensuring the future of the rail network industry. Through these efforts, Korea’s rail China France, Germany network technology level will rise from 78.83% for rail network technology to that of advanced countries by 2020. The usage rate of domestic materials in rail network goods will also increase from 83.2% to 100% by 2020. 350km/h 320km/h <Technology Development Promotional Direction> Japan, Spain, England, Establishment of Global R&D Cultivation of R&D Leadership Achievement of World Best Turkey, Russia Categorization Korea, Poland (~2013) by Each Step (2014~2017) R&D Capacity (2018~2020) 300km/h 250km/h Rail Network Technology Level Compared to Developed 82.73 96.73 100 Countries (78.83) High-speed 350km/h High-speed 370km/h High-speed 400km/h High-speed Railways Regular 180km/h Regular 210km/h Regular 250km/h Reduction Rate in Railroad Reduction Rate in Railroad Reduction Rate in Railroad Safety Accidents 1.8% Accidents 4.5% Accidents 20% Usage Rate of Domestic Usage Rate of Domestic Usage Rate of Domestic Usage Rate of Domestic Material Components 80.9% Components 89.2% Components 100% Saving Rate in Construction Saving Rate in Construction Saving Rate in Construction Economical Value Cost 1.8% Cost 8.1% Cost 20% Decrease in Greenhouse Gas Decrease in Greenhouse Gas Decrease in Greenhouse Gas Eco-friendliness 22,000 tons 210,000 tons 820,000 tons <Energy Efficiency Comparison of Different Transport Mode> Volume of Time-saving Rail Network Technology CO2 emissions Transport Transportation The traffic congestion cost of Korea in 2009 is estimated to be 27.7 trillion won, and this figure increases every year. KR per individual Mode (Individuals/ (g/Individual/km) Time) is trying to relieve this situation by improving infrastructure, designing railroads suitable for high-speed lines. A safety test run of the next generation’s high-speed train capable of reaching the maximum speed of 430km/h, HEMU, was Highspeed Rail 8 1~30,000 conducted. HEMU is planned to be used in the high-speed rail network in 2016 to provide faster rail network service with Network trains that can travel at speeds of 300km/h. Buses 19.4 6~9000 Small Rail Network Technology for Safety 44.6 3000 Vehicles Numerous trials and authentication courses are required to perfect rail network technology. The successful conclusion of these process lead to the recognition of rail network technology that can ensure our safety and future. KR created a quality certification system for rail network goods to ensure safety and is carrying out steady efforts in railroad technology research and development for the safe operation of the rail network system. Rail Network Technology Protecting the Environment The Rail Network Industry is eco-friendly. The CO2 generated in the course of rail network operation is remarkably low, and the impact on the environment in the process of rail network construction is minimized through eco-friendly planning and cutting-edge construction methods. KR strives to reduce the level of CO2 emission through eco-friendly rail network planning and the development of better construction technology. * Source: The Korea Transport Institute「Estimation and Progress Analysis of National Traffic Congestion Cost」 2013 Sustainability Report 48 / 49 Rail Network Technology for the Future Magnetic Levitation Railway KR has promoted and is currently conducting a comprehensive test and commissioning of the urban magnetic levitation railway (6.1km) in Incheon International Airport (Yongjeondo). Korea is planning to operate the Attention Characteristics of Magnetic Levitation commercial magnetic levitation railway in September, 2013 and will be the second country in the world to operate Railways urban magnetic levitation railways. The magnetic levitation train uses magnetic force generated by electricity and ㆍ‌High ride quality: Little vibration, noise is levitated a short distance away from the guide rail, propelling the train forward without using wheels. Since it (zero traction with rails) ㆍ‌Safety: No risk of derailment (train cars moves up in the air, there is little noise and vibration and zero risk of derailment. surrounding the tracks) KR will make continuous investments in realizing future technology, working in close relationship with relevant ㆍ‌Localization: Saving of maintenance and repair cost agencies such as the Korea Railroad Research Institute to expand into the international stage and preserve the → Alternative to urban mass transportation environment. →Expansion into the international stage (accumulation of magnetic levitation rail network construction technology) Accomplishment of Rail Network Technology Development KR carried out 13 cases of national R&D tasks in 2012, including 9 tasks in progress and 5 completed tasks. As a result of KR’s continuous research and development efforts, a total of 25 projects were completed in 2015, saving 40 billion won in future business expenses. KR’s R&D accomplishments include the development of a <Level of Rail Network Technology low-frequency orbital technique, enhancement of power induction, and establishment of blending rate in steel (Compared to Developed Countries)> fiber-mixed concrete. Major rail network materials such as the parts for high-speed traction lines and pre-made (Unit: %) concrete tracks were built with domestic materials to attain ownership of world-class rail network technology and 73.57 75.04 78.83 reduce reliance on imports. The quality of rail network goods developed using domestic technology will be under strict scrutiny by a comprehensive train network trial line scheduled to be completed in 2016. There, domestically made train cars and components will be subject to a reliability examination and certification. <Outcome of Rail Network Technology Development in 2012> <Possession of New Technology and Intellectual Property Rights> ✽ Including Ongoing 2013 Projects (Unit: Cases) Promotion HighEcoPrior to 2010 2011 2012 Safety Localization Efficiency 2011 2012 Total Direction speed friendliness 2011 Number New Technology 1) 130 35 32 197 6 5 10 17 5 of Cases Intellectual <Localization Rate of Rail Network Goods> 40 9 4 53 Total 43 Property Rights 2) (Unit: %) 83.2 77.7 78.76 Localization of Core Technology Pre-made Concrete Tracks Trains running at high speed increase the vibration of cars and make the journey more uncomfortable. They also have a higher change of causing track irregularities, increasing the maintenance and repair costs of the rail network. KR will expand the use of pre-made concrete tracks3) to solve this problem and construct a part of the Gyeongjeon Line using this method in July, 2012 for a test and commissioning. The company plans to finish the functional qualification for this technology within the year. At the competition of the functional qualification, the 10km-long Iksan~Jeongeup section of the Honam High-speed Railway will be constructed by using this same method. This will not only secure rail network safety and reduce maintenance and 2010 2011 2012 repair costs, but will also greatly increase the competitive edge of KR’s technology for expansion in the international market. Pre-made Concrete Tracks Gravel Tracks Field Construction (Concrete) Tracks <100% Localization of High-Speed Railway Tracks material> Suspension Clamps Supporting Clamps Structure •Low track irregularities and •Convenient linear alternation and •Low track irregularities and vibration maintenance and repair vibration •Reduction in maintenance and •Increase in maintenance and repair •Reduction in maintenance and Characteristics repair cost (0.6 million won/km) cost (2.3 million won/km) repair cost (0.6 million won/km) •Construction cost (11.6 million won/ •Construction cost (8.8 million won/ •Construction cost (12.6 million won/ km, 92%) km, 70%) km, 100%) •Improvement in feasibility (22%) 1) New Technology Applicable to Rail Network Technology 2) Intellectual Property Rights Directly Developed by KR (Patents, Utility Model Rights, Design, Program, and Trademarks) 3) Track structure where concrete tracks are pre-made at the factory, transported to the construction site, built, and constructed Ⅲ Green Rail Network •Response to Climate Change and Environmental Management •‌Construction of Eco-friendly Rail Network KR builds the green future. Our Approach KR created a middle and long term roadmap in response to climate change, working to resolve global warming by actively promoting efforts to cut down greenhouse gas. The establishment of low carbon rail network facilities and the development of eco-friendly technology will ensure a reduction of 820,000 tons of greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 to lead environmental management in the field of rail network construction. Our Strategy Response to Climate Change : Continual reductions of greenhouse gas emissions are being achieved through the establishment of low carbon rail network facilities, calculation of carbon footprints, and utilization of renewable energy. Environmental Management : The environmental management review system. consisting of 12 core indicators related to the environment. was introduced for the continual administration of environmental management. This system prevents environmental conflicts in advance through smooth communication with stakeholders. Construction of Eco-friendly Rail Network : The eco-friendly construction of rail network is being promoted in consideration of the entire life-cycle of the rail network including planning, construction, and closing. Our Performance Progress Core Indicators Unit 2010 2011 2012 Environmental Management Indicators Points 105.4 113.1 158.1 Reduction Rate of Greenhouse gas emission % 5.8 16.6 Violations of Environmental Regulations Cases 0 0 0 Recycling rate of Construction Waste % 92.57 95.6 97.2 Application Rate of Renewable Energy % 13.76 18.16 Green Rail Response to Climate Change and Network Environmental Management Q&A Q. What is KR doing to reduce greenhouse A. K R is executing various projects to expand carbon rail network facilities and create profits by using gas emissions, which is a global equipment with carbon greenhouse gas emission to cut down 820,000 tons of greenhouse gas emissions issue? during rail network construction by 2020. ❖ Responding to Climate Change Response System to Climate Change The Kyoto Protocol took effect in 2005 of to drive developed countries to reduce carbon emissions, which is a major cause of climate change on a global scale. Various discussions have been in progress on the launching of the post-Kyoto regime after 2012, and Korea is part of the movement in demanding renovation in the areas of building, transportation, industry, development, and living by achieving the reduction goal of national greenhouse gas emissions (30% of the emission estimates by 2020) in October, 2009. The policy requiring the management and reduction of greenhouse gas emissions under the Low Carbon Green Growth Act that went into effect in April, 2010 led to the establishment of a greenhouse gas and energy target management system and emission trading system, raising awareness of this issue both at home and abroad. Consequently, KR established the “Middle and Long Term Promotion Plans to Respond to Climate Change (December 2012)” to reduce 820 tons of CO2 by 2020. KR also assembled a response system to climate change with internal and external specialists, initiating progress for green growth through greenhouse gas reduction in the field of rail network construction. Promotional Structure in Response to the Climate Change KR’s environmental management is led by the Policy Research Institute, and the operating agency carries out eco-friendly planning, construction, and management projects in different stages under its promotion plans. The Environmental Policy agency is the leading agency of this institute, and the “Response to Climate Change T/F Team”, consisting of 3 departments of internal and external specialists, is operated for the systematic execution of the “Middle and Long Term Promotion Plans for the Response to Climate Change”. This contributes to the various efforts to reduce greenhouse gas in the rail network planning and construction processes through research and the establishment of greenhouse gas reduction measures and policy improvement, as well as the establishment and operation of the verification process for reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Response to Climate Change Chairperson (Head of Institute) Assistant Administrator (Head of Policy Research Institute) Contract Department Planning Department Construction Department Assistance Department (5 Members) (7 Members) (7 Members) (Environmental Policy Agency) Contract Department Planning Department Construction Department Drawing of Greenhouse Gas Reduction Improvement of Excessive Planning and Establishment and Operation of Measures and Policy Improvement Planning Standards Improvement Verification Processes for the Reduction of through Contracts Greenhouse Gas Emission 2013 Sustainability Report 52 / 53 Middle and Long Term Roadmap for the Response to Climate Change <Opening Effects of Rail Network Openings KR established the “eco-friendly rail network construction guidelines” to actively support the national response plan to in 2012> climate change following global warming. These guidelines have led to the building of an eco-friendly rail network foundation, (Units: km, 10 Thousand Ton) promotion of ecosystem restoration projects that use closed rail network land and construction waste, analysis of current greenhouse emissions in rail network construction sites and preparation of reduction measures, use of renewable energy Name of Increase Reduction such as solar energy and geothermal heat, and expansion of the introduction of high efficiency equipment. These efforts have Business dramatically decreased greenhouse gas emissions. The certified emission reductions of greenhouse gas occurring in the DongSuncheon~ 10.7 6.0 process of rail network construction will be secured as part of the various measures for eco-friendly rail network construction Gwangyang and greenhouse gas reduction. 4 major tasks, such as the establishment of carbon rail network facilities, promotion of green Track Shifting of rail network infrastructure, creation of profits using carbon planning, and technology development of the green rail network 17.8 10.0 Yeongdong Line based on the middle and long term roadmap, will realize the goal of 820 thousand tons of reducing CO2 by 820 thousand tons Oido~Seongdo 13.1 7.4 (7.1% decrease compared to the estimates) by 2020 in the field of rail network construction. Yongmum~ 28.0 15.7 Seowonju <Middle and Long Term Roadmap for the Response to Climate Change> Wangsimni~ 6.8 3.8 Extensive Promotion Period Middle and Long Term Seollung Shintanri~ 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 ~ 2020 5.6 3.1 Cheorwon High-speed Railways Honam High-speed Giheung~ (2 Projects including Honam High-speed Railway) – 289km Railway – 49km 7.4 4.2 Mangpo (18 Projects including the Rail Network Masan~Jinju 53.3 30.0 Regular Railways (12 Projects including Deokso~Wonju DoubleEstablishment Construction Project of Wonju~Gangneung track Lines in Joonang Line) – 103km of Low-carbon Section) – 542km Gondeok~DMC 6.1 3.4 Rail Network Facilities Metropolitan Railways (5 Projects including Yongsan~Munsan (8 Projects including Bansan~Ulsan Double-track Lines) – 108km Double-track Lines) – 285km Total 148.8 83.6 Application of Renewable Energy (Solar Energy Equipment, Wind Energy Equipment, Etc.) Research Revision of Carbon of Carbon Voluntary Agreement on Footprint Reduction Greenhouse Gas Reduction Calculation Guidelines Participation in Carbon Market Development of Greenhouse Gas Management system for the Low-carbon Construction of Rail Network Establishment Founding and Continuous Promotion of Ecosystem Restoration Project Candidates Promotion of Roadmap (Minimum 2 Cases annually) of Green Rail <Promotional Goals in Response to Climate Network Purchase of Green Goods (Minimum 90% of the Promotion Goal) Change> Infrastructure Greenhouse Gas Energy Reduction in the Public Sector (20% of Current Emission) 820 Thousand Tons of Greenhouse gas CO2 Reduction in the Rail Network Construction Solar Energy Generation Expanded Application of Relevant Projects Applicants by 2020 Creation of Profits Plants (20 New Plants) (Minimum 3 Cases Annually) Using Low carbon Planning Green ODA Projects (3 Projects) Development of New Projects (Minimum 1 Case Annually Establishment of LowAccelerated Green Rail Network Carbon Rail Facilities Infrastructure R&D Development (Eco-friendly Electricity Planning) Profits through LowDevelopment of Addition of Research Function R&D Development Green Rail Network to the Environmental Agency (Founding of Minimum 2 Cases Annually) Carbon Facilities Technology (Establishment of Feedback Technology System) Development of Green Rail Eco-friendly Development Modification of Network Trial Facilities of Construction Guidelines and Expanded Field Application Application Review Methods Specifications Installment of High-speed Battery Charger for Electric Cars (Sooseo Station in High-speed Increased Application of Monitoring Railway and Songjeong Station in Gwanju) Response to Climate Change and Environmental Management Major Responses to Climate Changes <Planned Emissions of Greenhouse Gas> KR carried out various activities including the establishment of carbon rail network facilities, unit calculation of greenhouse gas (carbon footprints), and profit creation usinglow carbon equipment (utilization of renewable energy). CategoStandard Emission rization Emission (Target) Target Management System of Greenhouse Gas and Energy 2010 5,803tCO2 6,203tCO2 KR studied the greenhouse gas emissions of business sectors, such as buildings and vehicles, and set the standard 2011 6,071tCO2 5,719tCO2 of emission at 5,737tCO2 in anticipation of the government’s greenhouse gas reduction plan for public agencies. 2012 5,737tCO2 4,786tCO2 To reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 20% compared to the current standard by 2015, specific executive plans such as the efficient planning of building spaces and equipment, energy-saving efforts through compliance with 2013 5,796tCO2 4,753tCO2 government-recommended indoor seasonal temperatures, and the operation of eco-friendly vehicles were enacted 2014 5,796tCO2 4,637tCO2 through monthly strict monitoring. As a result, greenhouse gas emissions were recorded at 4,786tCO2, which is 2015 5,796tCO2 4,637tCO2* 16.6% lower than the goal of 5,737tCO2 * 20% Reduction of the Standard Emission Calculation of Carbon Footprints KR promoted the “Calculation of Carbon Footprints in the Rail Network Construction Sites” from May 2011 through December 2012 to realize sustainable and “Eco-friendly Rail Network Construction” by assessing the greenhouse gas emissions at rail network construction sites and establishing systematic field management measures. The method of calculating carbon emission per unit was suggested in various stages of construction, such as the civil engineering, architecture, rails, electricity, signals, and communications. The development of the carbon emission management guidelines for rail network construction sites will result in the reduction of on-site greenhouse gas emission through estimating carbon emissions at new rail network construction sites and of improving the guidelines and specifications. <Greenhouse Emissions> <Research on Carbon Footprint Calculation – Carbon Emissions (Unit: tCO2) in the Case of 1km Construction of Rail Network> (Unit: tCO2/km) 6,203 Civil System (Electricity, 5,719 Categorization Rails Architecture Total Engineering Signal, Communication) 4,786 Carbon Emission 18,251 1,568 341 119 20,279 Application of Renewable Energy KKR conducted research on the expanded application of renewable energy in the field of rail networks such as 2010 2011 2012 the solar, wind, and geothermal energy from 2012 through 2011. 67 solar energy structures in platforms, railway vehicles bases, and spoil areas, 33 geothermal energy structures in the Sooin Line, etc., 8 wind energy structures in Pohang~Samcheok, etc. are being planned and promoted. Once these renewable energy applications are completed, greenhouse gas will be reduced by 1,540tCO2 on an annual basis. The generation of 17.1MWp electricity through solar energy generation plants is expected from these newly built solar energy structures. <Solar Energy> <Geothermal Energy> * Carbon Footprint: Total Sum of Greenhouse Gas Generated by Individuals or Organizations 2013 Sustainability Report 54 / 55 Q&A A. ‌KR has strengthened its environmental management capabilities through it environmental management Q. ‌What is KR doing to preserve evaluation system. The systematic management of rail network construction sites will minimize Earth? environmental impact. Maintaining close channels of communication with stakeholders will also prevent environmental conflicts in advance. ❖ Environmental Management Attention Eco-friendliness and Evaluation System KR-EMI, Environment Management Index KR introduced the environmental management evaluation system in 2010. This system includes, 10 indicators such KR’s unique environmental index as the recycling rate of construction waste, purchase rate of eco-friendly goods, etc. to understand and disclose that compares and evaluates yearly accomplishments in environment the results of environmental management and continually improve the company’s eco-friendliness. 2 indicators management were added in 2011 to improve the credibility of the evaluation system and to reflect new issues. The quarterly KR-EMI monitoring of results contributes to the establishment of redemption measures for areas that were found to be = EMI전+｛EMI전 × Σ(SEPIi × Weight)｝ •EMI전 : Environment Management Index weak according to the indicators indicators. As a result, the environmental management index incorporating the of the previous year evaluation system achieved 105 points in 2010, 113 in 2011, and 158 in 2012. •SEPIi: Points in each indicator of environment management Environmental Education Program KR operated an educational program for KR stakeholders and business partners and succeeded in educating <Evaluation Indicators of Environment 3,551 people in the 3 areas of quality, safety, and general environment, as well as 2 specific areas related to the Management> environment, to reduce carbon emissions and noise level during rail network construction, control vibration, and Environment Environment manage construction waste on sites for eco-friendly construction and high quality. Management Operation Indicator Indicator <Environmental Education Program> Competition Rate Recycling Rate of of Environmental Category Title of Education Recipients Frequency Rail Ties Education General Manager KR Annually Improvement Rate of General Recycling Rate of Internal and External (Quality, Safety, ISO/OHSAS KR Annually Construction Waste Suggestions Environment) Field Special Training Business Partners Quarterly Installation of Amount of Sound-Proof Environment Management System Business Partners Annually Penalties Environment Devices Environment Business KR Year-round International Recognition of Purchase Rate of Environment Eco-friendly Goods Management Results Resolution of Environmental Conflicts Number of Green Rail KR has operated a collaborative network with environmental organizations such as the NGO, etc. since 2005 to Construction Waste Network Advisory prevent unnecessary environmental conflicts through continuous communication and to maximize environmental Production per Unit Committee Meetings conservation effects. Starting from 2008, KR jointly hosted events with these groups: together, these groups Number of went beyond mere collaborative relationships and ran the Green Rail Network Advisory Committee to reflect the Nonfulfillment of Reduction Rate of Environmental Impact Greenhouse Gas opinions of environmental organizations in KR’s policies. The semiannual Green Rail Network Advisory Committee Evaluation Discussions meetings were expanded to be held 6 times a year, inviting participation from various stakeholders such as the NGO, religious circle, academic circle, corporations, public agencies, etc. to discuss and resolve KR’s current <Beautiful Playground Movement> issues. In addition, KR was extensively involved in the Beautiful Playground Movement (repair and renovation of a total of 18 playgrounds after the agreement signing with the Korean Federation for Environment Movement in June 2007) as part of its efforts to preserve the environment, working with the NGO to improve its corporate brand power as an eco-friendly corporation with international creditworthiness. Green Rail Network Construction of Eco-friendly Rail Network Q&A Q. ‌What is KR doing to reduce the A. ‌KR is promoting eco-friendly rail network construction in consideration of all life cycles of the rail network impact on the environment from rail and understands that environmental factors are crucial points in the stages of planning, construction, and network construction? closing of the rail network. ❖ Eco-friendly Planning and Construction Attention Eco-friendly Structure Certification Eco-friendly Structure Certification ‌Base: Article 65 of Building Codes, Rules of KR built the “middle and long term master plan for eco-friendly rail network structure” for the harmonious Green Building Certification Program development of the economy/environment in April, 2010. This was not only done to reflect eco-friendly planning ‌Certification Agency: Korean Research of Energy Institute, LH Public Corporation, in the planning guidelines, but also to apply renewable energy to all stations, expand eco-friendly planning to the Crebiz Certification, Korean Educational ecological environment and indoor environments, and expand the application of electric energy-saving systems Environment Research Institute for the purpose of realizing an eco-friendly structure. KR also pursued the “Eco-friendly Certification System” ‌Certification Review : Evaluated according in accordance with the construction laws, earning international recognition for its efforts and the preliminary to the specific standards set by the certification agencies assigned by the certification for eco-friendly structure for the Gwangju Railway Vehicle base in Honam High-speed Railway in 2011. operating agency (Operating Agency: KR applied for the preliminary certifications of 3 stations (Gongju, Jeongeup, Gwangju-Songjeong) in December, Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs/ Ministry of Environment on 2012 and plans to continually expand the system for other rail network structures. Rotation Biannually) ‌Types of Certification: Planning Stage <Process of Certification for Eco-friendly Structures in Different Stages> Preliminary Certification/After Construction Main Certification Preliminary Certification of Structures Planning Stage Application for Preliminary Granting of Preliminary Approval for Construction <Aerial View of Gwangju Rail Vehicle Base> Certification Certification Main Certification Granting of Main Application for Main Commencement of Certification Construction Certification Construction <Aerial View of Gwangju-Songjeongg Station> Eco-friendly Rail Network Facilities KR saves energy by applying renewable energy and builds an eco-friendly rail network through the removal of obstacles for users. KR installed the minimum legally required amenities until 2009, but starting in 2010, KR established the “Eco-friendly Rail Network Structure Master Plan” and reinforced eco-friendly planning factors. As part of this plan KR expanded the use of renewable energy devices, eco-friendly design of ecological and indoor environments, and promotion of obstacle-free environments in stations. In 2012, KR doubled the 10% <Aerial View of Gongju Station> mandatory renewable energy supply rate by the government in its application and used eco-friendly devices including geothermal cooling and heating systems, cooling systems using recycled rainwater, solar energy panel installations on the outer walls of buildings, etc. 2013 Sustainability Report 56 / 57 <Aerial View of Gwangju Rail Vehicle Base> <Eco-friendly Planning Example of Deokha Rail Vehicle Base> (Unit: %) Eco-Friendly Mater Plan 22.3 19.5 21 19.3 21.3 18 Building-Integrated Eco Blocks, Application in Solar Energy Generation Parking Space and Walkways Chengna Gwangju Jeongeup Gongju Suseo Pohang Station SongJeong Natural Light+Ventilation, Facing South, Utilization of Natural Light, Maximum Natural Energy Ventilation <Non-Point Contamination Prevention Facilities> Exemplary Recycling, Usage Geothermal Cooling and Green Roof, Insulating Eco Pond, Eco-Friendly of Landscape Trees, Eco Heating System, Utilization Benefit-Prevention of Waterfront Area Undercurrent Land of Geothermal Heat Thermal Island Effect ✽Utilization of geothermal energy as source for heating and cooling, installation of solar panels on the outer wall of buildings (40kw) •Treatment Facilities of Undetermined Water Prevention of Environmental Pollution Contaminants at Unspecified Locations in Railways Periodic Environmental Checkups and Roads KR plans to limit the impact on the environment through eco-friendly planning and construction in consideration of the ecosystem by installing environmental pollution reduction facilities to improve water quality, air quality, waste, noise, and vibration. The company conducts periodic checkups, and 104 cases for improvement were found <Current Status of Environmental Pollution and handled in 2012 through a uniform checkup of dust scattering and air pollution prevention facilities. The Prevention Facilities> “Baekdudaegan Environment Advisory Committee”, comprised of the government, KR, and NGO, is in operation to limit the impact on the Baekdudaegan environment, resulting in the reduction of the impacted area from 1,881m2 Number Category to 1,330m2 during the course of the Wonju-Gangneung Rail network construction. The operation of the ecosystem of Units monitoring committee of Honam High-speed Railway is part of the efforts to build an eco-friendly rail network to Total 1,885 prevent Gyeryongsan environmental conflicts. Seryun Car Wash 377 Temporary 220 Facilities for Preventing Environmental Pollution Air Quality Arrester KR established various facilities to prevent environmental contamination in the rail network construction sites Tunnel Ventilation to minimize impact on the environment. In 2012, 3 Bubal rail vehicle bases in Seonnam~Yeosu, 23 devices, and 95 Facility natural non-point contamination prevention facilities in the Wonju~Gangneung double-tracks were built. The Construction Waste plan was for KR to expand the application of non-point contamination facilities to 428 units over a total of 77 sites. 146 Storage Additionally, 607 contamination prevention facilities and 692 air pollution prevention facilities such as ventilation Waste Designated Waste devices, 318 waste deposit units, and 268 temporary noise barriers are planned to be installed for the realization of 172 Storage an eco-friendly rail network. Noiseㆍ Temporary Noise 268 Implementation of Environmental Impact Assessment Vibration Barrier KR conducted an environmental impact review in the planning stage to study, predict, and evaluate the WasteWater Treatment 169 environmental impact of rail network construction and to prepare ways to minimize the impact. KR completed Facilities environmental impact reviews of three projects including Wonju~Gangreung Rail Network Construction Project Sewage and Seongnam~Yeoju Bubal Vehicle Base Construction Projects and is in the process of conducting environmental Water Treatment 123 Quality impact reviews of nine other projects. Facilities Silt Protectors 101 Settling Basin 214 ※ Source: 119 Sites of 31 Projects Construction of Eco-friendly Rail Network Q&A Q. ‌What is KR doing to protect the A. ‌KR executes plans in consideration of ecosystem protection in the course of rail network construction and ecosystem during rail network promotes restoration projects to return rail network land after the closing it to the ecosystem and local construction? communities. ❖ Eco System Protection <Bridge-type Eco Tunnel> Plan in consideration of the ecosystem KR executes a rail network plan reflecting the devices of the eco tunnels (escape slopes), fences blocking the wildlife and inducement fences, eco ponds in consideration of contamination purification, and scenery to prevent isolation or difficulty in travel for wildlife caused by rail network construction. Eco system restoration After closing rail lines, KR returns to local residents through ecosystem restoration. The first of these efforts was the ecosystem restoration project of Daecheon stream, the city of Boryeong on the Daecheon Line in 2009. The increasing number of closed lines gave rise to the pursuit of eco-friendly measures to restore the land on which <Yeongdong Line Switch Back Resort> they were built, In February, 2012, the “Middle and Long Term Roadmap for the Ecosystem Restoration of Closed Rail Network Land and Idle Land” was established to promote the building of an eco-friendly train network in consideration of mankind and the ecosystem through efforts such as the “Goyang Wondang City Eco-Network Creation Project”. In addition, recycling efforts of closed rail networks with respect to the specific conditions of the land, such as the bike paths, rail bikes, resorts, and RV camp grounds, provided local residents with new leisure and living spaces. The “Switch Back Resort Development Project”, utilizing the switch-back Yeongdong Line in Samcheok, Gangwon, will take advantage of the cultural value of rail network facilities to provide a tourist spot that can offer various cultural activities. Solar energy generation plants made through collaboration with the private and local governmental agencies will be installed to respond to climate change and create profits. 7 facilities <Rail bikes of Gyeongchun Line> using the natural environment of the closed Gyeongchun Line and 5 solar energy generation plants using the Jecheon~Dodam closed land will also be developed in 2012. <Project of Wondang City Eco-Network Creation> Basic Plan-Creation of Ecosystem Under Pier Entry Plaza/Place of Interaction Green Road/Carbon Reduction Eco Wetland/Eco Water Way Renewable Energy <Solar Energy Generation using Closed Rail Forest (Street Lamps) Network Land> Well-Being Area Educational Area Three-Dimensional Entry/Exit Water Environmental Area Green Forest Area Entry Area Wondang Station Eco Forest Area Wondang Ring Road [Legend] 1. Entry Plaza/Information Board 4. Eco Forest 7. Shaded Garden 2. Renewable Energy Facilities 5. Eco Wetland 8. Well-Being Facilities Forestation of Three-Dimensional Shaded Garden 3. Flower Garden/Flower Beds 6. Eco Water Way 9. Eco System Educational Facilities Pier Underway Forestation 2013 Sustainability Report 58 / 59 Q&A Q. ‌What is KR doing to effectively A. ‌KR is enthusiastic in recycling used resources such as closed sleepers to reduce waste and raise the rate of utilize limited resources? resource usage through the re-development of closed rail network land. <Forest Tree Load Standard Improvement> ❖ Sustainable Utilization of Resources Recycling of Used Resources KR strives to minimize the waste generated in the improvement and construction of rail network facilities through various efforts such as analyzing the recycling material and current status of businesses, improving the recycling standards of construction waste and utilization rate, and preventing environmental pollution. Reuse of Used Sleepers <Forest Tree Recycling Categorization Used PC sleepers were used in the side tracks and rail vehicle bases of the rail network to improve the planning Standard> standard of tracks. The initial categorization standards in the reuse of sleepers in different conditions was changed Grades Uses from 2 types (A, B) to 4 types (A, B, C, D), and the RFID* process was implemented in their use. This improved the business procedures for expanding the recycling of used sleepers. As a result, 108,333 of PC sleepers were reused A Main tracks and side tracks in 2012, increasing the reuse rate sleepers by 3% from the previous year to 12% and saving 5.4 billion won in the B Lead below 30km/h budget. C Retaining walls, etc. Recycling of Demolished Material on the Closed Rail Network Land D Waste treatment The material from the closed line due to rail network improvement projects such as the rails from the closed section was left to be used for rail bikes, resorts, and bike paths to provide residents with leisure and living spaces <Forest Tree Recycling Rate> to increase convenience and reduce spending. 3 rail bikes and 1 resort and bike path were created to save 14.2 (Unit: %) billion won in budget. 12 <Budget Saving through the Re-development of Closed Rail Network Land> Category Section Increase Closed Sleepers Used Gravel Amount Saved 3 Gyeonggang~Kimyujeong 14.4km 24,480 units 49,896㎥ 3.7 billion won Rail Bikes Yangdong~Dongwha 12.7km 21,590 units 44,006㎥ 3.2 billion won Mipyeong~Yeosu 1.6km 2,720 units 5,544㎥ 400 million won 2011 2012 Resort Dongbaeksan ~ Dogye 16.5km 28,050 units 57,173㎥ 4.2 billion won <Recycling Rate of Construction Waste> Bike Paths Maseok ~ Gapyeong 10.8km 37,422㎥ 2.7 billion won (Unit: %) 95.6 97.2 Forest Tree Waste and Construction Waste Forest trees that are felled in rail network construction are used in gardening or smashed to be reused as compot woodchips, firewood, or stable sawdust, saving waste processing expenses by 122,569 thousand won with the recycling of 8,344 tons of forest tree waste in 2012. This construction waste was used in temporary roads, fume pipe ground work, back filling, and covering up to improve the recycling rate of construction waste. 310 thousand tons of recycle aggregate was raised compared to the previous year. 2011 2012 <Used Sleepers Information System Sharing Business Cycle> KR Employees of Property Department Writing of Construction Property (Goods) RFID Goods Acquisition Material Generation Computerized Registration Sharing Information between Designers and Construction Workers Director of Regional Regional Assets Regional Assets Information Sharing: In Headquarters Management Departments Management Departments Connection with RFID and CPMS Expansion of KR Planning Department and Planning Department * RFID (radio frequency identification): Wireless data transmission device with antenna with goods information in stored microchips Ⅳ Harmonizing Rail Network •Coexisting Cooperation for Shared Growth •Customer Satisfaction Customer Satisfaction is the Way to a Happy Tomorrow. Our Approach KR pursues harmony with business partners and clients, working together as a member of the same community. Customized assistance for small and medium businesses and establishment of fair trade will form a culture of shared growth while the consideration of customers’ opinions through various communication channels will surpass mere customer satisfaction by earning their loyalty. Our Strategy Coexisting Cooperation for Shared Growth : KR has reinforced communication channels with business partners and expanded customize assistance to the small and medium businesses is being implemented. Unfair practices are being rooted out, and systems for protecting the environment and offering equal opportunities are in operation. Customer Satisfaction : The incorporated customer management system, “Sorisaem”, will listen to the voices of customers and operate conflict resolution processes to prevent conflicts resulting during the course of business in advance and remedy the situation early. Our Performance Progress Core Indicators Unit 2010 2011 2012 Satisfaction Rate of Business Partners Points 86.95 89.76 93.27 Purchase Rate of Goods Made by Small and % 31 28 25 Business Medium Businesses Partners Number of Participations in the Joint Research and Development/Number of Participating Cases/Number 1/3 2/6 6/7 Corporations Satisfaction Rate of Complaint Management Points 69.5 72.5 74.6 Customers Public-service Customer Satisfaction Index (PCSI) Points 93.21 95.43 93.98 Satisfaction Rate of Information Disclose Points 84.3 90.0 92.3 Harmonizing Rail Network Coexisting Cooperation for Shared Growth Q&A Q. H ow is KR promoting shared A. KR establishes shared growth promotional strategies based on mutual trust and coexistence. KR also growth? extensively promotes customized assistance for small and medium businesses, building order of fair trade, and reinforced collaboration to nurture a culture of shared growth. ❖ Shared Growth Promotional Structure <Eradication of Unfair Practices Shared Growth Promotional Strategies in Rail Network Industry> KR is building a culture of shared growth by creating systematic shared growth promotional strategies. KR establishes a fair trade culture in the rail network industry, eliminating unfairness by providing customized •Vertical Relationship assistance to small and medium businesses. KR is striving to promote harmony and boost shared growth to Past •More Importance on Relationship with Main Contractors emerge as a public agency worthy of the public’s trust. Orderer <Shared Growth Promotion System> Main Contractor KR Shared Growth 3 Directions for Sub contracts Shared Growth Freedom/Autonomy/Creativity Fairness Responsibility •Horizontal Relationship •Equal Importance on Improved Relationship with Main/sub Shared Growth Vision Realization of Public Agency Earning the Public’s Trust Vision and contractors Strategic Primary Execution Slogan Reduce Unfairness! Build on Shared Growth! Employer Subcontractor Contractors System for Future Growth Reinforced Collaboration Customized Assistance to Establishment of Fair 3 Strategic Themes for the Nurturing of a Small and Medium Business Trade Order Culture of Shared Growth Structural System for the Advancement of Shared Growth KR expanded and reformed the Shared Growth Promotion Team T/F that was in operation since 2009 into the Symbiotic Development Department in charge of shared growth as part of the Planning and Innovation Department in 2011 to establish a promotional base for systematic shared growth. KR also formed a 3 sub-department (shared growth, fair society, and social services) promotional system, assigning the management of indicators to the relevant department. The Symbiotic Department is in charge of general shared growth business. Shared Growth with Small and Chairman Symbiotic Development Department within Medium Business Committee Planning and Innovation Department •Chairperson: Chairman of KR General Management: Chief Director of •Members: 4 KR Executives Planning and Innovation Department 35 Subcontractor Representatives Executives: 3 Members including Head of Department Social Services Shared Growth Fair Society Policy Improvement (5) Collaboration Project (9) Technological Assistance (7) •Planning and Budget Office •International Rail Network Business Office •Tracks Office •Contract office •Quality Research Institute •Policy Research Institute •Construction Planning Office •High-speed Rail Network Office •Technology Research Institute •Electricity and Power Office •Regular Railways Office •Human Resources Development •Planning Standard Office •Metropolitan/Private Rail Network Office Department •Construction/Facilities Office •Facilities and Equipment Office •Electricity and Power Office •Electricity and Power Office •Signals and Communication Office •Signal and Communication Office • Electricity and Power Office •Signals and Communication Office •Tracks Office 2013 Sustainability Report 62 / 63 Communication Channels with Business Partners <Shared Growth Committee> KR operates various online and offline channels such as the “Shared Growth with Small and Medium Business Committee” with the CEO sitting as the chairperson and business partner representatives joining as members, “Symbiotic Growth Conference” with 805 primary contractors, subcontractors, and material and equipment businesses, “Shared Growth Cyber Assistance Center”, and “Shared Growth Rally”. KR builds flexible communication systems with business partners to listen to the voices in the field based on the CEO’s leadership and improve relevant policies so that they reflect business partners’ complaints. The collection of small and medium corporations’ complaints through KR’s communication channels revealed the problems of oppressive relationships between the parties, unfair business practices, and delayed payments for construction costs. To resolve these matters, the parties covered by the free trade agreement were extended to secondary and third -level business partners. Penalty measures for unfair practices were also strengthened. Furthermore, the primary contractors’ joint contracting system was expanded and implemented to provide more bidding opportunities for small and medium companies. <Communication Channels with Business Partners> <Shared Growth Conference> •Discussion of Promotional Directions of Shared Growth and Complaints, Semiannual Hosting Shared Growth with (first and second half) Small and Medium • 5 KR Executives, Primary Contract and Subcontractors, Material and Equipment Businesses Business Committee Consisting of 35 Business Partner Representatives •Establishment of Shared Growth and Voluntary Free Trade Order through Mutual Collaboration Symbiotic Growth •Consisting of Small and Medium Corporation Council and 805 First, Second, and Third Level Conference Business Partners •Management counseling of small and medium companies and technological assistance, Shared Growth Cyber solving difficulties through collection and dealing of unlawful acts of subcontractors Assistance Center’ •Establishment of small and medium companies assistance centers in the Seoul headquarters (Online) and each regional headquarters <Shared Growth Rally> •Gathering of Business Partners’ VOC and Founding and Treatment of Improvement Tasks Sorisaem (VOC System) Gathering of Selection of Policy Inspection Answering Back Business Partners’ Improvement Tasks and Review of through E-mail VOC and Execution Improvements and SMS CEO’s Visit to Field •Visited 5 regional headquarters and construction sites, gathered opinions (212 Cases in 2012) from business partners and construction workers ※ Visits to 212 construction sites in 2012 •Sharing of results and exemplary cases Shared Growth Rally •Rewards for outstanding cases <Examples of System Improvement Using Communication Channels with Business Partners> Complaints of Small and Medium Companies Improvements •Oppressive culture and unfair business practice •Expansion of free trade agreement to secondary and third •Unfair contract with subcontractors level business partners •Delayed payment of construction cost •Disclosure of unfair trade business, harsher penalty •Vertical relationship between primary contractor for overdue wages and late equipment payments and subcontractors •Monitoring of payment of price •Expansion of primary contractors joint contracting method (1 case in 2011 > 5 cases in 2012) Coexisting Cooperation for Shared Growth ❖ Promotion Efforts for Shared Growth Customized Assistance for Small and Medium Companies <Launching of Management Doctor Program> KR carries out various customized assistance activities to bolster the competitiveness and viability of small and medium companies by giving them practical support. The company provides career development assistance such as the green rail network graduate school and management doctoring system. KR offers “capital fluidity assistance” by giving timely fund assistance through the expansion of the system for direct payment of a contract price to subcontractors. KR also runs technological assistance programs, such as those involving government-private joint investment in technology development, as well as the “joint launch into overseas market” with small and medium companies. Capital Fluidity Assistance KR has expanded the down payment system for contract prices to provide smooth capital assistance to small and medium companies. KR also operate a direct payment system for contract prices for which KR paid the subcontract price in case the primacy contractor could not make a payment due to poor financial standing. A special assistance team for making payments in preparation of delayed payments during holidays also supports billing and financial work. Expansion of Down Payment made within 5 days of request 18Cases <Technology Documents Deposit> Payment System (2.1580 trillion won paid to in ) KR pays subcontract price when primary 8Cases Capital Fluidity Direct Payment of contractor delays due to poor financial Subcontract Price Assistance standing Prevention of overdue payments during 2011 2012 Special Assistance Team <Direct Payment of holidays and assisting billing and financial for Making Payments Subcontract Price> work Career Development Program for Business Partners KR cannot grow without its business partners. KR established the green rail network graduate school, offering masters and doctorate programs to business partners. In addition, the symbiotic growth academy and educational programs on the practical business of quality, environment, safety and health management, and international rail network specialists are provided to nurture global rail network experts among business partners. KR also runs the management doctoring program jointly with the Federation of Korean Industries to conduct a customized management review of business partners and resolve any inconveniences in providing support for business partners suffering <Joint Private-Government Investment in Technology Development Agreement> from management crisis. Furthermore, KR paid a certification cost of 36 million won for business partners to establish the Product Management System (PMS) for small and medium companies to improve their quality competitiveness. <Business Partners Educational Program> <Educational Assistance Program for Business Partners> Results Education Process Days Hours •PMS Certification KR •Pssistance for PMS Shared Growth Academy 1 7 Agreement with Business Certification Partners •Improvement of Rail Quality Management 2 14 Network Competitiveness Environment Management 2 15 Safety and Health Management 2 15 PMS Business Safety Control 22 22 Certification Agency Partners Overseas Projects 1 4 Total 30 77 •PMS Certification Technological Assistance to Business Partners KR set aside the R&D Cooperation Fund in the amount of 2 billion won to push forward joint government-private investment in the development of technology such as high-speed insulation separation devices. The Technology Deposit System is implemented protects the core technology of small and medium companies. KR also operates 15 construction sites technology assistance teams managed by five regional headquarters to deliver the new technology rom conglomerates to small and medium companies, producing 97 cases of construction site technology assistance and safety examinations of major structures. ✽Technology Deposit System: System depositing and protecting small and medium companies’ technological information in the custody of a 3rd certification agency (Collaborative New Product Development) 2013 Sustainability Report 64 / 65 Joint Technology Development and Expansion into the Overseas Market <Fair Trade Agreement Signing Ceremony> KR built an assistance system for small and medium companies by revising the research and development rules in March 2011 to provide assistance for such companies. The R&D fund was created (1 billion won invested by KR and the Small and Medium Business Administration) to promote joint private and government investment in technology development, such as the development of high-speed insulation separation devices. The collaboration with small and medium companies for the performance of joint R&D projects not only improved the quality of rail network construction but also increased the viability of those companies. 4 new joint research projects with 5 companies in the scale of 1.97 billion won were promoted in 2012. KR formed a consortium of private business partners to successfully expand into the overseas market to boost global competitiveness, shared information on international contract obtainment, and build a human resources network to increase mutual collaborative works. KR built a consortium of 20 small and medium companies to win 5 contracts in countries such as Oman and Bangladesh in 2012. The company also created a database of international contact obtainment and state of affairs, as well as human resources of major international relevant agencies to maintain public relations with small and medium businesses for joint expansion into overseas markets. <Subcontractors Review Mentoring Committee> <National R&D Tasks for Joint Research Development in 2012> Subcontractors Review Mentoring Committee New Tasks of 2012 •Development of Standard for Track Irregularities for Feasible Maintenance and Repair of Regular Railways Composition •Structure-Earthworks Connector Rigidity Alleviation Measure Regular •Establishment of Disaster Prevention Standards for Great Train eXpress Underground Stations and Research of Measures of Mentoring Review Members and Eco-friendly, Collaborative Management Method •Standard System and Functional Evaluation of Wireless Communication Based Rail Network Control System in City Rails Joint Review <Joint Private and Public Investment in Technology Development in 2012> Conducted Categorization Education Process •Development of field welding technology through localization of thermit welding material Tasks Occasional •Development of high-speed insulation separation device Review •Subcontracting Employees with Cooperation Fund •KR’s 96 million won assistance in 2012 out of 2 billion won for 3 years Extensive Field Experience (10 Members) •Korea Special Construction Association Employee (1 Member) <Status of Overseas Contract Obtainment with Small and Medium Business> •Employee of Subcontractors Conflicts Department, Korean Federation of Small Projects of 2012 and Medium Business (1 Member) •Rail network modernization of Azerbaijan (330 billion won) •Planning and construction supervision of Oman (10 billion won) •1st & 2nd Phases of New Line construction in Mongolia (5.2 trillion won) •Construction and operation of Rio~Campinas Brail high-speed railway (22 trillion won) •Consulting services and construction supervision of Bangladesh rail network signals improvement project (3.3 billion won) <Monitoring of Price Payment (Return-call)> Expansion of Shared Growth Culture KR uses a system to eliminate unfair practices to realize a fair society and become a “public corporation earning the ① Sending Initial SMS on ② Sending Secondary public’s trust’. KR promotes a company-wide fair trade drive to boost awareness for fairness. KR also signed the “Fair Payment of Construction SMS on Payment of Price Subcontract Price Trade Agreement” with 805 organizations including the Rail Network Relevant Agencies Association, primary contractors, within 15 Days Person Primary ④ ‌ and subcontractors to expand the voluntary fair trade movement and culture of shared growth. All of these groups agree Placing an Subcontractor Submission Subcontractor Order of E/U Payment to comply with desirable contracting guidelines and utilization of monitoring and prevention through KR’s system for ⑦ ‌Monitoring ⑤ ‌Submission Statement ③ ‌Payment of eliminating unfair trade, rooting out oppression, and promoting sincerity and trust. of Payment of Payment Price Results Statement Reinforced Supervision of Authorized Payments to Secondary and Third Level Business Partners Construction ⑥ ‌Registration Supervision End User KR works with the Korea Specialty Construction Association and subcontractors to inspect overall on-site subcontractor of Payment Results trade, reinforce supervision of improvements, and price payments. KR also built a Return-Call system through which the ※Returning Test Message on the Received end users sends SMS messages to confirm received payment of contract price to prevent delayed wages and payments. Payment of Price (Return Call) Direct labor cost is separately managed from construction expenses to prevent undue wages being paid to construction workers. All employees including those newly employed on the site and by labor contract since January 1, 2012 received a notice of wages payment to special labor cost accounts that were opened by the recipients (such as subcontractors) to monitor the monthly payments of wages. Coexisting Cooperation for Shared Growth <Increase of Bidding Companies> <Separate Management of Labor Cost> ② ‌Billing of Previous Month’s Labor Cost Payment Statement ① ‌Billing of Previous Month’s Labor Cost Payment and Pertinent Month’s Labor Cost (Including Subcontractors) Statement and Pertinent Month’s Labor Cost Orderer Main Contractor Subcontractors Workers Workers ③ ‌Payment of Billed Labor Cost and Confirmation/ Adjustment of Previous Month’s Payment ⑤ ‌Payment of Labor Cost ⑥ ‌Payment of Labor Statement (according to Existing Cycles) ④ ‌Payment of Billed Labor Cost Cost ③-1Text Message Notice of Labor Cost Payment ④-1 ‌Text Message Notice of Labor Cost Payment System Improvement for the Eradication of Unfair Trade Practice KR strives to sign trustworthy agreements by securing fairness and transparency through a modernized contracting system. Practical relaxation of standards for accomplishment recognition, development of a minimum cost feasibility review program, system for the registration and automated deliberation of business partners, and online contract obtainment information sharing to resolve the unequal information opportunities will drive out unfair trade practices. These efforts will also lower the entry wall for small and medium businesses and enable KR to lead the way in forming objective and trustworthy contracts and transparent and fair contract agreements. Relaxation of Standards for Lowered Examination Standards for Equivalent Services Performance Level, Manager’s Accomplishment Recognition Performance Level, Participating Specialists’ Performance Level Construction Companies Private Contract → KR’s Open Competitive Method (Securing Trade KR’s Damage Insurance* and Transparency and Budget Saving) Improvement * First Operation among Public Corporations Sharing Various Bidding Free Sharing of Bidding Information Using KR’s Webpage, E-Procurement Service, and Information Government’s ALIO System Minimum Cost Examination Boosting Satisfaction Rate among Business Partners through Securing Review Credibility and and Review Program Simplified Review Process Registration and Preliminary Prevent Unfair Practice of Business and Review Errors by Preventing Submission of False Review System for Business <Feasibility Review Program of Lowest Documents and Screening Partners Biding Price> Introduction of Shared Results System KR is the first among public corporations to introduce a shared results system to establish the fair distribution of outcomes. KR became an example for other agencies to follow by being recognized as the “leading corporation in sharing results” by the Korean Collaborative Small and Medium Business Association. KR was chosen from out of 115 private and public corporations in May, 2012 because of the effectiveness of its practical operation and outcomes. <Introduction of Shared Results System> Selected as Leading Promotion of Shared Significance and Introduction Corporation Results Tasks Outcome •Establishment of Operating •Selected as Leading •Tasks Registrations and •Fair Distribution of Profits Method of Shared Results Corporation out of 115 Private Authorized Certification in •Saving Expenses through System and Promotional Plans and Public Agencies (May, the Shared Results General Development of New •First Public Agency Introducing 2012) Management System of Korean Technology and Localization Shared Results System Collaborative Small and Medium •Contributing to Pioneering Business Association (6 Cases) into New Markets Prioritized Purchase of the Socially Disadvantage’s Goods KR initiates the purchase of the goods made by small and medium businesses, as well as businesses headed by or employing females or the disabled, to encourage their participation. KR also awards more points to local businesses that participate in the projects and increase subcontracting quantity to revitalize the local economy. The company offers equal opportunities, leading the nurturing of shared growth and the realization of a fair society that fully considers the socially disadvantaged. * ‌Insurance offering security for damage to the facilities to be constructed on site and liability of compensation by a 3 party. rd Required for large corporations such as Turnkey with estimated assets of 20 billion won 2013 Sustainability Report 66 / 67 <Joint Subcontracting System of Primary <Purchase of the Socially Disadvantage’s Goods> Contractors> Category Purchase Amount of 2011 Purchase Amount of 2012 Increase from the Previous Year •Joint subcontracting system of primary Small and Medium Business 1,111,843 million won 1,151,610 million won 3.6%↑ contractors: 5 cases in ‘12 in the amount of 66.5 billion won Female Business 12,830 million won 26,275 million won 2times↑ ‌Distribution of equal opportunities and increased participation in the rail network Disabled Business 100 million won 3,016 million won 30times↑ projects by small and medium businesses by reforming the system and inviting the Social Corporation 207 million won 400 million won 2times↑ small and medium businesses to participate on equal footing as conglomerates Joint Subcontracting Active Participation by Small and Medium Businesses General Joint Subcontracting System of Primary KR newly established an incentive system for small and medium business participation by awarding additional points Contractors according to the participation in cases of bid consortium, encouraging involvement with services from small and Issuer Orderer medium businesses. The joint contracting system of primary contractors and separate placement of orders were Contract expanded to contribute to the growth of small and medium construction companies, raising the share of participation General Construction + General Construction + from 23.09% in 2011 to 35.53% in 2012. GeneralConstruction Special Construction Incentives were also given to local businesses to level the differences between different regions, increasing the Subcontracting Primary Contractor, Secondary Contractors participation rate of local corporations to 96% and contributing to the vitalization of local economies. Special Construction Workers <Increased Participation by Small and Medium Businesses> Category Major Content <Increased Share of Participation by Small •Awarding additional points according to the share of participation in cases of bid Establishment of Incentives for Small consortium (maximum 4 points) and Medium Construction Companies> and Medium Business’ Participation •10 Points Deducted in Cases of Exclusion of Small and Medium Business in Bid (Unit: %) Consortium 35.53 Expansion of Joint Contracting System •5 cases of participation by small and medium special construction companies (66.5 billion won) of Primary Contractors* → 1 case in 2011(8 billion won), a 731% increase in the amount from the previous year 23.09 Separate Placement of Orders in Construction, Electricity, and •376 cases of separate placements of orders for the growth of small and medium special construction companies Communication <Leveling of Regional Differences and Vitalization of Local Economies> 2011 2012 Category Major Content Points Deducted or Awarded to •Points deducted or awarded through revision of PQ and eligibility review standards (April, 2012) <Number of Unfairness Reports> (Unit: Cases) Local Business ‌‌‌Maximum of 15% additional points awarded for participation, 10% deduction for nonExtension of Application Period participation 40 Extension of 3-year application period (throughout 2014) •(More than 30 billion won) prioritized assignment to local business of more than 50% Increased Subcontracting of subcontracting quantity Quantity for Local Business •(Below 30 billion won) review of subcontracting participation rate of local small and medium business during eligibility examination 10 2011 2012 Participation Rate of Local Construction Companies of 96.47% (82 Cases of Participation out of the Total of 85) Promotion Result of Shared Growth and Fair Society <Satisfaction Rate of Business Partners> Reduced Number of Reports of Unfairness at Construction Sites and Improved Satisfaction Rate of Business (Unit: Points) Partners 89.76 93.27 KR steadily promoted the drive for shared growth with conglomerates, small and medium businesses, and realization of a fair society, reducing the number of reports of unfairness at construction sites from 40 cases in 2011 to 10 cases in 2012 while greatly raising the satisfaction rate of business partners from 89.76 points to 93.27. These efforts earned KR recognition from the Ministry of Knowledge Economy by being selected as an “excellent public agency for shared growth”, receiving the honor for 2 consecutive years while also winning excellence awards in the fields of individuals and technological collaboration (area of source of demand) in the “Large, Small and Medium Business Technological Collaboration Grand Prize” in 2012 hosted by the Small and Medium Business Administration. 2011 2012 * Method of construction in which the issuer signs a contract through bid consortium between general construction business (primary party) and special construction workers (members) to resolve the problem of a pyramid subcontracting structure. Harmonizing Rail Network Customer Satisfaction Q&A Q. What is KR doing to improve A. K  R established the CS vision system for customer service and operates the CS structure at a company-wide customer service? scale. KR also fulfills an incorporated management and application of customers’ concerns by using “Sorisaem”, a uniform customer management system that is the first of its kind to be patented by a public corporation. ❖ CS Management System CS Vision System <Integrity Customer Service Center> KR established 4 promotional directions and 18 executive tasks to realize its CS vision of becoming a 'green rail network for customers opening tomorrow'. In The CS course of direction was set for each stakeholder in consideration of the characteristics of the agency, and the best customer service is provided through optimal channels of communication. <CS Vision System> CS Vision Green Rail network for Customer Opening Tomorrow Rail Network Separate Value for Each Improved Personal CS Course of Action User-oriented Group of Customers Service 4 Promotional Improvement of Green Rail network Advanced VOC Reinforced CS Directions Personal Service to Enhanced Friendliness Management System Promotional Capacity Customers Arrangement of Arrangement of Increased Participation Upgrade of Quality 18 Executive Tasks Measures for VOC Field CS Promotion by the Public Management System Capitalization Assistance Measures CS Promotion Organization <Call Centers> KR operates an effective CS structural system to provide the highest quality of customer service. The Strategy/ Management Review Deliberation Committee decides on the core CS strategies, and the Customer Service Department creates and operates the company-wide CS promotion plan. KR also employs CS Barista* in all departments under the CS promotional plan to carry out CS activities for each department while the Integrity Customer Service Center and call centers in the Seoul Metropolitan Headquarters and Regional Headquarters respond to the suggestions of customers in real-time. Settling Efforts of CS Management KR promotes voluntary CS management through CS baristas deployed in each department, and quarterly barista workshops are held to improve weak points and reinforce strong points. KR compares and reviews the CS activities of different departments to guarantee the transparency and objectivity of the review. The Seoul Metropolitan Headquarters monitors each department’s voluntary CS activities quarterly to analyze and examine weaknesses to provide customized mentoring and carry out improvement. KR uses internal CS instructors produced by the company to enhance the effect and receptivity of this education. * CS Barista: KR’s CS specialist and leader promoting customer service activities on a company scale 2013 Sustainability Report 68 / 69 CS Activities for Customers <Pop-ups on the Website> Operation of Characterized VOC Collection System KR operates various VOC collection systems such as Sorisaem, a uniform management system of customer opinions, Customer Suggestion Center, an outlet for various suggestions, Civil Affairs Office, which collects stakeholder’s complaints and improvement suggestions, and offline communication channels of face-to-face communication to understand and interact with customers. KR then uses this data to conduct specialized research for each group of customers. Establishment of VOC Response System KR provides more public transportation through timely completion of rail network construction projects and manages customer VOC in a systematic manner to reduce public inconvenience. KR resolved major issues reported through VOC by using 6 Sigma Innovative Tasks in a timely manner, removing the root cause of civil complaints. <VOC Treatment Process using Sorisaem> <Main Page on the Mobile Civil Affairs Website> Initial VOC Groupware Sorisaem Registration N Receipt Registration Temporary Storage Completed Notice to Y Customers Return Distribution SMS MAIL Notice to N Distribution Customers Completed Y Treatment Result SMS MAIL Answer Back Registered <Sorisaem> Secondary VOC Letters from Customers Survey of Secondary Secondary Drawing of Satisfaction Rate Receipt of VOC Distribution VOC Issues Visiting Customers Customer Point of Contact N Registry Customers Y Authorized Registered Authorized Improvement Improvements Improvements Issues Customers of Business Partners Lease Notice to Customers MAIL Customers Supply of Digital Civil Affairs Service KR developed and operated a civil affairs system (KR mobile civil affairs system, minwon.kr.or.kr) based on the mobile web, providing a way for customers to make complaints. This system also enables customers to view and follow the progress of the resolution of their complaints anywhere and anytime by using smartphones or tablet PCs. KR also expanded the implementation of visit-free performance certificates by issuing approximately 9 thousand certifications within a day (8 hours) with its digital civil affairs service on an annual basis. The time necessary for resolving civil affairs was reduced, and all the requests received were fully resolved within the required period, achieving a zero rate of delay in resolving civil affairs. Customer Satisfaction Customer-friendly Amenities and Service <Outside of Integrity Customer KR implemented various amenities and goods such as office devices in the Integrity Customer Service Center for Service Center> the convenience of visiting customers and provides customer-friendly service by opening the conference room for customer use. All visiting customers were served within 5 minutes to reduce waiting time and increase customer satisfaction. Active Customer Suggestions KR collects the customers’ ideas in real-time through Customer Suggestion Center on its webpage and aggressiv reflects them in management. KR is promptly updating customers with results through emails and SMS after internal reviews of related departments. Customers are also rewarded for outstanding ideas that are applied to the policies, and KR thus gains more voluntary participation from them. <Inside of Integrity Customer ervice Center> Promotion Result of CS Management Highest Rating for 3 Consecutive Years in the Customer Satisfaction Survey Conducted by the Government KR enacted tremendous efforts to go beyond customer satisfaction to earn their true loyalty in 2012. The CEO visited 212 sites to directly interact with customers through various online and offline channels. The customers’ opinions were then applied to numerous system improvements and customer assistance programs, resulting in achieving the highest level of customer satisfaction for 3 consecutive years in a survey hosted by the government. KR also earned a higher satisfaction rate compared to the previous year in a separate survey conducted through Sorisaem, earning recognition internally and internationally for its accomplishment in CS management. KR will strive to realize CS management of the highest level among public agencies. <Selected as the Excellent Agency in Information Disclosure by theMinistry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport in 2012> <Major Customer Satisfaction Survey Results> Items 2011 2012 Compared to Previous Year Satisfaction Rate of Visiting Customers 93.72 95.87 +2.15 Satisfaction Rate of Customers Corresponding through Letters 87.87 97.46 +9.59 Satisfaction Rate of Business Partners 89.76 93.27 +3.51 Level of Hospitality in Customer Service Via Phone 86.12 86.71 +0.59 Satisfaction Rate in Civil Affairs Treatment 72.50 74.60 +2.10 <Increased Satisfaction Rate in Information Transparent Disclosure of Information Disclosure> The Selection of “Outstanding Agency in Information Disclosure” by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and (Unit: Points) Transport in 2012 90.0 92.3 KR disclosed management information through a variety of channels such as the webpage, electronic 84.3 announcements, and SNS under the domestic laws for the management of public agencies on information disclosure. Notably, KR satisfied the customer’s right to know by voluntarily disclosing information in advance and providing full disclosure of production documents. The items disclosed involve major projects, bidding information, rail network statistics, contract information, investment status, business status, etc. These efforts earned recognition from the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport as KR was selected as an “Outstanding Agency in Information Disclosure” in 2012. KR was also selected as an “Outstanding agency in Web Accessibility” in 2012 2010 2011 2012 by the Ministry of Security and Public Administration. <Information Security Review by the National Protection of Customer Information Intelligence Service> KR’s Information Security Awarded the Level of “Satisfactory” by National Intelligence Service in 2012 (Unit: Points) KR abides by the information protection rules of personal information and pays careful attention in this matter. 82.3 KR established internal rules such as the business guidelines on personal information protection and business guidelines of information security. The company also operates 3 kinds of cyber security systems including a system for the prevention of personal information leakage, system for blocking DDoS attacks and harmful traffic, 68.73 and a network security system. All employees are required to conduct periodic security checkups and simulation training to reduce security accidents in advance. As a result of these efforts, KR was selected as an “Agency at the Satisfactory Level” in the information security review by the National Intelligence Service in 2012. Average KR’s 2013 Sustainability Report 70 / 71 ❖ Conflict Resolution through Reinforced Communication Conflict Resolution Process 'Conflict Impact Analysis' Projects KR operates the “Conflict Resolution Process”, focusing on interaction with the public for the resolution of social conflicts occurring in the process of rail network construction to prevent the conflicts in advance or resolve them 1. History of higher frequency of conflicts 2. Intensity of conflicts is significant enough as early as possible. KR put together and operated the Conflict Management Deliberation Committee and Conflict to cause a greater and longer impact Management Team under the “Guidelines on Prevention of Rail Network Conflicts and its Resolution” and formed 3. Risk of excessive social cost is likely due to a conflict mediation conference for each case to minimize the social cost of conflicts. KR conducts “Conflict Impact conflict 4. Line passes near excellent ecosystem area Analysis”* when excessive social cost is likely to result from extensive impact on public life and conflict of interests or through downtown before making a decision on the jurisdiction of a project. KR also fosters conflict management specialists by 5. Construction of vehicle bases operating the “public conflict management program” to provide customized education that is specialized in the rail network field. <Current Status of Conflict Resolution> <Operation Flow of Conflict Management Process> (Unit : Cases) Feed back ·Projects 7 ·Progress of Conflicts 1 Operation of Prevention and Establishment of Fostering Analysis of Company-wide 2010 ·Process of Deliberation Resolution of Resolution 0 Plan/Promotion Specialists Conflicts Impact Sharing Committee Conflicts ·Conflicts Resolved 6(86%) * Source: ’Guidelines on Prevention of Rail Network Conflicts and its Resolution’ ·Projects 5 ·Progress of Conflicts 1 Major Outcome of Conflict Resolution of 2012 2011 ·Process of KR experienced a total of 4 cases of conflicts concerning rail network construction in 2012. The conflicts involved Resolution 0 excessive demand on the scale of stations, demand of mass immigration due to rail network construction, demand ·Conflicts Resolved 4(80%) of excessive compensation, and demand for stopping construction due to noise. The management engaged in ·Projects 4 direct persuasion of the involved parties for the resolution of 4 cases of conflicts, and resolution of conflicts were ·Progress of achieved through the activities of the Conflict Management Deliberation Committee and Conflict Management Conflicts 0 Human Resources. As a result, the successful resolution of Group Civil Complaints on the Construction of 2012 ·Process of Resolution 0 Jeongeup Station in Honam High-speed Railway won awards from the Prime Minister (Anti-corruption and Civil ·Conflicts Resolved 4(100%) Rights Commission) in the area of civil affairs. <Best Practice of Conflict Resolution> <Process of Conflict Resolution> Conflict Resolution Process of Jeoneup Station in Honam High-speed Railway Local Government’s Demand for Station over KR applied the opinions of local residents in the planning of Jeongeup Station of Honam High-speed Railway, which is Tracks or Underpass (Excessive Scale) scheduled to be opened in 2014, and designed the station to be larger in scale than the practical number of users. After an inside review, the planning was deemed excessive and the planning scale of Jeongeup Station was reduced. As a result, local Intensive persuasion of excessiveness, comparing the case to other metropolitan governments and civil organizations formed an alliance to object the reduced scale of the station, delaying the commencement cities such as Daejeon Station of the KTX Jeongeup Station construction by more than 6 months. This led to worries of national financial loss. The interaction and settlement efforts between the stakeholders, however, led to a consensus between the residents and local governments. Negotiation with relevant agencies, This agreement resulted in a reasonable alternative for the shared growth of the country and the region. The timely opening of compromise, and persuasion → Promotion of construction on optimal level Honam High-speed Railway was made more feasible in this way and boosted credibility in national policies. (savings of 18.9 billion won) <Arial View of Jeongeup Station with Excessive Planning> <Arial View After Modification> <Negotiation with Heads of Local Governments> • Construction of backside plaza and connecting • Conditional construction of backside plaza and passageways to undeveloped areas passageways (constructed in case of the development • Excessive scale of Jeongeup Station of the western downtown area) (disproportionate to amount of users) → Wasted budget • Reduced scale of station * Foreseeing and analyzing conflict factors that impact society in promotion of projects under the laws and drawing measures for the expected cases of conflicts Ⅴ Sharing Rail Network •Employees •Local community KR connects hearts to one another. Our approach To fulfill our social responsibility by reducing unemployment among young adults and expanding hiring of excellent personnel, KR practices open employment by alleviating the employment barrier and eliminating discrimination. We strive to improve the lives of our employees through mutual communication and promote sharing for a better world through social contributing activities that are based on our rail engineering capability. Our strategy Employees : We established the talent training promotion system to secure global level railroad technology capability by introducing our effective personnel management and talent training system. We operate various communication channels to establish advanced industrial relations that are reasonable and promote stable work environments by invigorating family-friendly programs aimed at balancing work and family. Local Community: We have established a social contribution activities strategy system based on 6 major strategies under our mission of “Realizing a Brighter World Connected with Railway.” We encourage employee participation through social contribution activities and aid in invigorating the economy for the working class by contributing to price stabilization and job creation as we revitalize the railroad industry. Our Performance Progress Key Indicators Unit 2010 2011 2012 Rate of securing major talent % 30.77 31.51 33.38 Time of training per employee Hour 135 119 126 Employees Employee satisfaction % 74.75 73.70 76.40 Return rate after parental leave % 92.86 92.31 95.24 Local Community service hours per Hour 10.7 9.8 11.4 Community employee Sharing Rail Network Employees Q&A Q. What is KR doing to create an organization culture that is A. KR practices open employment by easing the employment barrier and eliminating discrimination. KR also people-oriented? considers underrepresented groups by applying a fair employment target system during recruitment. ❖ Recruitment and Training Organizational system and Human Resources Policy <Participated in Public Company Recruit Fair> KR has established standard departmental quota and has implemented efficient quota management by introducing and operating the flexible quota system, which distributes the labor force in consideration of the core departmental strategy direction. KR has a total of 1,347 working employees as of December 31, 2012, which is a decrease of 49 employees compared to previous year. We anticipate the operation of an efficient and a rational organization by quickly predicting the labor demands of core departments and establishing a mid-term labor force management plan. KR has established a fair and advanced hiring standard and procedure by eliminating irrational elements in each step of employment screening to fulfill its social responsibility, reduce unemployment among young adults, and expand the recruitment of excellent personnel. We have secured new hiring positions by alleviating the surplus of current employees through the implementation of systems aimed at improving management efficiency, such as our salary peak system and maximum salary cap. We also practice open employment to fulfill our increased quota due to the expansion of overseas contracts and railroad industry environmental changes. <New Recruitment Procedure> (1st Round) (2nd Round) (3rd Round) Interview Application/Aptitude Test Written Test •Application Evaluation and •Test subjects according to Article Personality & Aptitude Test (Select 11 of the Operation policy of Human •step interview (Staff-in-charge/Manager) 10 times the number of hiring) Recourses (multiple of 3)g) 2nd Round Test Subjects Job Civil Fields Office Work Machinery Electricity Telecommunications Engineering Architecture Choose one Choose one Choose one from from law, public Choose one from from applied construction Choose one from Choose one from administration, electromagnetic, mechanics, structure, Major economics, machine design, electrical telecommunication practical civil construction <Fair Personnel Management> Selection business machine shop, equipment, engineering and engineering, technology HVAC system electromagnetic administration, electronic circuit and railroad and landscape Initial (qualitative) accounting engineering construction •Qualitative Evaluation (100%) Evaluation of job performance plan Fair Personnel Management KR does its best to realize fair personnel management based on ability and productivity. First, to eliminate unfair elements reported through VOC, the internal and external customer management system (SORISAEM) will be used to Improvement (quantitative + qualitative) analyze problems, carry out improvements, and enforce transparent and rational personnel management. •Qualitative Evaluation : Job performance To operate personnel management based on ability and productivity, the executive job posting system has been improved plan (50%) by increasing the weight of quantitative elements in the executive job posting evaluation standard. The job compatibility •Quantitative Evaluation : Job compatibility, Job performance, Job rank, etc. (50%) section was added to the quantitative evaluation to reflect the individual characteristics and personality types needed by the organization, thus facilitating appropriate personnel allocation. 2013 Sustainability Report 74 / 75 Rational Performance Compensation <Satisfaction Rate of Accomplishments KR clearly designates assignments as department goals and individual goals (MBO) to achieve strategic management. We Management> (Units: Points) established and operate a virtuous cycle of strategy, innovation, evaluation, and compensation to evaluate and compensate employees. To realize a fair compensation culture based on outcomes, graded compensation is implemented by using 75.70 71.45 73.90 organization, personnel, and outcome evaluation results to realize a results-based incentive system. Comprehensive compensation, including both financial compensation and non-financial compensation such as training and promotion, is implemented upon considering evaluations of results and capability. These efforts ensure that this is a continuous compensation system instead of just a temporary one. <Compensation System> •Executive positions: Performance-based annual 2010 2011 2012 salary twofold graded payment Achievement Evaluation Annual salary based on performance •Below assistant general manager: Performancebased pay twofold graded Base annual salary •Increase rate of executive positions: 50%~150% increase difference •Assistant general manager → Head of Department, Position Assignment Head of Department → Director selected Capability Evaluation •Select list of long-term commissioned educator and Training / Prize degree recipient •Select Best Employee and honored person Promotion •Reflect overall efficiency rating system → Create list of candidates for promotion Managing poorly •Director/Head of Department: Those in bottom 5-10% Overall Evaluation performing employees are evaluated wice consecutively •Below assistant general manager: disqualified for the job Financial Compensation Non-financial Compensation •Grade in base annual salary increase rate •Long-term commissioned educator Graded •Master’s and Doctoral degree recipient Education •Grade in performance-based pay Pay •Train technician / core technology / Training •Grade in management professional Field assessment compensation system •Reward innovative employees Use outcome •Increase influence rate of overall Reward •Reward excellent CS employees evaluation evaluation for •Reward employees who volunteer result •Position selection through job Personnel posting system Management excellent for the community performance •Reward employee that reduce budget •Promotion Field •Transfer reflecting job difficulty •Reward employee with excellent •Selecting poor-performing performance results employees / Placed on waiting list Open Recruitment <Open Recruit> KR has been expanding socially representative recruitment by implementing open hiring to fulfill its social responsibility. To expand the hiring of high school graduates, regulations eliminating discrimination are established to give equal opportunities for promotion. To reduce unemployment among young adults, KR has expanded hiring of young adult interns and has exceeded the government quota (4% of total employees, 58 persons) by hiring 79 employees. KR is also doing its best to practice open employment by applying its own socially representative recruitment target (that exceeds the governmental standard). Wages, which are 260% of the minimum wage, are paid equally to both hired men and women; sexual discrimination is prevented through sexual harassment training provided to all employees. <Socially Representative Recruitment Record> Categories Recruitment goal Recruitment record Achievement Status Veterans 6% of quota (85 people) 89 hired (6.2%) 4 people over Handicapped 3% of quota (41 people) 47 hired (3.36%) 6 people over High school graduates 20% of new recruitment (3 people) 2 (13%) 1 person under Females 20% of new recruitment (3 people) 6 (40%) 3 people over Applicants from small cities 20% of new recruitment (3 people) 9 (60%) 6 people over * Although the recruitment goal of high school graduate was 4, only 2 were hired because they fell short of the minimum requirement. Employees <CDP System> <Recruitment record and workforce situation of past 3 years> Classifications 2010 2011 2012 Quota (persons) 1,347 1,352 1,363 Current number of employees (persons) 1,440 1,396 1,347 Retirement (persons) 1 5 2 Voluntary Resignation, etc. (persons) 36 39 63 Woman 9 6 Disabled Personnel from small city 15 9 Full-time High school graduate 2 Newly Hired Vocational school graduate Engineering graduate 26 8 Total 36 15 Temporary Young adult intern 70 90 79 Position Seasonal Recruitment scale (persons) Contract 7 3 5 Number of women (rate) 135 (8.88) 150 (10.17) 154 (11.01) Total Women in higher position From Current than Team Leader (rate) Employees (%) Handicapped rate 3.15 3.24 3.36 Efforts to Develop Personnel Capability Human Resources Development Strategy <Establishing Capability Development Plan> To secure railroad technological capability that meets the global standard, which is the business strategy task for year 2020, KR has established its vision of human resources development and top 3 ideal types of candidates. The company has also planned 9 strategic tasks that include 4 strategic directions, enforcement of professional capability, and management of systematic training outcome. The capacity of members has been continuously improving through management of the training system, which reflects the educational needs and ability of employees, and support via a virtuous cycle of capability development involving plan-action-analysis of result-feedback. KR is establishing a solid position as a specialized agency, which nurtures railroad human resources, by operating a consumer-oriented human resources policy and Human Resources Development Strategy, reflecting the feedback of employees via continued training and post-training satisfaction evaluations. Efficient Human Resource Administration and Human Resource Development Systematic career development is supported by rational career development course proposals using the e-HRD system. Through KR’s CDP system, each member is encouraged to set up job-oriented career goals after completing the capability assessment for self-development plan, and career development is executed with coaching by supervisors. Upon the capability assessment for the desired job, the employee’s weak points are improved through training. Feedback for setting the next career goal, is encouraged to strengthen the link with personnel and continue support for development, and it is also considered in personnel transfer. 2013 Sustainability Report 76 / 77 <MOU Signing Ceremony> <Human Resources Development Strategy> Vision Professional Agency in Development of Human Resources in Railway Ideal Innovator Professional Model Citizen (Social Candidates (Challenge, originality) (Level of professionalism) Contribution, Ethics, CS) Strategic Expand educational Nurture core Field-oriented Strengthen personnel Directions infrastructure personnel education connection •Train core technical •Systematic management of professionals training result Strategic •Enforce global railway •Vitalization of e-HRD system Tasks •Assess and improve area of •Enhancement of online training professional competency needs •Realizing education and welfare •Enforce leadership of outcome •Improve satisfaction in capability competence development Expand educational Implement Procedure Result analysis Feedback infrastructure educational training Develop training Operate educational Manage training Focus course training result Overall report Human resources Training based Evaluation of Discovery of Output development strategy on ability training outcome education needs •Rolling management •In-house training •Training satisfaction •Benchmarking strategy •Commissioned •Study achievement •Demand survey Needs •Board of Directors training •Worksite application •Survey and CDP Channel workshops •Corporate college •Management evaluation •Human resources contribution development strategy Capability development Plan – Action – Analysis of result & Feedback cycle Operating Various Educational Programs <Average Annual Training Hours per KR defined the ideal types of candidates—innovator, professional, and model citizen—and operates various Employee> (Unit: Hour) educational programs to satisfy the needs of individuals and the organization. 135 126 The global training of talented individuals is carried out to secure railway technical skills. The “Green Railway 119 Graduate School” has been established through an industrial-educational agreement between the industrial complex and Woosong University and offers master’s degrees in railway engineering (2012, 15 people from company, 10 people from affiliated companies). Commissioned education and technician training courses within the company have produced 74 trainees and 96 trainees from 13 commissioned degree training and technician training courses within the country. To ensure that the training continues to be applied on the job, on-site and actual job-based customized education hrough professional courses, including finances, facility management, 2010 2011 2012 land compensation, collective management of quality, safety, construction, and environment, and management of business processes, such as planning and inspecting, are operated. There are educational programs for directors and those in higher positions to reinforce their capabilities. Programs to foster leadership competence have been expanded offline to include management of executives’ outcome, special anti-corruption training, commissioned college, and research courses (2 in 2011 → 5 in 2012). Employees Q&A Q. What is KR doing to prevent conflict between labor and management A. For coexistence based on trust, KR expanded the labor-management communication channel by sharing and promote coexistence? pending conflicts between the management and labor with all employees. ❖ Open Labor-Management Culture KR built its strategy system and vision to further improve the labor-management relationship, reflecting the analysis <Efforts to Advance Labor-Management and assessment of the quickly changing internal and external labor environment and the employees’ determination Relationship> to unite. Furthermore, KR defined specific tasks by combining business strategies and key values in order to secure management capability. <Business Strategy for Advancement of Industrial Relations> Key Value Sustained Professional Mutual Trust Management Mind Management Fundamental and Trust and Coexistence Create and Challenge Philosophy Principle 1. Labor-Management Committee BRAND 基 通 創 Vision “Realization of Rightful and Logical Labor-Management Relation” 3 Strategic Enforce promotion of trust Improvement of efficiency of Construction of future-oriented Directions through communication management through cooperation labor-management relation Reformation of illogical labor-management culture Amendment of irrational cooperative agreement Recovery of trust through participation Reinforcement of bottom-up communication channel 2. Labor-Management Planning Session 8 Strategic Directions Expansion of cooperative and symbiotic laborConstruction of result-oriented organization culture management culture Reinforcement of joint capacity of laborAchievement of efficient management through management win-win cooperation of labor-management Construction of Rational Labor-Management Relations KR has planned and executed various measures to improve the system to maintain a rational and appropriate 3. Meeting to discuss pending issues labor-management relationship based on the law and ethical principles. The integrity of union activities has been enhanced by establishing control standards for exemption of worker’s hours. Overtime and stipend for unused annual leave, which were unfairly incorporated into base pay, have been excluded from the base pay and paid according to individual work performance. The automatic promotion system based on the number of years worked regardless of performance or capability has changed to promote only 60% of the promotion candidates through review by personnel <3rd Negotiation Regarding Performance Pay> committee to realize a performance and capability-oriented group organization culture. Win-win Communication KR strengthened formal and informal communication channels to help create consensus among members and to expand the sharing of information and opinions through honest communication channels. In addition to sharing expert knowledge through the operation of departmental Community of Practice (CoP) and sharing management information through online communication channels, offline communication channels, such as regular meetings between labor-management representatives, are held to share current labor issues. An improved user-friendly system promotes the organization culture by resolving issues quickly, and field-centered outreach consultation realizes an open organization culture, thus fostering unity through mutual understanding. KR also operates various channels to quickly resolve complaints within a proper timeframe to ensure the competitiveness of the organization. Accessibility and utilization of the grievance system have improved due to the upgraded and user-friendly system. Personal issues have been resolved and work was improved due to the operation of free legal services through advisory lawyers. 2013 Sustainability Report 78 / 79 Official Channels <Scoop-Rice Event> Classification Contents 2011 2012 Note •D irectly consult about personal grievances Hotline consultation with CEO 10 times 12 times and ideas to improve work through company’s intranet •Suggest current management issues and solution CEO e-mail operation 4 times 12 times plan Online •Assign to place of relation, improve work environment, and resolve grievance Grievance operation 31times 119 times •C oncurrently improve accessibility of system and in-person consultation by visiting the site •Workshop for board of directors (bi-annual), Host all employee workshop •Management meeting (monthly) 5 times 5 times •Management strategy meeting (weekly) under chairmanship of CEO •Council of Policy (as needed) Offline Labor-Management •Resolved 13 out of 17 cases, 2 cases pending, 2 3 times 3 times Committee cases others •Induce improvement of adaptability to organization Mentoring Programs 1 times and work (15 people, operate for 5 months) <Arbor Day Event> Unofficial Channels Classifications 2011 2012 Note •Workers (13 people), Composed headquarters unit (49 people) KR Young Executive Meeting 3 times •Established 13 years transcriptional direction and activity plan per department Productive conversation with 50 times •Listen to voices on site and immediately reflect their input CEO (350 people) Labor-Management athletic •New employee food share volunteer activity 12 times 16 times •Planting event and volunteer event tree of hope at Arbor day event Affiliation labor-Management •Gathering of onsite opinions organized by departmental executive 151 times 207 times meeting directors <Union Admission Rate> Enrichment of Capability to Further Improve Labor-Management Relationship KR operates various training programs, such as mid/long-term labor training, cyber training, and labor-management Classifications 2010 2011 2012 capability enrichment programs, to nurture service professionals. Internally, consensus on labor-management issues Union Admission is formed through operation of a regional education tour on labor-management issues, workshops to strengthen 93.3 93.1 92.1 Rate (%) negotiating ability, and other customized training tours. Externally, a balanced view of labor and management Union members 1,206 1,130 1,058 is formed through diverse commissioned educational programs, such as participating in labor-management joined (persons) cooperation processes and labor-management relations outlook seminars through the labor-management Membership candidates 1,292 1,214 1,149 advancement foundation. KR also enforced professionalism by hiring labor experts and placed executives in charge. (persons) By constructing a systematic cooperation system with internal and external experts, KR is doing its best to promote stability in labor-management relations. ✽Main reason for decrease in membership rate is the increase in retirement <Educational activities related to labor-management relationship> Classification Educational Training Training Contents Note •50 completed •Change of understanding of laborCyber Labor Training •Organized by Employment & Labor management relationship Training Institute • 5 executive members of union out of 13 Labor-Management Win-win •Promoting understanding of advanced Cooperation Introduction/ completed (annual, 6 total) labor-management relations •Organized by Labor-Management Intensive courses •Collective bargaining training External advancement foundation •Enforcement of cooperation between Workshops for Laborinteragency through sharing of labor•Over 30 people participated including Management Personnel management relations issues and outlook from Ministry of Land, KOWACO, of Public Institutions in (Mar. 2012) KORAIL, Korea Mint Corporation, etc. Daejeon area •Workshop for labor-management personnel in public institutions in Daejeon (Nov. 2012)) •Formation of consensus among all Regional educational tour on labor-management issues employees through explanation of labor•Oct. 2012 (203 employees) management issues Workshop to strengthen •Strengthening of effective collective bargaining •June Internal countermeasures and strategic response 2012 (20 employees) negotiating ability •Customized retirement plan consulting •Aug. – Dec. 2012 (100 employees) Educational tour on pension and cultivation of financial capability for •Head office and regional headquarters plan stable life after retirement applicants Employees Q&A Q. What is KR doing to improve the employees’ quality of life? A. KR is doing its best to create a harmonious organization and stable work environment by operating familyfriendly programs aimed at balancing work and family life for employees. ❖ Harmonized Culture of Work and Life <Flexible Work System> Development of culture to improve quality of life KR does its best to provide a stable work environment and harmonious organization by operating various familyPart-time System friendly programs to balance work and family. To improve the quality of life of our employees, KR operates family15 – 35 hours per week friendly programs such as Family Day, an optional welfare system, and take-your-child-to-work events. The (Over 1 month) system improvement plan has been prepared and is operated to help realize a flexible workplace, as well as boost the productivity and morale of employees by diversifying the current unified work patterns and promoting Flexible Work Hour System job satisfaction through satisfying and healthy balance between work and family. KR also does its best to provide 2 forms of work hours a stable work environment for employees by eliminating irrational factors and unfair disadvantages in human (Daily 08:00~17:00, 10:00~19:00) resources and inducing smooth reinstatement to work after childcare leave. Working Hour Selection System <Reinstatement and Maintenance Rate after Childcare Leave According to Type> Intended for those with burden of childcare and housework Classification 2010 2011 2012 who needs independent performance of duties Employee on maternity leave 19 people 8 people 12 people Rate of return after maternity leave 100% 100% 100% Employee on nursing leave 14 people 13people 21people Person (s) returned after nursing leave 13 people (1 retired) 12 people (1 retired) 20 people (1 retired) Rate of return after nursing leave 92.86% 92.31% 95.24% Rate of partner maternity leave use 100% 100% 100% Users of partner maternity leave 33 30 38 Welfare Programs <Flexible Work System Membership> Continued education and job training to support retiring employees (Unit: Persons) To ensure stable and secure lives for prospective retirees after retirement, various continuing educational 119 128 programs, such as outplacement support program, real estate transaction practice, presentation, and programming, have been established and are now in operation. Expansion of pension plan KR recommends employees to join the pension plan to improve their finance management and secure a retirement income. KR expanded the guarantee of selection by diversifying the existing pension plan, which paid according to the average of number of years worked, to include the defined benefit (DB) plan managed by the company and 2011 2012 defined contribution (DC), which is managed by individual. As a result, the current actual membership rate of pension is 85.03% as of Dec. 31, 2012. <Pension Plan Enrollment Status> Retirement Pension Non-members Defined benefit Defined contribution Total Note Total Current Pension retirement pension (DB) retirement pension (DC) 971 520 people 451 people 171 people 1,142 people Ratio of membership: 85.03% ✽Contract workers excluded from total number of employees ✽Public employee annuity members are excluded from membership rate calculation 2013 Sustainability Report 80 / 81 <Cultural event for families of employees> Programs Supporting Employees, Family, and Local Residents KR operates various compatible culture programs so that employees can unite with not only their families but also the residents of the local communities. KR does its best to practice family-friendly management and share with the community by participating in cultural experience events, family vacations for excellent employees, and local community events. Classification Program Content •Operate flexible work system to balance work and family Part-time, Flexible system, Work Hour Selection Life •Continued operation of optional welfare system from 2006 Self-improvement, family-friendly, cultural activities <Physical training room> •KR operated daycare and daycare fee support Nurture Family leave (5 days) granted to husbands at time of childbirth Encouragement for using childcare leave (below 6 years old, maximum of 3 years) •Operate 'Family Day' every Wednesday and enforce leaving work on time •Cultural experience event for family of employees: 2 times, 77 people participated Family •Special themed social contribution activities with families: Manage gardens, make Kimchi, etc. •Run family-friendly educational training including KR parent training (2 times) •Family vacation for excellent employees: 2 times, 30 people participated •Run complaint management system Labor-management grievance committee, operate human resources grievance consultation (12.7), Consultation Chatroom with the Chairman <Vacation home in Mang Sang> •Expansion of free legal consultation service: 40 people (17 personal, 23 work-related) •Guarantee against personal injury and illness through collective insurance renewal •Expand checkup items of physical examination: 15 items 10 years 15 items → 11 years 20 items → Health 12 years 22 items •Run health counseling office: Total 134 times, 548 people used (’11.4 – ’12,12) •Run various clubs and weight room •Dorm assistance for employees away from hometown (402 units, 426 people) and KR-operated vacation ETC centers (Busan, Mokpo, Mangsang) •Run Financial Loan for Life Safety fund (Sept. 2012, 39 people / 390 million won) Activities to boost employee satisfaction KR surveys employee satisfaction each year by using the internal survey system, Sorisaem, and reflects the <Hazard rate of all construction sites> results in the improvement plan. Since KR has been running various programs to harmonize work and family, the satisfaction level regarding benefits increased by 3.6 points compared to the previous year. KR will continue to Classification 2012 operate diversified pension plans to improve the quality of life and benefits for our employees. Number of Injuries 29 Persons Number of full time employees 35,476 Persons <Points reflecting satisfaction level of family-friendly programs and benefits> Hazard Rate (%) 0.082% Classification 2011 2012 2011 2012 Childcare leave (person) 14 36 73.2Points 69.6Points <Employee safety accident occurrences Grievance settlement (case) 36 118 according to year and type> Childbirth, nursing, vacation 3Days 5Days Number Year Type Note Improvement of People Health, examination, items 20Points 22Points of system Industrial 2008 3 Family, Friendly, Education accident 4times Industrial Industrial 2009 2 accident accident approval 2010 N/A Safety and Health Management System status of Korea 2011 N/A Labor Welfare KR works diligently to improve the health and safety of employees in accordance with the Labor Standard Act and Industrial Corporation Occupation Safety and Health Acts through the Occupational safety and Health Committee. Health examinations 2012 1 accident are conducted each year, and cancer screening for employees over 35 years of age has been added to expand Total 6 the health examination. Safety is our highest priority for all management, and KR is doing its best to prevent safety accidents. To prevent any possible disasters on the job, an efficient inspection plan has been established by analyzing site conditions and various other conditions. KR will do its best for the safety and health of our employees by building a high quality management environment that is disaster-free. Sharing Rail Network Local Community Q&A Q. What kinds of social service has A. KR’s social contribution activities are carried out according to 6 implementation themes, which are local KR done to promote the local community, educational culture, public interest, sharing of talent, protecting the environment, and volunteer community? service. ❖ Social Contribution Social Contribution Strategy <Organizational System of Contribution to KR selected its most fulfilling tasks for social responsibility as a public institution as part of its strategy for Society> company-wide implementation when establishing its 2020 Global Management Strategy. KR established the •Structure of KR Social Service Works Organization implementation strategy for the fulfillment of strategic tasks and then updated its organization and infrastructure. Vice Head Headquarters KR set 6 implementation themes and implementation tasks to fulfill its social responsibility by using KR’s unique Volunteer Head (Head of railway engineering. Group (CEO) Management Support) Regional Headquarters <Strategy system for social contribution activities> Office (Management Support Volunteer Team) Group Mission Realizing a Brighter World Connected with Railway •Social Contribution Committee Social Goal Fulfilling Socially Responsible Management through Utilization of Core Capacity of Rail Engineering Vice Chairman Chairman ( Head of Contribution (Deputy Chief Management Commissioner Support and (Head of 6 Implementation Local Educational Public Talent Protection of Volunteer Director) Culture Interest Environment Service Safety Office) department, Themes Community Sharing office, directors, Administrator (Management and executives Support Team Chief) of Labor Union) •Promote advancement of local communities near railroad tracks through activities of sharing •Pursue pro-bono activities using railway capability Implementation •Promote branded 'KR Young Adults Hope Project' for those neglected and socially disadvantaged Tasks class near railway •Promote activities to conserve and improve environment around railway construction sites •Promote close social contributing activities through collaboration with NGO and private sector •Development of volunteering activities for socially disadvantaged near railway Operating Social Contribution Committee and KR Volunteer Team Committee Organization of contribution to Society KR operates KR Volunteer’s Group which promotes continuous social contribution activities throughout the <Social Contribution System> company, and the Social Contribution Committee that increases the transparency and efficiency of the social contribution fund. The CEO leads the contribution activities as the head of KR Volunteer’s Group, while the Deputy Chief Director is in charge of establishing action plans and deliberating budgets as the chairman of the Committee. System to Vitalize Social Contribution Activity Establishment of Social Contribution System KR has established its social contribution system to encourage voluntary participation and critical assistance in activities of social contribution. Employees log into the social contribution system to check important information including mileage, future volunteer activity schedule and social contribution donation status in real-time. 2013 Sustainability Report 82 / 83 Mileage System for Social Contribution Activities <Sharing Briquette of Love> KR sets an annual social contribution goal and converts social contribution activities of employees into social contribution mileage. It reflects the result of mileage achieved in the department evaluation to enforce action. Employees are expected to earn 200 points of mileage each year to invigorate social contribution by providing motivation for voluntary contribution and improving the system. 10 mileage points are accrued for 1 hour of social contribution activities, and employees must work 20 hours in social contribution activities per year to earn 200 mileage points. To encourage active participation in social contribution, selected departments and individuals are awarded at the end of the year for their excellent social contributions, and seminars and workshops led by social contribution experts are organized to raise awareness and increase consensus on social contribution. <Scoop-Rice event near Railway> <Programs to invigorate Social Contribution> Classification Main Contents Reward System •Reward excellent social contribution department (2) and individuals (4) Evaluation System •Apply individual obligatory mileage • Reflect in departmental reports <Flophouse Sharing Activity> Social Contribution Activities in Local Community KR headquarters and 5 regional headquarters have each made sisterhood ties with one rural village near the railways. For these sister villages, they execute various volunteer activities and purchase agricultural products from sister-tied farms to contribute to rural household incomes. Various programs have also been implemented to realize national welfare and to protect the environment and construct environment-friendly railways so that the areas near the railways can be transformed into more attractive communities. Promotion to Improve Local Communities near Railway <Resident near Railway Improvement Project> KR is cooperating with the Welfare Institution Mandure in Daejeon and other private companies to work on the flophouse community improvement project and other love sharing activities, such as supporting welfare institutions. KR also promotes the improvement of local communities and welfare for local residents by painting murals, replacing playground equipment for children living near railways, and other activities through close cooperative relations with NGO, Green Railway Advisory Committee, and other interested parties. <Programs to Improve Local Community> <Taking Care of Garden of Love> Classification Main Note •Signing of agreement with Welfare Institution Mandure in Daejeon Sharing of love with flophouse •Support flophouse counseling center, resident improving project, jointly promote sharing communities near railway briquette of love with Daejeon •Scoop-rice sharing activities near railway •Promote volunteer work of 1 institution by 1 department Sharing of love with welfare •Formed sisterhood ties with 8 institutions near railways to provide continuous aid, carry out institutions near railway activities to share during holidays and end-of-the year Creating beautiful playground •Replace playground equipment for children near railway and implement renovation, including with NGO painting, in cooperation with NGO <Sharing Kimchi of Love> One Institution – One Community KR formed 1:1 sisterhood ties with rural communities near railways and contributes to the invigoration of farming communities by operating the farm life experience program, “Gardening garden of Love,” which practices the sharing of agricultural produce after harvest, and “Sharing Kimchi of Love,” in which we grow ingredients and share kimchi with the less fortunate in the community. KR strengthens relations with rural local communities by visiting them regularly and operating various volunteer programs. Local Community Making Citizen-friendly Spaces by Using Railway Lots <KR Youth Committee Scholarship Awards> KR is converting unused lots, which were hotbeds of illegal farming and waste dumping, into bike roads, ecology exploration areas, and rail bike roads, to give back to the citizens and provide environment-friendly living areas and environments. Ecology Exploration Area Rail Bike •Establish medium-and long•Implement rail bike at 3 stations term roadmap to restore from Kyunggang to Kimyujung ecological system near Ilsan abandoned stations of Kyungjun and Wondang station line (28.7 km) Bike Road Switchback Resort <KR Youth Committee Sharing on Holidays> •Create environment-friendly •Commercialize sections from bike road after tearing Dongbaeksan to Dogae of down abandoned sections Yeongdongsun line into railway from Masuk to Gapyeong of theme park (only switchback in Gyeongchun Line (10.8 km) the country) Physical Education Center and Rest Area Auto Campsite •Provide rest area to residents •Construct auto camping site at near railway by using the area unused lot near Jukdo beach below bridge track to maximum in Yangyang, Gangwon-do (6,716m2) <CEO Sharing on Holidays> Traditional Market •Opened traditional market by renovating the unused lot near Masan station Sharing Talent using Railway Capability KR is continuously promoting the sharing of talent (pro-bono) to renovate the houses of the less fortunate and replace worn-out electrical equipment. KR also promotes the “KR Young Adults Hope Project” to provide scholarship aid, uniforms when enrolling for high school, necessities for holidays such as New Year’s and <KR Efforts for Green Forest> Thanksgiving, and cultural experience programs. <KR Talent Sharing Programs> Classifications 2012 Main Notes •Maintain light of hope (12 households), flophouse community restoration from fire (1 institution), replace worn-out electrical system (10 households), fix storage for briquettes of House Renovation of Love love (2 households), house restoration for disadvantaged class in community of 1 institution-1 community Make Green Forest •Maintain KR forest of love (2 places, 5 times) Love Railway Camp •Railway field trip for teens living near railway (4 times) •Award scholarships, provide uniforms and school supplies KR Young Adult Hope Project •Provide household necessities during holidays such as New Years, Thanksgiving Day and hold end of the year share events (100 people, 80 million won annually) 2013 Sustainability Report 84 / 85 Q&A Q. As a public institution, what is KR doing to fulfill its social responsibility A. KR is working to invigorate the railway industry to create jobs, and thus invigorate local economies. KR is and invigorate the local economy? also lowering rail fares and implementing various improvements and budget reducing methods. <4 Strategic Directions to Create Jobs> Expand rail investment and strengthen development business ❖ Contributing to Local Community Strengthen partnership with private companies Creating Public Jobs Creating New Jobs through Invigoration of Railway Industry To fulfill its social responsibility as a public institution, reduce unemployment, and invigorate local economies by creating new public Outsourcing of simple, inefficient work jobs, KR has planned and implemented strategies to create public jobs. By implementing railway construction operation true to its establishment goal, KR is securing sustainable growth power and actively implementing 4 strategic directions to create new jobs. In 2012, Providing support and care to the socially disadvantaged 88,442 jobs were created through the proper use of expenses, 9,037 jobs through the invigoration of railway private investment business (BTL/BTO), and a total of 190 jobs through the development of unused lots, use of facilities, and expansion of station area development. <Status of Job Support to the Disadvantaged in Various Regions> <Detailed Information on Job Creation in 2012> Number of Classification Classifications Main Contents for 2012 Hires Seoul Metropolitan •Execution of 6.4556 trillion won as business expenses in 2012 96 people Headquarters (Seoul, Gyeonggi) Timely spent budget (88,442 jobs) 59 railway business underway (3 high speed, 28 regular, 9 metropolitan, 19 commissioned) Gwangwon Headquarters total of 11 railway business opened 80 people (Gangwon, Jecheon, Youngju) •Execution of 6.596 trillion won as private business expenses in 2012 Vitalization of Railway Private ChungCheong Headquarters ‌Total of 5 private business underway (Yongsan~Gangnam, Sosa~Wonsi, Haman~Jinju, Investment (9,037 Jobs) (Sejong, Daejeon, 48 people Iksan~Shinli, Jungja~Gwanggyo) Chungcheongbuk-do) •62 approved permits to use as parking lots and garage Honam Headquarters Unused lots, use of Facilities •Building auto camping site connected to vacation spots in the eastern coast of Korea 72 people (Gwangju, Jeollanam) (190 jobs) •Advancement of solar business using 67 railway facilities Yeongnam Headquarters •Bike road in Gosung-Gun and centerline rail bike (Busan, Daegu, 82 people Expansion of Station Area •Opening of parking complex in Gwangmyeong station (Dec. 2012) Gyeongsangbuk-do, Ulsan) Development (484 jobs) •Opening development ventures of previously called Gyeongchun line (Aug. 2012) Total 378 people <Purchase Status of Traditional Market’s Vitalization of Economy of Common Citizens Onnuri Gift Certificates> (Unit: Ten Thousand Won) KR promotes security of life of those in disadvantaged groups by providing jobs the railway construction sites throughout the country 9,770 and revitalizes and promotes traditional marketplaces by setting goals for Onnuri gift certificate purchases and monitoring their 9,135 monthly purchases. KR is also carrying out various efforts to financially help common citizens by decreasing rail fares through a budget reduction and economical railway construction. KR is implementing job support to those in disadvantaged groups by providing jobs in construction site technical work, security, office assistance, and restaurants to disadvantaged groups, which includes those receiving government subsidies, elderly, disabled, and women, in 243 communities near railway construction sites. Vitalization of Traditional Markets and Contributing to Price Stabilization 2011 2012 KR promotes the purchase of Onnuri gift certificates used at traditional markets and monitors monthly purchase status to revitalize <KTX Fare Estimates for the Next 3 Years> local traditional markets. KR made efforts to help traditional markets by purchasing 977 hundred thousand won of Onnuri certificates in (Unite: Won) 2012, which is a 9% increase from 913.5 hundred won in previous year. KR is also carrying out various efforts to realize housing welfare Annual average increase rate of 1.8% for the disadvantaged by forming the Home Preparation Committee in August of 2012 to actively promote house construction using 53,700 51,800 53,300 railway lots. The company has also researched possible lots and planned an evaluation standard to choose the order of development priority. Moreover, KR contributed to the stability of railroad fares by improving tasks through creative innovation, VE vitalization of plan, and efficient railway construction, increasing the rail fare annual average of 1.8% within the last 3 years (based on Seoul-Busan KTX one-way). 2011 2012 2013 ✽Based on Seoul-Busan KTX one way Ⅵ Appendix 2013 Sustainability Report Outcome of Sustainability Management Assessment on Application Level of ISO 26000 Third Party's Assurance Report GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index System for Implementation of Sustainability Management Recognitions and Affiliation Economic Performance Overseas Credit Rating 'Aa3 (Stable)' Profit and Loss Account Summary (Unit: Hundred million won) Reduced 1.0205 trillion won through company-wide efforts including financial cost reduction, design value engineering (VE) evaluation, and excess facilities improvement. 2010 2011 2012 Profit Amount 5,896 7,326 7,806 Sales Cost 4,669 5,140 4,688 2012 Reduction of Expense (Unit: Hundred million won) Gross Profit on Sales 1,227 2,186 3,118 Sales and Administrative Expenses Construction method improvement, facility size adjustment 6,010 Operating Profit and Loss 1,227 2,186 3,118 Design VE evaluation and misc. 3,569 Non-operating Income 320 443 499 Wage and current cost 220 Non-operating Expense 4,722 4,542 4,549 Financial cost reduction 406 Total 10,205 Net Profit (Loss) Before Income Tax -3,174 -1,913 -932 Tax Expense * Expansion of generated revenue through development of new assets, expansion of overseas business, Expansion of profit created from reformation of business Continuing Income -3,174 -1,913 -932 Current Profit (Loss) -3,174 -1,913 -932 * Yield of current term loss due to interest fee of high-speed railway self-supplied business expenses (loan) Distribution of Sales (Unit: Hundred million won) Track Profit from Overseas Other Total Distribution of Economic Value Classifications Access Leasing Business Profits Profit Charges (Unit: million won) 2011(a) 6,480 684 122 40 7,326 2010 2011 2012 2012(b) 6,821 731 150 104 7,806 Sales Amount Creation of Increase (b-a) +341 +47 +28 +64 +480 Government Contribution 7,699,075 7,970,924 8,779,291 Economic Value Bond Issued Affiliated Companies 5,565,101 5,433,166 6,204,257 (Investment award) Financial Expenses Financial Statement Summary (Principal, interest, etc.) 1,887,640 2,439,205 2,485,080 Balance Sheet Summary (Unit: Hundred million won) Distribution of Employees (Wage) 81,834 92,584 101,325 Economic Value 2010 2011 2012 Government 616 185 26 (Tax) Liquid Asset 4,575 5,000 2,521 Organization Operating Noncurrent Asset 188,034 201,547 194,760 Expense 40,819 31,697 26,608 Total Asset 192,609 206,546 197,280 (Current Cost, etc.) Current Liability 30,494 32,478 47,207 * Difference in financial value created and value distributed due to carry-over of deposit prepayment amount from previous year Noncurrent Liability 109,303 123,196 126,199 * Affiliated companies and organization operating expenses are expenses from relevant year Total Liability 139,796 155,674 173,406 Endowment 68,931 68,931 42,834 Accumulated Comprehensive Amount -128 -155 -122 Deficient Amount -15,991 -17,904 -18,838 Indirect Economics Effect Total Capital Amount 52,812 50,872 23,874 Creation of Jobs (Unit: Persons) 2010 2011 2012 Total number 97,738 82,350 99,359 Government Contribution Investment Award 96,954 81,365 98,153 (Unit: Hundred million won) Private partnership 26 103 148 2010 2011 2012 Outsourcing 467 491 581 33,003 35,136 41,590 Disadvantaged class 291 391 477 2013 Sustainability Report 88 / 89 Social Performance Classifications Unit 2010 2011 2012 Maximum number of employees Persons 1,347 1,352 1,363 Current employees Persons 1,440 1,396 1,347 Current Employment Temporary position Persons 14 15 20 Status Retirement Persons 1 5 2 Voluntary Resignation, etc. Persons 36 39 63 Average service training Year 16.25 17.2 17.7 20~29 Persons 53 41 33 30~39 Persons 403 332 297 Employee Distribution 40~49 Persons 719 743 712 by Age Group 50~59 Persons 264 280 304 Over 60 Persons 1 Number of Women (%) Persons (%) 135(8.9) 150(10.2) 154(11.0) Minority Group Status Number of Women higher than General Manager (%) Persons (%) Handicapped (%) Persons (%) 3.15 3.24 3.36 Women Persons 9 6 Handicapped Persons From small cities Persons 15 9 Full-time Position High school graduates Persons 2 Recruitment Vocational school graduates Persons Engineering graduates Persons 26 8 Total Persons 36 15 Young Adult Intern Persons 70 90 79 Temporary Position Contract Persons 7 3 5 Recruitment Job Contract (high school graduate) Persons Hourly employee Persons Training hour per person Hours 135 119 126 Training Hours and Training investment per person Thousand Won 975 1,062 859 Investment Rate of guarantee of core personnel % 30.77 31.51 33.38 Employee Satisfaction Points 74.75 73.70 76.40 Welfare and Job Rate of Return after Nursing Leave of Absence % 92.86 92.31 95.24 Security Safety/Security Accidents Case 0 0 1 Ethical Management Anti-corruption and Civil Rights Commission Integrity Index Points 8.35 8.81 8.22 Customer Service Satisfaction Points 69.5 72.5 74.6 Customer Satisfaction Affiliate Companies Satisfaction Points 86.95 89.76 93.27 Public-service Customer Satisfaction Index (PCSI) Points 93.21 95.43 93.98 Local Community Community Service Hour per employee Hours 10.7 9.8 11.4 Rate of Purchasing Goods from Small Businesses % 31 28 25 Small Business Support Cooperation Research Development Number Supported/Participating Companies Case / Companies 1/3 2/6 6/7 Society Regulation Violations Case 0 0 0 Human Rights Construction Site Accident Rate % 0.128 0.142 0.082 Environmental Performance Systemization of Environmental Management KR systematically manages the total amount of substances that are input, including energy use and material use, and total amount of substance emitted, including greenhouse gas emission and waste discharge. Data was collected from 267 construction sites in 2010, 264 sites in 2011, and 211 sites in 2012. Compared to the previous year, the total number of sites for data collection has decreased because a number of construction sites had completed railway construction, thus decreasing the number of construction sites. Input Railway Construction Sites (Affiliated Companies) Korea Rail Network Authority (Headquarters and regional headquarters) Amount of Energy Used (Unit: TJ) Classification 2010 2011 2012 Amount of Energy Used Buildings 527.32 430.51 584.83 (Unit: TJ) Automobiles Buildings Automobiles 258.15 879.31 184.92 Construction Machines 3,108.42 3,263.93 3,233.69 차량 건물 104.68 97.53 80.96 Amount of Raw Materials Used (Unit: ton) 11.31 Classification 2010 2011 2012 9.66 8.60 Steel bar 1,163.417 485,283 710,336 2010 2011 2012 Rail (new) 61,272 29,595 32,659 Rail (recycled) 3,940 559 1,360 PC bedding (new) 111,178 108,934 130,824 PC bedding (recycled) 7,127 3,495 17,344 Wood bedding (new) 232 342 621 Wood bedding (recycled) 60 866 377 Aggregate (general) 2,228,104 2,606,046 5,149,954 Aggregate (recycled) 191,365 72,381 309,033 Amount of Water Used Tap Water Form mold (lumber) 3,201,033 2,603,792 3,398,301 (Unit: ton) Form mold (substitute) 1,543,861 1,319,416 3,015,981 76,672 44,880 Amount of Water Used (Unit: ton) 38,738 Classification 2010 2011 2012 Total 3,525,171 2,782,504 2,673,165 Recycled water 279,338 158,117 37,736 2010 2011 2012 2013 Sustainability Report 90 / 91 Output Railway Construction Sites (affiliated companies) Korea Rail Network Authority (Headquarters and regional headquarters) Amount of Greenhouse Gas Emitted (Unit: tCO2eq) Amount of Greenhouse Gas Output Buildings Classification 2010 2011 2012 (Unit: tCO2eq) Indirect 22,218.40 18,710.91 27,984.27 Buildings Indirect Direct Direct 6,700.64 4,963.27 3,012.67 간접 직접 Automobiles Direct 17,944.90 61,191.69 12,834.84 4,397.29 Indirect 7,943.41 7,061.07 7,329.35 4,199.68 Construction Machines Direct 208,090.79 220,084.09 217,728.38 3,411.39 1,027.00 852.99 779.23 Amount of Waste Discharged 2010 2011 2012 (Unit: ton) Classification 2010 2011 2012 Construction Amount Produced 798,501.07 718,088.00 889,831.40 Waste Amount Recycled 739,643.82 686,594.00 865,108.58 Amount Produced 62,145.89 71,677.95 389,709.79 Amount of Greenhouse Gas Output Automobiles Worksite Waste (Unit: tCO2eq) Amount Recycled 44,683.73 39,659.63 229,515.13 Amount Produced 831.07 7,235.08 1,129.15 779.10 Designated Waste 665.95 Amount Recycled 19.97 8.96 15.53 595.43 Amount of Air Pollutants Emitted Classification 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Annual Dirt Output (kg) 14,742 3,141 2,049 Number of Air Pollutant Control 17 17 24 Facilities in Operations Amount of Designated Waste (Unit: ton) Amount of Water Pollutants Emitted Total Produced Amount Recycled Classification 2010 2011 2012 총 발생량 재활용량 Annual Wastewater Output (ton) 4,821,362 4,868,269 4,697,721 40.70 BOD(mg/l) 3.9 4.4 4.9 28.00 COD(mg/l) 6.4 6.8 9.4 16.20 16.00 13.00 11.00 SS(mg/l) 9.7 8.9 12.0 Number of Wastewater Control 101 107 103 Facilities in Operation 2010 2011 2012 Assessment on Application Level of ISO 26000 Messrs. Employees and Stakeholders of Korea I. Evaluation of Social Responsibility Process: 310 points attained / 360 points Rail Network Authority Based on the management team’s determination to practice sustainability management, KR declares and enforces internal and external sustainability Evaluation Level management. The overall implementation level has therefore been found to Korea Standard Association (KSA) has published the “Social Responsibility be satisfactory. The organization’s devotion to sustainability management Fulfillment Level Evaluation Checklist” under ISO 26000, which is the is clarified through an international initiative such as the UN Global international standard for social responsibility. The ISO 26000 checklist Compact. It is recommended to regularly monitor future sustainability includes the outcome evaluation for the implementation process of social management outcomes and plans and to continuously implement responsibility and 7 core topics (organization governance, civil rights, systematic practices and management of activities. consumer issues, participation and advancement of local community). KSA <Assessments of Social Responsibility Process> (Unit : Points) evaluated KR’s social responsibility implementation level according to the ISO 26000 checklist. Awareness of Social Responsibility 84.0 Identification and Engagement of 93.3 Stakeholders Evaluation limitation Analysis of Core Subjects and Issues 86.7 KSA evaluated KR’s overall external/internal activities, medium and Prioritization and Establishment of Execution Strategy and Plan 83.3 long term strategies, social responsibility activities, and sustainability Execution 80.0 management strategy implementation processes. The evaluation result Communication 95.0 was made by reviewing open internal documents on policy and activities, Verification 86.7 outcome data, and calculation system. Improvement 80.0 Evaluation Method KSA implemented the following based on data, collected from each department, related to sustainability report publication according to an objective evaluation standard. Review of internal documents on activities and outcome of sustainability management of KR Interview with staff in charge of each social responsible management II. Evaluation of 7 Core Topics: 574.9 points attained / 640 points issue at KR KR’s Implementation level for anticipated issues on 7 core topics of ISO 26000 is satisfactory overall. The implementation level of fair management practice is excellent, and the implementation level of local community Evaluation Result participation and improvement is satisfactory. KR received 896 points out of 1,000 points upon evaluation, and confirms the application of social responsibility implementation level IV of ISO26000. <Assessment of Social Responsibility Performance> (Unit : Points) This indicates a high understanding of social responsibility by members, Organizational Governance 90.0 and that the organization management system, policy, and practice are well organized. Human Rights 93.1 Labor Practices 90.6 Environment 88.6 Core Topic Total Distribution Evaluation Point Fair Operating Practices 94.7 Process 360 310 Consumer Issues 91.7 Outcome 640 586 Community Involvement 93.8 Total 1000 896 and Development 2013 Sustainability Report 92 / 93 III. Departmental Recommendation Upon a detailed departmental evaluation, the recommendation is as follows. ⑥ Consumer Issue ① Organization governance KR operates a collective customer management system, the first to be The management structure of KR, according to its board regulation, is patented by a public institution, and has achieved the highest level in satisfactory overall and makes decisions by reviewing issues related to government institution customer satisfaction for 3 years. In the future, “social responsibility” based on sustainability management, which is one of maintenance of safety equipment for customers (especially disabled its core values. In the future, the operation of a sustainability management customers) of railway and stations need to be continuously strengthened, committee (sub-committee within Board of Directors) is recommended to and awareness of rail safety should be promoted through public provide support decisions made by the Board of Directors. campaigns. ② Civil Rights ⑦ Participation and Improvement of Local Community KR stipulates policy on civil rights, fair employment, and prohibition of KR implements the “KR Young Adult Hope Project” to provide scholarships discrimination in its human resource regulation and code of ethics, and and uniforms to children and teens living near railways and operates understands issues related to the grievance system. In the future, it is cultural experience events. However, there are too many one-time activities recommended that KR establish an actual standard to investigate actual and the resources secured for social contribution seem to be limited. In the conditions related to civil rights violations (harassment, sexual harassment, future, active efforts to expand resources for social contribution need to be occupational safety, observe Labor Standard Law, overdue wage, maternity made. Instead of sporadic volunteer activities, goal-oriented programs to protection), implement civil rights policies with affiliate companies. and resolve macroscopic social issues need to be operated. actively provide support through training and monitoring. ③ Labor Practice Evaluation Conclusion KR’s work environment, personnel training, and support system for According to the result of the ISO 26000 Implementation Evaluation, retirement candidates are excellent. However, labor-management KR received 310 out of 360 points in process and 586 points out of 640 issues continue to arise due to differences in opinion. In the future, in outcome, which qualifies KR for SR level 4. KR is in the process of it is recommended to strengthen communication between internal expanding its understanding of social responsibility and sustainable stakeholders to bring about amicable agreement between labor and capability to all parts of the organization. The company is also improving management. its and development of civil rights and enforcement of its fair management policy, and its participation within local communities have been excellent. ④ Environment In the future, it is recommended to incorporate the themes and principles KR demonstrates a decrease in greenhouse gas emissions each year of social responsibility into the company’s unique management strategy through active efforts to decrease energy, and it is excellent that KR so that KR can develop into a trusted institution by strengthening social uses renewable energy technology such as solar development through communication with stakeholders. environment-friendly plans for stations and generation of geothermal energy. However, compared to the size of the organization, environment personnel are lacking. In the future, it is recommended to reinforce departments and personnel related to environment and to strengthen biodiversity and natural habitat protection activities. August 1, 2013 ⑤ Fair Management Practice KSA Chairman KR’s systematic management standard for fair management systems, such Kim Chang Ryong as a system to regularly complete anti-corruption training, and level of clarity related to contracts with affiliate companies is very high. However, it is recommended that departments susceptible to corruption are determined and managed with priority, and an internal reporting system needs to be implemented. Third Party’s Assurance Report To the Readers of Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2013 : Foreword The Korea Management Association Registration and Assessments (KMAR) has been requested by Korea Rail Network Authority (KR) verify the contents of its Sustainability Report 2013 (the Report). KR is responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in the Report. Our responsibility is to carry out assurance engagement on specific information in the assurance scope stipulated below. Our independence With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMAR is not involved in any other KR business operations that are aimed at making profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. Assurance scope and standard KR describes its efforts and achievements of the sustainability activities in the Report. KMAR performed a type 2, moderate level of assurance using AA1000AS (2008) as an assurance standard. That is, the assurance team assessed whether inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness were observed, and verified the followings to assess the reliability of the assertions and performances specified in the report. • Assurance of the economic section: Reviews whether the financial performance data has been extracted appropriately from KR’s 2012 financial statements and public notification data • Assurance of the environmental and social section: Reviews whether the environmental and social information included in the Report is presented appropriately “Appropriately presented” means that the actual data and original information are appropriately reflected in the Report with consistency and reliability. For the economic section, we based our evidence-gathering procedures on reasonable assurance. It is a higher level of assurance than that of the limited assurance in terms of characteristics and the extent of performed tasks. The team included the confirmation of the application level of GRI G3.1 utilized as the report criteria in the scope of assurance. Assurance process In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, KMAR’s assurance team visited the KR’s headquarter and carried out an assurance engagement as follows: Reviewed systems and processes used in producing data Assessed internal documents and materials Interviewed people in charge of disclosed activities and performances Reviewed the GRI G3.1 application level which was used as a reporting framework Conclusion Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews, relevant department visits, and interviews, we had several discussions with KR on the revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have been reflected. When reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurance team did not find any inappropriate contents related to the compliance with the principle in the Report. 2013 Sustainability Report 94 / 95 • Inclusivity Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. KR is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a commitment to be responsible for the stakeholders. The assurance team did not find any critical stakeholder group left out during this procedure • Materiality Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material issue is an issue that will influence the decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. KR is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality evaluation process, and the assurance team did not find any critical issues left out in this process • Responsiveness Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized through decisions, actions, and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders The assurance team did not find any evidence that KR’s counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were inappropriately recorded in the Report In addition, the assurance team checked that the KR complied with the GRI G3.1 in preparing the Report, and that the Report fulfills the requirements of GRI application level ‘A+’. Recommendation for improvement We hope KR’s publication of the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and recommend the following for improvements. We verified that KR is making efforts to monitor the sustainability management strategy and to make quantified management of the performance. However, in reporting the sustainability management activities and performances, KR is required to focus more on important issues and to make efforts to help easy understanding of important information in the point of views of stakeholders It is needed to improve significance evaluation process into an original process according to the circumstances and characteristics of KR. Especially, as KR is currently utilizing various and effective stakeholder communication channels, we recommend develop a more systematic approach to use the information obtained from those channels in the significance evaluation process during the reporting period We recommend document the reporting process in order to make the process more systematic. This will effectively resolve the problems probable to occur during sustainability report publication and improve the quality of the Report July 29, 2013 CEO / Ki Ho Park Korea Management Association Registrations & Assessments Inc. GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○Not Reported N/A Not Applicable ISO GRI Description Core Subject and Issue Page Reported 26000 Stakeholder Engagement Principle 6.8.2 Engagement of community 24~25 ● Border Protocol 6.6.5 Promotion of social responsibility in value chain 2 ● Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision maker (e.g. CEO, chairman, or other equivalent 1.1 executives)of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and its 6.2 6~7 ● strategy. Organizational governance 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 6.2 22~23 ● Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 12 ● 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 13 ● Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, 2.3 6.2 Organizational governance 12 ● subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 12 ● Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major 2.5 13 ● operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 12 ● Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/ 2.7 12 ● beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 12 ● 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership 12 ● 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 102 ● Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided (e.g. financial year/calendar year) 2 ● 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (when available) 2 ● 3.3 Reporting cycle (annually, biannually, etc.) 2 ● 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 2 ● Process for defining report content (Determining materiality, prioritizing topics within the 3.5 28~29 ● report, and identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report) Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, 3.6 2 ● suppliers) 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 2 ● Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, 3.8 and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or 2 ● between organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations 2 ● Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and 3.10 2 ● the reasons for such re-statement Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement 3.11 2 ● methods applied in the report 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 96~100 ● Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Scope 3.13 and standards of external assurance. Relationship between the organization and assurance 7.5.3 Assurance 94~95 ● service provider. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 6.2 16~17 ● 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 6.2 16 ● Organizational governance For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of 4.3 members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive 6.2 16 ● members 2013 Sustainability Report 96 / 97 ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○Not Reported N/A Not Applicable GRI Description ISO 26000 Core Subject and Issue Page Reported Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction 4.4 6.2 16~17 ● to the highest governance body Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior 4.5 6.2 17 ● managers, and executives, and the organization’s performance Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are 4.6 6.2 17 ● avoided Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members 4.7 6.2 17 ● of the highest governance body and its committees Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles 4.8 relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their 6.2 14~15 ● implementation Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s 4.9 6.2 16~17 ● identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance (particularly 4.10 6.2 16~17 ● with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance) Organizational governance Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by 4.11 6.2 22~23 ● the organization Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other 4.12 6.2 102 ● initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses Memberships in associations such as industry associations and/or national/international 4.13 6.2 102 ● advocacy organizations 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 6.2 24~25 ● 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 6.2 24~25 ● Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and 4.16 6.2 28 ● by stakeholder group Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and 4.17 how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through 6.2 29 ● its reporting Economic Performance Indicators ( Disclosure on Management Approach ) 31 ● Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, Community involvement and development 6.8 / 6.8.3 / EC1 employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained / Wealth and income creation / Social 88 ● 6.8.7 / 6.8.9 earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments investment Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities EC2 6.5.5 Climate change mitigation 52~53 ● due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. 6.4.4 / 6.8 80 ● EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 88 ● Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage Condition of work and social protector / EC5 6.4.4 / 6.8 75 ● at significant locations of operation Community involvement and development Promoting social responsibility in the Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant 6.6.6 / 6.8 / value chain / Community involvement and EC6 66~67 ● locations of operation 6.8.5 / 6.8.7 development / Employment creation and skills development / Wealth and income creation Community involvement and development / Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local 6.8 / 6.8.5 / EC7 Employment creation and skills development 74 ● community at significant locations of operation 6.8.7 / Wealth and income creation Economic, social and cultural rights / 6.3.9 / 6.8 / Community involvement and development 6.8.3 / Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily / Community involvement / Education and EC8 6.8.4 / 6.8.5 / 36~39, 84 ● for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement culture / Technology development and 6.8.6 / 6.8.7 / access / Wealth and income creation / Social 6.8.9 investment Economic, social and cultural rights / Promoting social responsibility in the value 6.3.9 / 6.6.6 / chain / Respect for property rights / Access to Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the 6.6.7 / 6.7.8 essential services/ Community involvement EC9 / 6.8 / 6.8.5 and development / Employment creation and 85 ● extent of impacts /6.8.6 / 6.8.7 / skills development / Technology development 6.8.9 and access / Wealth and income creation / Social investment GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○Not Reported N/A Not Applicable GRI Description ISO 26000 Core Subject and Issue Page Reported Economic Performance Indicators ( Disclosure on Management Approach ) 51 ● EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 59, 90 ● EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 59, 90 ● EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 90 ● EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 90 ● EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 90 ● Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products and 6.5 / 6.5.4 Environment / Sustainable resource use EN6 56 ● services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved 54, 56 ● EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 90 ● EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 57 ● EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 90 ● Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected EN11 58 ● areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity EN12 Environment / Protection of the environment, 58 ● in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 6.5 / 6.5.6 biodiversity, and restoration of natural EN13 Habitats protected or restored habitats 58 ● EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 58 ● Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with EN15 57~58 ◐ habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 54, 91 ● EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 6.5 / 6.5.5 Environment / Climate change mitigation 91 ● EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 53~54 ● Minuscule EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight N/A Emission EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight 91 ● EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 91 ● EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5 / 6.5.3 Environment / Prevention of pollution 91 ● Not EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills ● applicable Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous EN24 under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of – N/A transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related Environment / Sustainable resource use / EN25 habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water 6.5 / 6.5.4 / 6.5.6 Protection of the environment, biodiversity 59~60 ● and runoff and restoration of natural habitats Environment /Sustainable resource use / Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of 6.5 / 6.5.4 / EN26 Promoting socialresponsibility in the value 58 ● impact mitigation 6.6.6 / 6.7.5 chain / Sustainable consumption Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by Environment / Sustainable resource use / EN27 6.5 / 6.5.4 / 6.7.5 – N/A category Sustainable consumption Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for EN28 6.5 Environment 53 ● non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Environment /Sustainable resource use / Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and EN29 6.5 / 6.5.4 / 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value 54, 59 ◐ materials used for the organization's operations chain EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5 Environment 59 ◐ 2013 Sustainability Report 98 / 99 ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○Not Reported N/A Not Applicable GRI Description ISO 26000 Core Subject and Issue Page Reported Labor Practices ( Disclosure on Management Approach ) 73 ● LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region. Labor practice/Employment and employment 76 ● 6.4 / 6.4.3 LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover (by age group, gender, and region) relationships 76 ● Labor practice / Employment and employment Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or LA3 6.4/ 6.4.3 / 6.4.4 relationships /Condition of work and social 80, 81 ● part-time employees (by operating location) protector Labor practice / Employment and employment 6.4 / 6.4.3 / 6.4.4 / relationships / Condition of work and social LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective agreement. protector / Social dialogue /Fundamental 79 ● 6.4.5 / 6.3.10 principles and rights at work Labor practice / Employment and employment Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes (including 6.4 / 6.4.3 / 6.4.4 / relationships / LA5 Condition of work and social protector/Social 78 ● whether it is specified in collective agreements) 6.4.5 dialogue Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker LA6 81 ◐ health and safety committees 6.4 / 6.4.6 Labor practice / Health and safety at work Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of LA7 81 ● work-related fatalities (by region and gender) Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place Labor practice / Health and safety at work / 6.4 / 6.4.6 / 6.8 / Community involvement and development / LA8 to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding 81 ● 6.8.3 / 6.8.4 / 6.8.8 Community involvement /Education and culture / serious diseases Health LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 6.4 / 6.4.6 Labor practice / Health and safety at work 81 ● Labor practice / Human development and LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 6.4 / 6.4.7 training in the workplace 77 ● Labor practice / Human development and Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued LA11 6.4 / 6.4.7 / 6.8.5 training in the workplace /Employment creation 80 ● employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings and skills development Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development Labor practice / Human development and LA12 6.4 / 6.4.7 training in the workplace 75 ◐ reviews Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category Discrimination and vulnerable groups / 6.3.7 / 6.3.10 / Fundamental principles and rights at work / LA13 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators Labor practice / Employment and employment 16 ● 6.4 / 6.4.3 of diversity relationships Discrimination and vulnerable groups / Fundamental principles and rights at work / 6.3.7 / 6.3.10 / LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category Labor practice / Employment and employment 75 ● 6.4 / 6.4.3 / 6.4.4 relationships /Condition of work and social dialogue Prohibition of discrimination against vulnerable group / Guarantee of economic, social, and LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender cultural rights of corporate and community 80 ● members Human Right ( Disclosure on Management Approach ) 57, 73 ● Human right / Due diligence / Avoidance of Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include 6.3 / 6.33 / HR1 complicity / 65 ◐ human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening 6.3.5 / 6.6.6 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain Human right / Due diligence / Avoidance of Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening 6.3 / 6.3.3 / 6.3.5 / complicity / Employment and employment HR2 relationships /Promoting social responsibility in 62, 65~66 ◐ on human rights and actions taken 6.4.3 / 6.6.6 the value chain Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects HR3 of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of 6.3 / 6.3.5 Human right/ Avoidance of complicity 20, 77 ◐ employees trained Human right / Resolving grievances / 6.3 / 6.3.6 / 6.3.7 / Discrimination and vulnerable groups / HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken Fundamental principles and rights at work / 74~75 ● 6.3.10 / 6.4.3 Employment and employment relationships 6.3 / 6.3.3 / 6.3.4 / Human right / Due diligence / Human rights risk Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and situations/ Avoidance of complicity /Civil and 6.3.5 / 6.3.8 / 6.3.10 HR5 collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these political rights / Fundamental principles and 78~79 ● / rights at work / Employment and employment rights 6.4.3 / 6.4.5 relationships /Social dialogue Human right / Due diligence / Human rights Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and 6.3 / 6.3.3 / 6.3.4 / risk situations/ Avoidance of complicity / HR6 Discrimination and vulnerable groups / 80 ● measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor 6.3.5 / 6.3.7 / 6.3.10 Fundamental principles and rights at work GRI G3.1 / ISO 26000 Index ● Reported ◐ Partially Reported ○Not Reported N/A Not Applicable GRI Description ISO 26000 Core Subject and Issue page Reported Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory 6.3 / 6.3.3 / 6.3.4 / Human right / Avoidance of complicity / HR7 Employment and employment relationships / 80 ● labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor 6.3.5 / 6.3.7 / 6.3.10 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain Human right / Resolving grievances / Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures 6.3 / 6.3. 5 / Discrimination and vulnerable groups / HR8 Fundamental principles and rights at work / 20 ◐ concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations 6.4.3 / 6.6.6 Employment and employment relationships Human right / Resolving grievances / 6.3 / 6.3.6 / 6.3.7 / Discrimination and vulnerable groups / HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people Civil and political rights / Respect for property 71 ● 6.3.8 / 6.6.7 rights Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights HR10 Due diligence / Human rights risk situations 65~66 ◐ reviews and/or impact assessments Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved HR11 Resolving grievances 78 ◐ through formal grievance mechanisms Social Performance Indicators (Disclosure on Management Approach) 73 ● Economic, social, and cultural rights/ Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and Participation in and development of regional 6.3.9 / 6.8 / society SO1 manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, /Creation of jobs and functional developments/ 83~85 ● 6.8.5 / 6.8.7 / 6.6.7 and exiting Creation of wealth and income/Respect for property rights Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to SO2 18~19 ◐ corruption Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies/ 6.6 / 6.6.3 Fair operation practice / Anti-corruption SO3 20 ● procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. 20~21 ● SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying 25 ● Fair operation practice / Responsible political Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and 6.6 / 6.6.4 / 6.8.3 involvement /Community involvement SO6 ○ related institutions by country Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly Fair operation practice / Fair competition / Respect SO7 6.6 / 6.6.5 / 6.6.7 for property rights 65~67 ◐ practices Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for Fair operation practice / Respect for property SO8 6.6 / 6.6.7 / 6.8.7 rights /Wealth and income creation 89 ● non-compliance with laws and regulations Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local SO9 Community involvement and development 71 ● communities Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant SO10 Community involvement and development 71, 85 ● potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Product Responsibility ( Disclosure on Management Approach ) 61 ● Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are PR1 assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services Economic, social and cultural rights / 40~43 ● categories subject to such procedures 6.3.9 / 6.6.6 / Promoting social responsibility in the value chain Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 6.7 / 6.7.4 / 6.7.5 /Consumer issue / Protecting consumers’ health PR2 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle and safety /Sustainable consumption 40~43 ● by type of outcomes Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of Consumer issue / Fair marketing, factual and PR3 unbiased information and fair contractual practices 70 ● significant products and services subject to such information requirements 6.7 / 6.7.3 / 6.7.4 / / Protecting consumers’ health and safety / Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 6.7.5 / 6.7.6 / 6.7.9 Sustainable consumption / Consumer service, PR4 support, and complaint and dispute resolution/ 89 ● concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Education and awareness Consumer issue / Protecting consumers’ health Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring 6.7 / 6.7.4 / 6.7.5 / and safety /Sustainable consumption / Consumer PR5 service, support, and complaint and dispute 68~70 ● customer satisfaction 6.7.6 / 6.7.8 / 6.7.9 resolution / Access to essential services /Education and awareness Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to Consumer issue / Fair marketing, factual and PR6 68~71 ● marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship 6.7 / 6.7.3 / unbiased information and fair contractual practices Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 6.7.6 / 6.7.9 /Consumer service, support, and complaint and PR7 dispute resolution /Education and awareness 89 ● concerning marketing communications Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy Consumer issue / Consumer data protection and PR8 6.7 / 6.7.7 privacy 70 ● and losses of customer data Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and Consumer issue / Consumer service, support, and PR9 6.7 / 6.7.6 89 ● regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services complaint and dispute resolution 2013 Sustainability Report 100 / 101 System for Implementation of Sustainability Management Sustainability management of KR is supervised by the Planning and Innovation Department, and staff from 19 departments worked together to produce the sustainability report. Kwang Jae Kim, Chairman Byung Su Oh, Vice Chairman Young Woo Kim, Executive Director of Planning and Innovation Department Hyo Sik Kim, Director of Performance Management Division Management Strategy Team (Baek Jeong, General Manager / Seong-Gyu Park, Assistant General Manager / Du Pyo Cha, Manager / Jong Ho Park, Assistant Manager / Sun Hwa Baek, Staff) Overview Economy Environment Society Planning & Budget Division Business Strategy Division Policy Research Institute Planning and Budget Division Hong Gwon Kim, Assistant General Manager Dong Man Ko, Assistant general manager Young Ju Im, Manager / Bi Ran Kim, Staff Hak Ki Jin, Assistant Manager / Jun Hong, Assistant General Manager / Jung Eun Choi, Manager / Sung Woo Cho, Staff Audit Office Construction Planning Division Contract Division Management Support Division Hyun Sook Jung, Assistant general manager / Ju Kyung Shin, Assistant general manager Hui Hyun Yang, Manger Min Woo Lee, Manager Bu Hyun Kim, Manager / Sung Hwan Park, Assistant general manager / Ji Won Jung, Manager Jin Kyung Park, Assistant Manager Performance Management Division Policy Research Institute Construction and Equipment Division Performance Management Division Rae Hyun Park, Jong Won Park, Assistant General Yong Su Kim, Dong Guk Kim, Manager Assistant General Manager Manager Assistant general manager Construction Planning Division Overseas Rail Projects Division Human Resources Development Office Seung Sang Yu, Assistant general manager / Young Sub Lee, Assistant General Ji Hoon Kim, Manager Won Hyeok Jang, Assistant general manager Manager / Min Eun Lee, Staff / So Hyun Bang, Assistant Manager Safety Office Labor & Welfare Benefits Division Eon Jun Ahn, Manager / Ji Ho Park, Assistant General Manager Hyun Hee Jung, Manager Quality Research Institute Contract Division Jong Eul Chun, Assistant General Manager Gwang Ju Chun, Manager Facilities Planning Division Information Management Division Moon Suk Chang, Jae Kwang Hwang, Staff Assistant general manager Asset Development Business Division Byung Sun Ahn, Assistant general manager Asset Division Jung Sun Jin, Assistant general manager Transportation Division Woon Soo Kim, Assistant general manager Recognitions and Affiliation 2012 Recognitions International recognitions Organizing Institution Major Significances Awarded Grand Prize for Innovative Manager Award of 2012, Recognized for continued preparation of groundwork for growth, Reduction of Budget Joong Ang Ilbo Sustainability Management section by modifying over-planning (Mar. 2012) Recognized for leading the path to growth in cooperation by providing support to Chosen as Excellent Institution Showing Accompanied Growth Ministry of Knowledge Economy small and medium companies (Mar. 2012) Gold Medal for Civil Structure of 2012 Korean Society of Civil Engineers New Construction Development Method (Mar. 2012) Ministry of Public Administration Recognized for improving convenience of disabled and elderly in receiving information Most Web Accessible Public Institution and Security (Mar. 2012) Selected as model professional manager, creating the path for future-oriented Grand Prize for CEO of the Year, Leadership section The Korea Economic Daily development and advancement of Korean economy (Jun. 2012) Attained Overseas Credit Rating of Aa3 (stable) International Credit Advanced to Aa3 (stable), highest within national institutions (Aug. 2012) Moody’s Evaluating Agency * Aa3 A1 (stable)in 2011 ⇀ A1 (stable) in Apr., 2012 ⇀ Aug. 2012 Excellent Award in both Individual and Organization section for Small and Medium Business Recognized for providing support to medium companies by Capability Cooperation of Small, Medium and Administration purchasing products (Sept. 2012) Large Institution of 2012 Grand Prize for Model Institution of 2012 (Anti-corruption section) Sisa Journal Ethical management/ Anti-corrupt institution to lead the future of Korea (Sept. 2012) Participation Award for Public Institution Affiliated BP Ministry of Land, Transport, and Recognized for innovative management quality and recycling of tree waste key to Competition of 2012 Maritime Affairs green growth (Oct. 2012) Korea Sustainability Award (KRCA) Korea Standard Association Recognized sustainability management outcome (Oct. 2012) President’s Award at national QCC Competition Korea Standard Association Contributed to strengthening of quality competitiveness (Nov. 2012) Ministry of Land, Transport, and Budget reduction and improvement of construction site quality through efficient Grand Prize at VE Competition of 2012 Maritime Affairs VE (Nov. 2012) Korea Environment Plan Grand Prize for Environment Recognized as excellent institution leading the way for ecology restoration (Nov. 2012) Development Association Recognized finance management ability through increased overseas credit rating, Grand Prize for Leadership of Korea Monthly Central, Inc. etc. (Dec. 2012) Ministry of Land, Transport, and Received certification from Ministry of Land, Transport, and Maritime Affairs for Award for public institution with excellent information disclosure Maritime Affairs striving to protect citizen’s right to know (Dec. 2012) Excellent case for advancement of public institution (organization, Ministry of Strategy and Finance Recognized for management competitive capability (Dec. 2012) human resources section) External Affiliated Organization Union Internationale Korea Railway International Association for Korea Railway Construction Korea Association of Management Chemins De Fer (UIC) Association Construction Association Projects Korea Industrial Technology Promotion Korea Association for Traffic Institute of Korea Korean Society of Civil Engineers Architectural Institute of Korea Association Railway Korea Association for Korea Association for Tunnel Korean Society of Environment Korea Institute of Electrical Engineers Korea Railway Cultural Foundation Disaster Prevention Underground Education Korean Association for Korea Society of Management UN global Compact Korea Association Yunkyung SM Forum Korea Association of Record Audit Information 2013 Sustainability Report Reader’s Survey Send to : Division of Management Strategy, Management Outcome Division, Planning and Innovation Department, Korea Railway Network Authority 242 Joonang-ro Dong-gu Daejeon Metropolitan City 300-731 Tel_042) 607-3156 Fax_042) 607-3169 We wait for your valued comments In order to publish an improved sustainability report in the future, we look forward to your valued comments about the 2013 sustainability report. Please complete the following survey and mail or fax it to the appropriate office. 1. To which of the following groups do you belong? Customer Employee Government Local Resident Business Partner NGO or Community Organization Professional Organization Others ( ) 2. How did you hear about this report? Corporate homepage Newspaper or Media Internet Corporate employee Seminar / Lecture Others ( ) 3. For what purpose do you intend to use this report? (You may choose multiple boxes) To gain information about the corporation To understand sustainability management activities To compare and analyze the business of the corporation Research and educational purposes Other ( ) 4. Which issues in this report interest you? Ⅰ. Introduction Ⅱ. Sustainable Rail Network Ⅲ. Green Rail Network Ⅳ. Harmonizing Rail Network Ⅴ. Sharing Rail Network 5. If there is a section that needs to be supplemented, which section would it be? Ⅰ. Introduction Ⅱ. Sustainable Rail Network Ⅲ. Green Rail Network Ⅳ. Harmonizing Rail Network Ⅴ. Sharing Rail Network 6. Was this report helpful in understanding the Korea Rail Network Authority’s sustainability management activities? Very helpful Somewhat helpful Average Not helpful Useless 7. What is your evaluation of this report? Degrees of Understanding Very helpful Somewhat helpful Average Not helpful Useless Accuracy of Information Very helpful Somewhat helpful Average Not helpful Useless Amount of Information Very helpful Somewhat helpful Average Not helpful Useless Design format Very helpful Somewhat helpful Average Not helpful Useless 8. Please feel free to give your opinion on Korea Rail Network Authority’s sustainability management activities and/or contents/format of the overall report. Thank you for answering the questions Hope for Tomorrow Korea Rail Network Authority Sustainability Report 2013 Designed by StoryBeen.com T. +82-2-3453-2070
